DRN-1864666
The complaint
Mr R has complained that he opened a Safety Net credit facility with Indigo Michael Limited 
(trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) but a change in circumstances meant he couldnt repay 
the balance on time. He says SNC agreed to give him time to repay the balance but it 
recorded a default on his credit file along with missed payment markers. Mr R says the 
markers affected his finances badly which has resulted in him not being able to apply for a 
mortgage. 
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be partially upheld. SNC disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr Rs complaint should be upheld in part. A 
copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this and form part 
of this final decision:
What I said in my provisional decision; 
Mr R approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in July 2016 and it appears he was given a 
credit limit of £330. This was a running credit account where a consumer could either 
request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would be deposited into their bank account 
once their account balance fell below a safety net amount of the customers choosing.
Mr Rs facility was placed on a temporary 30 day hold in March 2017 as Mr R informed SNC 
that his circumstances had changed. Mr R resumed making payments to his facility from 
June 2018 and the balance on his facility was repaid in full in July 2019.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Rs complaint. Based on the limited information 
received from both parties, he couldnt see that SNC placed a default on Mr Rs credit file. 
In the adjudicators opinion, he explained that Mr R contacted SNC in March 2017 to inform 
it of his new financial position. Following this, no contact was made by SNC or Mr R for 
around a year. The adjudicator expected SNC to have contacted Mr R about his outstanding 
balance but it didnt. When Mr R contacted SNC in May 2018, a payment arrangement was 
made until the facility was repaid in July 2019. As a result, the adjudicator thought SNC were 
wrong to apply late payment markers from March 2018  June 2019 on Mr Rs credit file and 
he asked SNC to remove them.
Mr R hasnt told us if he agrees with our adjudicators opinion.
SNC disagreed and made the following point:
SNC are bound by Information Commissioners Office (ICO) regulations. It has a duty 
to ensure that data that is reported on credit file must be fair, accurate, consistent, 
complete and up to date - in particular the Principles of Reciprocity.Removing the late payment markers wouldnt be an accurate reflection of the running 
of the account
When Mr R informed them of his change of circumstances a hold was placed on his 
account. 
Mr R was informed that he must keep SNC updated of his situation otherwise his 
account may revert back to its original terms and 
Mr R was receiving monthly statements throughout the entire duration so he was 
aware he still had an outstanding balance.
 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im still intending to partly 
uphold Mr Rs complaint but in order to put things right Im going to ask SNC to do 
something slightly different to what was suggested by the adjudicator. Ive explained my 
reasons for doing so below.
Firstly, Id like to start by saying that I agree with SNC that it is required by the ICO to report 
accurate information about the running of credit accounts to the different credit reference 
agencies. However, should a mistake have been made by SNC, then it may not be 
appropriate for all adverse information to remain and some or all of it may need to be 
remove or updated.
Mr R has said that after he took out his SNC facility, his financial position changed to the 
point where he couldnt meet his repayments. He says he informed SNC about his finance 
issue and asked the lender to give him some time to pay the full balance. He says SNC 
agreed to give him time. But the lender reported a default and missed payment markers on 
his credit file.
Mr R hasnt provided us with a copy of his credit file so Im unable to see exactly was 
reported by SNC. So Ive had to rely on what SNC has told us. It says the following 
information has been reported;
Between March 2017 until April 2018 that the account was in arrears. 
Between May 2018 and May 2019 - Arrangement to Pay 
June 2019 -  Arrears 
July 2019  Settled
 
So based on what SNC has told us  there appears to be three period of time where 
different information has been reported to the credit reference agencies, so Ive taken each 
on in turn. 
March 2017 - April 2018
The contact notes provided by SNC show Mr R contacted it in March 2017 to say he was in 
financial difficulty due to his wife losing her job and that he would need to pay all the bills. 
SNC advised Mr R that 30 days forbearance hold would be placed on the account, as part of which SNC froze the interest on the account. The contact notes following this suggested Mr 
R was advised to update SNC about his ongoing situation or that he would send in 
documentation supporting what he told it. The note also suggests some information was 
given to Mr R about making minimum payments, but it isnt clear exactly what he was told.
Based on the information Mr R told SNC, I think its actions were reasonable at the time. It 
appears SNC treated Mr R fairly by placing the account on a temporary hold giving him 
some breathing space. I then would have expected SNC to have contacted Mr R after this 
30 day hold to discuss how he would be meeting his repayments going forwards.
It doesnt appear that SNC did this. But equally, it doesnt appear Mr R contacted SNC about 
his situation either. While I think SNC ought to have contacted Mr R to ask for an update, I 
also dont think it is solely down to SNC. It seems that SNC asked Mr R to get back into 
contact with it  which he didnt do. Additionally, SNC has told us Mr R was still receiving 
monthly statements during this time so I think these would have shown he had an 
outstanding obligation to the lender.
SNC has told us it reported Mr Rs facility was in arrears during this time and it doesnt 
appear that it charged interest on Mr Rs outstanding balance. Whilst I dont know exactly 
what was reported as I dont have a copy of Mr Rs credit file, I dont think its fair for SNC to 
have reported arrears due to making no contact with Mr R for over a year. 
But equally, I dont think its fair for all the adverse to be removed in that year as ultimately, 
Mr R had already told SNC that he wasnt able to meet his monthly contractual repayments 
due to a change in circumstances. So some adverse credit file information was likely to be 
reported. 
On balance, I think, had either party contacted each other its more likely than not that Mr R 
wouldve have gone on to some form of a payment arrangement to repay his outstanding 
balance. I say this because when SNC did contact him in May 2018, he asked for a payment 
arrangement and this was agreed. 
Therefore, I think SNC should update Mr Rs credit report to show that he was in an 
arrangement to pay between March 2017 and April 2018, rather than reporting his account 
as being in arrears.
May 2018  May 2019
When SNC contacted Mr R on 1 May 2018, it confirmed that the account would revert back 
to the standard terms of his credit agreement if Mr R did not contact them within two weeks. 
Mr R contacted SNC around three weeks later, he explained that he was unable to clear the 
outstanding balance but that his circumstances were more steady and he was able to make 
payments of £10 per month. This resulted in an arrangement being placed on the account 
for £10 per month. And it seems that after the plan was agreed, Mr R met the terms of the 
payment arrangement. 
The contact notes in May 2019 show Mr R contacted SNC as he was unhappy that a default 
had been applied to his credit file. As Ive explained, we dont have anything to support that a 
default has been applied; indeed SNC has told us one hasnt been applied. However, if Mr R 
can provide his credit file that shows something different, Id be happy to reconsider this 
point. 
SNC has told us that it reported Arrangement to Pay markers during this time. As Mr R was 
in an arrangement to repay, I think the information the lender reported is an accurate reflection of the running of the account. So, Im not going to ask SNC to make any 
adjustments to the credit file for this period. 
June and July 2019
SNC has told us it reported Mr Rs facility was in arrears for June 2019 and settled for July 
2019.
The contact notes dated 31 May 2019 show an arrangement was reached for Mr R to make 
two payments to clear his outstanding balance on 3 June 2019 and 3 July 2019. And this is 
what he did. So, for June 2019 I think a more accurate reflection of Mr Rs account would be 
to record an arrangement pay for June, rather then the account being in arrears.  
And given the balance was repaid in July 2019, I think its correct that this is when the 
account is marked as settled. 
Other considerations
Ive considered what Mr R has said about the impact of having a default and later markers 
on his account and that this has affected him getting a mortgage. As Ive explained, I dont 
have a copy of his actual credit file. So I dont know exactly what has been reported or what 
impact this is having on his credit file. If Mr R would like to provide further information about 
this, I will review this further.
For the reasons Ive explained above, I think SNC should make changes to Mr Rs credit file 
to accurately reflect what has happened or what was likely to have happened had further 
contact been made by both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive once more considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SNC accepted the provisional decision and Mr R hasnt responded with any further 
comments or evidence he wanted me to consider. So, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings that I previously outlined in my provisional decision. 
So, in summary, I still think SNC needs to make adjustments to Mr Rs credit file and Ive set 
out below what it needs to do to put things right. 
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr R, SNC should:
remove any arrears markers and instead report that Mr R was in an Arrangement to 
Pay between March 2017 and April 2018.
report Mr R was in an Arrangement to Pay between May 2018 and May 2019.
remove any arrears markers for June 2019, and instead report that Mr R was in an 
Arrangement to Pay.
report Mr Rs account as settled in July 2019.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Rs complaint.Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Mr R by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Robert Walker
Ombudsman