DRN-3052923
The complaint
Mr H complains that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA didnt do enough to keep his account 
safe and allowed payments to be made that he didnt authorise.
What happened
Mr H contacted his bank when he noticed a payment of £499 had debited his bank account 
on 2 October 2020 and that there was a pending one for £549 on 3 October 2020. He didnt 
recognise either. These payments were made through his PayPal account. His bank said it 
wouldnt refund the money, but he thinks that PayPal should do so. He also says PayPal 
hadnt done enough to investigate things or help him when he got in touch.
PayPal said it wouldnt be refunding the money. Mr H had decided to make a claim through 
his bank and PayPal had responded to a chargeback request. It didnt determine the 
outcome of such a request and said that Mr H would need to take that up with his bank. It 
said that there was no buyer protection under its user agreement on these personal 
payments made when the option Im sending money to family and friends is selected.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. It had provided information 
about the log-ons to Mr Hs account. These were made through the same IP address Mr H 
had used for genuine payments. A code had been sent to Mr Hs phone and entered to verify 
the payments. So, he didnt think that the evidence supported that Mr H was the victim of an 
account take over.
Mr H didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that he didnt receive 
any code and offered his phone for forensic examination. There had been no investigation 
into the individuals that received the money. And PayPal hadnt engaged with him directly 
and he was unhappy with its attitude and lack of security. He wanted to close his account, 
but it wouldnt let him while this dispute was ongoing. His version of events had been 
discounted and he felt he was being considered a liar.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing separate decisions on this complaint and also the one Mr H made against his 
own bank. These payments essentially arise from one authorisation event each time: that is 
the origination of a payment from Mr Hs PayPal account funded by his bank debit card. Ive 
set out my reasons for not finding these payments were unauthorised in my decision on his 
complaint about his bank using all the information provided and taking into account the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017. And I wont be repeating that here. I will be taking into 
account what each of the businesses did and I consider what PayPal did in this complaint.
PayPal responded to chargeback requests from Mr Hs bank. It didnt make the decision on 
the chargebacks. And it has since provided further information about the authorisation of the 
payments to our investigator. This has helped me form an overall view about whether the 
payments were authorised. As I have found on the evidence they most likely were I dont 
need to require either his bank or PayPal to refund them.
I can understand why PayPal didnt think it had much to add for Mr H. As it has explained 
these were personal payments and so I dont think there was anything further for it to 
investigate with the recipients of the money as there were no goods or services involved. I 
am aware that Mr H has made a reference to police and I would expect PayPal to co-operate 
with any police investigation. I can understand that it might want to preserve the information 
about his account during an active dispute by keeping it open. Ive noted though that the 
debit card involved was removed as a payment mechanism at the time the issue was raised, 
and Mr H was asked to change his PayPal password.
These payments were made nearly a day apart. The same IP address for past genuine 
payments was used. And I dont think there was anything that ought to have alerted PayPal 
to them being fraudulent or suspicious ones. It has further explained that the payments were 
verified with a code sent to Mr Hs phone. I appreciate he says he didnt receive any code, 
but the technical evidence indicates that he did. We provide informal dispute resolution and it 
was fairly up to Mr H to provide any other evidence to counter that or to support his case that 
his account was hacked.
I know Mr H will be very disappointed when I say that I dont consider that PayPal need do 
anything more. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman