DRN-1442740
The complaint
Miss D complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) declined a claim she made on her pet 
insurance policy.
What happened
On 2 March 2018, Miss D bought a pet insurance policy through a third party to cover her 
cat, A. Allianz were the underwriters of the policy.
During the sales call, Miss D let Allianz know that A had suffered from diabetes, but she was 
now in remission, and had been so for a year. Allianz said it would include an exclusion to 
the policy that related to diabetes. This meant that A wouldnt be covered for any treatments 
relating to diabetes. Allianz said it would review the exclusion after A had been fully clear of 
the condition for two years.
Later in June 2019, A became unwell again with diabetes and received treatment from the 
vet. Miss D attempted to make a claim on the policy, as she says A had been in remission 
for more than two years.
Allianz declined the claim. It told Miss D that normally, diabetes wasnt a reviewable illness. 
But as Miss D was given incorrect information about this at the time of sale, it agreed it 
would consider the claim. 
After reviewing As medical records, Allianz said that A had displayed signs of diabetes 
within the last two years. And although it agreed that A hadnt been receiving insulin, she 
was still being treated for the illness and so it declined the claim.
Miss D wasnt happy with Allianzs decision to decline the claim and so she brought her 
complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into things and found that Allianz had fairly 
declined the claim. He also took into account the information provided by Miss Ds vets that 
said A had been in remission, because she hadnt been receiving insulin. But he thought that 
what Miss Ds vets had said was their personal opinion of what a cat in remission looks like.
Miss D didnt agree. She rejected our investigators opinion on the basis that he wasnt a 
professional vet and that she didnt think the terms and conditions of the policy were fair. 
Because Miss D didnt agree, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on 
the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly like to start by saying that it isnt the role of this service to comment on or provide 
medical assessments on pets. I am not a professional vet  and a professional vet will not be 
reviewing this decision as requested by Miss D. Its my role to look and see if Allianz have 
assessed Miss Ds claim fairly, based on the terms and conditions of the policy. And it is my role to make a decision as to whether Allianzs decision to decline the claim was a fair and 
reasonable one. 
Ive listened to the call Miss D had with the third party where she was sold the policy. Miss D 
let the advisor know that A had been diagnosed with diabetes but had been in remission for 
a year at that point. In this call, Miss D was told that if A remained fully clear for 24 months 
from the last treatment date then it would review the exclusion it had placed on the policy. 
However, during the call, the advisor was clear in saying that it would be reviewed and that 
there was no guarantee that the exclusion would be removed. There was a discussion 
around this during the phone conversation, so Im satisfied that Miss D was aware that there 
was a chance the exclusion may not be removed.
Ive seen a copy of the certificate of insurance that was sent to Miss D after she agreed to 
take out the policy and Ive seen the renewal certificate of insurance that was sent. These 
both show that Allianz had added the below exclusion:
Excluding claims resulting from or connected to Diabetes Mellitus from 02/03/18
This exclusion doesnt seem unreasonable or unusual. Its standard practice in the insurance 
industry to exclude any claims that have arisen from any conditions that an animal suffered 
from prior to taking out the policy, also known as pre-existing conditions.
Looking at As medical records, I can see that A first started on a prescribed diet for diabetes 
in 2015  which suggests that A was showing signs of diabetes at this point. Then on 27 
September 2016, the medical records state As blood glucose levels confirms severe 
hyperglycaemia and so A was prescribed insulin. On 13 March 2017, A stopped receiving 
insulin, but having looked at the medical records A was still on the special diet. And in 
November 2018, the notes state: 
Examination - Blood pressure 130, Blood Glucose 8.8mnol/l,*name* said that its a bit too 
high and would like it to be under 7. Owner hasnt changed anything with her diet and is till 
on RCW Diabetic food.
So, it seems that A was still receiving treatment to manage the diabetes, i.e. on a special 
diet after the insulin had finished.
Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions to define veterinary treatment these state:
The cost of the following when required to treat injury and illness:
 Any examination, consultation, advice, diagnostic procedure, surgery and nursing
carried out by a vet, a veterinary nurse or another member of a veterinary practice
under the supervision of a vet, and
 Any medication legally prescribed by a vet.
The medical records show that A was still being checked for diabetes and was on a diet to 
manage the condition in November 2018 and so I think based on the policy terms above, 
she had been treated for diabetes within 24 months of the condition fully returning. So I think 
Allianz were fair in declining the claim.
Ive taken into account the letter that was sent by Miss Ds vet to Allianz, which stated that a 
cat in remission would be a cat not receiving insulin. But Allianz explained that A would need to be fully clear of the condition for it to review the exclusion, and for the reasons Ive already 
stated above, I dont think A was.
Miss D says that it is normal for a cat to continue to be on a prescribed diet after its received 
insulin for diabetes. And that a cat wouldnt ever recover fully from diabetes  it was just 
manageable. And I agree that this is possibly the case. But the advisor on the phone stated 
that A would need to be fully clear for 24 months after the last treatment for the condition. 
And it would be at this point that it would review the exclusion. For the reasons set out 
above, I dont think A had been fully clear. 
Looking at the information I have, I cant see that the exclusion was ever reviewed by 
Allianz. But if it had been reviewed 24 months after A last received insulin, then I think 
Allianz would have taken the decision to fully exclude treatment for diabetes anyway. I say 
this because Ive seen evidence of Allianzs underwriting criteria that states that it wouldnt 
cover a cat that had previously been diagnosed with diabetes  and that this exclusion 
wouldnt be reviewable. So I dont think Miss D has lost out as a result of the exclusion not 
being reviewed.
It follows that Im not upholding this complaint and Im not asking Allianz to do anything more 
for Miss D.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I'm not upholding Miss D's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman