DRN-4465491
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the service he received from Origen Financial Services Limited
(Origen) when he transferred the value of his deferred benefits in a former employers
pension scheme to a personal pension. Mr S says Origen caused unnecessary delays and
the transfer value fell.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 3 November 2023. I set out what had happened and my 
provisional views. Ive repeated what I said here: 
Although Ive read all the information and comments provided by Mr S and Origen, Im not
going to refer to everything, just what I see as the key events and communications.
Mr S was referred to Origen for advice about whether he should transfer the value of his
deferred benefits in a defined benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a
personal pension. Mr S had obtained a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) of £348,000
from the OPS, dated 28 February 2022 and guaranteed until 27 May 2022. It was forwarded
to Origen on 9 March 2022 with the referral from Mr Ss investment adviser with other
documents, including Letters of Authority (LOAs) to enable Origen to seek information from
the OPS and other parties.
Mr S had an introductory meeting with Origen on 18 March 2022. Mr S agreed to go ahead
with Abridged Advice. A further meeting was arranged for 22 March 2022. But Mr S had to
cancel and the meeting was rearranged for 30 March 2022. At that fact finding meeting
Origens adviser asked for two further LOAs which Mr S returned to Origen the same day.
He sent a further copy of the CETV on 31 March 2022.
Mr S chased Origen on 24 April 2022. The adviser told Mr S the following day that the draft
report was with its Compliance Department who asked the adviser to provide some further
figures. Mr S chased again before the Abridged Advice report was issued on 10 May 2022.
The adviser called Mr S to discuss the report on 18 May 2022. Mr S was unsure if he wanted
to proceed with Full Advice and he said hed let the adviser know.
On 6 June 2022 Mr S emailed, saying he was disappointed with the Abridged Advice report.
He said there were confusing statements and a lack of information such that he couldnt
make an informed decision as to whether to proceed to Full Advice. Mr S set out six queries.
The adviser replied later the same day. I think Mr S then had some queries about the forms
that had to be signed for the OPS. That was sorted out and Mr S told the adviser on 20 June
2022 that he wanted to proceed to Full Advice. On the same day, as the CETV had by then
expired, Mr S requested a new CETV. On 11 July 2022 he sent the new CETV, now
£277,000 and guaranteed until 29 September 2022, to the adviser.
Mr S asked for an update on 2 August 2022. The adviser emailed the same day saying the
advice report was currently with Origens paraplanners and would be worked on as soon as
possible. And that Origen prioritised clients in terms of CETV expiry. Mr S chased again on 8
August 2022. He said he was concerned about working to the CETV expiry date as last time
hed lost out on £71,000. The adviser called Mr S in reply. Mr S chased again on 22 August
2022 and there was a further telephone call on 24 August 2022. Mr S emailed on 14
September 2022, expressing concern that the CETV expiry date was approaching and that
hed be left without sufficient time to consider the advice properly. The adviser told Mr S on
20 September 2022 that the report had been finished and was in for final checking.
Mr S received the Full Advice report on 22 September 2022. He raised some queries the
next day. The adviser responded that day. He provided some missing documents and
offered to discuss the report. There was a telephone call on 26 September 2022. As Ive
mentioned below, Mr S has concerns about that call and that he had to make a decision by
the following day. But the upshot was that on 27 September 2022 Mr S agreed to go ahead
with the transfer and completed the necessary paperwork.
Mr S received an email on 6 October 2022, while he was on holiday, from the OPS saying
the documentation was incomplete and the CETV couldnt be honoured. I understand Mr S
was able to sort that out with the OPS  albeit that he had to make a complaint  and in the
end the OPS agreed to honour the CETV if the remaining paperwork was received by 25
October 2022. It was and the transfer went ahead.
By then Mr S had complained to Origen (by email sent on 19 October 2022) about what had
happened after the transfer forms had been submitted to the OPS. And, because hed only
received the Full Advice report late on 22 September 2022 (less than a week before the
CETV expired on 29 September 2022), hed effectively only had, after hed read the report
and requested the missing documents, one working day to make a major financial decision 
hed been told he needed to give his decision by 27 September 2022. He then received the
email from the OPS on 6 October 2022, saying the documentation was incomplete and the
CETV was no longer available. Hed had to write a letter of complaint to the OPS in order to
get the CETV honoured. It was all very stressful for him and his family as they were on
holiday and without the usual access to computer, internet and other facilities. Mr S said
Origen hadnt left any time for checking with the OPS that the documentation was complete
within the CETV deadline.
Mr S complained on 28 October 2022. He said Origen had taken over seven months to
provide advice. Thered been a loss of value of £71,008 for which he held Origen entirely
responsible. Mr S set out a number of aspects of the process which he considered had been
badly handled. He said Origens credibility had been called into question and with it the
validity of its advice. Hed been left in a position where hed have to consider further financial
and legal advice.
Ive seen that Mr S emailed the adviser on 8 November 2022 saying the funds would be
transferred by the OPS to his Aegon pension within the next three working days. Mr S asked
the adviser not to proceed with the annuity purchases. Mr S emailed on 10 November 2022
requesting confirmation of receipt of his instruction. The adviser emailed to say Mr Ss email
had been passed to the administration department whod confirmed they wouldnt proceed
with the recommendation. Mr S replied the following day saying he didnt actually say he 
wouldnt proceed with the recommendation but he was still considering the advice but the
annuity quotations had expired and new ones would be needed. The adviser clarified that
hed meant that annuities wouldnt be purchased.
Origen sent a final response to Mr Ss complaint on 8 December 2022. Origen pointed to its
Terms of Business sent to Mr S prior to the initial meeting with Origens adviser and which
said, about DB advice, that Origen didnt guarantee to meet any CETV expiry date. And that
Origen was reliant on the client and third parties to provide information which meant, on
occasion, Origen may be unable to meet expiry dates. New transfer values may need to beobtained and may be lower than existing ones. Origen can proceed with reviewing the
clients personal circumstances on the basis the client understood that Origen didnt
guarantee to meet any deadline dates.
During the initial meeting the adviser had said it would be touch and go to meet the CETV
due to information that needed to be obtained from third parties. The adviser also expressed
his concern about the CETV expiry date during the further meeting on 30 March 2022,
although hed said hed do his best to meet it. The adviser also telephoned Mr S when hed
chased progress in an attempt to manage Mr Ss expectations.
Origens Paraplanning Team had confirmed, due to the complexity of the matter, the
research and work required was extensive. The work and calculations were over and above
the usual parameters for DB advice to ensure the most appropriate recommendation was
made, whilst still focusing on getting it completed before the CETV expiry date. The Full
Advice report was emailed to Mr S on 22 September 2022, seven days before the expiry of
the CETV. The adviser telephoned to say he was free the next day to go through it. And he
dealt straightaway with Mr Ss queries and provided documents not attached to the report
within an hour of the request. During the call on 26 September 2022, Mr S had thanked the
adviser for allowing Mr S time to go through the report which they then did together before
completing the necessary forms.
There was an issue after the relevant forms had been submitted. The OPS hadnt sent Mr S
all parts of the form. To secure the CETV, Mr S emailed the OPS to say that not all of the
form had been sent in the first place and the OPS agreed to secure the CETV.
Origen said the Full Advice process can seem extremely lengthy and take several months to
complete. Origen's service had been provided within their expected timeframe and the
recommendation report was provided with enough time for Mr S to consider the contents.
Due to essential regulatory requirements and additional research, calculations and
illustrations, the time taken was needed to fully complete the report. But Origen recognised
that Mr S had been caused distress and inconvenience, specifically whilst away on holiday
and, as a gesture of goodwill, Origen offered Mr S £300.
Mr S didnt accept what Origen had said. He felt Origens response was inadequate and
disrespectful. He said Origen had advised across two CETVs without addressing the loss of
£71,000 and Origens investigation into his complaint hadnt addressed that either. Origen
hadnt said it had been delayed by him or a third party in providing information so the caveat
referred to (in Origens Terms of Business) didnt absolve Origen of responsibility to properly
resource and manage the timescale. Every response from him had been within 24 hours. If
Origen had evidence of delays by third parties it should produce it.
Mr S had provided most of the required LOAs on 18 March 2022 and had asked the adviser
to let him know if anything was missing. He wasnt asked for two further LOAs until the
meeting on 30 March 2022. Mr S had then contacted Origen three weeks later (on 22 April
2022) and then again on 3 and 10 May 2022 which had elicited the Abridged Advice report.
That was after six weeks with only 13 working days left before the CETV expired.
Mr S didnt agree Origen didnt have any responsibility for what had happened on 6 October
2022. Hed only sent the adviser the second part of the CETV. It alluded to there being more
forms for completion. Had there been more time, whether the CETV form was complete
couldve been checked. The advice was delivered without adequate time for consideration
and checking the paperwork prior to submission.
Origen wrote again on 21 March 2023. Origen said it understood Mr Ss main concern was
the reduction in the CETV, which Origen had investigated. The statement in the Terms ofBusiness didnt absolve Origen of all responsibility. But it did highlight that advice in relation
to DB pension schemes does take some time and deadline dates arent always met. Mr S
had opted for Abridged Advice rather than going straight to Full Advice and so the process
would clearly take longer. The Abridged Advice report was issued on 10 May 2022, six
weeks after the meeting and when the fee agreement had been signed. The time taken
wasnt unusual and the adviser had repeatedly warned that meeting the CETV deadline
would be tight. Mr S then hadnt confirmed until 20 June 2022 that he wanted to proceed to
Full Advice, by which time the original CETV deadline had passed by some three weeks.
Mr S remained unhappy and referred his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. He emailed Mr S on 1 August 2022
asking Mr S why hed decided to get Full Advice after the Abridged Advice and why hed
decided to transfer when the transfer value had dropped. Mr S replied in detail. But, in
summary, he said the Abridged Advice report didnt give any advice so his only option to get
the advice he was seeking was to proceed to Full Advice.
Mr S said the drop in the CETV was never discussed with him. When he got the Full Advice
report there were only 12 working days before the CETV expired. He didnt have time to read
and understand everything (the report and attachments ran to 175 pages). Hed tried to
discuss things with the adviser on 26 September 2022 but said hed been railroaded into
going ahead with the transfer, with the adviser not answering his questions and confusing
him by referring to figures and models that werent in the report. Mr S was worried the CETV
would run out again and the process would have to start again, with the likelihood of an even
lower CETV. Hed already committed £1,000 in fees to Origen. Hed need to find another
£8,000 or so to get further advice whereas, if the transfer went ahead, that would be
covered. There was also concern that the stress might exacerbate an existing medical
condition (which was why hed been looking at the option to transfer in the first place).
Essentially Mr S said he didnt have the time or resources to consider any other way forward.
Mr S also emailed the investigator on 24 August 2023. Mr S said he was concerned that two
important aspects of his complaint and the resulting financial damage, stress and
inconvenience, might not be considered because they werent directly mentioned in the
complaint and one issue had arisen after the complaint had been made. He wanted to know
if he needed to raise a new complaint. Mr S referred to the issues hed raised in response to
the investigators email of 1 August 2022. Mr S said Origen had failed to ensure the advice
was fully explained and understood and he referred again to the telephone call on 26
September 2022.
Mr S also said that Origen had failed to execute the advice given. Origen hadnt informed
him as to the steps that would be taken after the transfer money was available. The adviser
had said, during a call on 27 September 2022 and in response to Mr Ss specific query, that
Origen would look to set up the annuities as part of the recommendation when the transfer
value was received. If the quotations were no longer valid, new quotations would have to be
obtained and run past Mr S. But Origen made no attempt to contact him about the annuities 
or the process despite Mr S being in contact with the adviser and saying new quotations
would be needed. Origen left Mr Ss transfer value stuck in a cash account.
Mr S said, although hed complained about a loss of £70,000 (the fall in the value of the
CETV), other issues had become apparent in reviewing things and it was unclear what the
full impact might be. Mr S suggested an independent assessment as to the cost of buying
the equivalent of the lost defined benefits might be required.
Mr S also referred to his email exchanges with the adviser in November 2022. He said the
adviser had misconstrued Mr Ss emails of 8 and 10 November 2022. Mr S said he correctedthe adviser and he understood from the advisers email of 11 November 2022 that new
quotes would be forthcoming which he could consider prior to Origen purchasing annuities.
Instead he didnt hear from Origen again.
After considering everything the investigator issued his view. He agreed the service Mr S
had received couldve been better. But he didnt think Origen was responsible for the
reduction in the CETV. DB pension transfers were complex. Origen couldve been quicker in
providing Abridged Advice. The investigator noted the advisers comments about possibly
having gone into too much detail at that stage. But the investigator didnt think Origen
wouldve been able to complete the Full Advice process before the (original) CETV expired
anyway and which was already a few weeks old when the process had started. Origen had
managed Mr Ss expectations and made him aware from the outset that the transfer might
not be completed before the CETV expired.
The investigator noted that Mr S had gone through a similar process with another OPS and
using a different advisory firm whod been able to complete the transfer within three months.
But the process was about making sure the customer was given a recommendation that was
in their best interests, not about providing advice as quickly as possible or getting the best
possible CETV. Mr S had decided to go ahead with Full Advice even though the new CETV
showed a reduction in value. The investigator thought Origens offer was fair.
Mr S didnt accept the investigators view. He said only one aspect of his complaint had been
investigated whereas his complaint concerned the process and the advice. He referred to
the further information hed provided in August 2023. He said there many incorrect
statements in what the investigator had said.
As Mr S didnt accept the investigators view the investigator told Mr S and Origen that the
complaint would be referred to an ombudsman to consider.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive said at the outset, although Ive read and considered everything Im only going to
focus on what I see as the central issues. My views are the same as the investigators in that
I dont think Origen is responsible for the fact that Mr S was unable to accept the original,
higher CETV and I agree that the offer of £300 is fair and reasonable. But Mr S doesnt think
that all aspects of his complaint have been dealt with. So Im issuing a provisional decision
so that both Mr S and Origen can see what Ive considered as part of Mr Ss current
complaint. Ive also set out my additional comments arising, in the main, from Mr Ss further
submissions.
As to the scope of the complaint, Mr S said the investigator had only considered one aspect
 the service Mr S had received and whether thered been unnecessary delays on Origens 
part and which had caused the CETV to fall. But I think thats the complaint Mr S made to
Origen and which was then referred to us. Mr Ss email of 19 October 2022 centred on what
had happened when hed agreed to transfer and the forms had been submitted to the OPS 
so it was about the transfer and not the advice to transfer.
Mr Ss further letter of complaint dated 28 October 2022 was about various aspects of the
advice process that he was unhappy about and why he considered Origen was responsible
for the difference of £71,000 between the earlier and later CETV. Mr S did say, in the
summary in that letter, that, because Origen had failed to meet the professional standards
Mr S expected, that called into question Origens credibility and therefore its advice. Mr Sadded that he was considering further financial and legal advice. I dont think that amounted
to a complaint about the suitability of the advice  more a heads up that Mr S might be
thinking about making that complaint. And, from what Mr S has said more recently  in his
emails of 8 and 24 August 2023  it does seem he may be concerned about the advice itself
 that is if Origen shouldve advised him to transfer out of the OPS.
Mr Ss concerns seem to centre on his telephone call with the adviser on 26 September
2022 and the way in which the adviser handled the call and which left Mr S feeling he had no
option but to go ahead with the transfer. Mr S also refers to having lost out financially and
suggests a loss assessment based on the cost of buying the equivalent of the benefits he
gave up in the OPS. Thats the basis for redress where a complaint that advice to transfer
out of an OPS was unsuitable is upheld. So it seems Mr S maybe having second thoughts
about whether he shouldve transferred and if the advice to do so was in his best interests.
I think thats a different complaint to the one Mr S originally raised and which weve
investigated. When Mr S complained to Origen and then to us it seemed he wasnt unhappy
with the advice itself and the fact that hed transferred and given up his OPS benefits. His
concerns centred on the reduction in the CETV for which he said Origen was responsible.
The issue of the suitability of the advice is a new and different issue. DB transfers represent
a complex financial advice situation and involve gathering a large volume of information
which has to be considered and weighed up. Some of the information is technical, such as
the Appropriate Pension Transfer Analysis (APTA) and the Transfer Value Comparator.
Thats reflected in a complaint about suitability which can be comparably complex.
A complaint about the suitability of the advice isnt something which Origen has had the
opportunity to consider and respond to, if indeed Mr S does want to make such a complaint.
In view of what Ive said about the complexity of such complaints, I dont think it would be
right to try to deal with any issues about suitability as part of the current complaint. If Mr S
wants to raise a complaint that the advice to transfer wasnt suitable hell need to make that
complaint to Origen.
As to the telephone call on 26 September 2022, the outcome was that Mr S agreed to accept
the advice to transfer. If hes now unsure if the advice to transfer was in his best interests, I
think the content of that call is more properly dealt with in the context of any complaint about
suitability and if Mr S was railroaded into accepting the recommendation to transfer. So I
havent considered that call as part of Mr Ss current complaint.
I also think any complaint that Origen failed to act in accordance with its recommendation
(by not getting new annuity quotations, leaving the transfer value in cash etc) after the
transfer had gone ahead is a new issue. Again its not something that Origen has had a
chance to consider. And its about what happened (or didnt happen) after Mr S had
complained to Origen.
Ive considered the points made by Mr S in so far as they relate to his current complaint. As I
see it, the central issue is whether there were delays on Origens part which meant that Mr S
lost out on the original CETV which was £71,000 higher than the CETV Mr S actually
accepted. Mr Ss expectation was that the advice process (Abridged Advice and Full Advice)
would be carried out before the original CETV expired. Mr S has said his previous DB
transfer process took five weeks (which including the Christmas and New Year period) and
so left him with ample time to consider the advice and what to do. But Origen had taken from
9 March 2022 until 10 May 2022 to provide Abridged Advice and then nearly the full three
months to provide Full Advice once a new CETV had been obtained.
As Mr S is aware, the outcome of Abridged Advice will either be a personal recommendationnot to transfer or a statement that its unclear whether the client would benefit from
transferring. The adviser will then check if the client wants to proceed to Full Advice. A firm
doesnt have to offer Abridged Advice. Its primarily a mechanism to help filter out clients for
whom a transfer is unlikely to be suitable. Full Advice may or may not result in a
recommendation to transfer. It can sometimes be the case that a reduction to the CETV will
result in Full Advice not to proceed. The benefit of Abridged Advice is that it doesnt commit
the client to paying the full costs of the advice. When giving advice about pension transfers
(whether Abridged Advice or Full Advice), some firms ask that a CETV isnt obtained first as
that shortens the time available to complete the advice process and during which the CETV
may expire.
Here, while I note that a copy of the CETV was included in the referral to Origen on 9 March
2022, the introductory meeting wasnt until 18 March 2022 and the fact finding meeting didnt
take place until 30 March 2022. The timing wasnt all down to Origen. An earlier meeting had
been set up but Mr S had to postpone it. I dont see that Origen was really in a position to
start work on Mr Ss case until the fact finding meeting had taken place and Origen had
sufficient details of Mr Ss circumstances, objectives and other relevant factors. Even if some
information had been provided with the referral to Origen and during the introductory
meeting, I think the adviser was always going to want to hear in more detail from Mr S
himself as to why he was considering transferring and what his plans were.
By the time of the fact finding meeting the CETV had less than two months left on the three
month guarantee period. DB pension transfers are generally complex and highly regulated.
Even Abridged Advice, which must be carried out or checked by a pension transfer
specialist, can take some time to provide. I think its generally recognised in the industry that
time can be tight in providing advice within the three month window that the CETV is
generally valid for. I think the five weeks that was Mr Ss previous experience is unusual and
not necessarily representative of the time that would usually be required to provide Abridged
Advice and Full Advice.
The Abridged Advice report was issued on 10 May 2022. That was about six weeks after the
fact finding meeting on 30 March 2022. Bearing in mind what Ive said above, that doesnt
appear to me to be unreasonable.
Taking a closer look at how Mr Ss case was actually progressed, Origen has provided a
timeline. Essentially, after the fact finding meeting on 30 March 2022, the adviser had
drafted the report by 25 April 2022. I dont think thats unreasonable and even if it seems
some extra time may have been taken because the adviser had perhaps gone into too much
detail. Origens Compliance Department then had to check the advice and asked the adviser
to produce some further figures. My understanding is that it isnt usually just a question of a
firms compliance department approving the draft report. Very often amendments and/or
additions to the report will be required before it can be released to the client. The adviser told
Mr S the draft report was being checked on 4 May 2022. It was signed off on 8 May 2022 
and issued to Mr S on 10 May 2022. I dont think that timeframe was unreasonable. I dont
think theres any evidence of avoidable delays on Origens part.
Mr S discussed the Abridged Advice report with the adviser on 18 May 2022. Mr S didnt
immediately confirm that he wanted to proceed to Full Advice. I can understand that he
wanted some time to digest the Abridged Advice report and, as the CETV expired within the
next 12 working days, thered presumably be little chance of completing the Full Advice
process while the CETV was still valid. Mr S didnt confirm he wanted Full Advice until 20
June 2022, which was after the original CETV had expired and so a new CETV was needed.
It was lower but that reflected changed market conditions and the updated (and lower) cost
of buying equivalent benefits.Mr S was also unhappy with the quality of the Abridged Advice report and he raised queries
about it. Although I can understand why Mr S wanted to be sure he understood things fully
before deciding what to do, in my view, the Abridged Advice report was satisfactory and
contained the requisite information. As the adviser pointed out, the Abridged Advice report
could only deliver one of two outcomes and a transfer couldnt be recommended. Ive seen
that the adviser dealt very promptly  the same day  with Mr Ss questions.
All in all I dont think there was an unreasonable delay in providing Abridged Advice and I
dont think the report was deficient.
Having told the adviser on 20 June 2022 that he wanted to proceed to Full Advice, Mr S had
also requested a new CETV (£277,000 and guaranteed until 29 September 2022) which he
sent to the adviser on 11 July 2022. Mr S says that Origen again took an unreasonably long
time to provide Full Advice.
From the timeline provided by Origen, I dont think theres anything to indicate unreasonable
delays on Origens part. And taking into account that Origen had to obtain further information
from several parties - Transact, the OPS and Mr S.
In any event, Full Advice was provided before the CETV guarantee date expired. Mr S
received the Full Advice report on 22 September 2022. I can understand that, ideally, hed
have liked more time to read and understand everything  some 175 pages of information
were provided. But, as Ive said, time can be tight and sometimes the consumer will have to
decide quickly as theres little time left to submit the transfer request to secure the CETV.
Mr S has also said there were issues with the documentation  for example, a fund factsheet
was mislabelled, a key features document was missing and illustrations for the new products
werent provided, plus there were two different advice summaries. But I dont think those
shortcomings were such that materially undermined the validity of the report. Mr S raised
queries and requested the missing documentation on 23 September 2022. Ive seen that the
adviser provided the missing documents very quickly.
Mr S says that effectively, after hed read the report and requested the missing documents,
he only had one working day to make a major financial decision  hed been told he needed
to give his decision by 27 September 2022. It may have been unfortunate that the timing was
such that Mr Ss weekend (24 and 25 September 2022) was impacted. But he did have more
than one day to consider the report. I think there was sufficient time for him to make an
informed decision. And taking into account that the adviser made himself available to assist,
including over the telephone on 26 September 2022. As Ive said, Mr S has raised concerns
about that call but, for the reasons Ive explained, Im not going to go into those here.
Mr S says that Origen allowed the second CETV to expire by not checking and submitting all
the necessary forms and identification in time. I agree that, in an ideal world, thered be 
some leeway. So, if there was an issue with the paperwork submitted to the OPS (whether
because the documentation hadnt been properly checked first before submitting it or
because what the OPS supplied was deficient), thered be time for it to be sorted out. Im not
sure exactly what had happened. But Mr S made a complaint to the OPS so it would seem
that the OPS accepted that some responsibility rested with them.
I can understand that Mr S wouldve been unhappy when his family holiday was interrupted.
And worried that, having decided to transfer, he might have missed the CETV deadline. And
not having access to the usual facilities wouldve added to Mr Ss stress. But Origen has
offered £300 for the disruption to Mr Ss holiday. I think thats fair and reasonable if Origen
was to any extent responsible for the OPS initially indicating the CETV couldnt be honoured.I do understand why Mr Ss expectations, based on his previous experience, may have been
higher. Ive considered how Origen managed Mr Ss expectations here. Including what
Origen told Mr S and if there was an express or implied commitment on Origens part that
the advice process would be completed before the CETV expired.
Mr S has pointed to Origens Terms of Business which refer to the need to gather
information from the client and third parties before a personal recommendation can be
made. And say that Origen is reliant on the client and third parties to provide this information
and, on occasion, this means that we may be unable to meet expiry dates. The section
could perhaps be better worded but I dont agree its a caveat which must be strictly applied
so that, in the absence of any identifiable delay on the part of the client and/or a third party,
Origen was committed to meeting the CETV expiry date. I think whats said is an example of
what might take time. The opening sentence of the section clearly states that Origen didnt
guarantee to meet any CETV expiry date. I think thats clear enough, reading the section as
a whole.
Id add, if Mr S maintains a stricter interpretation should be applied, theres no reference to
the two types of advice that Origen might be asked to provide  Abridged Advice or Full
Advice. The clause simply refers to the provision of Defined Benefit advice. Mr S opted for
Abridged Advice first. Origen did provide its Abridged Advice before the expiry of the CETV
and so did meet the guarantee date. The same is true of Full Advice albeit that, by then, the
original CETV had expired and a new one had been obtained.
I think similar comments apply to what Mr S has said about Origens referral form where it
says, if there are fewer than 70 days left on the CETV we are unable to commit to providing
a recommendation within this timescale. At the time of the referral (9 March 2022) there
were 79 days remaining, so Mr S says Origen did commit to providing a recommendation 
that is whether he should transfer or not  within the validity of that CETV. But again Mr S
didnt opt for Full Advice and the Abridged Advice report  which couldnt include a personal
recommendation to transfer  was issued before the CETV expired.
From what Ive seen, the adviser managed Mr Ss expectations and didnt give Mr S to
understand that it would definitely be possible to meet the CETV. It seems the adviser told
Mr S, more than once, that time would be tight but the adviser would do his best. Mr S says
he was never warned, during the Abridged Advice or Full Advice process, that there were
any issues that were beyond Origens control that might impact the achievability of the
timeline. But I think Mr S was approaching the matter from a different perspective  that
Origen had committed to providing Abridged Advice and Full Advice before the original
CETV expired. Whereas, as Ive explained, I dont think that was the case.
Mr S has expressed concern that the drop in value wasnt addressed when the new CETV
became available. The CETV  and whether it represents good value in return for the
benefits being given up in the OPS  is central to any recommendation whether to transfer or
remain in the OPS. A reduction in the CETV can mean a transfer is no longer financially
viable and so not considered to be in the clients best interests even though a positive
recommendation to transfer may have given earlier on the basis of a higher CETV.
Here the outcome of the Abridged Advice wasnt a personal recommendation that Mr S
shouldnt transfer. A transfer hadnt been ruled out and the Full Advice report was based on
the new lower CETV and a transfer was recommended. The new lower CETV was taken into
account, even if the fact that the earlier CETV had been higher wasnt directly addressed.
That CETV had expired and was no longer directly relevant  Origens advice was based on
the CETV actually on offer.
I realise Mr S is likely to be disappointed with what Ive said. I can see he feels very stronglythat Origens service wasnt up to the standard he was entitled to expect and that it was
Origens fault that he lost out on the higher transfer value so Origen should be responsible
for the difference of £71,000. But Ive been unable to uphold his complaint. I think the £300
Origen offered for any distress and inconvenience arising from what happened when Mr S
was on holiday is fair and reasonable. I dont think Origen needs to do anymore.
Origen didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr S did. He said hed raised the issue of 
the advice in his original complaint to Origen and so it should be addressed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S says his original complaint to Origen (Mr Ss letter of 28 October 2022) had two 
sections: The Process and The Advice. That is the case but Mr S said he had the following 
issues with the advice given:
Quality of the administration and presentation of the advice
The content presented compared with the expectations set
The late presentation of the advice against the CETV expiry date
I dont think those issues amounted to a complaint about the advice itself, that is whether 
Origens recommendation that Mr S transfer was in his best interests as required by COBS 
(Conduct of Business Sourcebook) 19.1.6G. Mr S says the second point was a complaint 
about the advice itself. But I dont see that was obvious. It seems to me to be more a 
reiteration of the first point and reflects disappointment on Mr Ss part with the Full Advice 
report, rather than the advice itself and its suitability. 
Origen seems to have viewed the complaint letter similarly. In its final response letter Origen 
set out what it had investigated: the length of time Origens advice process took; that Mr S 
received the Full Advice report less than a week before the CETV expired; and what had 
happened while hed been on holiday and the email hed received from the OPS on 6 
October 2022. So Origen didnt investigate any complaint about the advice itself. I dont think 
Origen was at fault in proceeding on the basis that Mr S wasnt then complaining about the 
suitability of the advice. 
In my provisional decision I noted that, in the summary to his letter, Mr S had said, because 
Origen had failed to meet the professional standards hed expected, that called into question 
Origens credibility and therefore its advice. And that Mr S had added that hed been left in a 
position where hed have to consider further financial and legal advice. I said I didnt think 
that amounted to a complaint about the suitability of the advice, even if Mr S might be 
thinking about making that complaint. That remains my view. I dont think a complaint about 
the advice itself has been sidestepped. 
To be clear, Im not saying a complaint about the suitability of the advice cant be 
considered. Just that Im not persuaded it formed part of Mr Ss original complaint and I dont 
consider it would be right to add a complaint about suitability to the complaint weve 
investigated. My provisional decision and this decision are lengthy. A complaint about 
suitability is likely to be complex. So, if Mr S now thinks Origen shouldnt have recommended 
he transfer, hell need to first make that complaint to Origen. 
In so far as the current complaint is concerned, my views remain as set out in my provisional 
decision. Ive repeated those in full above and they form part of this decision. For the 
reasons Ive given I think the £300 offered by Origen is fair and reasonable. My final decision
Origen Financial Services Limited has already made an offer to pay £300 to settle the
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Origen
Financial Services Limited pays £300 to Mr S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman