DRN-2934066
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as RSA (RSA) unfairly 
declined her claim on her home insurance.
Mrs S has appointed a representative, so references to Mrs S or her representative, will 
include the other.
There are several parties and representatives of RSA involved throughout the claim but for 
the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to RSA.
What happened
Mrs Ss representative says that damage was noticed to a large number of roof tiles on her 
property, after return from a holiday. Water damage was also found on the ceilings of the 
first-floor bedroom as water was getting in through the damaged roof. 
There had been a period of rain prior to when the damage was noticed so Mrs Ss 
representative felt that the rain had caused the damage.
Mrs Ss representative arranged for a temporary repair but after further rain a few weeks 
later water was found to still be getting in.
The following month Mrs S submitted a claim to RSA under her home insurance policy for 
damage to the roof and to the inside of them property.
RSA asked Mrs S to obtain two estimates for repair of the damaged roof. These were 
organised and submitted to RSA.
RSA loss adjusters conducted a video meeting to assess the internal damage to the property 
from the leaking roof. Mrs Ss representative said that they understood from the loss adjuster 
that the RSA main office would be in in touch to authorise the work the next week.
RSA did not contact Mrs S as they had said they would so Mrs Ss representative rang RSA 
several times for an update on the claim.
A few weeks later RSA contacted Mrs S to say that the claim for the damage caused to the 
roof had been declined as there was no storm event. She was told that the Internal damage 
was also not covered, as accidental damage was not included as part of the insurance 
policy. The claim was declined in full.
Mrs Ss representative made a formal complaint to RSA about the service they had received 
and the declined claim. On receipt of the complaint RSA gave a deadline of when they would 
respond. The first deadline and a second deadline passed without a response from RSA, so 
Mrs Ss representative came to our service.
Mrs Ss representative complains that they want a review of the decision to decline the 
claim, acknowledgement of why there was an eight-week delay in between decision to 
decline and informing them of the decision, and acknowledgment of stress and anxiety 
caused by delays and lack of communication by RSA.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She looked in to the case and agreed that RSA 
had fairly declined the claim and did not feel that there had been any unreasonable delays. 
As Mrs Ss representative is unhappy with our investigators view the case has been brought 
to me for a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I shall reply to the insurance policy claim being declined and the complaint about delays and 
claim handling separately.
Decsion to decline 
When we consider complaints about claims as a result of storm damage we approach them 
in a similar manner. There are three conditions that need to be met before we can say that a
business should deal with a claim for storm damage. Those conditions are:
1) Was there a storm?
I have considered all the information presented and I am reassured that after looking at all 
the evidence that there was no wind or rain that would be considered as a storm in the 
month of July. I am confident that the weather reports are of a reliable source.
2) Is the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
The damage to the roof was not consistent with rain damage and there had been no strong 
winds recorded so I am in agreement that RSAs decision not accept that the external 
damage was related to a storm was correct.
3)Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
No, as there was no storm conditions identified.  
There was evidence of some moderate rain, although not at storm level, and the loss 
adjuster stated that the amount of rain recorded could be sufficient to overpower a roof in 
good condition. In this case the internal water damage could have been considered under 
accidental damage, but on review of Mrs Ss policy it was found that this cover was not in 
place so the claim for the intenal damage was not valid either.
Therefore I accept that the claim was declined fairly.
Delays and claim handling
  
The claim was submitted in August to report damage that had happened in early July. The 
exact date of damage was unknown as Mrs S was on holiday at the start of July. A builder 
had attended and made some temporary repairs on her return from holiday.
Mrs Ss representive claims that there was a delay of eight weeks between RSA making 
thier decision to decline the claim and letting them know that it was declined. I have looked 
carefully at the timeline of events during this claim and cannot find a delay of this length. The loss adjuster was appointed and an appointment was offered that was not convenient 
for Mrs Ss representative so another was booked that was suitable, for six days later. The 
loss adjuster undertook the video call appointment and the report was completed within 
seven days and back with RSA. 
There was a period of almost four weeks where the report and other information was being 
considered and checked  by RSA and I understand that this is likely to have felt longer to 
Mrs S as the roof was still in a state of disrepair and water was still coming inside. 
Mrs Ss representative acknowledged that they may have got mixed up with dates due to the 
time that has passed since the claim began and also due to other things they were having to 
deal with during the same period of time. 
I acknowledge that Mrs S will have no doubt been stressed and anxious during the time after 
the roof leak started as such circumstances are bound to be upsetting, but after careful 
consideration I feel that I cannot hold RSA responsible for this as it attended when agreed 
and I found no delay in the claim process. 
Therefore, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint and do not require RSA to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman