DRN-3421537
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont reimburse the funds he lost when 
he was scammed.
What happened
In February 2018, Mr M came across Greenfields Capital when he was looking online to 
invest money. He was subsequently telephoned by an individual claiming to be an account 
manager at Greenfields Capital and was sold an investment opportunity. 
Over the next several weeks, the following transactions were made using Mr Ms debit and 
credit cards:
Transaction 
Date Type Merchant Amount
27 February 2018 Credit card Greenfieldscapital.com £250.00 (undisputed)
28 February 2018 Credit card Greenfieldscapital.com £8,075.00 (undisputed)
28 February 2018 Debit card Greenfieldscapital £250.00
1 March 2018 Debit card Greenfieldscapital.com £250.00
1 March 2018 Debit card Greenfieldscapital.com £10,000.00 (blocked)
1 March 2018 Debit card Greenfieldscapital £2,500.00 (blocked)
1 March 2018 Debit card Greenfieldscapital.com £999.00 (blocked)
14 March 2018 Debit card Greenfieldscapital £250.00 (credit)
2 April 2018 Debit card Credit Voucher £700.00
2 April 2018 Debit card Credit Voucher £701.00
2 April 2018 Debit card Greenfieldscapital.com £700.00
2 April 2018 Debit card Greenfieldscapital.com £3,899.00
2 April 2018 Debit card Greenfieldscapital.com £9,999.00
2 April 2018 Debit card Greenfieldscapital £9,998.00
3 April 2018 Debit card Greenfieldscapital £7,500.00
5 April 2018 Debit card Greenfieldscapital £443.60 (credit)
Total disputed payments £33,997.00
Total credits £693.60
Total loss £33,303.40
Mr M says he agreed to the make the two credit card payments and these arent in dispute. 
But the remaining payments werent authorised by him (although at the time of reporting the 
matter to HSBC, he acknowledged that he had also authorised the two £250 debit card 
payments).
Mr M reported the unauthorised payments to HSBC when he noticed them on his bank 
statements. He also said that someone had transferred money from his savings account into 
his current account before the unauthorised payments were taken. Mr M attempted to 
recover the funds from Greenfields Capital by making a withdrawal request, but it was 
declined.
HSBC presented a chargeback request after receiving additional documentation from Mr M.  
While awaiting a response, it also temporarily refunded the disputed amounts. The 
chargeback was successfully defended by the merchant and HSBC took it to arbitration. 
Visa, the card scheme operator in this case, ultimately ruled in the merchants favour. 
Following this decision, HSBC reversed the funds that had been temporarily returned to 
Mr M.
Unhappy with this, Mr M referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator was 
persuaded that the disputed transactions were authorised by Mr M. She also concluded that 
Greenfields Capital wasnt a legitimate trader. It was also her view that HSBC hadnt acted 
done anything wrong in relation to raising a chargeback. But given it had blocked several 
payments to Greenfields Capital, the investigator thought that HSBC should have properly 
questioned Mr M before processing subsequent payments to the merchant. Mr M accepted 
the investigators findings, but HSBC didnt. 
I issued my provisional decision last month and said that I planned to uphold this complaint, 
but the redress I intended to award was different to what the investigator recommended. 
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties. Mr M said that he didnt have any 
further comments to make, and HSBC said that it accepted my findings. 
As neither party has provided anything further for me to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings. What follows below is my provisional decision made final.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has accepted the investigators conclusion that he authorised the payments in 
question. As authorisation is no longer in dispute, it isnt necessary for me to make a finding 
on this issue. 
Given the information Ive found during my research on Greenfields Capital, Im satisfied that 
it wasnt a legitimate trader. It wasnt regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
which was a requirement at the time. There are also warnings published about it on the 
Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organisation Securities Commissions (IOSCO) by 
Superintendencia del Mercado de Valores in Panama, as well as by the Czech National 
Bank. And a warning was also later published by the FCA. 
While I think that the Greenfields Capital was likely operating a scam, the chargeback 
scheme rules dont automatically entitle Mr M to a refund. Visa does give chargeback rights 
in relation to investments, but those rights are very narrow. Reason Code 13.5 (previously 
53) allows claims for misrepresentation for investments where the merchant refuses to allow 
the cardholder to withdraw available balances. But Visa requires very specific evidence  a 
copy of the cardholders investment account showing the date, the withdrawal amount and 
the available balance, at the time the withdrawal request was made.
From the information Ive seen, it doesnt appear as though Mr M was in possession of this 
information when he contacted HSBC. Or, that he would have been able to provide all the 
required evidence if it had been requested at the time. Regardless, I can see that HSBC did 
present a chargeback and followed it through to arbitration. But Visa ruled in favour of the 
merchant. My role is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or its chargeback scheme rules, 
but to determine whether the card issuer (HSBC in this case) acted fairly and reasonably 
when presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder. Here, 
HSBC presented a chargeback even though it didnt have all the required evidence. In the 
circumstances, I dont think HSBC acted unreasonably in how it dealt with the chargeback 
request.
Ive also considered whether HSBC ought to have done more to prevent the disputed 
payments from being sent in the first instance. For the avoidance of any doubt, like the 
investigator, Ive only looked into the debit card transactions as the credit card transactions 
arent in dispute.
Its common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr M. Under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 in force at the time, Mr M is initially presumed liable for 
the loss even though he didnt intend for his money to go to fraudsters. 
As a starting position, banks should execute an authorised payment instruction without 
undue delay. However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a 
bank has a duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is 
reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought 
reasonably to alert a prudent bank to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for 
the losses incurred by its customer as a result.
HSBC is aware of our approach of expecting it to have been monitoring accounts to counter 
various risks, to have systems in place to identify unusual transactions or other indicators 
that its customers were at risk of fraud and, in some situations, to make additional checks 
before processing payments, or declining them altogether to protect customers from possible 
financial harm from fraud. 
As long ago as June 2012, the then regulator, indicated  in its consultation paper Banks 
Defence Against Investment Fraud; detecting perpetrators and protecting victims  that it 
was good industry practice for firms to put together an updated watch-list of types of scams 
and potential scammers; and to regularly share timely and detailed intelligence with other 
banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police etc.
While the regulator didnt give any indication of when those watchlists ought to be updated, 
its not unreasonable to expect an international bank, like HSBC, to update those lists, and 
communicate with staff, within a month of a warning being published by the FCA or IOSCO. 
In my judgement, such alerts should automatically trigger the banks fraud prevention 
systems and lead to payments being paused, pending further intervention  such as making 
enquiries of the customer about the payment or giving a scam warning.
Here, there were no regulator warnings in place about Greenfields Capital when Mr M made 
the first two payments on his debit card. An IOSCO alert about Greenfields Capital was first 
published on 13 March 2018. And the FCAs warning was published on 18 April 2018. So, 
the remaining payments were all authorised less than a month after the first published 
warning. 
In the circumstances, I wouldnt have expected HSBC to have picked up payments to 
Greenfields Capital as being suspicious based on the merchant name alone. Two of the 
disputed payments were to Credit Voucher (even though the purchase was to facilitate 
deposits to Mr Ms account with Greenfields Capital). There is no regulator warning about 
this firm. So, for similar reasons, I wouldnt have expected these payments to have triggered 
HSBCs systems either.But this isnt the end of the matter. Ive considered the operation of Mr Ms account in the 
months leading up to the disputed payments. This is to determine whether they were so 
unusual or uncharacteristic that I think HSBC ought to have intervened. 
I dont consider any of the disputed payments to be out of line with Mr Ms general account 
activity. The account statements show that it wasnt unusual for him to make large-value 
payments from his account. For instance, I can see third-party payments for £9,950 in 
August 2017, as well as £10,930 and £7,620 in November 2017. So, I dont consider any of 
the disputed payments to be so unusual or uncharacteristic that HSBC ought to have 
intervened.
That said, HSBC did block several payments to Greenfields Capital on 1 March 2018. Given 
HSBCs fraud detection systems were triggered and required an intervention, its my 
judgement that HSBC had reasonable grounds to suspect fraud or scam at this time. So, it 
would have also been reasonable for the bank to have asked Mr M appropriate probing 
questions before processing the payments. 
I understand HSBC called Mr M on 6 March, but he asked for a letter to be sent to him 
regarding its enquiries. And so, HSBC wrote to him. It is also my understanding that a 
response wasnt received. Mr Ms debit card or his account wasnt blocked during that time. 
There were no further transactions to Greenfields Capital until a month later  on 2 April  
when four payments were authorised on the same day. On this occasion, none of the 
payments were blocked by HSBC.
Ive carefully considered the circumstances here and it is my judgement that HSBC fell short 
in its duty of care by processing the payments authorised on 2 April. I say this because it 
already had concerns about payment attempts to Greenfields Capital at the beginning of 
March. To an extent, I can understand HSBC had reasons for not blocking Mr Ms debit card 
(or indeed his account) completely while it made enquiries. But I cant see that the concerns 
it had about payments to Greenfields Capital were addressed. I therefore question why only 
a month later HSBC executed multiple same-day payment instructions  totalling £24,596  
to the very same merchant without further intervention. 
I consider it would have been prudent for HSBC to have satisfied itself that all was good with 
regards to Mr Ms payments to Greenfields Capital before processing them. If Mr M had 
difficulty discussing matters over the phone, HSBC could have suggested a visit to the 
branch. Or, sent a reminder about its written request. 
I havent seen the contents of HSBCs letter. While it is not up to our service to dictate what 
questions a bank should ask, HSBC could have, for example, asked how Mr M had been 
contacted, whether he had parted with personal details in order to open a trading account, 
whether the investment opportunity was linked to a prominent individual, or advertised on 
social media etc. These are all typical features of investment scams  and form part of a 
reasonable line of enquiry to protect a consumer from the potential risk of a prominent type 
of scam. 
Although there is no reason to doubt that Mr M would have explained what he was doing, 
I accept it is possible that he might not have revealed enough information to lead HSBC to 
understand whether he was at risk of financial harm from this particular type of fraud (or any 
type for that matter). I cant know for certain what would have happened. However, I reach 
my conclusions not based on mere possibilities, but rather on what I find most probable to 
have happened in the circumstances. And on balance, Im satisfied that Mr M would have 
likely shared information which aligned with the hallmarks of this type of scam, as he had been given no reason to think he had to hide this information from his bank, and neither had 
he been coached to tell them something different.
HSBC could have also explained its own customers experiences with unregulated and 
unlicensed high-risk investment traders in that customers would often be prevented from 
withdrawing available balances and trading accounts could be manipulated. After all, at that 
time, there was information in the public domain  which a bank ought to have known even if 
a lay consumer ought not  about the very high risks associated with binary options and 
CFDs, including many warnings of potential fraud (e.g. Action Frauds June 2016 warning; 
the European Securities and Markets Authoritys July 2016 warning; the FCAs consultation 
paper of December 2016; the Gambling Commissions scam warning of December 2016; 
City of London Polices October 2017 report noting victims had lost over £59m to binary 
options fraud; Visas Business News publication of October 2017 where it expanded its 
chargeback scheme rules to cover binary options and investment disputes arising from 
merchants often unlicensed and unregulated deploying deceptive practices; and so forth). 
I accept that, when simply executing authorised payments, banks such as HSBC dont have 
to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains or give investment advice.
However, the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would not constitute unauthorised
investment advice  so I dont think HSBC would have acted out of line, had it warned Mr M
along the lines that Ive described.
Had HSBC indicated the potential for fraud and provided Mr M with a potential scam 
warning, it seems more probably to me that he would have made further enquiries into 
investment scams and whether Greenfields Capital was registered/licensed with the FCA or 
even regulated abroad. He could have discovered it wasnt and would have seen the various 
regulatory warnings about the risk of such scams. So, I am satisfied that a warning from his 
trusted bank would probably have exposed Greenfields Capitals false pretences, such that it 
would have prevented Mr M from sending further payments.
Ive also considered whether Mr M is partly to blame for what happened. And I think that he 
is. Ive noted Mr M has told our service that he had previous investment experience. 
However, Im not aware that he carried out any due diligence before contracting with 
Greenfields Capital. I havent seen any evidence that Mr M carried out any research into the 
investment, the trader, or the investment type to reassure himself that the opportunity as 
presented was genuine. So, I do think that Mr M ought to bear some responsibility for his 
losses. Considering the individual circumstances of this complaint, I think that it would be fair 
to reduce compensation by 20%.
  
Putting things right
To put matters right, HSBC UK Bank Plc needs to reimburse Mr M the last five payments to 
Greenfields Capital (from £700 on 2 April 2018 onwards), less any credits he received from 
it, along with a 20% deduction for contributory negligence. That would mean an award of 
£25,121.92.
As the monies paid to Greenfields Capital was transferred in from Mr Ms savings account, 
I consider it would be fair and reasonable for HSBC to pay interest on the disputed payments 
at the applicable savings account rate rather than 8% simple interest that was recommended 
by the investigator. This interest will need to be paid from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement (less any tax properly deductible).My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require HSBC UK 
Bank Plc to put matters right for Mr M as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman