DRN-3603628
The complaint
Mr B and Miss S are unhappy because Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) did not reimburse the 
money Miss S transferred to a fraudster.
What happened
This complaint concerns two payments from Miss Ss sole account and then two payments 
from a joint account she holds with Mr B. As Miss S completed all the transactions, Ill mainly 
refer to her in my decision. 
Miss S was approached via social media by someone who described themselves as an 
official cash promoter agent. She was offered guaranteed returns which were risk and tax 
free and was told that the investment was certified by the world financial organisation, the 
IRS and a named company. The agent told Miss S that funds were invested worldwide in 
multi-million investments like betting, sports, house foreclosures, trading and stocks. Miss S 
was told that deals changed daily but was initially advised of rates of return in under an hour 
of £5,000 for a £300 investment, £6,000 for a £400 investment and £7,500 for a £500 
investment. 
Miss S took out a loan with Monzo for £8,150 on 12 May 2021. The funds were paid into a 
newly opened Monzo account. 
On the instructions of the agent Miss S initially tried to make a £350 payment through an 
online money transfer company. The agent talked her through screenshots, and she tried to 
pay one named individual twice and was then asked to pay a different individual. 
Miss S then made payments from Monzo accounts as follows:
Date Amount Recipient Account 
12/05/21 £1,000 1 Miss S
12/05/21 £500 2 Miss S
12/05/21 £1,850 3 Miss S & Mr B
12/05/21 £1,300 4 Miss S & Mr B
Miss S was asked to pay different individuals as they were responsible for the departments 
preparing the paperwork.
At one stage Miss S was told that she wouldnt receive the £18,500 shed been told she 
would but would instead receive £350,000. This was because she had been selected third in 
a prize draw. 
On the evening of 12 May 2021 Miss S contacted Monzo through its in-app chat to report 
that she was the victim of a scam. She said shed looked online and seen thousands of 
similar scams. Miss S later asked Monzo not to go ahead with the scam claim as the person 
she had paid had offered to refund her. Monzo provided advice and Miss S asked it to 
proceed with the fraud claim. 
Monzo didnt agree to refund Miss S and Mr Bs lost funds. It said Miss S hadnt taken 
enough steps to check who she was paying and what she was paying for. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint recommended that Monzo refund 50% of Mr 
Bs and Miss Ss losses plus interest He wasnt persuaded Monzo had been able to establish 
that Miss S ignored an effective warning and also said that she didnt have a reasonable 
basis for believing she was paying a legitimate payee for a legitimate service. 
Monzo didnt agree with the investigator and said that if Miss S didnt have a reasonable 
basis for believing she was paying for a legitimate service she shouldnt receive a refund 
under the CRM Code. Monzo also said that it has systems in place to flag unusual 
transactions and its unrealistic to expect it to prevent all fraudulent payments. 
As Monzo didnt agree with the investigators findings the complaint was passed to me to 
consider. I issued my provisional decision on 4 May 2022 and said, 
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Monzo 
should have reimbursed Miss S and Mr B under the provisions of the CRM Code and 
whether it ought to have done more to protect them from the possibility of financial harm 
from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Miss S was tricked into making the payments. But this isnt 
enough for Miss S and Mr B to receive a refund of the money under the CRM Code. The 
Code places a level of care on Miss S and Mr B too. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
 The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by failing to 
take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning
 The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
 The customer has been grossly negligent 
*The two further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case. 
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of Miss 
S and Mr B and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Monzo has raised about the 
legitimacy of the transactions Miss S made are enough to support its position that she failed 
to meet her requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the payments she made. I dont 
think she had a reasonable basis for believing the payments were for genuine services or 
that the person she transacted with was legitimate. Ill explain why. I should also say that its 
the combination of these factors that lead me to believe Miss S didnt have a reasonable 
basis for belief and that none of them can be considered alone. 
-Miss S was contacted by someone from a social media site that is not an investment platform. Out of the blue contact offering an attractive deal is a common sign of a 
scam. 
-The investment Miss S was offered did not sound genuine and the rate of return she 
was offered and the timescale to receive it were too good to be true. Miss S was 
offered a rate of return of over 1600% on a £300 investment and was told it would 
take around 45 minutes to receive this return. This rate of return and timescale was 
totally unrealistic. The return was also said to be guaranteed. I consider that the 
promised returns were so unlikely that Miss S ought reasonably to have had 
significant concern about the legitimacy of the opportunity. That, in turn, ought to 
have led to a greater degree of checking on her part. 
-The scammer didnt claim to represent a company and didnt give a company name, 
although she did refer to other departments. This is unusual but Miss S didnt 
question it.
-The language used by the scammer wasnt professional and wasnt what Id expect 
of a genuine trader. She used words like sweetie and darling in her messages.
-The scammer claimed to be regulated by the world financial organisation, the IRS 
and a named company. None of these organisations are involved in regulation and 
Miss S has not suggested that she completed any research before transferring her 
money to check she was doing so safely. 
-Initially Miss S was asked to make payments through an online money transfer 
service, but the payment attempts werent successful. She tried three times to make 
a payment to two individuals and on each occasion the payment reason Miss S was 
told to use was family support. Ive not seen any evidence to suggest Miss S 
questioned why she should use this payment reason for an investment and consider 
it should have been a red flag to her that something was wrong. There was also a 
discussion about Miss S calling her bank and the scammer told her to say she was 
paying an aunt for her medical bills. I consider Miss S should have been concerned 
about being told to lie to her bank about the reason for the payment. 
-Miss S paid four different individual payees. This is not what Id expect if she was 
investing through a genuine company and I dont consider the explanation she was 
given by the scammer was particularly persuasive.  
-Miss S didnt complete any research before deciding to go ahead and invest. When 
she reported the scam to Monzo she said, The payee details appeared ok and 
werent disputed so I didnt think to do anymore. Particularly given the other red flags 
in this case, I consider Miss S should have taken some time to complete some basic 
checks to satisfy herself she wasnt at risk of being scammed.
-After shed made the payments Miss S did an internet search and found numerous 
scams of this nature. So if shed have checked sooner, she could have avoided 
falling victim to this scam. 
-Its clear that at some stages Miss S has doubts and asked the scammer whether the 
investment was legitimate. She relied on the scammers answer that it was 100 per 
cent guaranteed and secure. I consider that if Miss S had these doubts, she ought 
reasonably to have done more to check the agent and the investment were 
legitimate. 
Miss S has explained that she also made payment/s from an account with another bank 
which refunded her within days of reporting the scam. But this doesnt mean that Monzo 
should also provide a refund. Im required to consider the individual circumstances of Miss S 
and Mr Bs complaint against Monzo and so I cant consider what another financial business 
has chosen to do.  
Should Monzo have done more to try to prevent the scam and protect Miss S and Mr B? The CRM Code says that where firms identify authorised push payment scam risks in a 
payment journey, they should take reasonable steps to provide effective warnings (as set out 
in the CRM Code) to their customers. The Code also says that the assessment of whether a 
firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of whether compliance with that 
standard would have had a material effect on preventing the scam. 
Im also mindful that when Miss S made these payments, Monzo should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud. So Ive also considered 
whether the payments Miss S made were unusual or suspicious. 
On 12 May 2021 Miss S applied for a Monzo loan of £8,150. The reason given was home 
improvements. The loan funds were paid into a personal Monzo account that was new to 
Miss S, so there was no previous activity on the account. Miss S then made two faster 
payments of £1,000 and £500 to two new payees. I dont consider Monzo should have 
flagged these payments as unusual or uncharacteristic as they were for relatively small 
sums and there was no previous activity on the account to compare the payments to. Its 
also common to receive loan funds and make payments soon after. So I dont consider 
Monzo was required to give an effective warning to Miss S in respect of these payments and 
I believe Monzo acted reasonably in processing them. 
Miss S also made two payments from her joint account with Mr B. This account was mainly 
used for the payment of bills and I can see there was a regular payment of £795 from this 
account. I dont consider that the payments of £1,300 and £1,850 were so unusual or out of 
character that Monzo should have recognised a scam risk and provided an effective warning 
(as defined by the CRM Code). 
The investigator awarded Miss S and Mr B 50% of their losses as he thought Monzo hadnt 
given effective warnings during the payment journey. But under the standards for firms, 
Monzo is only required to give an effective warning under the CRM Code when it identifies 
an authorised push payment (APP) scam risk in the payment journey. Ive concluded above 
that Im not persuaded Monzo should have recognised a scam risk when it processed any of 
the four payments and so I think Monzo met the standards required of it. This means that I 
do not propose to award Miss S and Mr B 50% of their losses as the investigator did. 
Did Monzo do enough to recover Miss S and Mr Bs funds?
Ive also considered Monzos actions once it was made aware of the scam. Miss S reported 
the scam on the evening of 12 May 2021 and Monzo contacted all four receiving banks on 
13 May 2021. The banks that received the payments of £1,000 and £500 both confirmed that 
no funds remained so there was nothing further Monzo could do.
I understand that the bank that received the £1,300 payment returned the full amount to 
Monzo on 1 June 2021. Monzo only returned this sum to Miss S and Mr B after I questioned 
why it hadnt refunded it in March 2022 and hasnt provided an explanation for the delay. 
Miss S has explained the impact of this scam on her mental health and I consider Monzo 
has exacerbated this by not returning funds in a reasonable timescale. So I think Monzo 
should pay Miss S and Mr B £200 compensation to reflect the unnecessary distress it has 
caused them. 
The bank that received the payment of £1,850 confirmed on 13 May 2021 that partial funds 
remained and asked Monzo to provide an indemnity, which Monzo provided on 15 May 
2021. Ive seen evidence to confirm that Monzo has chased this bank on at least two 
occasions but has not heard anything more. I cant hold Monzo responsible for this. Miss S 
and Mr B may wish to consider complaining to this bank as some funds may remain. I also consider Miss S is still responsible for loan repayments in respect of the loan she took 
out on 12 May 2021.
Overall
I consider Miss S didnt have a reasonable basis for believing she was making payments for 
a genuine service and/or the agent she communicated with was a legitimate trader. Im sorry 
to have to disappoint Miss S and Mr B, but I cant fairly say Monzo should have done more 
or that it should refund the money that they have lost. But I think Monzo should pay them 
£200 compensation.
Monzo agreed with my provisional decision. Miss S also responded and made the following 
points:
- It was hard to believe Monzo checked whether any funds remained in respect of the 
£1,000 and £500 payments. 
- When she took the loan out, she wasnt in a good place. Miss S would like Monzo to 
write off the remaining £750 of the loan to alleviate the pressure she feels about 
paying this off. 
- Given her mental health at the time she was vulnerable and an easy target.
- The compensation award of £200 doesnt reflect what she has gone through and 
Monzo has withheld funds in the past. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After carefully considering the responses I have received I have reached the same outcome 
as I did in my provisional decision and for the same reasons. The relevant parts of my 
provisional decision are reproduced above. 
As I said in my provisional decision, Ive seen evidence to confirm that Monzo contacted the 
bank that received £1,850 from Mr B and Miss Ss joint account, provided an indemnity as 
requested and then chased this bank but didnt receive a response. I consider Monzo has 
done what Id expect. I cant comment on the actions of the other bank in this decision about 
Monzo. 
Ive also seen evidence of Monzos contact with the banks that received the first two 
payments and the responses received  confirming that no funds remained. So Im satisfied 
theres nothing more Monzo should do. 
I turn now to Miss Ss request to write off the balance of the loan she took out with Monzo. 
Most of the loan funds were repaid when the scam was uncovered but Miss S has asked 
Monzo to write off the outstanding balance. To require Monzo to write off this loan Id need to 
be satisfied that Monzo acted unreasonably in giving Miss S the loan for the reason she 
stated on the application  home improvements. 
I have seen evidence from Monzo that confirms it took into account information from Miss 
Ss credit file, her credit score, information on her profile, the information she used in the 
loan application and information about her use of her Monzo account. Monzo went on to 
complete an affordability check which demonstrated the loan repayments were affordable 
over the period of the loan. In the circumstances, it is Miss Ss responsibility to repay the 
outstanding balance. In her response to my provisional decision Miss S said that she was vulnerable and so an 
easy target when she fell victim to the scam. The CRM Code says that customers should be 
reimbursed, irrespective of whether any exceptions apply, if they were vulnerable to the 
extent that they were unable to protect themselves from the scam. The wording in the CRM 
Code is as follows: 
A Customer is vulnerable to APP scams if it would not be reasonable to expect that 
Customer to have protected themselves, at the time of becoming victim of an APP scam, 
against that particular APP scam, to the extent of the impact they suffered. 
I asked Miss S to provide me with evidence of her vulnerability and the impact it had on her 
at the time she fell victim to the scam to assess whether she was vulnerable as set out in the 
CRM Code. Miss S has explained that her medication was increased after the scam as it 
was hard for her to manage her affairs at this stage. But Ive not seen any evidence that at 
the time of the scam Miss S couldnt have protected herself from becoming a victim of this 
scam and so I cant conclude she was vulnerable as set out in the CRM Code. 
Miss S doesnt think the compensation I have awarded reflects what she has suffered. But 
its important to remember that the scammer in this case was responsible for most of the 
stress Miss S suffered. Monzo didnt return funds when it should have, which has 
exacerbated an already difficult situation. But I consider the £200 I have awarded fairly 
reflects the additional and unnecessary stress Monzo caused. 
My final decision
I require Monzo Bank Ltd to pay Mr B and Miss S £200 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman