DRN-3900947
The complaint
Mr R complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited withdrew its offer of insurance just 
before his motorbike insurance policy was due to renew. 
What happened
Mr R bought an insurance policy for his motorbike in October 2021 through Hastings. In 
September 2022 it contacted him to let him know it was inviting him to renew the policy from 
the following month. On receipt of the renewal paperwork, Mr R noticed there was an error in 
his personal details, as the documents said he wasnt a homeowner when he was. He 
contacted Hastings to correct this. 
Following the correction Hastings contacted Mr R to withdraw its renewal offer. It said it 
could no longer offer a policy from its panel of insurers. Mr R was unhappy with this as he 
said as it was so close to the date of renewal he had to quickly arrange another policy. And 
because of this, he ended up paying a higher premium for a less comprehensive policy. He 
made a complaint, but Hastings didnt uphold it. So he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said It is for the insurer to 
decide who it insures. And here the insurer declined cover based on the information 
provided after Mr R made a change to his details. So Hastings acted fairly by not offering a 
renewal. Further he said Mr R had told Hastings he had got a cheaper quote elsewhere so it 
wasnt clear to Hastings that he would have accepted the renewal. And it therefore couldnt 
have foreseen there would have been a financial loss based on this.
Mr R didnt accept our investigators outcome as he said it wasnt fair that a small correction 
of his personal details led to the offer being withdrawn. He asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator for the following 
reasons:
An insurer isnt obliged to offer a policy to everyone, and can choose who it insures 
based on its own assessment of risk. As the broker, its for Hastings to ensure the 
insurer of the policy has the correct information about the customer in order to make 
this assessment. 
When Mr R contacted Hastings to correct his information, it passed the correction 
onto the insurer who confirmed that the renewal wouldnt be accepted. Based on this 
Hastings acted reasonably by withdrawing the renewal offer, as it was no longer able 
to place Mr R with an insurer. 
I appreciate Mr R has subsequently had to take out more expensive insurance that 
provides a lower level of cover, and I understand this would have been frustrating. 
However in this complaint Im considering whether Hastings has got anything wrong, 
and while it would have been inconvenient for Mr R to find out it could no longer offer 
a renewal, it was acting on the decision of the insurer. And where it cant offer cover, 
it isnt obliged to ensure its customer finds cover elsewhere at an equivalent price. So 
I think its acted fairly and reasonably.
Therefore Im satisfied that Hastings fulfilled its obligation as a broker and acted 
reasonably by withdrawing the renewal based on the insurers decision not to offer a 
policy. I therefore wont ask Hastings to do anything differently.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman