DRN-1901802
 
The complaint
Ms C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC hasn't made a chargeback for payments she made to 
a binary trading options company.
What happened
Ms C says she made two payments in August and September 2017 to a binary trading 
options company for £1,250 in total. She says she spoke to Lloyds shortly after the 
payments as she was concerned about the company and was told by Lloyds it was a 
legitimate company. Ms C says she suffered ill health and tried to withdraw her money but 
the company hasn't allowed it and is ignoring her contact. She says as a result she asked 
Lloyds to raise a chargeback but it said it was too late to do so.
Lloyds says Ms C made the payments herself and has no record of a call to it about the 
company in 2017. It says it couldn't make a chargeback as it was out of time for doing so 
and says Ms C wasn't the victim of fraud as she authorised the payments.
Ms C brought her complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought Lloyds was not responsible for the chargeback rules and was out of time for raising 
a chargeback. The investigator thought Ms C had 540 days to make the chargeback request.
Ms C doesn't accept that view and says she asked Lloyds to raise a chargeback in 
September 2017. She says she relied on what Lloyds told her, that the binary trading 
company was legitimate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that Lloyds hasn't made a mistake or acted unfairly. I realise Ms C will be 
disappointed by my decision.
The chargeback rules are set not by, as in this case, Lloyds but by the card providers. A 
chargeback is not a right but a voluntary scheme in which there is no guarantee of success. 
Those rules say that a chargeback must be made in this type of case within 540 days. There 
is no dispute here that Ms C asked Lloyds to make the chargeback in 2019 after those time 
limits had expired. So I don't think Lloyds made a mistake by telling Ms C that it couldn't 
raise a chargeback for her.
I appreciate that Ms C says she asked Lloyds to raise a chargeback in 2017. I have looked 
carefully at what Ms C told us and I have looked at Lloyds records. I would have expected a 
note on Lloyds records of a request to make a chargeback but there is no such record. So I 
think it likely based on what Ms C told us, that she asked Lloyds if the binary trading 
company was legitimate and that Ms C didn't ask for a chargeback. But was concerned that 
she had fallen victim to a scam. And I think it likely that Ms C was told that the binary trading company was not fraudulent but appeared to be a legitimate company.
So I don't think Lloyds made a mistake in 2017 by not raising a chargeback as I don't think 
on balance it was asked to do so.
I make clear to Ms C that even if Lloyds had raised a chargeback in 2017 or in 2019 there 
would have been no guarantee of her getting her money back.
Overall I'm satisfied that Lloyds has correctly explained to Ms C that under the chargeback 
rules it can't raise one and doesn't have a discretion to do so. No doubt Ms C will consider 
alternative methods of trying to get her money back. But I'm satisfied this brings an end to 
what we in trying to sort out this complaint informally can do. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman