DRN-2486188
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about their home insurer, CIS General Insurance Limited 
because its declined their claim made for damage to the structure of their conservatory.
What happened
In April 2020 Mr and Mrs B noted water was coming in through their conservatory roof. They 
hadnt noticed a problem before but now saw the flooring was damaged below the leak. 
Upon investigating further Mr B noticed a roof purlin was wet and had dropped, the window 
sill below this was soft and upon opening this up Mr B found the base of the timber upright, 
directly below the dropped end of the purlin, was rotten. 
Mr and Mrs B felt this damage would be covered by their policy and called CIS. CIS began to 
consider this as a storm claim. It appointed an assessment company to attend the property 
and consider the damage. Mr B was told a surveyor would visit. When the assessor attended 
Mr and Mrs Bs home they were disappointed to learn the he was just a builder. They were 
also disappointed with the inspection that was undertaken and, later, with the findings of the 
report produced. Mr B had taken some guttering down to expose the supports for the 
affected purlin. Mr B felt the assessor wasnt much interested in looking at the rest of the 
conservatory and seemed focused on damage which had occurred in this area, with an 
intention Mr and Mrs B felt, of finding a way to decline the claim. 
The report found that there was no sign of storm damage to the roof. Rather water had been 
getting in behind the gutter for some time, causing the timber supports there, as well as the 
timbers below, to rot. The assessor concluded that this damage had been occurring over a 
very long time. As a result of the report CIS declined Mr and Mrs Bs claim in its entirety.
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy for a number of reasons. They felt this was an issue of health 
and safety  meaning CIS should have taken greater care to trace and determine the cause 
of the problem. And the policy covered them for trace and access too. They were 
disappointed because, they said, they take care of their conservatory, varnishing it every 
year, and they couldnt have known this damage, concealed by the guttering, was occurring 
 not until the purlin dropped, breaking the roof seals and allowing water in. 
When Mr and Mrs B complained to CIS, it agreed to cover the damaged flooring. Mr B was 
also pleased when he believed an agreement was reached for CIS to appoint an 
independent surveyor or loss adjuster to re-assess the matter. However, CIS then issued a 
final response on the complaint stating it stood by its decision to decline the claim because 
the cover carries exclusions for loss which occurs gradually or by wear and tear and it was 
satisfied the damage in question here had been occurring over the long term. Mr and Mrs B 
complained to us.
Our investigator felt that CIS could reasonably rely on the findings of its assessors report. 
He felt this showed it had fairly relied on the policy exclusion to defeat its liability for the 
claim. He wasnt persuaded that CIS reasonably needed to do anything on account of the 
trace and access cover or because this was a health and safety issue.
Mr and Mrs B were disappointed by our investigators findings. They also said that no-one 
had considered that when Mr B removed the guttering, it was unavoidably damaged. They 
feel CIS should pay to replace this. They asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr and Mrs Bs frustration. Despite CIS classifying this as a storm claim, 
their policy offers cover for damage howsoever caused, unless its caused by something 
specifically excluded. Theres nothing unfair about that in terms of the way the policy is 
constructed or regarding what it offers cover for or excludes. But, unfortunately for 
Mr and Mrs B, despite the broad cover afforded by this policy, the available evidence shows 
its more likely than not that the conservatory has been damaged gradually over time  which 
is specifically excluded. 
I know Mr and Mrs B have concerns about the assessor sent to consider the damage. I think 
its unfortunate that he was referred to as a surveyor. Its true he was there to look at or 
survey the damage, but the term surveyor in reference to buildings damage does suggest 
a person with certain qualifications. So I think it was unfortunate that CIS was less than clear 
about this. But the assessor was sent to consider the damage against the policy cover  
and, in the circumstances here, I dont think there was any need for CIS to appoint a 
professionally qualified surveyor to do that. Nor do I think, by sending the letter it did, that it 
entered into a contract to do so. And the policy doesnt say only qualified surveyors will be 
appointed. Whatever qualifications the party attending possessed, they did so under 
instruction and authority from CIS, so CIS retains liability for the actions and findings. 
Whilst Mr and Mrs B report that CIS did agree to appoint an independent surveyor later 
during the course of the claim (although they also use the phrase loss adjuster), I dont think 
it was unreasonable for it to, upon review, to decide to maintain its decline based on the 
evidence already available to it. The report its assessor had produced explained that the 
conservatory had suffered damage over time, and the accompanying photos seem to 
support that view. Mr B having a relevant building qualification that may well outrank that of 
the assessor which completed the report, doesnt make me think the conclusions the 
assessor reached were likely flawed. Whilst I know Mr and Mrs B feel the report is generic 
and doesnt go far enough, Im satisfied its content is appropriate in the circumstances, 
especially considering the photographs. 
Mr B has said he couldnt have known water was getting in behind the guttering and that the 
water damage in that area  which caused rot and ultimately the purlin to drop  couldnt be 
seen. I dont doubt that but the assessor explained that the timber coming down from the 
joint was suffering from rot too, and I can see, from the photos, that the timbers immediately 
below the guttering and above the security light do look worn. And Mr B even discovered 
that the window sill at the base of the upright timber (below the security light) was soft. On 
further inspection he found the base of the upright timber was rotten. Photos of the dropped 
end of the purlin, which was always in view, show discolouration of the wood. So Im not 
persuaded that there werent visible signs available to Mr B that should reasonably have 
alerted him to the fact damage was occurring. I think the situation here is significantly 
different to ones referred to by Mr and Mrs B where this service might normally expect an 
insurer to honour a claim for on-going but hidden damage. The evidence provided by 
Mr and Mrs B  sketches and video footage  dont dissuade me that this damage occurred 
over time and that there were visible signs of a problem occurring.Mr and Mrs B say the purlin dropped suddenly. This then caused roof seals to break and let 
water in. CIS agreed to cover damage to the flooring, seemingly because it gave 
Mr and Mrs B the benefit of the doubt that this particular damage had occurred as a result of 
one period of exposure to water. That doesnt reasonably mean it is liable for other damage 
caused to the structure of the conservatory (whether on its internal or external facades) 
which it has shown, by its report and photos, likely occurred over time. And whilst the purlin 
dropping may have occurred suddenly, that only happened because the damage that had 
occurred over time reached a point where the wood around a securing bolt failed.  
Mr B has said that other bolts have not failed in this way. So he believes this bolt cant have 
failed due to normal wear and tear. However, it isnt disputed that, over time, water has got 
in behind the guttering  whether from heavy rain or a leak from the overflow pipe above. 
CIS doesnt need to determine why that has occurred. It is also clear that the wood has 
rotted. This occurs due to long-term exposure to water  if there had just been one 
short-term leak from the overflow pipe, for example, that wouldnt have occurred. Why this 
hasnt happened in other areas, around other bolts, is not clear, although I do see that 
Mr and Mrs B have hypothesised that the rain may be more driven in this area. But the fact it 
hasnt happened elsewhere doesnt negate the fact that, in this area, long-term damage has 
occurred. As Ive said above, I think that visible signs that long-term damage was occurring, 
were there.
I know Mr and Mrs B also think that CIS should have done more to investigate the cause 
because of the trace and access cover on the policy. Whilst this would normally relate to 
tracing leaks from water or oil systems or equipment, its purpose is always to find the 
source of the water or oil. For example, where a leak is suspected but cant be seen. 
Therefore, in order to fix the problem, thus preventing further damage from occurring and 
allowing that which has been caused to be resolved, the source of the leak has to be found. 
Here, even if I were to feel some liability under this section could reasonably attach to CIS, it 
seems that all concerned seem to agree water, whether from rain or the overflow pipe, was 
getting in behind the gutter. So the source of the leak, or rather ingress in this case, was 
known.  
I see that Mr and Mrs B think CIS failed them because they believe that, in a matter that 
relates to health and safety, it has a duty of care to explore the cause of that. That is not the 
case. In many cases it is up to the policyholder to show they have a claim covered by the 
policy. Here, in order to reasonably decline liability for the loss, CIS needed to show that the 
damage was excluded. Im satisfied it did that. It had no other existing duty of care, including 
on account of the fact of water ingress occurring.
I cant say whether or not CIS should cover a claim for damaged guttering. Thats because, 
according to Mr and Mrs B, this damage only occurred after the loss in question here, 
subject of this claim and complaint. If Mr and Mrs B want to claim for the damaged guttering, 
they should contact CIS.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against CIS General Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman