DRN-2057468
 
The complaint
Miss E complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt help her to recover an overpayment 
that she made.
What happened
In late December 2018, Miss E wanted to pay for a service provided by an overseas
government agency. She had hoped to pay for this in person by card, but was told she 
would need to pay online, because of problems processing cards. She went online, but she 
said that the website she had to use was confusing, and only partly in English. She ended 
up paying for a much more expensive service, by accident. She had a handwritten receipt
telling her to pay €148 euros for the service she wanted, and a printed receipt telling her 
she had paid $8,175.30 which was the cost for a similar, but much more expensive, service.
Miss E said she contacted Barclays right away and tried to have the transaction stopped but
was unable to. Her account was charged £1,812.97. Miss E told us that she raised a 
dispute with Barclays, but it closed the dispute without reimbursing her.
Barclays records show that Miss E chased up this issue on 11 February 2019, and again on
2 April. The chargeback team tried to contact her on 8 April and left a note in case she
called, to say the team needed to know how much she ought to have been charged. She
spoke to Barclays between then, and the time of the next note on 1 May, but she doesnt
appear to have been asked to provide the information Barclays needed. The relevant team
tried to contact her again on 1 May, presumably without success. Miss E contacted Barclays
on 21 May, but the call was disconnected. On 3 June the chargeback claim was closed.
Barclays wrote to Miss E about her complaint in August 2019. It said then that We currently
dont have a category to dispute these types of payment as it is not being charged the
incorrect amount. Barclays said it wouldve been highly unlikely to be successful.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint, because she said that the rules Barclays has 
to follow when it tries to recover a payment, didnt cover this. She thought that Miss E 
shouldve been told this sooner, but she thought that the payment of £100 that Barclays had 
made was a reasonable step to apologise for what had gone wrong.
Miss E said that she had tried to sort this out right away, and shed contacted Barclays 
about it repeatedly since, but shed just ended up repeating herself. No one knew what was
happening on her case when she called. Miss E wanted an ombudsman to look at her
complaint, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
 
 
My provisional decisionI issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Internal notes on this complaint show that Barclays didnt process this chargeback 
when it was first received, as it wasnt logged properly initially. Barclays does seem to 
have realised, sometime around early April, that it shouldve processed this as a 
chargeback, but it didnt have all the information it needed to do that. It said it tried to 
contact Miss E, and couldnt get through. But its notes also show that other Barclays 
staff members had spoken to Miss E in the meantime, and the required information 
wasnt collected then. That fits with what Miss E told us, that when she rang, no one 
was able to update her on her dispute.
These internal notes also suggest that Barclays has at some point accepted 
responsibility for not recording this dispute properly and not pursuing it. But it reviewed 
Miss Es chargeback and said it would not have succeeded, because it thought it 
shouldve been logged as a different sort of case. Its not clear to me that the person 
who reviewed this chargeback, and decided it would not have succeeded, had fully 
understood what Miss E said had gone wrong. I would also note that its not Miss Es 
responsibility to identify which head her chargeback request would proceed under.
I asked Barclays a number of questions about this case. In response, it sent us the 
first call Miss E made to raise this dispute, and said that it didnt have evidence to 
suggest Miss E raised this with the correct channels to dispute the transaction. So it 
still considered the case to have been unsuccessful. It didnt set out what those correct 
channels would be. It said that if I was looking at what was fair and reasonable, it 
didnt think the case should be upheld, because it had no evidence that Miss E had 
raised this with the merchant asking it to resolve the issue.
Ive listened to the call Miss E made to Barclays to log a chargeback request. She was 
told the case might be treated as a fraud case, and if so, her cards would be blocked. 
Miss E was clear that it wasnt fraud.
On the same call, Miss E told Barclays that she discussed the overcharging with the 
service provider at the time, and it said it couldnt do anything. Miss E had also tried to 
contact the government agencys central point, but with no luck. I dont think Miss E 
had failed to make efforts to rectify this problem herself.
Barclays needed more information from Miss E, to make a successful chargeback 
request. I dont think Barclays got this before the deadline for making a chargeback 
had passed. I think its Barclays fault that this information wasnt obtained earlier.
I think that a chargeback request could have been raised for Miss E. She paid for 
attestation of commercial documents, but actually wanted, and presumably received, 
attestation of personal diplomas. So it seems most likely that the service she paid for 
was not actually received. I think a partial chargeback for the difference between the 
cost of the service she paid for, and the cost of the service she wanted and actually 
received, could have been processed under this head.
It seems particularly unlikely that the relevant government agency would successfully 
argue that it had provided Miss E with the attestation of commercial certificates. So I 
also think that such a chargeback would have been likely to be successful.
Miss E was charged £1,812.97 for her transaction. I asked Barclays to tell me how 
much a transaction of €148 would have cost Miss E at the time, but it hasnt done that. 
So, looking at historical exchange rate records, I can see that €148 on that date, without any markup on rates, would have exchanged to £133.72. I think its fair in the 
circumstances to proceed on the basis of that figure.
I think, if Barclays hadnt made mistakes in this case, then Miss E wouldve been likely 
to receive a refund of the amount she paid minus the amount she owed, which I work 
out to be £1,679. 25. I think its fair to ask Barclays to pay that now.
I also note that, by the time this is paid, Miss E will have waited a considerable amount 
of time for the refund. But I think that, in all the circumstances of this case, Barclays 
existing payment of £100 would be enough to make up for that. So I dont think 
Barclays has to pay further compensation, on top of this amount.
My current view is that a payment of £1,679. 25 to Miss E would provide a fair and
reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties accepted the decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I haven't changed my mind. I'll now make the award I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Miss E £1,679.25
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman