DRN-4025787
The complaint
Mrs D has complained about the service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited (British
Gas) under her home care policy.
Reference to British Gas in this decision letter includes its agents and contractors acting
under the relevant policy. Reference to Mrs D in this decision letter includes submissions
made by her son on her behalf.
What happened
In July 2021, Mrs D reported a toilet leak at her property to British Gas under her home care
policy. British Gas sent an engineer to her home, and it was found that the cistern had
cracked. A replacement cistern wasnt covered by Mrs Ds policy however its engineers
replaced the toilet outside the policy arrangement and Mrs D paid for the cost of a new toilet.
In October 2021, Mrs D contacted British Gas to say that the same toilet was leaking again.
It therefore sent an engineer, and it was found that the toilet had been fitted incorrectly in
August 2021. A flush pipe had been cut too short and a new part was required. When an
engineer returned to fit the part, the cistern fell off the wall and British Gas said that this was
due to the way it had been fitted. Also, the toilet wasnt sitting flush against the wall due to
the presence of a wooden batten and this was contributing to the leak. Various issues were
remedied after many visits by the British Gas engineers between October 2021 and January
2022, to include repairing damage to bathroom and hall flooring and a door. British Gas also
paid Mrs D £220 as a goodwill payment.
Mrs D remained unhappy and referred her complaint to this service. The question of whether
the service had jurisdiction was firstly considered. It was determined that complaints about
an initial delay and replacement of the toilet werent ones which could be considered for the
reasons given in a separate decision on jurisdiction. It was found however that Mrs Ds
complaints about the work following the October leak were ones which could be considered
by this service. Our investigator therefore considered these complaints.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaints. It was her view that the replacement pipe
didnt need to be an identical make or model as the original. She also considered that
British Gas hadnt caused the cistern to fall off the wall or caused the water damage.
She noted that British Gas had refitted the cistern, removed the wooden batten, replaced
flooring, repaired a door damaged by the leak, and also paid £220 in compensation. Our
investigator concluded that having considered all British Gass actions to resolve the issue
including goodwill, labour and works, that these amounted to a reasonable response.
Mrs D remained unhappy with the outcome of her complaint. The complaint was therefore 
referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman. In February 2023, I 
issued a provisional decision for this complaint and explained why I was minded to uphold 
Mrs Ds complaint as follows;
The key issue for me to determine is whether British Gas has treated Mrs D in a fair and
reasonable manner in providing a service under its home care policy. Ive concluded on a
provisional basis that it hasnt done so in all respects, and Ill explain why.
Firstly, I turn to Mrs D s submissions. Mrs D provided a detailed timeline of events relating to
the October leak. In summary, after the British Gas engineer visited, he said that a
replacement connecting flow pipe wasnt immediately available and water had leaked onto
the floor. Three days later, the engineer came to fix the pipe, but as he was fitting it, the
screws snapped and the whole cistern came off the wall. Mrs Ds son helped the engineer
as he was holding the porcelain cistern full of water. Mrs D said that the engineer left the
toilet in bits and had to isolate the water again as it was coming out of a water pipe onto the
floor. The issue wasnt resolved for a further two days. Mrs D received an apology and
British Gas agreed to remedy various issues. She said that due to the recent leaks, the toilet
door wasnt closing properly and that flooring on the toilet and hall floor had warped.
In November 2021, Mrs D said that British Gas sent an independent builder paid to fix
outstanding issues. Mrs D said that; He immediately confirmed that the toilet was not
vertical and was lopsided and had not been put in properly. The builder came back twice a
few days later and fixed various issues, including the door and toilet flooring. Mrs D said she
then had multiple phone calls with British Gas as it would only pay compensation or pay for
hall flooring, which her son considered to be a safety issue for Mrs D. The hall flooring was
fixed in mid-January 2022, however further work was needed a week later to finish off the
work. Mrs D remained unhappy as shed lost confidence in the type of toilet due to all the
problems and wanted one of a different design. She also thought that the compensation
offered wasnt adequate due to the delays, distress and worry caused.
Finally, she referred to the further time spent without a functioning downstairs toilet for a
week in October 2021. Mrs Ds son explained that lack of use of a downstairs toilet with Mrs
Ds medical conditions and mobility issues resulted in extreme distress and pain. In
summary, Mrs D considered that British Gas had caused considerable disruption and
distress between October 2021 and January 2022 through lack of urgency and
incompetence. She complained of the stress and disruption caused by the multiple failures
and visits to repair the toilet and consequent other parts of the home affected by water
damage due to [the] leaks. She also found it difficult to know whether she was dealing with
British Gas or another company.
I now turn to what British Gas has said about the matter. It initially stated that as the toilet
wasnt replaced under Mrs Ds home care policy and that the works in autumn 2021 were
completed under the engineers work guarantee, as the toilet had been installed by them
incorrectly and this had caused the second leak. However, in its final response letter, it noted
that Mrs Ds complaint referred to the quality of work provided by its engineers. It also 
referred to the water leak which had been left at the toilet by the attending engineer and
noted that this leak resulted in damage to the flooring. British Gas stated in this letter,
Having investigated the matter further, I agree with your complaint.
As to the repair works carried out in October, it said it wouldnt be possible to provide
ceramic pipes and the repair had been completed according to its contractors guidelines. As
to the hallway flooring however, British Gas said that there was no evidence that it had been
damaged and said that its replacement was completed as a gesture of goodwill. As such, it
thought £200 in addition to the repair was a fair and reasonable outcome to the complaint. It
offered a further £20 in view of a delay in contacting Mrs D about her complaint.
Having carefully considered the above submissions, I now explain the reasoning for my
provisional decision to uphold Mrs Ds complaint and my intention to require British Gas to
pay a modest additional award of compensation. I note that British Gas has agreed with Mrs
Ds complaint regarding the quality of work and water damage in relation to the October leak.Mrs Ds home care policy is the starting point for my provisional decision. Its terms and
conditions cover Mrs D for certain emergencies. However, it doesnt cover for every
eventuality and under the heading Whats covered it includes All repairs to the plumbing
system on your property, for exampletoilet siphons, isolation, ball and radiator valves.
There are also exclusions in the policy under the heading Whats not covered and this
clearly includes sanitary ware, which is defined as: your toilet bowl and cistern As to
replacements, it states where we replaceparts with a British Gas approved standard
alternative. Well provide replacements with similar functionality but not necessarily an
identical make and model or type of fitting.
Ill deal firstly with the plumbing work. The pipe that needed replacing in October 2021 was
connected to the cistern and Im satisfied that it formed a part of the plumbing system which
was covered by the British Gas home care policy and so the replacement would need to be
carried out in a fair and reasonable manner. Im satisfied on a provisional basis however that
it wasnt unfair or unreasonable to replace the pipe with a plastic rather than a ceramic pipe,
as it offered similar functionality and a satisfactory solution as per the terms and conditions
of the policy. I also appreciate that Mrs D has lost confidence in the design of the toilet,
however unfortunately for Mrs D, the policy doesnt require British Gas to provide a
replacement toilet bowl and cistern as these are excluded under the home care policy.
Having carefully considered the train of events, Ive noted that the cistern fell off the wall
when British Gass engineer was conducting the work to replace the pipe under the home
care policy as above. Whilst British Gas didnt fit the toilet under the policy, its nevertheless
unclear whether the engineers actions led to the cistern falling off the wall when attempting
to replace the pipe. On the balance of probabilities, I consider that its likely that this was a
contributory factor and its noted that British Gas took responsibility for refitting the cistern. It
was fortunate that Mrs Ds son was present to assist the engineer with the cistern and this
may well have avoided further damage. Nevertheless, I can understand why this incident will
have caused Mrs D further distress and inconvenience in an already difficult situation.
As to the series of events and delays, Ive noted the following. I understand Mrs D was
without a downstairs toilet for a week in October whilst the ongoing issues were being
resolved. Whilst a week may not be considered to be excessive where there is access to an
upstairs toilet, British Gas was aware of Mrs Ds health and mobility issues here and would
therefore have been aware of the urgency of the situation. As such, I consider that the time
taken to resolve issues in October was unreasonable. I consider that, as there had been a
previous lack of access to downstairs facilities, this further period would have considerably
added to Mrs Ds distress and loss of confidence in the work being carried out by British Gas
under the home care policy.
As to the water damage to the property, its difficult to state the extent to which this was due
to the cistern replacement work which wasnt covered by the policy, and the extent to which
it was due to the October work. I consider on a provisional basis however that at least some
of the damage and warping occurred due to the difficulties in resolving the plumbing system
issues in October 2021. I note that British Gas took responsibility for remedying this damage
by replacing the flooring both in the bathroom and then also in the hall, as well as fixing a
door. Im satisfied that once British Gas agreed that it should take responsibility for this work,
it then had a duty to proceed with such works in an efficient manner. On a provisional basis,
I consider that the timescale for resolution of the issues was excessive. This is supported by
the fact that British Gas acknowledged responsibility and agreed to uphold the complaint.
I agree with our investigator that British Gas did go some way to resolve the complaint by
carrying out a significant amount of remedial work. Some of this work may have related to
damage caused by matters outside the policy cover. I also note that it also made a goodwill
payment of £220. In conclusion, British Gas accepted that there were service failures inrelation to the further repair works carried out between October 2021 and February 2022 and
I agree that Mrs D wasnt treated fairly and reasonably in all respects. As to the impact of the
failures, I consider that Mrs D will have experienced considerable unnecessary stress and
inconvenience due to the piecemeal way in which works were carried out and the length of
time it took to resolve all issues.
I consider that additional compensation would be appropriate in all the circumstances. I dont
consider that the payment of £220 adequately acknowledges the additional stress and
inconvenience caused by the way in which works were conducted. I also consider that
British Gas would have been aware of the customers vulnerabilities, and in the
circumstances didnt act with sufficient speed and efficiency after the October 2021 incident.
Our services approach is that moderate compensation may be appropriate where there had
been distress, upset and worry and significant inconvenience and disruption that needs a lot
of extra effort to sort out and where the impact lasted over many months. I think that this is
the case here, and depending upon the parties responses, Im minded to require British Gas
to pay an additional £380, making a total of £600 bearing in mind the £220 already paid.
In my provisional decision, I also asked both British Gas and Mrs D if they had any further 
comments or evidence they would like me to consider before I made a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ds representative responded to the provisional decision and emphasised the time that 
his mother had expended and the distress and inconvenience shed suffered during and 
since October 2021 due to British Gas actions. He said that his mother was elderly and 
vulnerable and that her confidence had been seriously damaged due to this terrible and 
prolonged experience with British Gas. He requested that the £380 be increased to £680.
British Gas noted that the provisional decision referenced repairs between October 2021 and 
February 2022. It said that: - The repairs for the cistern were fully completed in October 
2021 and there were no further visits reported after it was fully repaired then. I also 
understand the repairs to the damage were completed in January 2022. It said it was only 
the final response that was issued in February 2022, so was unable to agree that any 
inconvenience lasted until February 2022.
British Gas comments are noted that repairs to damage were completed in January 2022. 
Im therefore satisfied that the phraseology in the provisional decision was correct as regards 
repair works carried out between October 2021 and February 2022.
Whilst the comments made by Mrs Ds representative about the distress and inconvenience 
that Mrs D had suffered are appreciated, the provisional decision has already recognised 
that this distress and inconvenience would have been considerable. I therefore considered 
that moderate rather than low compensation was appropriate in all the circumstances. 
Having said that, I remain satisfied that the total additional compensation of £380 as 
referenced in the provisional decision is appropriate and reflects our services approach to 
such matters.
In all the circumstances, Ive concluded that the provisional decision provides a fair and 
reasonable outcome to the matter.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Ds complaint against British Gas Insurance 
Limited and require it to pay an additional £380 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman