DRN-3753454
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund money they paid to 
a trader. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B say that they received a visit from a company Ill call T in this decision. They 
thought T was connected to a regional water company because the logo on its van was 
similar (as was the name of the company). A representative of T told Mr and Mrs B that they 
were working to locate a serious blockage under the road which would be resolved at no 
expense to Mr and Mrs B. T then said that the source of the problem, that was affecting 
neighbours and local businesses, was within Mr and Mrs Bs property and needed to be 
fixed immediately. And as the problem was on Mr and Mrs Bs property, they would be 
responsible for the cost of remedying it. Mr and Mrs B agreed to pay a deposit of £3,000.  
Representatives of T explained to Mr and Mrs B that they needed to buy a pump. Mr and 
Mrs B thought this was unusual as they had been shown equipment in Ts van. They also felt 
that representatives of T had become pushy. Mr and Mrs B called the regional water 
company they thought T was linked to and established that this wasnt the case and there 
were no reported issues in the area. So when the representatives of T returned Mr and Mrs 
B said they had contacted their insurers and been advised not to allow any work to take 
place until an assessor had visited their property. This bought them some time to contact 
Santander to report what had happened.
Santander looked into Mr and Mrs Bs concerns but determined that they had a civil dispute 
with T and werent the victims of a scam. Mr and Mrs T were unhappy with the response and 
brought a complaint to this service.  
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint initially recommended that it be upheld but 
after reviewing the responses issued a second view. In this view the investigator said 
Santander acted reasonably in concluding that Mr and Mrs B were involved in a civil dispute 
with T. She said this for the following reasons: 
- Confidential information from Ts bank led her to believe that T was operating as a 
genuine business at the time and continued to do so afterwards. 
- Aggressive sales tactics and poor service dont demonstrate fraudulent intent.
- Factors like the high visibility jackets and uniforms worn by Ts staff, the technological 
equipment carried, the van with logos and letterheaded invoices make it more likely T 
was operating a genuine business.
- T was registered at Companies House (although only shortly before the visit to Mr 
and Mr Bs address). 
- One of the reasons T was unable to complete the work was because Mr B denied 
access and contacted Santander rather than because T refused to return or 
disappeared. 
- The police investigations hadnt progressed.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with the investigators findings, so their complaint has been 
passed to me to consider. In summary, they said:
- Ts representatives didnt wear uniforms or have equipment. And the logo on the van 
and Ts letterhead didnt match. 
- Ts representatives didnt complete any form of investigation. 
- The investigator was incorrect in saying that the reason work wasnt completed was 
because he denied access to his property. Mr B exercised his right to cancel the 
contract and the police advised him not to allow T back to his property. T also ticked 
a waiver clause denying him the right to cancel the contract  something a legitimate 
company wouldnt do. 
- T gained access to Mr and Mrs Bs property under false pretenses and fabricated 
problems that didnt exist. 
- Company registration isnt a mark of legitimacy. 
- The behavior of representatives of T wasnt professional. 
- Mr B is unable to comment on the receiving bank information he hasnt seen but 
confirms that he has never received a refund.  
- Santander should have stopped the payment to T.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
in other words on what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
Im sorry to hear that Mr and Mrs B have lost money. Under the CRM Code, the starting 
principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who is the victim of an APP scam 
(except in limited circumstances). But the CRM Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to 
all push payments. It says: 
This Code does not apply to: (b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid 
a legitimate supplier for goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they 
are defective in some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
So the CRM Code isnt a general protection for consumers. Instead, it only applies in very 
specific circumstances  where the customer has been the victim of a scam.
In order for me to conclude that Mr and Mrs B have been the victims of a scam, Id have to 
be satisfied that representatives of T deliberately tricked Mr B into making a payment for a 
service they had no intention of providing at the time he made his payment. Im not 
persuaded I can say that is most likely what happened here and will explain why. 
Mr B reached an agreement with T for certain work to be completed and paid a deposit of 
£3,000 for this work. Representatives of T said they needed to obtain a pump and left Mr 
and Mrs Bs property to obtain one. Later that day representatives of T returned to Mr and 
Mrs Bs property but were denied access. Im aware that in his response to the investigators 
view Mr B disputed this and said that in fact he had exercised his right to cancel the contract. 
He went on to explain that the receipt bore a tick next to the wording that waived these 
rights, but he hadnt ticked the box. 
I dont think its in dispute though that Mr B told representatives of T that his insurer said he 
couldnt have any work completed until an assessor had visited. Mr B also said that one of 
the workmen offered to pump out the drains but was satisfied by the insurance story and went away. In the circumstances, I cant reasonably conclude that representatives of T 
deliberately tricked Mr B into transferring money for a service it had no intention of providing. 
Instead, it seems to me more likely than not that Mr B was unhappy with T, particularly when 
he established that it wasnt linked to a regional water company as he had thought. The 
CRM Code doesnt cover dissatisfaction though. 
Ive also taken into account the fact that Ts van showed its name on the side and back, 
suggesting that T was operating legitimately. And although the logo was similar to that of a 
regional water company, the name wasnt the same. Representatives of T also showed Mr B 
equipment in the van including a laptop and camera to put down the drain. I appreciate that 
in his response to the investigators second view Mr B said this wasnt the case. But I have 
seen that Mr B put this in writing some time ago, so I think its more likely than not that this 
was the case and that Mr Bs recollection of events is less clear now given the time that has 
passed.
Like the investigator, Ive seen confidential information from Ts bank. I cant share any 
details with Mr and Mrs B, but the information doesnt lead me to think its more likely than 
not that Ts account was being used fraudulently.  
Mr B has kindly shared with this service the messages exchanged with T after the deposit 
had been paid. In these messages a representative of T explained to Mr B that T had 
already bought materials and wouldnt be able to get a refund for these or refund Mr B while 
Ts account was frozen. Ts confidential statement suggest this was the case.
I agree with Mr and Mrs B that the fact that T was registered at Companies House at the 
time of the transaction does not in itself mean that T was a legitimate company. But it is 
another factor Ive taken into account in reaching my decision.
Ive also considered the fact that the police have referred to other reports of people whove 
lost money to T. The police investigation isnt complete, and I have no information about the 
circumstances of any other loss. And although I can see that the matter was reported to 
Trading Standards, theres no evidence that Trading Standards reached the decision that T 
acted fraudulently. So I dont think this evidence outweighs the other evidence I have seen. 
I appreciate there are other factors that are strange, such as the fact that the logo on Ts van 
differed from that on the receipt Mr B was provided with, but Im not persuaded these 
anomalies mean T took Mr and Mrs Bs funds fraudulently
Ive gone on to consider whether Santander should have intervened in any way when the 
payment request was made. But I dont think the payment request was so unusual and out of 
character that Santander should have had concerns that Mr and Mrs B may be the victims of 
a scam. Theres a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially 
be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. Whilst banks have 
obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests they 
cant reasonably be involved in every transaction. 
Id like to explain to Mr and Mrs B that a bank transfer is like giving cash in that funds leave 
an account immediately and are then outside of the sending banks control. When a fraud 
claim is raised by a victim, the sending bank is required to notify the bank that received the 
funds (the receiving bank) in an attempt to recover them. The bank that receives the funds 
will place a block on any funds that remain in the account while it investigates the origin of 
the funds. If the receiving bank is satisfied that fraud has taken place it will then return any 
funds that remain in the account. So, Santander didnt release Mr and Mrs Bs funds as Mr B 
suggests. The receiving bank determined that this is a civil dispute and so removed the 
block it had applied.  
Overall, whilst Im really sorry to hear of Mr and Mrs Bs loss, I cant fairly hold Santander 
responsible so am not asking it to do anything. My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman