DRN-3282558
Complaint
Miss H has complained about the overdraft charges HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) applied to 
her current account. Shes said the charges left her in financial difficulty.
Background
Miss Hs complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think that HSBC had 
done anything wrong as it didnt have reason to suspect she may have been in financial 
difficulty. So he didnt uphold the complaint. Miss H disagreed with the adjudicator and asked 
for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Miss Hs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts HSBC charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. So while Miss H has commented on the cost of some of 
her fees in relation to the amount she was overdrawn, Ive not looked at this as it isnt 
something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at HSBCs charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Miss H if it applied these interest, fees and charges to         
Miss Hs account in circumstances where it was unfair to do so. Miss H says it was unfair for 
HSBC to charge her the fees it did here because these charges caused her financial 
difficulties. 
So Ive considered whether there were periods where HSBC continued charging Miss H 
even though it ought to have known she was in financial difficulty or it ought to have realised 
this was the case. Ive looked through Miss Hs statements throughout the period concerned. 
And I cant see that HSBC ought to have been aware that Miss H might have been struggling 
during the period weve looked at. 
Its fair to say that Miss H did use her overdraft regularly. But Miss H also spent a significant 
proportion of the time with a credit balance too. And while Im not seeking to make 
retrospective value judgements over Miss H expenditure, nonetheless there are significant 
amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions account going 
from the account. So I dont think its fair to say that it was the interest, fees and charges 
which unfairly prevented Miss H from exiting her overdraft, when it appears to be case that 
she had the disposable income to repay her overdraft within a reasonable period of time.
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Miss H wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. And I know Miss H that these charges did cause her 
difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to have 
alerted HSBC that this might have been the case and which meant that it would have been 
fair and reasonable to step in here. I say this while especially mindful that corrective action in 
relation to Miss Hs overdraft facility is likely to have resulted in adverse information being 
recorded on her credit file, which I think would have been disproportionate considering    
Miss H appeared able to repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Miss H, I dont think 
that it was unreasonable for HSBC to have proceeded adding the charges that it did. And I 
dont think HSBC unfairly charged Miss H in circumstances where it ought to have realised 
that she may have been experiencing financial difficulty. This means that I dont think that 
HSBC needs to refund any interest, fees and charges and Im not upholding Miss Hs 
complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss H. But I hope shell understand the 
reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman