DRN-1713678
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained about Simplyhealth Accesss decision to decline their claim 
under their health cash plan insurance policies for the cost of two pairs of glasses.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M each held a health cash plan insurance policy with Simplyhealth. The policy 
allowed them to claim back the cost of certain types of health-related treatment including, for 
example, dental and optical costs. In the case of optical costs, the benefit payable under the 
policy was subject to an annual limit of £100 for each person.
In December 2018, Mr and Mrs M each bought a pair of glasses. They each made a claim 
for optical benefit. Simplyhealth paid each claim up to the £100 limit.
In January 2019, Mr and Mrs M each bought another pair of glasses. They each made 
another claim for optical benefit. However, Simplyhealth declined the claims. It explained 
that the policy year, which had used to run from 1 January each year, was changed in 2017 
to run from 1 September each year. This meant Mr and Mrs M had each used up their 
maximum benefit entitlement and couldnt make a further claim for optical benefit until 
September 2019. 
Mr and Mrs M asked if they could re-submit their claim in September 2019 but Simplyhealth 
explained it still wouldnt be valid because it was the date of the receipt that determined 
which policy year the claim fell within, rather than the date the claim was submitted.
Mr and Mrs M said that they hadnt been made aware of the change in the policy year. They 
considered their claims should be paid. They complained to Simplyhealth.
Simplyhealth didnt uphold their complaint. It was satisfied it had made them both aware of 
the change to the policy year at the time this was introduced.
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy at Simplyhealths decision. They referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He was satisfied 
that Simplyhealth had notified Mr and Mrs M of the change to the policy year and had acted 
fairly in declining the claim.
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept the investigators findings. They considered that Simplyhealth 
hadnt made the change clear and should pay their claims as a gesture of goodwill.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy document makes clear that the benefit payable under the policy is up to a 
maximum amount in each claiming year and says that the dates for the claiming year are 
shown in the policyholders summary of cover. The policy also makes clear that it is the date 
on which the cost is incurred which determines into which claiming year the claim falls.
In the case of Mr and Mrs M, the claiming year was originally 1 January to 31 December. 
However, in 2017 Simplyhealth decided to change the claiming year for Mr and Mrs M and 
certain other policyholders so that it ran from 1 September to 31 August each year. It has 
explained the commercial reasons which led to this decision and Im satisfied this was fair. It 
has provided a mailing which it says it sent to Mr and Mrs M in July 2017 to explain this and 
other changes it was making to the policy. Im satisfied this was sufficiently in advance of the 
changes that it gave Mr and Mrs M reasonable notice of the changes. I consider that the 
mailing made clear the change to the claiming year. Mr and Mrs M say they didnt receive 
the mailing but I have no reason to doubt that it was sent.
Simplyhealth also says that renewal documents were sent to Mr and Mrs M in July 2018 
which again drew attention to the claiming year. It also says that both Mr and Mrs M had 
registered for an online account. It has explained that this allows them to submit claims 
online and also gives them access to the full terms of their policy, including their claiming 
year, and that this should have been apparent to Mr and Mrs M when they submitted their 
online claims in December 2018.
Overall, Im satisfied that Simplyhealth did enough to make Mr and Mrs M aware that the 
claiming year for their policy had changed to 1 September to 31 August. It is unfortunate that 
Mr and Mrs M hadnt realised this and thus incurred expense which they might otherwise 
have chosen not to incur at that time. I appreciate their frustration. However, Im satisfied 
that under the terms of the policy it was fair for Simplyhealth to decline their claim. And while 
Mr and Mrs M consider that, in view of their longstanding custom, Simplyhealth should offer 
to pay the claims as a gesture of goodwill, I cant reasonably compel it do so.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2020. 
David Poley
Ombudsman