DRN-3480879
The complaint
Mrs S says TSB Bank Plc has treated her unfairly in relation to a transaction on her debit 
card which paid for flights abroad.
What happened
In January 2020 Mrs S used her TSB debit card to pay for non-refundable long-distance 
flights to America costing in total just over £1000.
As the Pandemic grew the flights were cancelled and the airline offered ticket holders three 
options, free date change to flights, cash refund or enhanced points on the airlines point 
scheme which could later be exchanged for flights. Mrs S took the points in April 2020. 
Some-time later the airline stopped providing a service to America due to commercial 
reasons. Mrs S only wanted flights to America and now that the airline didnt fly there 
anymore she felt the points were redundant and wanted a cash refund. Having not been 
successful with the airline she approached TSB.
TSB looked into the matter and didnt think it could help. Mrs S, still unsatisfied, brought her 
complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt TSB didnt have to do anymore. And Mrs S remains unhappy and so this 
complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about some of the health issues suffered here. I hope the support 
required is received. And Ive borne this important issue in mind whilst considering this 
dispute.
Mrs Ss TSB debit card is part of a card network. And this network has rules which includes 
giving TSB an avenue for card transactions to be disputed with Suppliers, namely through 
the Chargeback process. The Chargeback process is not a right for consumers, nor does it 
provide any guarantee of success. But this service does consider raising a chargeback to be 
good practice if the debit card supplier considers the dispute has a reasonable prospect of 
success.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is about TSB and whether it did what it 
should have and whether it treated Mrs S fairly in relation to its obligations. This decision 
isnt about the airline which isnt a party to this decision nor within this Services remit. I hope 
this distinction is clear.
I should also add that Mrs S has raised many issues. Ive considered them all. However I will 
only address the key issues here as I see them in order to reach a fair and reasonable 
outcome in line with our aims of being clear and informal.
could TSB challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mrs S 
does here, TSB can attempt to go through the Chargeback process. Mrs S doesnt dispute 
that she used her TSB debit card here. Nor does she dispute the amount, date, or any other 
details about the transactions. So I dont think TSB couldve challenged the payment on the 
basis Mrs S didnt properly authorise the transactions, given what Ive just set out.
TSB is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the Chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it 
doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success. This is the test here. 
The network rules are very detailed and comprehensive and include time limits with regard 
to the period in which chargebacks can be raised. Ive considered these time limits and note 
the dates of the ticket cancellation, Mrs S election to take the points and when she raised 
her dispute with TSB. Having considered these facts I can see Mrs S raised her dispute with 
TSB out of time in relation to those events. So if TSB hadnt raised a chargeback when Mrs 
S raised her dispute to it, TSB would likely have done anything wrong and any complaint in 
that event would have been unsuccessful here because of these time limits.
Mrs S has argued that the time limits should go from when she discovered the airline 
stopped flying to America. But this isnt persuasive due to what the chargeback rules actually 
say and because they relate to the transaction itself and not later commercial decisions by 
the airline. It should be remembered that this is a complaint about TSB and not the airline.
However TSB did raise a chargeback despite that it was out of time. The airline defended its 
position by saying it was out of time, that the tickets were non-refundable, and that Mrs S 
had chosen the points when she could have had a cash refund.
TSB considered this and concluded there was no reasonable prospect of success with 
pursuing the chargeback further. Having considered what happened here and the defence 
made by the airline I dont think TSB has treated Mrs S unfairly by concluding this. So this 
complaint doesnt succeed.
For completeness Ill address some of the other arguments made here.
Mrs S said she didnt understand why when she raised the dispute her account was credited 
with the amount of the transaction to buy the tickets but then this amount was re-debited 
when TSB said her chargeback had been unsuccessful. Banks often do this so that account 
holders arent deprived of funds that they might be entitled to whilst the dispute is 
investigated. In essence the Bank loans the account holder the disputed amount and if the 
chargeback is successful then it offsets the money from the merchant against the loan to the 
account holder. And if the chargeback fails then it re-debits the account as happened here. 
So I dont think Mrs S has been treated unfairly here.
Mrs S says more should be done about the airline. But the sale of airline tickets and the 
management of such airline reward schemes arent in my jurisdiction. I can only look at how 
TSB acted, and Ive found that it treated Mrs S fairly.Mrs S says she accepted (points) on the understanding (the airline) would continue to 
operate fights to USA when travel was once again allowed. I havent seen any persuasive 
evidence that this service to the USA was guaranteed to Mrs S at the time or for the future. 
And Mrs S was offered cash refund also, so I think TSB acted fairly when it didnt take the 
chargeback further.
Mrs S said she was unaware of future plans of the airline to restructure. However TSB isnt 
responsible for the commercial decisions of other parties.
Mrs S says TSB has done nothing more than consider the evidence of the airline in regard to 
the chargeback. But it should be remembered that chargeback is a mechanism for parties to 
a transaction to dispute the transaction, normally between consumer and merchant. TSBs 
only obligation here is to consider whether the airlines response to the chargeback meant it 
felt the chargeback should be continued because it had a reasonable prospect of success or 
not.
Ultimately Mrs S bought non-refundable tickets which were cancelled. She was offered cash 
but chose points. And because of a later commercial decision by the airline she cant use the 
points to go to her intended destination (albeit they could be used by her for many other 
destinations). TSB considered these matters and fairly concluded to not pursue the 
chargeback further. So this complaint doesnt succeed.
I appreciate that this isnt the decision which Mrs S wishes to read. And I appreciate that this 
decision will mean Mrs Ss avenues for recouping these funds spent here will be significantly 
limited. But this does not mean that TSB has done anything wrong in dealing with the issues 
arising from this transaction.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against TSB Bank Plc. It has 
nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman