DRN-2103576
The complaint
Mr S complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc, trading as More Th>n, (RSA) 
failed to adequately repair his vehicle following an accident.
For ease of reading, any reference to RSA also includes its agents.
What happened
In 2019 Mr S was involved in an accident and his vehicle was taken to RSAs approved 
repairer to be fixed. Following this, Mr S reported issues with the paintwork and was advised 
to return his car to the garage. Mr S says he noticed the car handled differently to normal 
when driving. When he mentioned this to the garage, he says they told him to test drive the 
car to pinpoint the problem. Mr S went on to have another accident that he says was caused 
by the vehicle locking up and led to him losing control. His car was considered a total loss 
and Mr S was offered a sum for the value of the car which he rejected. 
Mr S complained to RSA as he said this second incident happened because the garage 
failed to complete the initial repairs correctly. He wanted to be compensated for the 
unsatisfactory repairs of the garage. He arranged for his vehicle to be inspected by an 
independent engineer who found that there was damage to a ball joint which he said had 
been sustained in the first accident and not repaired.
 
RSA sent out an engineer to inspect the vehicle but didnt find any evidence of the pre-
existing damage which had been detailed in the Mr Ss report. RSA said that even if this was 
found to be in existence, it wouldnt have caused the loss of control as reported by Mr S. The 
engineer referred to information obtained from the vehicle data recorder that showed an 
increase in speed immediately prior to the accident and suggested that this may have been 
a contributing factor to the cause. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr S brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter but didnt find that RSA had done anything wrong. He reviewed the 
two engineers reports but found the report from RSAs engineer to be more persuasive in 
determining the likely cause of the accident.  
Mr S disagreed with our investigator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And where evidence is inconclusive or incomplete, I have reached my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  this means I have determined what I consider is more likely to 
have happened, based on all the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Mr Ss car has been considered uneconomical to repair (otherwise known as a total loss) 
following the second accident and RSA has made him an offer for its value. So there doesnt 
appear to be any dispute of liability in terms of RSA meeting the cost of the second claim. 
However, Mr S complaint centres on the cause of the accident which he says was as a result 
of RSAs poor repairs. So, what I need to consider is whether an ineffective repair is the 
most likely cause, taking into account the information that has been provided by both parties.
Mr Ss engineer has specifically referred to a ball joint which he believes sustained impact 
damage in the first incident. In his opinion he thinks this wasnt correctly diagnosed by the 
repairer and that the excessive movement explains why Mr S thought the vehicle wasnt 
driving correctly. He concluded that this damage led to the loss of control which caused the 
accident  and therefore liability for the incident lies with RSA. 
RSA has disputed the findings in that report, stating that there isnt any physical evidence of 
pre-existing damage to the ball joint  the damage is of a single impact which the engineer 
says occurred in the second incident. But he also said that even if there was such damage, 
this wouldnt have caused the loss of control experienced by Mr S. He refers to the steering 
and suspension staying connected after the accident which wouldnt be expected if the 
cause was as Mr Ss engineer suggested. 
Both parties appear to agree that there is some damage to the ball joint, however, they 
disagree on whether this was caused in the first or second accident. RSA has also 
commented that this damage wouldnt have caused the accident, even if it was in existence 
at the time and it has provided an explanation for this which seems reasonable. 
But in addition to this, RSA has provided information from the vehicles electronic data 
recorder (EDR) which details, amongst other things, the speed of the vehicle. This data 
shows that in the seconds prior to the second accident, the car accelerated at a rapid pace  
nearly 20 mph in five seconds. The report also states that the data shows Mr S was turning 
sharply at the time and so the engineer concluded that this could indicate the loss of control 
related to the manner of Mr Ss driving. 
Ive thought about this matter carefully, but I dont think there is enough evidence to support 
Mr Ss view that the second accident was caused by an ineffective repair. Whilst there may 
have been some damage to the component mentioned, Im not satisfied that it has been 
shown that this was the cause of the accident. And when taking into consideration the 
information obtained from the EDR, I find the evidence in RSAs report into the likely cause 
of the accident to be more persuasive. So, I wont be asking RSA to do anything more.
Mr S has referred to the comments made in his report about the poor paintwork and 
scratches following the initial repair along with the mechanical issues. He said that he would 
have thought this would set off alarm bells for us in relation to the quality of the repairs. I 
appreciate his viewpoint, but the consideration of this complaint is whether the second 
accident he suffered was caused by poor works by RSAs nominated repairers. The 
existence of any paintwork issues or scratches doesnt impact on the cause of the accident 
and so it would be unfair for me to consider any such alleged external damage as being 
relevant when reaching my outcome. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman