DRN-3091688
The complaint
Mr S complains that BW Legal Services Limited is pursuing him for a debt without providing 
evidence it has authority to do so. 
What happened
Mr S had a credit card with another business (C). Mr S has explained that after a period of 
working abroad he experienced ill health. As a result, his credit card fell into arrears. 
In February 2020 C sold the credit card debt to another business (J). A notice of assignment 
was sent to Mr S in February 2020 that said J had acquired the debt from C. 
In December 2020 J appointed BW Legal to contact Mr S and collect the outstanding 
balance. Mr S has explained he asked for evidence J and BW Legal were entitled to collect 
the outstanding balance but none was provided. Mr S asked BW Legal to send him a copy of 
the deed of assignment but it refused and said the information was privileged. 
Mr S referred his concerns about BW Legal to this service and his complaint was considered 
by an investigator. They thought BW Legal had provided the necessary information to show 
it was acting legitimately when contacting Mr S about the debt. Mr S asked to appeal and 
said he wanted to see the written contract between C and J. Mr S said it was unclear who 
legally owned the debt. As Mr S asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has told us he hasnt received anything from C that confirms it sold the debt to J. I can 
see Mr S has requested a copy of the deed of assignment but BW Legal has explained it 
isnt required to provide a copy. Ive looked at the rules set out in the Financial Conduct 
Authority Handbook concerning how debts are assigned. There are rules in place that say 
what information a business has to send a consumer when a debt is assigned to a new 
owner. CONC 6.5.2 says:
Where rights of a lender under a regulated credit agreement are assigned to a firm, that firm 
must arrange for a notice of assignment to be given to the customer. 
As set out above, there is a requirement for a notice of assignment to be sent when a debt is 
sold. But theres nothing in the rules that says a business has to provide a copy of the deed 
of assignment when requested to do so by a customer. So I cant say BW Legal has acted 
unfairly by declining Mr S request.
Ive considered whether BW Legal has provided sufficient information to show its acting 
reasonably by contacting Mr S about the debt in question. As Ive noted above, the 
regulations says a notice of assignment should be sent to a customer when a debt is sold to 
a new owner. And Im satisfied that step was followed in February 2020.  
BW Legal has also provided a copy of the original loan agreement and associated terms. I 
note that under section 13.10 of the terms it says the original lender can assign the 
outstanding balance to a new provider. I also note that BW Legal was able to obtain credit 
card statements and other associated information about Mr S account from the original 
lender. I think that shows theres an arrangement in place for information to be shared 
between the businesses involved. 
As Ive said above, the rules say a business has to notify a customer the ownership of the 
debt has changed by sending a notice of assignment. BW Legal has provided a copy of the 
notice of assignment that explains J became owner of the debt in February 2020. And in 
December 2020 J wrote to Mr S to advise BW Legal had been appointed to act on its behalf. 
Im satisfied BW Legal has given Mr S the relevant information required to show it has 
authority to contact him about the outstanding balance. 
Mr S has told us he hasnt received any confirmation from the original lender that the debt 
was sold to J. In this decision Im only able to look at BW Legals actions. But Mr S is free to 
ask C to provide confirmation if required. 
I havent seen anything that shows BW Legal has treated Mr S unfairly in this case. As a 
result, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman