DRN-3776920
The complaint
Mr G complains that London Community Credit Union Limited (LCCU) hasnt provided him 
with the service it should have. 
What happened
Mr G says that LCCU stopped sending him statements at end of October 2021 and so he 
had to rely on online banking. He says his balance on his online banking app is wrong and 
he has been into branch, called and sent several emails but the issue hasnt been resolved.  
LCCU didnt respond to Mr Gs complaint and hasnt responded to our investigators 
information requests. Therefore, our investigator considered the complaint based on the 
information provided. As LCCU hadnt responded she couldnt say why the statements had 
stopped being sent or confirm whether the balance on Mr Gs account was wrong. Based on 
Mr Gs information she didnt think he had been provided with the service he should have 
and recommended LCCU pay him £100.
LCCU didnt respond to our investigators view. Mr G said that he was concerned that LCCU 
hadnt engaged and as he couldnt get them to respond to him, he was worried about the 
incorrect and missing amounts in his statements getting corrected. 
As an agreed resolution hasnt been reached this complaint has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making my decision I consider the individual merits of the case based on the evidence 
provided. Where this is incomplete, as is the case in this complaint, I make my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities. That is what I consider most likely to have happened 
given the information provided and wider circumstances of the complaint.
Mr G raised his complaint as he had stopped receiving account statements at end October 
2021. While he continued to have access to his account balance online, I think it is 
reasonable that he would receive account statements if this was his preferred method of 
communication. As LCCU hasnt responded I have no evidence to contradict Mr Gs 
testimony that he is no longer receiving statements or to explain any possible change in 
approach regarding these. So, based on Mr Gs comments it appears his statements were 
stopped without notice or reason and I do not find that this is a reasonable level of service.
Mr G has also raised concerns about his account balance. He has said he was charged 
double on two occasions and received a refund which showed on his statements but not on 
his online balance. He also says that he was provided with a council tax rebate which was 
never received and charged for a returned direct debit even though he had funds in his 
account. I can understand how worrying it must be for Mr G to not have a clear picture of his 
account and to be concerned that payments arent being received or managed correctly. 
While I have seen a copy of a statement which shows a charge to a business for the same 
amount on 26 and 27 April, I dont have further evidence to show whether Mr Gs balance is 
being recorded correctly. Without this I do not find I can conclude whether his account is 
being managed correctly and whether all transactions are being recoded to his online 
balance. 
Mr G has said that he has tried to discuss the issues in branch, on telephone calls and he 
has sent emails. I do not think it acceptable that LCCU hasnt responded to Mr G as it should 
be able to provide him with a clear answer to his account concerns. I havent seen any 
system notes from LCCU showing any contact made with Mr G and so I accept his testimony 
about the lack of response and note that LCCU has failed to respond to the questions raised 
through this investigation. I appreciate not getting answers to his questions will have caused 
Mr G distress as well as the inconvenience of having to make several attempts to resolve the 
issues. LCCU should contact Mr G to ci
Overall, I do not find that LCCU has provided Mr G with the service it should have. It hasnt 
explained why Mr G is no longer receiving statements and hasnt responded to his questions 
about payments to and from his account. Mr G has spent time trying to resolve the issues 
and it will be unsettling for him not knowing if his account is accurate. Because of this I agree 
that Mr G should be paid £100 compensation. 
Putting things right
LCCU should pay Mr G £100 compensation for the poor service he has received. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. London Community Credit Union Limited 
should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman