DRN-2934440
The complaint
Mr M complains about fees charged by Nationwide Building Society on his Individual 
Savings Account (ISA).
What happened
Mr M opened a stocks and shares ISA in 2002 after speaking with Nationwide. The chosen 
investment was administered by Nationwide Unit Trust Managers Limited (NUTM) on behalf 
of Nationwide. 
In 2008 the ownership of NUTM was transferred to another business. This meant Nationwide 
no longer had any involvement in management of the investment and it was rebranded in the 
name of the new business. Further changes in ownership took place in 2011 and 2016.
In 2018 Mr M noticed he was still paying charges to Nationwide and complained. Nationwide 
didnt uphold the complaint saying they hadnt acted incorrectly in charging the fees. 
Mr N didnt agree with Nationwide and brought his complaint to this service where one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. They thought Nationwide were entitled to receive 
the payment of the charges as long as Mr M held the ISA. They also said there was no 
requirement for them to tell Mr M that he could speak to the current product provider about 
cancelling the charges. Overall they didnt think Nationwide had done anything wrong.  
Mr N remained unhappy so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has provided a lot of information about the complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
he feels about what happened. I want to assure Mr M that Ive read and considered 
everything hes provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised the complaint 
which reflects the informal nature of our service. 
The contents of the correspondence between Mr M, Nationwide, and the subsequent 
businesses, are well known to both parties. Its the interpretation of the information that 
forms the basis of this complaint. So I wont spend too much time quoting from the 
documents and letters, but I have read and considered them all carefully.
The information provided to Mr M in 2002 when the ISA was opened says that a variety 
charges will be applied that might include service charges, recurring management charges 
and commission. The information also said that these fees would be payable out of the 
assets of the fund.
Having looked at the information from 2002 Im satisfied it was made clear that recurring 
charges would be applied to the ISA. And Mr M signed to say that he had read and 
understood the information. 
Over the years there has been much correspondence sent to Mr M about his ISA. Having 
looked through this I can see that there has been continual reference to Nationwide even 
though the investment was being managed by different businesses. The letters contain 
phrases such as a Nationwide customer, Nationwide Commission, Adviser details  
Nationwide, details of any charges paid to Nationwide, and investing through Nationwide. So 
I think it was made clear that there was still a connection to Nationwide.
Mr M says that after the first transfer took place in 2008 he shouldve stopped paying the 
charges, however I dont agree this is the case. When the transfer took place Mr M was sent 
a letter confirming the details. This said that his investment would continue to be managed 
as it was before. It also said that he would be maintaining his relationship with Nationwide. 
So I think it was made clear that things with Nationwide would remain the same. The charge 
was commission from when the ISA was originally opened so continued to be taken.
There was a change of rules in 2013 which meant that businesses had to be more 
transparent about fees they charged. Prior to this date Nationwide had been paid 
commission for the sale of the ISA, which was allowed under the rules at the time. This was 
not a fee for ongoing services, and was in-line with the product information, and it wasnt 
optional.   
When the changes in 2013 came into effect advice became chargeable for any new 
investments or changes to existing portfolios. Also existing commission based investments, 
such as that held by Mr M, were allowed to be reviewed, and to be charged, as they were 
previously. At this time, for some charges there was a change in terminology from 
commission to service charge, however the basis on which the fees were charged was the 
same.
Further to this Mr M was sent letters in late 2015 and 2016 advising of changes to the 
charging structure. These changes reflected the new rules in place. The letters show that 
Nationwide was receiving commission on the investment. So I think it was made clear over 
the years that Nationwide were receiving charges that were being deducted from the fund.
Mr M asks why Nationwide, or the other businesses, didnt tell him when the charges 
became optional after the rule change. The reason for this is that the rules didnt require 
businesses to do so. It might have been good customer service for them to do it, and I can 
see why it wouldve benefited Mr M as he wouldnt have had to pay the charges. However 
the rules didnt require businesses to do this, so I dont think Nationwide did anything wrong 
by not telling Mr M about this.
Having carefully considered everything Im satisfied that Nationwide treated Mr M fairly and 
reasonably when charging fees on his ISA. Thats not to say that Mr M hasnt been affected 
by what happened; as I think he has. Mr M has paid fees which he feels he shouldnt have 
been paying, but I dont think there were any errors made when charging those fees. So I 
wont be asking Nationwide to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman