DRN-2304367
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took out joint mortgage with Halifax in 1988. They took out PPI for Mr P to 
protect their monthly mortgage repayments in the event that Mr P couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs P disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
Mr and Mrs P say they were badly advised to take out PPI as they didnt have any need for 
it. And they complain that Halifax failed to make clear the policys costs and benefits as it 
shouldve done. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Mr P was the person covered by the PPI policy but Mr and Mrs P had a joint mortgage so 
Ive looked at both their circumstances when the insurance was taken out. 
Its understandable that Mr and Mrs P mightnt be able to remember in detail everything that 
happened when this PPI was arranged. This was a long time ago and so, whilst Ive no 
reason at all to doubt that Mr P is sure about what hes told us, what Mr P says isnt enough 
on its own for me to be able to uphold the complaint. 
I have to decide what I think is most likely taking into account all the information Ive got and 
the wider circumstances. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Heres why I say this.
I think Halifax made Mr and Mrs P aware that the PPI was optional and that Mr P chose to 
have it. 
I can see that theres a section on their mortgage application headed 'MORTGAGE 
PAYMENTS PROTECTOR'. 
This gives brief details of Halifaxs accident sickness and unemployment insurance. 
Next, it says 'If you wish to join the Scheme enter the amount of monthly benefit you require'. 
And I can see that an amount of monthly benefit is filled in. 
This suggests to me that Mr and Mrs P wouldve known that having PPI was a matter of 
choice. And, if they wished to be covered, that it was up to them to say what amount of 
benefit they wanted to have.
Mr P also completed a separate PPI application form where he put his name down as the 
person to be insured and he signed the completed form to get the policy. 
Taking all this into account, I think the paperwork Mr and Mrs P completed made it clear that 
they had to choose if they wanted to take out the policy with their mortgage  and that Mr P 
opted to do this at the time. 
Halifax doesnt any longer have a policy document from the date Mr P took out PPI. But it 
has provided a later PPI policy document and I think its likely that in all main respects the 
policy that Mr P took out wouldve had similar terms and conditions.
Halifax recommended the policy and it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for Mr P. He was 
eligible for the PPI policy given his circumstances and the likely PPI terms and conditions 
that applied. 
If Mr P made a successful accident or sickness claim the policy couldve paid out for up to 
24 months per claim. 
So, although Mr P had some sick pay through work, the policy couldve paid out for a lot 
longer than Mr P couldve depended on his employer to pay him sick pay. And the policy 
wouldve paid out on top of his work benefits  I think this couldve been particularly useful if 
Mr P mightve had some extra costs as a result of being sick or disabled.   
No job can be guaranteed to be secure indefinitely. The policy also paid a monthly benefit for 
up to 12 months if Mr P lost his job unexpectedly and found himself out of work. 
There was no guarantee when Mr and Mrs P took out this mortgage that they would always 
have savings or other insurance to rely on because everyones circumstances can change 
unexpectedly. 
And, if Mr and Mrs P didnt put all their money towards keeping down the cost of the 
mortgage, perhaps because they wanted to keep savings intact to provide financial security 
or to spend on other things, then I think they wouldve valued the protection PPI offered. 
Repeat claims were possible so the policy offered Mr and Mrs P long term security and 
protection whilst they were paying for their home.
Looking at the information I've got, I dont think its likely that Mr and Mrs P couldve 
managed the mortgage monthly repayments for very long if Mr P wasnt working. So, I cant reasonably say that Mr and Mrs P didnt need the policy. I think that Halifaxs 
recommendation was suitable in all the circumstances.
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But I dont think having more information 
about the circumstances in which the policy wouldnt pay out wouldve affected Mr Ps 
decision to take out PPI. 
I say this because it doesnt look as if there wouldve been any significant or long term 
reasons why Mr P wouldnt have been able to take advantage of all the main policy benefits 
he mightve expected.
So, I dont think that knowing more about what the policy didnt cover wouldve put Mr P off 
taking the policy out. 
Its possible some of the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear when they bought the 
policy. 
But from what Ive seen, Mr and Mrs P selected the level of cover they wanted to buy and 
Mr P chose to take out the policy. 
So it appears Mr and Mrs P were happy to pay the monthly premium for the level of benefit 
they wanted to have. Mr P hasnt suggested that they couldnt afford the monthly premiums. 
And as this was a policy paid for monthly, if Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances changed, or they 
no longer wanted to pay for it, Mr P couldve cancelled the policy at any time without 
incurring any extra cost.  
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold - but 
I dont think this wouldve made any difference to what happened. I think Mr and Mrs P still 
wouldve decided to buy the policy for Mr P even if theyd been given clearer information as it 
gave them useful protection in their particular situation. 
So, despite what Mr P says in response to our adjudicators finding this doesnt affect my 
decision. 
This means that, on balance, I dont find that the PPI was mis-sold. And Halifax doesnt have 
to repay everything Mr and Mrs P paid for it. 
But Halifax will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs P about that. Because Halifax didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs P, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Halifax has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
What Halifax needs to do
Halifax will pay back to Mr and Mrs P any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Halifax should also pay back to Mr and Mrs P 
any extra interest they paid because of that. Halifax should pay back to Mr and Mrs P the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Halifax 
should also pay Mr and Mrs P 8%* simple interest on each payment. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs P can claim back 
the tax if they dont pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does not have 
to pay to Mr and Mrs P all of the cost of the PPI that they paid.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay to Mr and Mrs P any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium (and when it 
has done this Halifax needs do nothing more).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman