DRN-1221883
 
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy The Claims Guys (TCG) are charging her a fee for a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) claim, as she says it was her actions that meant the claim was successful.
What happened
In June 2018 and August 2018, Ms B signed letters of authority (LoA) which instructed 
TCG to act on her behalf to look into any PPI claims she had with her lender. TCG submitted 
the LoA's to her lender. But, in August 2018 Ms B's lender said they couldn't further 
her claim as the details they held didn't match that supplied by TCG.
Ms B told TCG she'd updated her records with her lender. But later in August 2018, Ms B's 
lender said the details hadn't been updated and the PPI claim was closed, but said it could 
be re-opened at a later date once Ms B's details were updated.
In September 2018, TCG asked Ms B to complete her details again, and Ms B sent these 
forms back to TCG in October 2018. Ms B again said she'd updated her lender. 
But TCG said it never checked this with her lender.
In January 2019, while in branch Ms B completed another PPI claim form. And in February 
2019, her lender refunded Ms B for the sale of her PPI. Shortly afterwards TCG asked Ms B 
to pay its fee as she had a successful claim.
Ms B said it was the PPI claim she made in January 2019 which had proved successful. And 
the service she had from TCG was poor as she'd had to complete the documentation on 
more than one occasion. And after October 2018 she'd heard nothing from TCG. Ms B didn't 
think the fee TCG was asking for was justified.  
TCG said the award hadn't  been paid on a new claim, but on the one it submitted for Ms B. 
But, TCG said that it had charged a fee higher than the fee cap introduced in July 2018, and 
reduced its fee to the cap limit of 20% plus VAT. 
Ms B wasn't happy with TCG's response and brought her complaint to us. TCG reduced its 
fees further by £65.68 as it recognised the delay caused to Ms B in dealing with her PPI 
claim.
Our investigator could see Ms B had  done some work to progress her PPI claim, but said as 
the award had been made on the claim submitted by TCG, it was entitled to charge a 
success fee. She said the reduction TCG had made to its fee was fair and reasonable, so 
didn't ask, TCG to do anything more.
Ms B accepted TCG had done some work for her but still thought the fee being asked for  
was too high. She has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done, so I'm not upholding this 
complaint, I'll explain why.
It isn't in dispute that Ms B asked TCG to act on her behalf to make a PPI claim. She signed 
LoA's and TCG submitted these to her lender.
The agreement Ms B had with TCG was on a No win No fee basis. This means 
TCG charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they 
actually did. So, any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a 
claim was successful, TCGs fee may be more or less than the value of the work they 
actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement.
Ms B's claim was successful, but not until February 2019 after she'd got in touch with her 
lender. So what I need to consider is whether TCG's actions in charging, Ms B a success fee 
for her PPI claim is fair and reasonable.
The LoA's Ms B signed in June 2018 and August 2018 were for different accounts she had 
with her lender. And in late August 2018 her lender said it wasn't able to complete her claims 
as her details weren't correct. This is why, in early September 2018, TCG asked her to 
complete her details again.
I can see there has been some confusion over the details Ms B's lender needed and the 
details Ms B gave. Both TCG and Ms B refer to incorrect address details. But it 
wasn't just Ms B's address that needed to be updated, it was also her full name. And the 
letter from Ms B's lender was very clear this was the issue. In the letter it sent, in August 
2018,  to both TCG and Ms B they said:
" We have sent you two previous letters to ask you to update your name....""
So when Ms B and TCG  thought she'd updated her details by telling her lender her address 
details, it hadn't answered the issue. And in August 2018, Ms B's lender closed the 
claims. TCG asked Ms B to complete the forms again, she returned these in October 2018, 
and she wrote on them that she'd updated her lender. But again this was about her address. 
TCG accepted Ms B had updated her lender and didn't check whether her lender now 
had what was needed.
And it wasn't until January 2019, when Ms B completed another PPI form in her in branch 
that her name details finally matched her lenders' records. This meant her lender could now 
complete her PPI claim, and in February 2019 it was resolved successfully for her.
I can understand why Ms B thought the success was because of the new claim she'd  
made. But I can see that once the right details were given to her lender, the claim submitted 
by TCG was re-opened as her lender said it would do. Ms B's lender wrote to both her and 
TCG, with the reference number for this claim. And the claim was successful.
So, I'm satisfied this wasn't a new PPI claim but a re-opening of an existing claim. I 
also think if Ms B had updated the details her lender had asked for in August 2018, her claim 
would have been successful at that time. So I'm satisfied TCG submitted the PPI claim and 
the claim was successful. So TCG can ask for its success fee.
TCG after being told Ms B's claim was successful asked for the fee it had quoted in its terms 
and conditions, 36% plus VAT. But the Financial Guidance and Claims Act 2018 (the Act) required the Claims Management Regulator to introduce a fee cap for PPI claims. The fee 
cap came into force on 10 July 2018. From this date, claims management companies 
couldn't legally charge a success fee of more than 20% plus VAT. The cap wasn't to be 
applied retrospectively.
Ms B signed her first LoA in June 2018, before the cap was introduced, but TCG said it 
hadn't received it. Ms B signed further LoA's but these weren't submitted by TCG until after 
the fee cap was introduced. So, I don't think TCG should charge more than the fee cap of 
20% plus VAT. And I'm pleased to see TCG has already reduced its fee to this amount.
Ms B said TCG had provided a poor service as she'd had to complete several forms. But as 
outlined above, the LoA's were about different accounts and the information on them didn't 
match the records held by Ms B's lender. So I think TCG in sending out further forms 
was trying to get the right details from Ms B for her claim to progress.
But TCG was acting on her behalf, so when Ms B said she'd updated her lender I think 
TCG should have checked with them that they had the right details to look into her claim. 
TCG didn't do this and so Ms B's claim was delayed until January 2019 when she gave the 
details her lender needed. So, I think TCG by not checking caused  a delay. I can see TCG 
has further reduced its fee, by £65.68 to reflect the delay caused. I think this is fair and 
reasonable.
So I think TCG has been fair and reasonable in charging its success fee, capped at no more 
than 20% plus VAT. And has compensated Ms B for its poor service by reducing its fee by a 
further £65.68.
So, I won't be asking TCG to do anything more. 
 
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman