DRN-3423599
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with Covea Insurance plcs handling of his motor insurance claim.
Mr P is represented by Mr S, but for ease Ill refer to statements made by Mr S as being 
made by Mr P.
References to Covea include agents acting on their behalf.
What happened
Mr P had a car insurance policy with Covea. In December 2020 a third party made a claim 
stating Mr P had collided with their parked car. Mr P phoned and told Covea his steering 
wheel had locked causing his car to turn and block the road, but he said he hadnt collided 
with the third partys car. He also said his car had been recovered to his son-in-laws garage 
and he provided them with the details of the garage. Covea subsequently sent an engineer 
to inspect Mr Ps car, and the engineer deemed it a total loss.
Mr P says he was under the impression he had made a claim for the damage to his car. He 
phoned and wrote to Covea on several occasions for an update on the claim and was told 
there had been no response from the third party. He was then told Covea would close their 
file if they didnt hear back from the third party.
Mr Ps representative phoned Covea chasing an update on the claim for the damage to his 
car. Covea offered a settlement of £11,800. They deducted £3,050 for the garages storage 
costs up until April 2021 because they didnt think Mr P had said he wanted to make a claim 
prior to the call in April 2021.
Mr P wasnt happy about the deduction and complained. Covea accepted they missed an 
opportunity to discuss with him whether he wished to make a claim. But they said Mr P 
hadnt said he wanted to make a claim prior to April 2021, and he didnt ask for an update 
from them. They upheld the complaint in part and paid him £1,525, which is half the storage 
costs. But Mr P thinks they should refund the full costs and consider compensation for the 
stress he was caused by the situation.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She thought the length of time 
Covea took to communicate the outcome of the engineers assessment to Mr P, and the lack 
of clear communication with him or the garage meant the storage costs built up 
unnecessarily. Our investigator also thought this caused Mr P inconvenience. As such, she 
thought Covea should reimburse all the storage costs and pay £300 in compensation. Covea 
didnt agree with our investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. They thought, 
regardless of any failings in their customer service, its the policyholders responsibility to 
mitigate their losses. They dont think Mr P did, especially considering the car was incurring 
charges at a family members garage.
I issued my provisional decision on 30 March 2022 and I said: 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ps policy say that when a claim is made, Covea will pay 
for storage charges for your car as long as you have told us about them beforehand and we
have agreed that they are reasonable.
There is no dispute Mr P didnt tell Covea about the storage charges, so what I must decide
is whether they could have done more to support him through the claims journey. Id expect
Covea to have enquired about the cost of the storage, and if reasonable, to cover these
costs as part of the claim they settled for Mr P. However, Covea says Mr P didnt inform
them he wanted to make a claim until April 2021, which meant his car was in storage for
several months and incurred costs. They also think he didnt attempt to mitigate his losses in
that time. As such, they paid half the storage costs, so Ive also thought about whether they
acted reasonably in doing so.
Covea wrote to Mr P and asked him to complete a form to explain his side of things in
relation to the incident reported by the third party. The form also asked whether he wished to
make a claim. Instead of completing it, Mr P phoned to discuss the incident with them. He
explained what happened at the time. Having listened to his phone calls with Covea, I cant
see that any of the agents Mr P spoke to asked him whether he wanted to make a claim for
the damage caused to his car.
During the conversation the agent said an engineer would inspect Mr Ps car and provide a
report. He also explained to Mr P that, once they received the report, they would discuss it
with him. The engineer deemed Mr Ps car a total loss and they said it would be 
uneconomical to repair. Considering these findings, I think it should have prompted Covea to
check whether Mr P wanted to make a claim for the damage to his car. Had they discussed
the engineers report with him, its likely it would have become apparent he was also making
a claim for the damage to his car.
Mr P says he thought he had made a claim for his car and says he had been given a claim
reference number which reinforced his belief that hed made a claim. During the initial phone
call, he explained that his car was damaged and had needed to be towed away. The agent
then explains that an engineer would inspect the car but doesnt specify that this inspection
was solely in relation to the third partys claim. So, I can understand why Mr P may have
thought it was regarding the damage to his car also.
I accept Mr P did not explicitly state he wanted to make a claim, however once Covea
became aware the vehicle was beyond economical repair, they should have informed Mr P
and given him the opportunity to make a claim for his car.
When mistakes happen, as I find was the case here, I agree with Covea, I would expect the
consumer to attempt to mitigate their losses. I accept Mr P didnt specifically ask for an
update on the repairs or the settlement for his car, nor did he ask when he would get his car
back. Had he done so, I think this may have highlighted the issue. That said, as I find Mr P
believed Covea were aware of his claim, I dont think its unreasonable that he didnt ask
specifically about the repairs or a potential settlement.
Covea say Mr P had an opportunity to mitigate losses because the car was in a family
members garage. Mr P informed Covea where the car was stored and provided details for
the person they could contact at the garage for more information. And I think that, had
Covea settled Mr Ps claim in December 2020, when they received the engineers report, the
storage charges could have been prevented.
Though I cant see Mr P was contacted about the engineers report, his telephone call with
Covea in January 2021 indicates at some point he became aware the car had been deemed
a total loss. During this call, he asked about the cause of the steering problems and says tothe agent that no one has been able to explain to him how the steering issue actually
happened. So, I think he did enough to enquire about the engineers findings and how
Covea would resolve the claim.
Mr P also called and wrote to Covea on several occasions for an update and to express his
dissatisfaction at the length of time things had taken. Once he realised Covea planned to
close their files, his representative phoned on his behalf to enquire specifically about his
claim in relation to his car. So, Im satisfied once he was aware, Mr P did enough to enquire
about the claim.
As I mentioned earlier, I agree Mr P did not explicitly state he wanted to make a claim, but
Im satisfied he did all I would reasonably expect him to as a consumer and not an expert on
the claims process to highlight the issue. Covea acknowledge they missed an opportunity to
discuss a potential claim with Mr P. I find they could have done more to support him through
the claims process and to check whether he wanted to make a claim. Had they discussed
the engineers report with him, as the said they would, I think they would have been aware of
his claim sooner. So, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think Covea acted fairly or
reasonably in deducting half the storage costs from the settlement figure they paid Mr P for
his car. I think Covea should cover the storage costs from the date they received the
engineers report. They should reimburse Mr P the difference between this and what they
already paid towards the storage, plus 8% simple interest on this amount from the date they
initially paid the settlement to the date payment is made.
I find Covea should have taken Mr Ps circumstances into account during their interactions
with him and clearly explained the claims process to him, to ensure it was as stress free as
possible. I think the process will have been stressful and frustrating for Mr P as he had to
take time out of his day on several occasions to phone and write to Covea for an update. It
will also have been distressing to learn that a claim hadnt been recorded for his car, and he
would be held responsible for the storage costs. So, I agree with what our investigator has
said, I think Covea should pay Mr P £300 in compensation for the distress and the
inconvenience their errors caused him.
Covea accepted my provisional decision. However, Mr P didnt, he says during the first call 
in December 2020 Covea became aware that:
1. The damage to the vehicle was sufficient that it had to be towed away. 
2. The vehicle was in storage and therefore was likely to be incurring storage costs from 
that point. 
Mr P says the engineers report only merely confirmed the full extent of the damage. He says 
if Covea had properly discussed the claims process with him during the initial call, they 
would have taken responsibility for managing the storage costs as part of the claim. He 
would like Covea to reimburse the storage costs from December 2020 when he made the 
initial call to them. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about all that Mr P has said in response to my provisional decision and Im not 
minded to change the outcome I reached. Ill explain why.
Ultimately, I dont find Mr P made it clear in his initial phone call with Covea in December 
2020 that he wished to make a claim for the damage to his car. I say this because, I think the 
purpose of his phone call was to dispute the claim made by the third party. He said the 
accident didnt happened and during this phone call, he also states there was no claim. I 
accept Mr P mentioned that there was a problem with his car, and it had been towed, but I 
dont think that means he wished to make a claim for it. While I appreciate Mr P may have 
thought he was making a claim at this time, I dont think its fair to expect Covea to have 
known he wanted to based on the conversation he had with them at this time. 
Even though Mr P provided Covea with the details of the garage his car had been towed to, 
as I dont think it was clear from his initial phone call that he wanted to claim for his car, I 
wouldnt expect Covea to ask about the storage costs. Furthermore, as the car was stored at 
his family members garage, I dont think Covea where to have known there were fees 
involved its storage. Even Mr Ps representative was unaware of the storage fees when he 
phoned Covea on his behalf. 
As I said in my provisional decision, once Covea received the engineers report and became 
aware the car was beyond economical repair I think they should have informed Mr P and 
given him an opportunity to make a claim for the damage to his car. Had they done, I think 
they will have been aware of his claim sooner. So, for the reasons Ive set out here and in 
my provisional decision, I dont think Covea acted fairly or reasonably in deducting half the 
storage costs from the settlement figure they paid Mr P for his car. Covea therefore should 
cover the storage costs from the date they received the engineers report. They should 
reimburse Mr P the difference between this and what they already paid towards the storage, 
plus 8% simple interest on this amount from the date they initially paid the settlement to the 
date payment is made. They should also Mr P £300 in compensation for the distress and the 
inconvenience their errors caused him.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Covea Insurance plc to: 
cover the storage costs from the date they received the engineers report. They 
should pay Mr P the difference between what they already paid towards the storage 
and the additional amount due.
They should pay 8% simple interest per annum on this amount from the date they 
initially settled his claim and paid him to the date this payment is made.
They should also pay Mr P £300 in compensation.
If Covea Insurance plc considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from the interest, they should tell Mr P how much theyve taken off. They should 
also give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman