DRN-2908760
The complaint
Mr P says TFS Loans Limited lent to him irresponsibly.  
What happened
Mr P took out a guarantor loan from TFS in July 2015. It was for £8,500 over 60 months. The 
monthly repayment was £296.65 and the total repayable was £17,799.
Mr P says the lender failed to carry out an effective affordability assessment and had it done 
so it would not have lent to him.
.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He said there were clear 
signs from the credit check TFS carried out that Mr P was struggling financially and that it 
was unlikely he would be able to sustainably repay the loan.
TFS disagreed saying with the investigators view, so the complaint was passed to me for a 
final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when TFS lent to Mr P. Its rules
and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged TFS to lend
responsibly. Amongst other things, TFS was required to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of whether Mr P could afford to repay what he owed in a
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So TFS had to think about whether repaying
the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr P. In
other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr P.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether TFS did what it needed to before agreeing to
lend to Mr P, and have considered the following questions:
 
did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Ps loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan 
in a sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did TFS make a fair lending decision?
did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
TFS asked for some information from Mr P before it approved the loan. It asked for details
of his income, his monthly living costs and his existing credit commitments. It used an 
income verification tool to check his declared income. It checked his credit file to understand 
his credit history. It also asked about the purpose of the loan which was debt consolidation 
(£2,500) and for his wedding (£6,000). From these checks combined TFS concluded Mr P 
had monthly disposable income of £14.35 that would increase to £257.35 after he repaid the 
loan he was consolidating - and so the loan was affordable.
I am not wholly persuaded that these checks were proportionate. Mr P was applying to 
borrow a significant amount of money from TFS. He was entering into a long-term 
commitment and would need to make monthly repayments for five years. So I would expect 
that TFS would want to gather, and independently check, more detailed information about 
Mr Ps financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him  rather than relying solely on 
what Mr P declared for certain items, as it did for his living expenses. 
But I wont comment further on this because, like our investigator, I dont think TFS made a 
fair lending decision based on the independent information it did gather. Ill explain why.
The results from TFSs credit check showed Mr P was most likely having problems 
managing his money. His overall indebtedness had increased by £17,965 in the last 12 
months. His balance to limit ratio was over 1. TFS points out that it had reduced in the 
previous three months. This is accurate but as it remained over 1 I cant see this should 
have given TFS the reassurance it needed that Mr P had enough sustainable capacity for 
more debt. 
At the time of this loan application Mr P had four payday loans outstanding  none of which 
he was planning to settle with this loan.  And for more than the last two years he had 
consistently used payday loans almost suggesting he was reliant on them to manage his 
finances.
 
I think from this information in the round TFS ought to have realised there was a high risk Mr P would be unable to sustainably repay his loan  so without borrowing to repay or 
suffering another adverse consequence. And this was what it needed to check to meet its 
obligations, not just the pounds and pence affordability.
It follows I think TFS was wrong to lend to Mr P.
In response to the investigators view TFS said we had not provided evidence to support the 
findings made, such as bank statements. But I find this comment to be misplaced. The 
conclusion Ive reached is based on the credit check TFS carried out, as were the 
investigators findings. TFS also said Mr Ps negative credit history was some time ago so 
should not mean the loan automatically becomes unaffordable. But I disagree with its 
interpretation of the credit check. Whilst the defaults were historic and in isolation may not be 
a reason not to lend, his increasing indebtedness with accounts at or over their limit was 
current, as was his reliance on short-term high-cost credit. 
It also argues that we dont know that his active payday loans werent to support wedding 
costs and so may not have been to pay for everyday costs. But as we know Mr P had a long 
and constant history of using payday loans, I think its reasonable to assume his need to top-
up his income was not solely related to a one-off event. For all of these reasons TFSs points 
do not change my conclusion.
I havent found any evidence that TFS acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way 
towards Mr P.
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Mr P to have repaid the capital amount that he borrowed as he had the
benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have
been given to him. So he has lost out and TFS needs to put things right.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments
Mr P made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Ps loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then TFS should refund these overpayments
with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the
overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Ps loan account results in an outstanding capital balance TFS should 
try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr P.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to deduct tax from this interest. TFS should give Mr P a
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one. 
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ps complaint and TFS Loans Limited must put things right as set out 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman