DRN-2568443
The complaint
Mr A complains about the quality of repairs carried out by esure Insurance Limited following 
a claim against his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
esure arranged for Mr As car to be repaired at a garage in 2019 after it was recovered, 
having been stolen in 2018. Shortly after Mr A collected his car, he experienced some 
mechanical issues which were later resolved.  
Mr A then noticed signs of corrosion on all four alloy wheels several months later. Mr A was 
concerned about this, as part of the repair carried out by esure included fitting four brand 
new alloys. So, Mr A contacted an independent engineer. The engineer said all four alloys 
werent new  rather, they had been refurbished. Mr A wasnt happy with this and contacted 
esure to raise a complaint.
esure instructed an independent engineer who also confirmed all four alloys showed signs of 
corrosion. They said this was due to a previous refurbishment, though they were unable to 
determine when the refurbishment took place, or by whom. esure considered this and told 
Mr A that the repair garage had shown an order for four new alloys and didnt think there 
was enough evidence to show these werent fitted. esure also said Mr A had travelled 7000 
miles since he collected the car from the repair garage. 
As Mr A remained unhappy, he brought a complaint to this service. 
An investigator here considered the complaint and recommended it should be upheld. She 
was more persuaded the alloys had been refurbished, rather than replaced. She didnt think 
esure had completed an effective and long-lasting repair. So, she recommended esure 
should replace all four alloys, cover any reasonable costs Mr A incurred in providing an 
independent report and pay him £100 compensation. 
esure didnt agree. They said the garage had contacted a wheel specialist during the repair 
about refurbishment and were informed that wasnt possible due to the specific wheels Mr 
As car had. They also maintained there wasnt evidence to show the garage hadnt fitted the 
new alloys shown as ordered.  
Our investigator considered what esure said, but this didnt change her opinion. As esure 
didnt agree, they asked for an ombudsman to decide the case  so now its been passed to 
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres a dispute around whether four new alloys were fitted to Mr As car when it was 
repaired in 2019. Mr A says the alloys were refurbished  rather than replaced  and has 
provided evidence to support this theory from an independent engineer who confirmed a 
refurbishment was carried out and the wheels werent new. 
esure provided an independent report. This also supports Mr As argument that a 
refurbishment had been carried out previously. Though the engineer was unable to 
determine when this was carried out  or by whom. 
I think its fair to say this is a finely balanced case as Ive also seen the report from the repair 
garage which shows new alloys were ordered for Mr As car. 
Ive no reason to doubt Mr As testimony. He said hed not carried out any works to the alloys 
and Ive no reason to dispute this based on what Ive seen. esure argued the repair garage 
evidenced new alloys were ordered and theres no evidence to demonstrate these werent 
fitted. 
I dont think the question I need to answer here is am I persuaded the alloy wheels were 
fitted by the garage or not. What I do need to answer is whether I think esure completed an 
effective and long-lasting repair and put Mr A back into the position he was in prior to the 
loss. And in this case, I dont think esure has. 
Whether the alloys were replaced as new or not, the crux of the issue here is Mr As alloys 
showed signs of corrosion shortly after esure completed a repair. I dont think the time 
between Mr A collecting the car to noticing the issues has any bearing on the outcome. On 
balance, I think Mr As demonstrated there was an issue with the quality of repairs 
completed in 2019 which esure were responsible for. 
So, its for that reason I think esure should replace all four alloy wheels to put matters right 
for Mr A. Mr A hasnt told us he incurred any costs in obtaining an independent report, but 
esure should meet any reasonable costs upon proof of payment. I also accept the way 
things were handled would have caused Mr A to experience a level of distress and 
inconvenience. And I agree with our investigator that £100 is fair and reasonable in this 
complaint.
Putting things right
Given what Ive set out above, I dont think esure has acted fairly by declining to replace Mr 
As alloy wheels. So, esure should replace all four alloys as new to the same specification as 
the current alloys. esure should also meet any reasonable costs Mr A incurred in obtaining 
an independent report, upon proof of payment, and pay him £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I uphold this complaint and require esure 
Insurance Limited to do the following: 
Replace four alloy wheels on Mr As car to the same specification as the current 
alloys, as new; 
Meet any reasonable costs Mr A incurred in obtaining an independent engineers 
report, if applicable, upon proof of payment; and 
Pay him £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman