DRN-4052764
The complaint
Mr D complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited treated him unfairly when it 
identified an error with commission payments that had historically been deducted from his 
pension savings.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint earlier this month. In that decision 
I explained why I thought that the complaint should be upheld and what further steps 
Prudential needed to take in order to put things right. Both parties have received a copy of 
the provisional decision but, for completeness and so those findings form part of this 
decision, I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Mr D had previously held pension savings with Prudential. Those pension savings 
had been transferred to another provider in 2020. In 2022 Prudential identified a 
historical error on Mr Ds pension savings. Between 2016 and 2019 it had continued 
to deduct commission charges from his pension savings which should have stopped 
at the same time as commission payments to his financial advisor had ceased.
Prudential told Mr D that it had calculated it needed to pay him £2,311.91 in respect 
of that error. That comprised £1,996.20 for the commission payments, and an 
additional £315.71 as compensation for the delay in repaying those funds to Mr D. It 
told Mr D that it would be refunding the total amount to him as a small lump sum 
pension payment. It said that 25% of the payment could be made tax free, but it 
would be required to deduct basic rate income tax from the remainder. It sent Mr D a 
cheque for £1,965.31.
Mr D complained to Prudential, both about the initial error, and the way it had chosen 
to pay the compensation to him. In particular he said that he was a higher rate 
taxpayer so would need to pay some additional income tax to HMRC as a result of 
the payment. He asked why Prudential had not transferred the compensation to his 
new pension provider, in the same way as it had previously transferred the majority 
of his pension savings. He thought that would have provided him with a better 
outcome to the error. And he pointed out that he might have missed out on some 
investment growth on the compensation.
Mr D had many conversations with Prudential  that I will reflect on in a little more 
detail later in this decision. Ultimately Prudential agreed that Mr D could return the 
compensation payment it had sent him, and that it would transfer the compensation 
to Mr Ds new pension provider. And across a series of response letters Prudential 
paid Mr D a total of £1,050 in respect of the distress and inconvenience hed been 
caused.
Prudential has accepted that it incorrectly deducted some commission charges from 
Mr Ds pension savings before they were transferred to the new provider in 2020. 
I havent seen anything that makes me think Prudentials actions were intentional, or 
fraudulent as Mr D has said. Instead I think an administrative mistake was made, and 
when it was discovered Prudential took appropriate steps to identify those affected 
consumers, including Mr D.
I would tend to agree with Mr D that the actions Prudential took to put things right 
werent as customer focussed as they might have been. I think it would have been 
better for Prudential to discuss with affected consumers like Mr D, who no longer 
held their pension savings with Prudential, what actions could be taken to put things 
right. Those consumers might have very different financial situations, and so might 
require more tailored compensation. And, as has been shown here, it is sometimes 
possible for smaller compensatory payments to be transferred to a new provider 
some time after the main transfer completed.
But, much of what I have described above, has now been completed for Mr D. 
Prudential has eventually tailored its compensation approach to his circumstances 
and preferences. And it has paid the incorrectly deducted commission charges to 
Mr Ds new pension provider. So Mr D will have the benefit of the tax advantages of a 
pension wrapper on those monies and so might be able, in the future, to mitigate 
some of the income tax liability Prudentials original approach caused.
I am not, however, satisfied that the compensation Prudential has paid to Mr D was 
sufficient. It has refunded the commission payments it took in error. And it has added
£315.71 to those amounts to compensate Mr D for the time it took for the error to be 
identified.
But those amounts should have formed part of Mr Ds pension savings from the time 
each of them was first deducted from his pension savings. So they have also missed 
out on some investment growth following the transfer of Mr Ds pension savings to 
the new provider. At my request Prudential has asked the new provider to calculate 
the investment growth that was lost between the original transfer taking place, and 
the refund being added to Mr Ds pension savings. The new provider has calculated 
that loss to be £427.96 and confirmed that it is willing to accept that additional 
compensation as a transfer to add to Mr Ds pension savings
So I currently think that Prudential should pay some further compensation to Mr D as 
a result of its error.
There is no doubt that the resolution of Mr Ds complaint, and the payment of the 
original compensation to the new provider, took an extended period of time. I can see 
that Mr D needed to correspond extensively with Prudential, and that the firm failed, 
on numerous occasions, to provide him with the levels of customer service he could 
reasonably expect to receive. But in a series of response letters to Mr D, Prudential 
has paid compensation to him for the trouble and upset it had caused. In total it has 
paid him £1,050 for the inconvenience hes been caused. And I have seen that it has 
also recently paid Mr D £300 to cover the accountancy costs he incurred in dealing 
with the payment, and cancellation, of the compensation as a small lump sum 
pension payment.
Ive thought carefully about this aspect of Mr Ds complaint. On balance, whilst there 
is no doubt that Prudential has fallen short of the customer service it should offer, 
I think that the compensation Prudential has paid to Mr D for the distress and 
inconvenience he has been caused is reasonable. So I dont direct Prudential to 
make any further payments to Mr D in that regard.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Prudential hasnt provided us with anything further. Mr D has said that he welcomed my provisional decision. But he made me aware that he is in the process of 
moving his pension savings to another new provider. So I will amend my redress directions 
to take into account any problems that might cause.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided me with any new evidence or further comments I see 
no reason to alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. So I think that 
Prudential should pay the additional compensation to Mr D as a result of its error that I set 
out in my provisional decision, and repeat below for clarity.
Putting things right
Mr Ds pension provider has calculated that, had the incorrectly deducted commission 
charges formed part of the original transfer of funds, it would have benefitted from an 
additional £427.96 of investment growth. Prudential should pay that sum to Mr D.
Prudential should liaise with Mr D to discuss whether the compensation can be transferred to 
his new pension provider and be added to his new pension plan. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
If Prudential is unable to pay the total amount into Mr Ds new plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr D's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. I think it is reasonable to assume that Mr D is likely to 
be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. 
However, as Mr D would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should 
be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint and direct The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman