DRN-4464526
The complaint
Mr G complains that Amtrust Europe Limited declined a claim on his legal expenses 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Amtrust, this includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr Gs home insurance included legal expenses cover, underwritten by Amtrust. In April 
2021 he upgraded his insurance to include cover for a wider range of legal disputes.
He had a dispute with his parish council over an access way next to his home. There were a 
number of incidents including, amongst other things:
In May 2020 he received a letter from the parish council about his boundary and 
hedge. He reported the matter to the district council and to the police.
In December 2020 he received a letter from the county council about the hedge. He 
says he later found out this happened after the parish council contacted the county 
council about the matter.
In February 2021 contractors instructed by the parish council cut back his hedge. He 
says this was trespass and criminal damage, which he reported to the police.
Mr G pursued complaints about the parish councils actions. In February 2023 he made a 
claim on his policy for cover relating to the dispute. 
Amtrust declined his claim because the incidents had started before he increased the level 
of cover in April 2021, and the level of cover he had before that didnt include cover for this 
type of dispute. 
Mr G complained but when he referred the complaint to this Service, our investigator didnt 
think Amtrust was at fault. So hes requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G made a claim in February 2023. He wanted cover to take action against the parish 
council including for trespass, property damage and harassment. 
After Mr G upgraded his policy in April 2021 it included a wider range of legal disputes 
including nuisance or trespass. So he was potentially covered for the claim he wished to 
make. 
However, theres no cover for a dispute that had already started before the cover was in 
place. Mr Gs dispute had been ongoing for some years and clearly started before April 
2021, so before this level of cover was in place.
In addition, theres no cover for claims in respect of work undertaken by or under order from, 
any public or local authority. As the dispute concerns actions by, or on behalf of, the parish 
council that exclusion would also apply. 
Before April 2021 Mr G had a more basic level of cover which only provided cover for four 
insured perils. The only insured peril relevant to Mr Gs claim was Peril 2 - Property damage. 
This included cover for a legal action against a person or organisation that causes physical 
damage to Your Home or Your or Your Familys personal eects. So if there had been 
damage to his home, that would potentially have been covered. But this only extended to his 
property and outbuildings.
Although there was an incident in February 2021 where he says damage was caused, that 
was to a hedge. And in any event, theres no cover for action taken by or under order from a 
local or public authority. 
For these reasons, I agree it was fair and in line with the policy terms for Amtrust to decline 
his claim.
Mr G is unhappy that he upgraded his cover because he anticipated trouble with the parish 
council and says he should have been told he wouldnt be covered for this. Amtrust 
underwrites the legal expenses cover but didnt sell the policy to him and so isnt responsible 
for that; its only responsible for dealing with the claim.
While he says he expected even the more basic level of cover to have included trespass and 
property damage, his claim wasnt covered for the reasons Ive explained.
I appreciate the dispute has been upsetting for Mr G and hes been put to a lot of trouble 
dealing with it, but his policy does not cover him for this claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman