DRN-3822416
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E have complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc failed to credit their bank account 
with the correct amount following a large deposit of coins they made at a branch of the bank. 
What happened
Mr E said he had saved a large amount of coins at home. Mr and Mrs E said they had 
counted them up and they amounted to £3,160 in £2 coins. They arranged to deposit them 
at a branch of Barclays. Mr and Mrs E said they were surprised to be given receipts for what 
they told the bank they had and that the coins would be counted later. They said Barclays 
would contact them if there was a discrepancy. 
Barclays did contact Mr E saying there was a discrepancy and instead the coins amounted 
to £2,310 in £2 coins. When Mr E called back directly the branch was closed. Mr E then 
phoned the telephone banking number and was told an email would be sent to the branch to 
contact him the next morning. He was also told he could collect the coins back. 
Despite chasing several times Mr and Mrs E said they didnt hear from the bank. Sadly, at 
this time Mr Es father suffered a stroke and was seriously ill in hospital. So, the ability for Mr 
and Mrs E to chase all this was consequently hampered. 
Barclays said the coins were counted by two people in front of CCTV given the amount 
involved. The process was doubled checked given the discrepancy between the figure from 
Mr and Mrs E and the figure counted by the bank. Barclays also produced the branch 
ledgers to show there was no discrepancies between March and June 2022. 
On this basis the investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Es complaint should be upheld. Mr and 
Mrs E remained dissatisfied, so their complaint was passed to me to decide.
  
I issued a provisional decision on 9 March 2023 and I said the following:
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint on the main issue of the 
discrepancy, but I am upholding it for some compensation for the lack of customer 
service Mr and Mrs E suffered. Ill now explain why. 
First, I do understand and appreciate that Mr and Mrs E will be very disappointed 
with my decision about the discrepancy. However, I can only decide the matter on 
the basis of the evidence before me.
Barclays said from the receipts it gave Mr E on 11 May 2022 on the basis of what he 
said the coins in varying coin bags amounted to and the tallies from the operatives 
later counting it, there were the following discrepancies.
£76.20  the bank counted £74.80
£252.00  the bank counted £251.80
£438.00  the bank counted £438.00
£6.97  the bank counted £9.56
£270.00  the bank counted £270.00
£9.32  the bank counted £11.72
£41.30  the bank counted £48.40 
£3,160.00  the bank counted £2,310.00
So, Mr and Mrs E thought they were depositing £4,253.79. And Barclays counted out 
£3,414.28 the difference being £839.51.
I also understand that Mr and Mrs E truly do believe they counted out £2 coins in the 
sum of £3,160.00 but they were also counting a significant number of coins of varying 
dominations. And as can be seen from the above, some of the totals given by Mr E to 
the cashier were different to what he said they had added up to, sometimes more 
and sometimes less. I dont consider thats too unusual either as it was a significant 
amount of money to be counting out in coins. However, I am more persuaded with 
the significant checks and balances in the system employed by Barclays that on 
balance Barclays totals of amount of coins lodged is more likely to be correct. 
Like every bank, Barclays has to have systems and checks on the receipt of cash 
and coins, to ensure nothing goes astray or indeed goes into the wrong hands. 
Barclays explained to us that Mr and Mrs Es coins were counted by two people in 
view of the CCTV. And that this is a standard process given the amount of coins 
deposited by Mr and Mrs E. 
Then Barclays said that because the total counted by its operatives didnt match the 
amount that Mr and Mrs E said they were depositing, it then counted the coins again. 
Furthermore, it provided evidence to show that there were no discrepancies in the 
branchs ledgers between March and June 2022. So, taking all this into account I am 
more persuaded that the total sum of money in coins which was deposited was the 
total Barclays counted of £3,414.28 and not £4,253.79 as Mr and Mrs E believed. 
I do appreciate that Mr and Mrs E feel they should have waited in the branch until all 
the coins were counted but since Barclays properly had a system for such counting I 
dont consider it was wrong to give the receipts initially on the basis of what Mr E said 
he was depositing and explaining contact would be made if there were discrepancies. 
I also dont consider anything turns on the fact the CCTV footage is no longer 
available. Due to the fact the operatives knew they were being watched by CCTV in 
counting the coins I dont consider its likely it would have shown anything.
I do however think the bank staff should have phoned Mr E back as the telephone 
banking department promised and indeed, they should have dealt with Mr and Mrs E 
in person when they went into the branch too. The discrepancy was significant to Mr 
and Mrs E and some level of customer service should have been offered to them at 
that time and it wasnt. I consider this unnecessarily aggravated things for Mr and 
Mrs E considerably, causing further trouble and upset. Therefore, I consider Barclays 
should pay Mr and Mrs E the sum of £150 compensation for this. Had more care 
been taken by the branch staff, Mr and Mrs E might have understood things better 
from the start.
Barclays said it agreed with my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs E remained unhappy. They 
said the following:They remained surprised they didnt have to wait until the coins were counted and 
were surprised that they couldnt make an appointment for this. 
They said that unlike what I said in the provisional decision, they couldnt collect the 
coins back because they couldnt contact the branch on the day because it was shut 
following the call about the discrepancy.
They explained that the coins were collected and stored in tins of different 
dominations, for example £1 coins altogether, £2 coins altogether and so on. These 
were counted bagged and then checked and that they have copies of the workings 
out. They could accept some discrepancies as the ones I highlighted were negligible. 
But they couldnt accept discrepancies as regards the £2 coins. They mentioned the 
£2 coins were periodically weighed to give an approximate indication as to the value. 
They said Barclays were fully aware that they disagreed with the discrepancy so why 
didnt it keep and store the CCTV footage? Since thats the case, then no weight 
should be given to the fact the coins were counted under CCTV.
They appeared to disagree with my thoughts that if more care had been taken by 
branch staff at the time, Mr and Mrs E would have understood things differently. They 
maintain they always understood the issues. They mentioned that the branch staff 
had just found out that day that their branch was earmarked for closure so many had 
received the news they would lose their jobs so it would be understandably that many 
branch staff were quite rightly upset and distressed that day. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again, I remain of the view that I am not upholding this complaint on the 
main issue of the discrepancy, but I am upholding it for some compensation for the lack of 
customer service Mr and Mrs E suffered.
 
Im afraid the weight of the evidence is in Barclays favour given the systems and checks it 
had in being. I do agree with Mrs and Mrs E that the CCTV should have been kept and 
stored given the apparent discrepancy but as Mrs E rightly pointed out the branch was 
closing down, so whilst it is regrettable it wasnt preserved, nonetheless it served as part of 
the process of how, coins of the number Mr and Mrs E wanted to deposit, was managed.  
Its not for me to detail precisely what sorts of systems and checks Barclays or indeed any 
bank should have for the deposit of such a huge number of coins. What matters is that there 
was a system in place and checking and double checking was part of that system to include 
the operatives counting the coins knew they were being observed by CCTV. Its also not for 
me to detail that Barclays should have given Mr and Mrs E an appointment and counted out 
the coins in front of them or whilst they waited. My authority doesnt extend that far. 
However, I do find it reasonable a system with checks was in being and it was followed. 
Crucially for me the branchs ledgers showed no discrepancies at the time Mr and Mrs E 
deposited their coins. And it would have shown this, had there been any miscounting if there 
had been an amount of £839.51 unaccounted for. More so since it was in hard cash such as 
coins. 
Therefore on the evidence before me I dont consider Barclays has done anything wrong as 
regards the counting of the coins and there were several discrepancies between what Mr 
and Mrs E thought and what was counted, albeit not as large as the discrepancy of the £2 coins. And again, I do appreciate and understand Mr and Mr E remain unhappy with my 
decision. 
It remains my view that the service received by Barclays once the discrepancy was noticed 
fell short of what I would have expected. And it remains my view that compensation of £150 
should be paid to Mr and Mrs E for this. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part. 
I now require Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs E the sum of £150 compensation for 
the trouble and upset its lack of customer care caused them. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman