DRN-3313345
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs K have complained about their motor insurance broker, Hyperformance Ltd. 
They believe it gave their insurer incorrect information, which caused their insurer to avoid 
their policy (treat it as though it had never existed) and, by association, decline their claim.
What happened
In November 2020 Mr A was arranging a new insurance policy. He did a search online but 
had to call Hyperformance to complete the application. The application was then completed 
over a series of calls. Both online and during the conversation he had with Hyperformance, 
Mr A said he was a self-employed taxi driver.
In March 2021 Mr A, whilst driving his car, was involved in an accident with another driver. 
The accident was Mr As fault. He made a claim and during the insurers validation enquiries 
Mr A told it he wasnt working and hadnt been for some time. It transpired he hadnt been 
working when the policy was arranged. Mr A said he had told Hyperformance that whilst he 
is a taxi driver who works on a self-employed basis, he wasnt taking on work at the time the 
policy was arranged (due to the pandemic). The insurer felt Mr A was unemployed, and said 
if it had been told that, when the policy was arranged, it wouldnt have offered cover. Despite 
Mr As overtures to it, it wasnt minded to change its view that either Mr A or the broker 
working for him, had misrepresented the position. So it said it would be avoiding his cover 
and wouldnt be dealing with his claim, or returning any premiums to him.
Mr A felt Hyperformance had failed to listen to him when he called it to arrange cover, which 
had resulted in it giving incorrect information to the insurer. So he complained to 
Hyperformance. Hyperformance said that Mr A, during the application process, had twice 
given his occupation as a self-employed taxi driver. It didnt think it had done anything 
wrong. Mr A and Mrs K complained to this service.
Our investigator felt that during the part of the application process that took place over the 
phone, when the application was nearly completed, just prior to payment being taken, 
Hyperformance had failed to check the application details through with Mr A. That was even 
though Mr A had specifically asked it to do so. She thought this failure had likely caused 
Hyperformance to give incorrect information to the insurer. She said that as Mr A and Mrs K 
had, effectively, had no cover, Hyperformance should return to them the premium paid. 
Mr A and Mrs K indicated they were happy with the outcome. Hyperformance didnt respond. 
Because an agreement between the parties wasnt reached the complaint was passed to me 
for consideration. I felt Hyperformance did fail Mr A and Mrs K during the calls Mr A had with 
it when arranging insurance. But I felt its failure occurred earlier than that identified by our 
investigator. I also felt Hyperformance needed to do more than that suggested by our 
investigator to put things right. So I issued a provisional decision (my findings from which are 
copied in the section below setting out what Ive decided and why).
Mr A and Mrs K indicated they were satisfied with my findings, they said they had nothing to 
add. Hyperformance said it disagreed with them. In summary it disputed the conclusions 
I had reached about its failures during the call. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
I note that Mr A has told us he is self-employed as a taxi driver. Mr A has explained  and 
I have no reason to disbelieve him  that he works on a self-employed basis and since 2017 
has only worked part-time hours. But that when the pandemic began, he stepped back to 
protect himself, so he wasnt working any hours at all. Ive then thought about that 
explanation when considering the application process Mr A went through, particularly in 
respect of the calls he had with Hyperformance.
When Mr A called Hyperformance he had already completed part of the policy application 
online, where he had been asked, I think, to state his occupation status, and then give 
details of his type of work. Mr A said he was self-employed as a taxi driver. Given the 
explanation Ive set out above, I dont think Mr A including that detail online was untrue.
The detail about Mr A being a self-employed taxi driver was then seen by Hyperformance 
when Mr A called it. Listening to the relevant call I note that Hyperformances advisor is 
talking at speed. The advisor comes over as ticking off points from the application in a way 
that suggests he is not expecting to encounter any errors or be given any contradictory 
information from Mr A. So much so that my impression, particularly when it comes to the 
discussion about Mr As employment, is that the advisor is not really listening to Mr A. At a 
crucial point when Mr A is providing clarification about the type of taxi-driving he does, the 
advisor has already moved on and is asking Mr A to clarify that he is self-employed. But it 
appears to me that, at this point, Mr A is still expanding on the previous issue and in doing 
so says the name of a transport organisation he does work for on a self-employed basis. In 
my view he doesnt actually answer the advisors request to confirm he is self-employed. 
As soon as Mr A finishes giving the name of the transport organisation, the advisor moves 
on to the next issue. The advisor either doesnt realise that Mr A didnt confirm he was 
self-employed, or assumes that Mr A giving the name of the transport company equated to 
an agreement from Mr A that he is self-employed. The conversation moved on from there 
and, a minute or so later, during the same call, Mr A says to the advisor that he doesnt 
currently have a works car due to the pandemic. He says this whilst adding that the car he is 
insuring is his own personal car and not used for work. I can only think the advisor wasnt 
really paying attention to what Mr A said at this time  otherwise Id have thought hed have 
wanted to know how a self-employed taxi-driver, currently working, was doing his job without 
either, a work car or using his own car, for transporting passengers. Overall, I think the 
advisor didnt listen to Mr A, and that if he had, and then taken the time to talk to Mr A about 
his circumstances a little, the correct detail, as the insurer wanted to know it, would have 
come to light.  
It was always up to Mr A to give correct information to Hyperformance. And I think, given 
what he was asked and how the conversation progressed, Mr A did that. After all, a 
self-employed person can choose how many hours they wish to work, and at the time the 
policy was arranged Mr A had simply chosen not to work any hours. So I can understand 
that, in his own mind, Mr A was/is still a self-employed taxi driver. And it wouldnt have taken 
much, other than a little bit of attention being paid, followed by a quick probing question, for 
Hyperformances advisor to find out that Mr A wasnt working at all. That key information 
could then have been used to complete his and Mrs Ks insurance application. I dont believe 
it's unreasonable to think, in the circumstances here, that is what Hyperformance should 
have done. And that its failure to do so left Mr A and Mrs K without cover at a crucial time.  In replying to my provisional findings, Hyperformance said it accepts that in the beginning of 
the call the advisor is speaking quickly, but then they slow down and are clearly paying 
attention to Mr A. And a request for clarification on the number of miles is asked for  so 
Hyperformance thinks its unfair to say the advisor was just checking things off. 
Hyperformance also points out that the advisor repeats the name of the transport 
organisation back to Mr A  so it feels the advisor was listening. It set out a transcript of the 
two sections of the call I had referred to. And it explained that it has a duty to minimise data, 
meaning its only allowed to ask about and record material facts pertinent to the cover in 
question. 
Hyperformance went on to argue that if Mr A was being truthful about being self-employed, 
then the insurers act of avoidance should be challenged. And, it said, it thinks if Mr A was 
actually receiving benefits then he didnt clearly represent his position when arranging the 
cover. For example, it feels that when he said he wasnt using his car for work, he should 
have volunteered that he wasnt working. Hyperformance said it has no liability to make 
assumptions that detail is or might be missing from a policyholders application, or to 
question the validity of a reasonable response. That said, it does train its advisors to ask 
follow up questions where such is needed for the purpose of clarity. But it didnt think any 
clarification was needed here, as Mr A had said, in writing and verbally, that he was a 
self-employed taxi driver, and it must be careful not to be seen to interrogate customers.
I understand Hyperformance has a different take to me on the way the call progressed and 
what its advisor should have done. I note the transcript it has set out. But for me the 
transcript doesnt properly capture the speed and context of the conversation. Only listening 
to the call allows one to fully understand, and thereby assess, how it was handled and if a 
failure occurred. There may be times where the advisor slows down, and he does question 
the mileage given. I also accept that the advisor clearly heard Mr A speak the name of the 
transport company. But Im still not persuaded that means the advisor was really listening to 
Mr A at that particular point. If hed really been listening I think hed have noted that Mr A 
speaking that name was not in answer to the question he had just asked about whether Mr A 
was self-employed.
As I said provisionally, Mr A should always have given correct information. And I accept that 
as an intermediary Hyperformance can take detail given to it at face value  it isnt meant to 
assume detail given is wrong or seek to verify it. But, to pick up on Hyperformances own 
comment in reply, it should be asking follow up questions where such is needed for clarity. 
Here, as I said provisionally, Mr A had said he was a taxi-driver, but that he wasnt using his 
personal car for work  and nor did he have a work car. I cant understand why 
Hyperformance thinks that didnt need clarifying as without a car he couldnt be working and 
the insurer would want to know if he wasnt working. And whilst Mr A likely didnt understand 
the importance of not working any hours whilst still viewing himself as self-employed, 
Hyperformance did. 
I said provisionally I thought Hyperformance failed Mr A, and I remain of that view. In short, 
in my view, Hyperformance failed Mr A because it didnt pick up on a point in respect of a 
material fact, pertinent to the cover in question, which reasonably needed simple 
clarification. Its failure directly led to the insurer avoiding Mr A and Mrs Ks policy, and it 
reasonably has to compensate them for that, including for the distress and inconvenience 
they were caused.
Putting things right
I note Mr A accepted fault for the accident he was involved in and that the insurer has dealt 
with the claim from the other driver. So it might be that the insurer may ask Mr A and Mrs K to pay it back its claim settlement costs. If it does then I think Hyperformance reasonably 
needs to cover the costs the insurer seeks from Mr A and Mrs K. Thats because I think the 
insurer only voided the policy because of Hyperformances mistakes, so I don't think it would 
be fair for Mr A and Mrs K to be left out of pocket due to any recovery action it chooses to 
take against them. So if Mr A and Mrs K do receive a demand for payment from their insurer, 
they should forward this to Hyperformance for payment. It should pay the sum required 
without delay. If they have to pay it, or any part of it, to avoid costs because Hyperformance 
doesnt act quickly enough to settle the amount, it will have to reimburse them what they pay 
to the insurer, plus interest* from the date they make the payment until settlement is made.
If, as a result of the accident, Mr A and Mrs K have damage to their car that they wish to be 
repaired, they should submit repair invoices to Hyperformance for it to consider so it can 
make a reasonable payment to them to cover the cost of repairs necessary to fix the 
accident damage. 
However, I note Mr A and Mrs K have previously indicated theyd just like to have their 
premium back. I will leave it as an option for them to have Hyperformance to do this. But 
they should understand that if they choose for Hyperformance to refund their premium, it will 
be like they werent insured. So the redress Ive set out above, in respect of the insurer 
recovering costs and repairing the damage to their own car, will not apply. They can have 
their premium back or have Hyperformance, effectively, take on liability for the claim (theirs 
and the other drivers). I cant reasonably require it to both pay to them the cost of the policy 
and be liable, instead of the insurer, for the cover the policy gives.
If Mr A and Mrs K, having considered what Ive said in the preceding paragraph, want 
Hyperformance to refund their premium, it should do this, plus interest*. So Hyperformance, 
if this option is chosen, will have to refund the total premium amount, plus interest from the 
date of the avoidance until settlement is made. From the premium amount it will not be able 
to keep any costs or charges which, under its normal cancellation rules, it might usually be 
able to withhold.
Hyperformance cant amend the record of the avoidance as it is not the insurer. So it should 
write a letter to Mr A and Mrs K, which they can use when applying for future cover. The 
letter will explain that the policy avoidance is not their fault. And if the policy Mr A and Mr K 
currently have is more expensive (assuming they declared the avoidance when applying for 
it) than the one which was avoided, they should send proof of the cost and what they 
declared to the new insurer to Hyperformance and it will need to reimburse to them the 
difference in price, plus interest* from the date the extra costs were paid until settlement is 
made. 
I can see that this situation has been very frustrating for Mr A and Mrs K. They had an 
accident for which they expected to be covered, but found out that wasnt to be. Im satisfied 
that £250 is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If Hyperformance considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from any interest due to Mr A and Mrs K, it should tell them how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mr A and Mrs K a certificate showing this if they ask for one, 
so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Hyperformance Ltd to provide the redress set out above at 
putting things right. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman