DRN-3381093
The complaint
Mr S complains about Options UK Personal Pensions LLP, currently trading as Options 
SIPP UK LLP, (and trading as Carey Pensions UK LLP (Carey) at the time of the 
relevant events) accepting an application for a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), 
and an investment in Store First, from an unregulated business called Commercial Land 
and Property Brokers (CL&P).
Mr S says he has suffered a loss from the Store First investment and that Carey should 
compensate him for this loss. Mr S is represented by a Claims Management Company 
(CMC). In brief, the CMC says Carey had a duty to carry out due diligence on CL&P 
before accepting business from it and, had it done so, it ought to have been aware of 
various reasons not to deal with CL&P.
What happened
We issued a final decision on another complaint involving Careys acceptance of a SIPP 
application and Store First investment application from CL&P in February 2021. That final 
decision has been published on our website under DRN5472159.  I have reached my 
decision in this case independently. The published decision however sets out the general 
detail of Careys relationship with, and due diligence on, CL&P and the general detail of 
Store First and Careys due diligence on that investment, across pages 2 to 11 (up to Mr 
Ss dealings with CL&P and Carey). So I will rely on the detail set out in the published 
decision rather than repeat it  I will only include the key factual background of this 
particular complaint here.
Mr Ss dealings with CL&P and Carey
Mr S says he was advised by CL&P to switch his pension arrangements to a SIPP with 
Carey and invest in Store First following the switch. He also says CL&P arranged the 
switch to the SIPP and the Store First investment for him.
Before being contacted by CL&P Mr S had a personal pension. Following the contact 
by CL&P the cash value of the personal pension was switched into a SIPP with Carey, 
and invested in Store First. The key events which took place during Mr Ss dealings 
with Carey were as follows:
Mr S signed a Carey SIPP application form - 12 March 2012.
Carey sent its welcome letter, confirming the establishment date of the SIPP - 
15 March 2012.
Mr S signed Careys member declaration and indemnity (referred to as the 
indemnity in the published decision, using the wording quoted in full there)  27 
June 2012.
Carey sends cash from Mr Ss SIPP to Store First (around £34,000)  11 July 
2012.
Mr S has said he was paid £2,200 cashback by CL&P, after the Store First 
investment was made.
CL&P and Carey
Below is a chronological summary (set out in greater detail in the published decision) of 
the key events during the relationship between CL&P and Carey.
15 August 2011 - Carey begins to accept introductions from CL&P.
20 September 2011 - Carey conducted a World Check (a risk intelligence tool which 
allows subscribers to conduct background checks on businesses and individuals) on a 
Zoe Adams and a Mark Lloyd. Ms Adams and Mr Lloyd were two of the people at CL&P 
Carey initially had contact with. This check did not reveal any issues.
27 September 2011 - Carey asked CL&P to complete a non-regulated introducer profile.
29 September 2011 - The non-regulated introducer profile was completed by CL&P. It 
was completed and signed by Mr Terence Wright.
9 December 2011- Carey had a conference call with representatives of CL&P. During 
that call the issue was raised of consumers being offered cash incentives by CL&P to 
transfer or switch to a SIPP and make investments. The note of the call included the 
following:
[Carey staff member] also raised a concern that a potential member had asked 
when they would receive their money from their Store First Investment, [CL&P 
representatives] confirmed that no clients or connected parties referred by CL&P 
receive any form of inducement for either establishing the SIPP or making the 
Store First Investment and that CL&P policy does not include offering 
inducements.
[Carey staff member] emphasised that it is completely against all rules that clients 
or connected parties receive any form of inducement for making particular 
investments.
13 March 2012 - Careys Head of Service and Operation, said in an email to CL&P:
On another matter, we need our Terms of Business for Non Regulated introducers 
in place between our two companies. So that our records are all straight from a 
Compliance aspect I attach the Terms of Business and have entered a 
commencement date of 15 August 2011 which is the date of your first case with us 
and would be grateful if you could agree and complete the terms and return.
The agreement was signed by CL&P on 20 March 2012. It was signed by Ms 
Adams. 23 March 2012 - Careys compliance support said in an email to CL&P:
To comply with our in house compliance procedures could you please supply 
the following information relating to CLP Brokers:
A copy of the latest set of accountsA certified copy passport for each of the main directors/principals/partners of 
the company
29 March 2012 - a Team Leader at Carey sent an email to Ms Hallett, Careys 
Chief Executive, with the subject  03-29-2012 - Storefirst Investment Query re 
Cash Back [reference removed]. That email forwarded an email sent by the Team 
Leader to a consumer, which included the following:
you mentioned in our conversation a cash back amount you are expecting in 
the sum of £1,800 from CL&P following completion of the Storefirst 
investment
And the text addressed to Ms Hallett by the Team Leader said, this is the second 
member this week to ask when are they getting their money.
3 April 2012 - Careys compliance support followed up on its 23 March 2012 email:
It is now becoming urgent that we receive the outstanding documentation. You 
very kindly passed this on to your colleague and I would be very grateful if we 
could receive the documentation as a matter of urgency. Thank you in anticipation 
of your assistance.
When asked, Carey said it has no record of receiving the information from CL&P.
15 May 2012 - Carey conducted a World Check search on Mr Terence Wright. The 
report highlighted that he appeared on the FSA list of unauthorised firms and 
individuals.
25 May 2012 - Carey terminated its agreement with CL&P. Careys Head of Service and 
Operation told CL&P of Careys decision in an email to CL&P of that date:
Despite your assurances that no clients have been or will be offered inducements 
(monetary or otherwise) for making investments through their SIPPs with us, we 
have received enquiries as to when clients can expect to receive their money and 
have today been informed by a new client that they are expecting circa £2,000 on 
completion of the Storefirst investment purchase, which they confirmed was offered 
by a member of your staff.
We have advised this client that we will not proceed with this case.
In light of this, it is with regret that I have to notify you that we are terminating 
our Introducer Agreement with you, with immediate effect, and can no longer 
accept business from you.
In reply to this email CL&P asked: 
Regarding business which you have already accepted from us, will you still be 
processing this as the client's SIPPs have already been established?
28 May 2012 - Careys Ms Hallett sent the following reply to CL&P:
We will process them where we have already established the schemes, we will 
be writing to all clients informing them if they have received any monies then 
they must declare this to HMRC and their fund would also be vulnerable to a tax 
charge as well.HMRC have already asked a number of SIPP providers for lists of clients who 
are investing in alternatives, they will I am sure be doing some random 
checks and will charge people for unauthorised transactions if they have 
received cash sums for transferring their pension and making investments.
I would urge you and your agents to review your position if you are continuing 
this as part of your sales process, ultimately no SIPP providers will be taking the 
business, it is not allowable as we have explained to you previously.
Submissions made by Mr S
We asked Mr S for some further detail of his recollections. We asked the following 
questions, and received the replies quoted in italics:
Were you interested in changing your pension at the time of being 
contacted by CL&P? Why? What attracted you to CL&P? What attracted 
you to the Store Pod investment?
I had no intention of moving my pension away before I was cold called by 
CL&P. During the phone call with CL&P they promised me a certain guaranteed 
percentage return on a store pod investment each month. They also told me 
they would give me the first years income upfront.
What role did you think CL&P had in this transaction?
I thought they were an adviser of some sort.
Did CL&P recommend any products to you? Can you recall what it said to you?
They talked about store pods and recommended I have these with Carey 
Pensions. They advised me guaranteed returns [sic] on the investment and told 
me that I would be much better off going into this scheme than I would if I 
stayed where I was.
What was your understanding of the payment CL&P was offering? What did you 
think of this?
My understanding of it was it was the first years income from the pods up front.
If you had been aware that the payment might have tax consequences, what 
would you have done?
I would have definitely had second thoughts about it and asked questions.
If Carey had told you that Mr Terence Wright, a director of CL&P, was the 
subject of an FSA alert, what would you have done?
Definitely not have gone any further
Carey ended its relationship with CL&P in May 2012. If you had been made 
aware of this what would you have done?
I wouldve asked why and would have stopped at that point because I 
would of suspected something was very wrong.What is your understanding of how the Store First investment works?
The main thing I remember was being promised guaranteed returns and in 
effect I would be receiving thousands a year returns on my investment.
Did you understand the risks associated with a high risk, speculative 
investment? What are they in your own words?
I dont know what they are and it was never brought up because the way the 
investment was explained to me was that there wasnt really a risk because 
of the guaranteed returns.
What was your understanding of the risks associated with the Store First 
investment? Please explain your answer fully.
As above, there didnt seem to be a risk because the returns were guaranteed.
What did you think Careys role was at the time?
I knew they were pension people and that CL&P had put me with them to 
invest in store pods
Your SIPP was set up in March 2012 and your investment in Store First was 
made on 11 July 2012. Were you aware that you were still free to choose 
whether or not to invest in Store First after the SIPP had been set up?
No
On 27 June 2012, you signed a Members Declaration & Indemnity (the 
indemnity) which included the following statement I am fully aware that this 
investment is an Alternative Investment and as such is High Risk and / or 
Speculative. Did you read the indemnity before signing it? What does this 
indemnity mean to you in your own words?
I cant remember reading it. I dont know what alternative or speculative means.
Submissions made by Carey
The submissions made by Carey in this complaint are essentially the same as those 
summarised in the published decision. That summary also includes general 
submissions about Careys relationship with CL&P. So I will rely here on the summary 
given in the published decision under Careys submissions rather than repeat the 
detail.
The investigators view
The investigators view was that Carey, acting fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory 
obligations, should not have accepted Mr As application from CL&P. The basis of the view 
was what Carey knew, or ought to have known, about CL&P at the time. 
Careys response to the investigators view
Again, this is essentially the same as that summary in the published decision (under 
the same title)  so I will rely on that summary, rather than repeat the detail here.After the published decision was issued, Carey was asked to take it into consideration, as 
an important representative decision, in accordance with the relevant Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) DISP Rules and Guidance (particularly DISP 1.4.1, 1.4.2 and 1.3.2A), 
which should be taken into account when assessing other similar complaints.
On this basis, Carey was asked to review each outstanding complaint involving CL&P 
and Store First  including Mr Ss - and if it was not prepared to make a settlement offer 
taking account of the detailed reasons set out in the published decision, to explain why 
it was distinguishing it from the published decision. To date Carey has not carried out 
such a review. Mr Ss complaint has therefore been passed to me for review and Im 
satisfied that there is no need to wait any further before progressing this complaint.
We shared a copy of the questions asked of Mr S, and the answers he provided to those 
questions, with Carey and invited it to make any comments on these it wanted us to take 
into account. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I concluded Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. In summary I 
said:
If Carey had carried out sufficient due diligence on CL&P, or acted on the information 
it subsequently received in a timely manner, it should not have accepted Mr Ss 
application from CL&P.
The fair and reasonable conclusion, based on what Carey knew or ought to have 
known at the time, is that it should also not have accepted Mr Ss application to 
invest in Store First. 
It was not fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for Carey to proceed with Mr 
Ss instructions. 
It is fair and reasonable to conclude that Carey should compensate Mr S for the loss 
he has suffered to his pension. 
Mr S accepted my provisional decision and made no further comments on it. Carey did not 
accept my provisional decision. It made a number of points, including:
On the due diligence on CL&P: 
No breach can arise on Careys part simply by virtue of its dealing with unregulated
introducers. The regulatory regime has never prohibited unregulated introducers from
connecting clients with SIPP providers, and neither the FSA nor the FCA have ever 
sought to prohibit SIPP providers from accepting business by this route.
My decision seeks to impose new and unexpected duties of due diligence on 
introducers and investments. These duties are inconsistent with both the contract into 
which Mr S entered and with the general scheme of the COBS rules at the relevant 
time (which imposed no duty on Carey to assess introducers or investments).
Given the proper scope of Careys regulatory duties, as established in Adams, there 
can be no breach of those duties on Careys part as a result of its decision to accept
customers introduced by CL&P in the circumstances relevant to this case. The FSA Notice was not entered onto World Check until 24 October 2011, i.e. after 
Carey had carried out its checks on CL&P, after it had started accepting business 
from CL&P. Even if Carey had run a World Check search in respect of Mr Wright 
when its relationship with CL&P began, it would not have identified the notice in 
question. 
Carey did not routinely check the FSAs list of unauthorised firms and individuals, nor 
was it under any obligation to do so. Careys use of World Check  an independent 
professional third party verification system  was reasonable and appropriate.
The FSA Notice, in the form in which it had been published in 2010 and which would 
have existed as at the inception of Careys relationship with CL&P, stated only that 
Mr Wright was not regulated by the FSA and referred only to a business named Cash 
In Your Pension targeting UK investors. There was nothing in the FSA Notice which 
described any criminal or civil wrongdoing and there was no contradiction between 
the FSA Notice and any statement provided by Mr Wright that he was not subject to 
any FSA action or censure. 
Had the FSA had significant concerns about Mr Wright, or had there been any 
reasonable basis for expecting regulated firms not to deal with Mr Wright/CL&P then 
the FSA Notice should and would have explicitly said so. It did not. If the FSA did not 
hold such significant concerns about Mr Wright (or was not prepared to publish 
them), then it cannot be fair and reasonable to find that Carey should have held any 
such concern, or refused point blank to have any dealings with CL&P. 
On the due diligence on Store First: 
My findings amount to imposing an obligation on Carey to undertake a qualitative 
assessment of the Store First investment (based on limited material), and then an 
obligation to pass on that assessment and those findings with what effectively 
amounts to a recommendation to Mr S not to proceed. That significantly overreaches 
the actual legal obligations on Carey at the time, as found by the Court in Adams. It 
also goes significantly further than any published regulatory material. My findings 
amount to a requirement for Carey to have provided advice to Mr S. 
On Mr Ss actions: 
Mr S comments that he was promised guarantee returns and in effect [he] would be 
receiving thousands a year returns on [his] investment demonstrates his motivation 
for investing in Store First.  So Mr S plainly wished to proceed with the investment, 
and based on his responses it is impossible to say whether he would have been 
deterred had he known of any issues with CL&P. 
Mr S gave a false statement in respect of the incentive payment in order to ensure 
the investment could proceed.  Had Mr S disclosed the incentive payment Carey 
would not have accepted the application. Whether Mr S was aware of the tax 
implication is irrelevant  the inducement payment was plainly illicit, and Mr S was or 
should have been well aware of that.
If the clear risk warnings given to Mr S were insufficient for Mr S to decide not to 
proceed with his investment, then it does not understand on what basis I can 
reasonably conclude that further information would have changed Mr Ss decision to 
invest. Mr S claimed that in respect of the risks of the investment I dont know what they 
were and it was never brought up because the way the investment was explained to 
[him] was that there wasnt really a risk because of the guaranteed returns. This is 
despite the fact that he signed the member declaration that stated that the 
investment was High Risk and/or Speculative. Whether or not Mr S can remember 
signing the declaration is irrelevant.  He signed it. Mr Ss statements, set out above, 
are either contrived to be self-serving years after the facts or indicate that either Mr S 
did not read the clear and simple paperwork he signed, or paid no attention to it. 
Whichever it is, the consequences cannot reasonably nor fairly be held against 
Carey.
Mr S suggests that he did not know what alternative or speculative means.  Whether 
or not that is true is irrelevant as Careys warning that the investment was High Risk 
is self- explanatory and there can be no confusion in that regard.  And Mr S should 
reasonably have read the document.
That I have not addressed, queried or even commented on the unreliability and self-
serving nature of Mr Ss statements speaks volumes as to my clear failings to 
approach this matter in an impartial manner and in adopting a fair procedure. 
On causation: 
Carey did not cause Mr Ss loss. It is very likely that he was extremely keen to 
proceed with the investment in order to release the funds and receive the inducement 
payment. He would have found a way to invest even if Carey had not been dealing 
with CL&P or if it had not been accepting Store First investments.
My provisional decision asserts that Carey cannot argue that another SIPP provider 
might legitimately have accepted Mr Ss investment instruction. This implies that a 
SIPP provider could not properly have accepted an instruction by a customer to place 
funds in this perfectly legal investment, even if the customer had been sophisticated 
and fully informed (and indeed even if the customer had been wealthy and with a 
high risk appetite). This reasoning must be flawed.
Had Carey informed Mr S that it would not accept business from CL&P and asked 
him how he wished to proceed, the available evidence indicates Mr S would have 
asked why and would have stopped at that point because I would have suspected 
something was very wrong.  It is wrong to conclude from that that it is unlikely Mr S 
would have continued to deal with C&LP.  It takes no account of what Careys 
response would have been to Mr Ss querying the suspension.  On balance it would 
have made no difference to Mr Ss decision to invest in Store First.
Mr S claims that he was cold called by CL&P but has not said how it got his contact 
details. It is likely Mr S provided his details with the purpose of being contacted by a 
firm such as CL&P.  It is more accurate to say Mr S instigated the relationship and 
was not cold called. And whether Mr S instigated the relationship is a key factor in 
understanding Mr Ss mindset in dealing with his pension and determining the actions 
he was likely to take.
Mr S has not said he would not have proceeded only that he would have had second 
thoughts about it and asked questions. And in any event Mr S should have 
questioned the legitimacy of the incentive payment.  While Mr S states that he would definitely not have gone any further had he known 
Mr Wright was subject to an FSA alert, this is open to question because Mr S was not 
told what the alert said.  It must, at the least, be questionable whether he would really 
have given up that opportunity because of the FSA Notice.
Even if another provider might have reached the same conclusions as I find Carey 
should have, the evidence suggests that Mr S was determined to proceed with the 
Store First investment and another SIPP provider could properly have accepted that 
investment. In those circumstances, the outcome would have been the same as it 
was.
On fair compensation:
On its proper application, the contract between Mr S and Carey was effective to 
relieve Carey of any liability it might otherwise bear. To conclude otherwise would be 
to render void and unenforceable a validly concluded contract. 
Further or alternatively, acknowledging the criterion of what is fair and reasonable, 
Mr S must bear a measure of responsibility for his own actions.
My decision amounts to a finding that there was no possibility that Mr S would have 
proceeded with an investment in Store First, via another SIPP provider, and without 
the involvement of CL&P. That is not a reasonable conclusion to reach in the 
circumstances. 
Carey does not know how much Mr S received by way of incentive payment. Mr S 
must take further steps to investigate the amount he received. 
From a representative sample of other cases where Carey is aware that a member 
has received a similar payment from CL&P, Carey understands that investors 
received payments averaging around 8% of the value of their investment in Store 
First. Mr Adams received 7.17% of his investment in Store First as an incentive 
payment.
Mr S deliberately misled Carey by confirming that he had not received an incentive 
payment.  In the circumstances it is fair and reasonable to exercise any discretion in 
Careys favour if an assumption must be made as to the amount of the payment.
Carey agrees that, in keeping with the Court of Appeal decision in Adams, Mr S 
should assist Carey in it taking ownership of the storage pods. However, the 
Provisional Decision suggests that, if the storage pods cannot be returned to Carey 
then they should remain in the SIPP or otherwise with Mr S and there should be no 
adjustment in the compensation award. To allow Mr S to retain the storage pods, 
whether within the SIPP or otherwise, in circumstances where the compensation 
awarded to him has been calculated upon the assumption that they would be 
returned to Carey, would give Mr S a windfall. Plainly this is not fair and reasonable. 
Carey also requested an oral hearing, to test Mr Ss understanding of and approach to this 
investment. 
What Ive decided - oral hearing request 
Carey has requested an oral hearing. It says this is necessary because Mr Ss understanding of and approach to the Store First investment should be investigated and 
tested. 
The Ombudsman Service provides a scheme under which certain disputes may be resolved 
quickly and with minimum formality (section 225 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 (FSMA)). DISP 3.5.5R of the FCA Dispute Resolution rules provides the following:
If the Ombudsman considers that the complaint can be fairly determined without 
convening a hearing, he will determine the complaint. If not, he will invite the parties 
to take part in a hearing. A hearing may be held by any means which the 
Ombudsman considers appropriate in the circumstances, including by telephone. No 
hearing will be held after the Ombudsman has determined the complaint.
Given my statutory duty under FSMA to resolve complaints quickly and with minimum 
formality, I am satisfied that it would normally not be necessary for me to hold a hearing in 
most cases (see the Court of Appeals decision in R (Heather Moor & Edgecomb Ltd) v 
Financial Ombudsman Service [2008] EWCA Civ 642).
The key question for me to consider when deciding whether a hearing should be held is 
whether the complaint can be fairly determined without convening a hearing.
We do not operate in the same way as the Courts. Unlike a Court, we have the power to 
carry out our own investigation. And the rules (DISP 3.5.8R) mean I, as the ombudsman 
determining this complaint, am able to decide the issues on which evidence is required 
and how that evidence should be presented. I am not restricted to oral cross-
examination to further explore or test points.
If I decide particular information is required to decide a complaint fairly, in most 
circumstances we are able to request this information from either party to the complaint, 
or even from a third party. In this case, we have put questions to Mr S, as mentioned 
above. And Mr S has provided answers to the questions we put to him. Carey has had 
the opportunity to consider, and comment, on Mr Ss answers. 
I have carefully considered the submissions Carey has made. However, I think I am able 
to fairly determine this complaint without convening a hearing. In this case, I am satisfied 
I have sufficient information to make a fair and reasonable decision. So I do not consider 
a hearing  or any further investigation by other means  is required. A key point is my 
provisional finding that Carey should not have accepted Mr Ss application at all.  Mr Ss 
understanding of and approach to the Store First investment is secondary to this. And I 
am, in any event, able to test this to the extent I think necessary  which I have done - by 
asking questions of Mr S in writing.     
In any event  and I make this point only for completeness - even if I were to invite the 
parties to participate in a hearing, that would not be an opportunity for Carey to cross-
examine Mr S as a witness. Our hearings do not follow the same format as a Court. We 
are inquisitorial in nature and not adversarial. And, the purpose of any hearing would be 
solely for the ombudsman to obtain further information from the parties that they require 
in order to fairly determine the complaint. The parties would not usually be allowed direct 
questioning or cross-examination of the other party to the complaint. 
As I am satisfied it is not necessary for me to hold an oral hearing, I will now turn to 
reconsidering the merits of Mr Ss complaint. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have not been persuaded to depart from my provisional decision. 
In reconsidering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time. Having done so, for similar reasons as set out in the published 
decision I have reached the view that this complaint should be upheld.
I remain of the view the relevant considerations in this complaint set out in the published 
decision apply here  so I will refer to the published decision rather than repeat those 
considerations here. 
I confirm I have taken account of the judgment of the High Court in the case of Adams v 
Options SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch) and the Court of Appeal judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. 
I remain of the view that neither of the judgments say anything about how the Principles 
apply to an ombudsmans consideration of a complaint. But, to be clear, I do not say this 
means Adams is not a relevant consideration at all. As noted above, I have taken account of 
both judgments when making this decision on Mr Ss case.
I acknowledge that COBS2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) was considered by HHJ Dight in the High 
Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 
2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA 
(the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied 
with the best interests rule on the facts of Mr Adams case. 
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different 
to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal was 
an attempt to put forward an entirely new case. 
I note that there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by 
Mr Adams and the issues in Mr Ss complaint.  The breaches were summarised in paragraph 
120 of the Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, as HHJ Dight noted, he was not asked to 
consider the question of due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept the store pods 
investment into its SIPP. The facts of the case were also different.  
I again emphasise that I must determine this complaint by reference to what is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And, in doing that, I am 
required to take into account relevant considerations which include: law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what 
I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. This is a clear and 
relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in Adams v Options 
SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in Mr Adams 
statement of case.  
To be clear, I have proceeded on the understanding Carey was not obliged  and not able  
to give advice to Mr S on the suitability of its SIPP or the Store First investment for him personally. But I am satisfied Careys obligations included deciding whether to accept 
particular investments into its SIPP and/or whether to accept introductions of business from 
particular businesses. As the published decision sets out, this is consistent with Careys own 
understanding of its obligations at the relevant time. 
I acknowledge Carey has applied to the Supreme Court for permission to appeal the Court of 
Appeal judgment and the outcome of that application is awaited. However, the grounds of 
appeal are in respect of issues not directly relevant to my determination of this case and 
therefore it is unnecessary to await either the consideration of the application or, if 
permission is granted, the Supreme Court judgment. I am satisfied it is appropriate to 
determine this complaint now. 
Having carefully considered the relevant considerations I am satisfied that, in order to meet 
the appropriate standards of good industry practice and the obligations set by the regulators 
rules and regulations, Carey should have carried out due diligence on CL&P to the sort of 
standard which was consistent with good industry practice and its regulatory obligations at 
the time and carried out due diligence on the Store First investment which was consistent 
with good industry practice and its regulatory obligations at the time. And Carey should have 
used the knowledge it gained from that due diligence to decide whether to accept or reject a 
referral of business or a particular investment. 
I am also satisfied that, as in the complaint in the published decision, the contract between 
Carey and Mr S does not mean that Carey should not be held responsible for failing to 
comply with its regulatory obligations to carry out adequate due diligence on CL&P and the 
Store First investment which ultimately led to Mr S losing a significant part of his pension. 
In this complaint, like the complaint in the published decision, Carey had obtained 
information months before it facilitated Mr Ss investment which led it to reject any further 
referrals from CL&P and had concerns about the Store First investment before it facilitated 
Mr Ss investment. So in this complaint, like the complaint in the published decision, it would 
not be fair and reasonable to say the contract meant Carey could ignore all red flags and 
proceed with Mr Ss business regardless.  
In my view, like the complaint in the published decision, had Carey done what it ought to 
have done here, and drawn reasonable conclusions from what it knew or ought to have 
known, it should not have accepted either the application for Mr Ss SIPP from CL&P or the 
Store First investment. 
Due diligence on CL&P
The published decision sets out what information Carey was privy to  or ought to have been 
privy to, had it carried out sufficient due diligence on CL&P. 
I note Carey says it did not routinely check the FSAs Firms and individuals to avoid list. 
However, I remain of the view that checking the warnings posted on the FSAs website is 
something that Carey should have done as a matter of course before it began accepting any 
business from CL&P. This is consistent with good industry practice as highlighted in the 
2009 thematic review report and later documents. And, I find it would have been fair and 
reasonable, and in accordance with its regulatory obligations, for such a check to take place 
before it entered into a relationship with CL&P. 
Mr Ss application was accepted in March 2012. As the published decision sets out it is fair 
and reasonable to say by that time Carey ought to have known that CL&Ps director was Mr 
Terence Wright, and that he was on the FSAs Firms and individuals to avoid list, which was described on the website as a warning list of some unauthorised firms and individuals 
that we believe you should not deal with.
I note Carey says Mr Wrights entry on the list, in the form in which it had been published in 
2010 and which would have existed as at the inception of Options relationship with CL&P, 
stated only that Mr Wright was not regulated by the FSA and referred only to a business 
named Cash In Your Pension targeting UK investors.  Carey says there was nothing in the 
FSA Notice which described any criminal or civil wrongdoing and there was no contradiction 
between the FSA Notice and any statement provided by Mr Wright that he was not subject to 
any FSA action or censure. 
However HHJ Dight referred to Careys Chief Executive, Ms Hallett, being asked about the 
notice during the Adams v Carey hearing.  The judge said (at paragraph 60):
It was also brought to my attention that from October 2010 the FCA had published 
warnings about dealing with another director, Mr Terence Wright, who was not 
authorised under FSMA to carry out regulated activity. Ms Hallett accepted in cross 
examination that no check was made to see whether his name appeared on a 
regulatory warning notice on the FCAs website until May 2012. The relationship 
between the defendant and CLP was severed on 25 May 2012. She accepted that 
had she been aware of such a warning in 2010 the defendant would not have dealt 
with CLP.
Careys response to the provisional decision appears to be at odds with this testimony of its 
Chief Executive. 
In any event, I do not accept Careys argument that the 2010 version of the FSA alert would 
not necessarily have led it to conclude that it should not enter into business with CL&P.  For 
all the reasons given in the published decision, I am of the view that the October 2010 alert 
was a clear indication that the regulator had serious concerns about the way Mr Terence 
Wright conducted his business and therefore should have put Carey on notice that it should 
not accept business from Mr Terence Wright. 
The National Archive of the FSA website shows the description of the list on the FSAs 
website in August 2011 (when Careys relationship with CL&P began) was as follows:
Firms and individuals to avoid
We have a warning list of some unauthorised firms and individuals that we believe 
you should not deal with.
The regulator therefore described those featuring on the list as firms and individuals that we 
believe you should not deal with. I consider that this supports my view that Carey should 
have been particularly circumspect before it agreed to do business with any business 
operated by an individual who featured on that list. 
The money was invested in Store First in July 2012. As the published decision sets out it is 
fair and reasonable to say by that time Carey knew, or ought to have known:
That what CL&P had told it in December 2011 about cash incentives not being 
offered was not correct. So CL&P was acting in a way which was, to use its own 
words, completely against all rules. And CL&P was acting without integrity as it had 
not told it the truth when asked about cash incentives.Multiple requests had been made for copies of CL&Ps accounts, but CL&P was 
unwilling to provide this information. 
So for the same reasons set out in the published decision, it is my finding that if Carey had 
carried out sufficient due diligence on CL&P, or acted on the information it subsequently 
received in a timely manner, it should not have accepted Mr Ss application from CL&P  or, 
at the very least, not continued to process it. 
I am satisfied this is not imposing new and unexpected duties. On this point, Careys 
response to my provisional decision appears to be at odds with Careys own understanding 
of its obligations and good practice at the time, and some of its previous submissions to us. 
Long before the time of Mr Ss application, Carey understood and accepted its obligations 
meant that it had a responsibility to carry out due diligence on CL&P. It had set a standard 
for its introducer due diligence which it thought was consistent with good (or best) practice 
at the relevant time and that, in turn, was consistent with its regulatory obligations.
Investment due diligence
The published decision sets out what information Carey was privy to  or ought to have been 
privy to, had it carried out sufficient due diligence on Store First. 
I remain of the view that, as the published decision sets out, at the time Mr Ss application 
was accepted, Carey knew or ought to have known:
There were factors in the report Carey obtained on Harley Scott Holdings Ltd (the 
promoter of Store First) which ought to have been of concern  namely the adverse 
comments for the previous three years, the CCJs, and the fact the business had 
recently changed its name. 
Dylan Harvey (one of three previous names of Harley Scott Holdings Ltd, which at 
the time had the web address dylanharvey.com) and one of its directors, Toby 
Whittaker, were the subject of a number of national press reports, online petitions 
and proposed legal action, as a result of a failed property investment. 
Harley Scott Holdings Ltd had recently been involved in a property investment 
scheme which had failed. It had also recently changed its name, and had been 
subject to a number of adverse comments in succession.  
Store Firsts marketing material set out high fixed returns, and said these were 
guaranteed. The material did not contain any type of risk warning, or illustrations of 
any other returns. No explanation of the guarantees was offered, or the basis of the 
projected returns  other than Store Firsts own confidence in its business model and 
the self-storage marketplace. 
The conclusion of the Enhanced Support Solutions report Carey had obtained was 
inconsistent with the result of Careys own company searches. The report also 
makes no comment on the obvious issues with the marketing material. 
The marketing material showed there was a significant risk that potential investors 
were being misled. 
Store First appeared to be presenting the investment as one that was assured to 
provide high and rising returns, was underwritten by guarantees, and offered a high 
level of liquidity together with a strong prospect of a capital return - despite the fact that there was no investor protection associated with the investment and that, in 
Careys own words, there is no apparent established market for the investment and 
the investment is potentially illiquid
Store First had no proven track record for investors and so Carey couldnt be certain 
that the investment operated as claimed. 
Consumers may have been misled or did not properly understand the investment 
they intended to make. 
And I remain of the view, by the time the money was sent to Store First, as the published 
decision sets out, Carey knew, or ought to have known:
Store First was paying commission of 12% to CL&P. Payment of such a high level of 
commission to an unregulated business was very serious cause for concern, given 
how the investment was being marketed. How Store First was funding such levels of 
commission alongside guaranteed income payments and guaranteed buy backs 
called the nature of the Store First investment into serious question. 
Of at least some of the issues with Store First which were of sufficient concern for it 
to suspend acceptance of the investment in August. 
On the latter point, Carey suspended acceptance of new investments in Store First in August 
2012. It has not confirmed the date at which this suspension was placed. But it has provided 
details of an internal meeting, which took place on 15 August 2012, at which concerns about 
Store First were discussed. And it has provided a copy of an internal email dated 17 August 
2012 which says new investments in Store First had been suspended. So it seems likely the 
decision to suspend new investments in Store First was taken during or shortly after the 15 
August 2012 meeting, and that Mr Ss investment therefore pre-dates the suspension. 
However, I remain of the view its likely Carey was aware of at least some of the issues which 
eventually led to it suspending acceptance of Store First investments by July 2012. Or that it 
ought reasonably to have been aware. As set out in the published decision the issues 
related to Rental Income Process/Delays, Sale Process/Delays, a tax investigation and 
that the marketing material provided for . a guaranteed rental income but only a small 
proportion of Store First investors were receiving the rental income as expected.  By June 
2012 Carey had been accepting Store First investments for a number of months and these 
were issues it would have noticed over time, rather than ones which suddenly arose in 
August 2012. 
As in the complaint in the published decision, I think all of the points listed above should 
have been considered alongside the fact the investment was being sold by an unregulated 
business, which was clearly targeting pension investors. I think it is fair and reasonable to 
find that Carey ought to have concluded there was an obvious risk of consumer detriment 
here.
So, given the circumstances at the time of Mr Ss application, I think the fair and reasonable 
conclusion, based on what Carey knew or ought to have known at the time, is that Carey 
should not have accepted Mr Ss application to invest in Store First. In my opinion, it ought to 
have concluded that it would not be consistent with its regulatory obligations, or best 
practice, to do so. 
To confirm, I am satisfied the finding Carey should not have accepted Mr Ss application to 
invest in Store First does not amount to a requirement for Carey to give advice on the 
suitability of the investment in Store First for Mr S. On this point, I note Careys response to my provisional decision appears to be at odds with its own understanding of its obligations 
and/or good practice at the time. It was clearly of the view it had to undertake some due 
diligence into the Store First investment, and to make a decision on whether or not to allow 
the investment in its SIPP. As the published decision highlights, Careys own Terms and 
Conditions explained that investments would be made at its discretion and gave several 
examples of where it might conclude it should not proceed with an investment. 
Was it fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for Carey to proceed with Mr Ss 
instructions?
I remain of the overall view I reached in my provisional decision, which is largely the same 
as the view set out in the published decision. However, I should emphasise that the primary 
points are: 
It was not fair and reasonable for Carey to have accepted Mr Ss application from 
CL&P in the first place. So, Mr Ss SIPP should not have been established and the 
opportunity to execute investment instructions or proceed in reliance on an indemnity 
should not have arisen at all. This, in my view, is the primary point. 
The Principles exist to ensure regulated firms treat their clients fairly. I consider there 
is a significant imbalance of knowledge between the parties which creates unfairness 
in the circumstances of this case. At the time of receiving Mr Ss application and 
executing his investment instructions, Carey knew things that Mr S did not. 
Carey was required by its regulatory obligations to ensure that it treated its 
customers fairly. In the circumstances, I am satisfied that this would have required 
Carey to have stopped Mr S from proceeding with his application to invest in Store 
First. 
The application should simply have been rejected by Carey  and there should therefore 
have been no option for Mr S to proceed insistently. He should simply not have been able to 
proceed. 
For completeness, I confirm my view remains that if Carey had explained the 
situation to Mr S and let him have the opportunity of making an informed decision 
whether or not to proceed it is unlikely Mr S would have proceeded with the 
investment in Store First. But, as mentioned, my primary point is Mr S should simply 
not have been able to proceed. 
Is it fair to ask Carey to compensate Mr S? 
My view on this point, in relation to this complaint, is also largely the same as the view set 
out in the published decision. 
I note Carey says that, on its proper application, the contract between Mr S and Carey was 
effective to relieve Carey of any liability it might otherwise bear. But, in my view, the contract 
between Carey and Mr S does not mean that Carey should not be held responsible for failing 
to comply with its regulatory obligations to carry out adequate due diligence on CL&P and 
the Store First investment which ultimately led to Mr S losing a significant part of his pension. 
This is especially true when Carey had obtained information months before it facilitated Mr 
Ss investment which led it to reject any further referrals from CL&P and had concerns about 
the Store First investment before it facilitated Mr Ss investment. Again, there is a primary point, which is that had Carey acted in accordance with its 
regulatory obligations and best practice, it should not have accepted Mr Ss application to 
open a SIPP introduced from CL&P at all. That should have been the end of the matter  it 
should have told Mr S that it could not accept the business.  So if that had happened, the 
arrangement for Mr S would not have come about in the first place, and the loss he suffered 
could have been avoided. 
For completeness, I confirm my view also remains: 
I do not consider the fact that Mr S signed the indemnity means that he shouldnt be 
compensated if it is fair to do so.
Had Carey explained to Mr S why it would not accept the application from CL&P or 
was terminating the transaction, I find it unlikely that Mr S would have tried to find 
another SIPP operator to accept the business. 
In any event, it is not fair and reasonable to say that Carey should not compensate 
Mr S for his loss on the basis of speculation that another SIPP operator would have 
made the same mistakes as Ive found it did. 
I am satisfied that it would not be fair to say Mr Ss actions mean he should bear the 
loss arising as a result of Careys failings. I acknowledge Mr S was warned of the 
high-risk nature of Store First and declared he understood that warning. I also 
acknowledge Mr S did not inform Carey about the incentive payment.  But Carey 
failed to act on significant warning signs. Carey should simply not have accepted Mr 
Ss application at all. I do not think it would be fair to make any reduction to the 
compensation because of Mr Ss actions. The starting point has to be that if Carey 
had acted fairly and reasonably the application simply would not have been 
accepted. 
With all this in mind, I remain of the opinion that it is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this case to find that Carey is unable to rely on the indemnity that Mr S 
signed in order to avoid liability for the regulatory failings it has made in this case. So I am 
satisfied that it is fair and reasonable to conclude that Carey should compensate Mr S for the 
loss he has suffered to his pension. 
Putting things right
I am satisfied that Careys failure to comply with its regulatory obligations and industry best 
practice at the relevant time have led to Mr S suffering a significant loss to his pension. And 
my aim is therefore to return Mr S to the pension position he would now be in but for Careys 
failings. When considering this I have taken into account the Court of Appeals 
supplementary judgment ([2021] EWCA Civ 1188), insofar as that judgement deals with 
restitution/compensation.
In light of the above, Carey should calculate fair compensation by comparing the current 
position to the position Mr S would be in if he had not transferred from his existing pensions. 
In summary, Carey should:
1. Calculate the loss Mr S has suffered as a result of making the transfer.
2. Take ownership of the Store First investment if possible.3. Pay compensation for the loss into Mr Ss pension.  If that is not possible pay 
compensation for the loss to Mr S direct. In either case the payment should take into 
account necessary adjustments set out below.
4. Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ill explain how Carey should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above in further detail 
below:
1. Calculate the loss Mr S has suffered as a result of making the transfer
To do this, Carey should work out the likely value of Mr Ss pension as at the date of this 
decision, had he left the pension where it was instead of switching to the SIPP. 
Carey should ask Mr S's former pension provider to calculate the current notional transfer 
value had he not switched his pension. If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional 
valuation then the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index should be used to 
calculate the value. That is likely to be a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could 
have been achieved if suitable funds had been chosen.
The total notional transfer value should be compared to the transfer value of the SIPP at the 
date of this decision and this will show the loss Mr S has suffered. The Store First 
investment should be assumed to have no value. Account should however be taken of the 
cash back payment paid out to Mr S. This can be taken into account in the calculation on the 
basis of it having been paid at the outset i.e. the same approach can be taken as was taken 
by the Court of Appeal in its supplementary judgement. 
On this latter point, Mr S said he received £2,200.  This is broadly consistent with the 
amounts we have seen on other cases. 
2. Take ownership of the Store First investment
I understand Carey has been able to take ownership of the Store First investment, for a nil 
consideration, in other cases. It should do that here, if possible.  
If Carey is unable to take ownership of the Store First investment it should remain in the 
SIPP. I remain of the view that is fair because first of all I understand Carey can take 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. And in any event because I think it is unlikely it 
will have any significant realisable value in the future. I also understand Mr S has the option 
of returning his Store First investment to the freeholder for nil consideration, and I think Mr S 
should be free to take that option, if Carey does not want to take ownership of the 
investment. That should enable Mr S to close his SIPP, if Carey does not take ownership of 
the Store First investment. 
In the event the Store First investment remains in the SIPP and Mr S decides not to transfer 
it to the freeholder he should be aware that he will be liable for all future costs associated 
with the investment such as the ongoing SIPP fees, business rates, ground rent and any 
other charges. He should also be aware it is unlikely he will be able to make a further 
complaint about these costs. 
3. Pay compensation to Mr S for loss he has suffered calculated in (1). 
Since the loss Mr S has suffered is within his pension it is right that I try to restore the value 
of his pension provision if that is possible. So if possible, the compensation for the loss 
should be paid into the pension.  The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into the pension should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.  This may mean the compensation 
should be increased to cover the charges and reduced to notionally allow for the income tax 
relief Mr S could claim. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ss marginal 
rate of tax.
On the other hand, Mr S may not be able to pay the compensation into a pension. If so 
compensation for the loss should be paid to Mr S direct.  But had it been possible to pay the 
compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the 
compensation for the loss paid to Mr S should be reduced to notionally allow for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using 
Mr Ss marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Mr S is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance would equate to a reduction in the total 
amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr S would have been able to 
take a tax free lump sum, the notional allowance should be applied to 75% of the total 
amount.
4. Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
The initial letter of complaint to Carey signed by Mr S said he had been caused worry and 
distress by the significant loss of his pension funds.  I have no reason to doubt this.  It is 
naturally worrying to lose pension benefits.  This is money Mr S cannot afford to lose and I 
accept its loss has undoubtedly caused him upset. I note the Court of Appeal did not find 
compensation should be paid for non-financial loss. But my role here is to determine what, 
in my view, is fair compensation in the particular circumstances of this case. And I 
consider that a payment of £500 is fair to compensate for the upset Mr S has suffered.
interest
The compensation must be paid as set out above within 28 days of the date Carey receives 
notification of Mr Ss acceptance of my final decision. Interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement if the compensation is not paid within 28 days.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint. Options UK Personal 
Pensions LLP should calculate and pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Philip Roberts
Ombudsman