DRN-3586227
The complaint
Mr Cs representative complains on his behalf that QIC Europe Limited (QIC) unfairly 
avoided his home insurance policy (treated it like it never existed) and refused to pay his 
claim.
References to Mr C, or his representative, will include the other.
There are several parties and representatives of QIC involved throughout the complaint but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to QIC.
What happened
In March 2020 Mr C took out a home insurance policy with QIC through an on-line price 
comparison site. Based on the information provided he was offered a quotation from QIC 
which he accepted. His policy was renewed in March 2021.
When water got into his property, Mr C tried to make a claim. QIC declined his claim as hed 
responded to a statement about the condition of his property incorrectly. 
QIC said Mr C was asked to agree, or not, to statements about his property. He agreed to 
the statement that there were no signs of cracking in external walls. And QIC considered this 
to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid his policy and decline 
his claim because of this. It refunded his policy premiums to him. 
Mr C brought his complaint to our service and our investigator thought it should not be 
upheld. They agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation and agreed it was 
careless. And that QIC were entitled to avoid his policy and refund the premium hed paid.
Mr Cs representative doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. They said they had not noticed the cracks in the front of the 
property, so they had not declared them in the application.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
QIC thinks Mr C failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
stated in his application, via a comparison site, that his property does not show signs of 
cracking in external walls.
Ive reviewed images of Mr Cs property. I saw the images taken by QICs surveyor that show 
there are clear visible cracks externally to the property walls. There were also older images 
that show the cracks were visible a number of years ago. QICs surveyors report said the 
external cracking is long standing and the brickwork is failing due to poor support. Historical 
rising damp was also confirmed.
Ive looked at the list of statements that were included after Mr C clicked through to QICs 
website. He was asked to agree, or not, to statements about his property. One of the 
statements said; It does NOT show signs of cracking in external walls and this was marked 
I agree by Mr C.
I do not think Mr C took reasonable care to respond to this statement accurately. The 
statement was very clear about confirming there were no signs of cracking in the external 
walls. The images of Mr Cs house show clearly there were cracks in the walls a long time 
before he completed his application for home insurance. 
I think this means Mr C failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
he agreed to the statement that there were no signs of cracking in external walls.
QIC has provided evidence of its underwriting criteria to show that if Mr C had not made the 
misrepresentation it would never have offered him cover.
This means Im satisfied Mr Cs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
QIC has said it accepts Mr Cs misrepresentation was careless. 
Mr Cs representative said that they had not seen the cracks at the back of the property, and 
they are not experts so would not have known about them. I dont think it was deliberate and 
agree that Mr Cs misrepresentation was careless.
As Im satisfied Mr Cs misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions QIC can take in accordance with CIDRA.
In this case QIC would not have offered cover. Therefore it avoided Mr Cs policy back to the 
start, did not deal with his claim and refunded his premiums back to the start of his first 
policy that started in March 2020.
I agree with the actions taken as they are in accordance with remedies detailed in CIDRA for 
careless misrepresentation. 
Therefore, Im satisfied QIC was entitled to avoid Mr Cs policy in accordance with CIDRA. 
And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, QIC does not have to deal with 
his claim. 
As CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
allowing QIC to rely on it to avoid Mr Cs policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in 
this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman