DRN-3378759
The complaint
Mrs D says Bond Wealth Management Limited (BWM) gave her unsuitable advice to switch 
her personal pensions and to invest in funds which were beyond her appetite for risk.
Mrs D is represented by My Claim Solved Ltd (MCS).
What happened
Mrs D had a discussion with BWM in January 2006 about her retirement arrangements. 
She wanted to investigate the possibility of consolidating her pension plans and moving to 
a new provider.
During the next few months BWM gathered information about her existing pensions 
and about alternative providers in the market. In May 2006 it gathered information 
about her circumstances, objectives and attitude to risk. The following information was 
recorded:
- Mrs D was self-employed with earnings of £25,000 per year. She was single with 
no financial dependents. She had a net monthly income of around £1,700 and 
outgoings of around £1,100. She rented her home. She had no debts.
- Mrs D had premium bonds worth around £17,000. And an endowment policy 
worth about £13,000. She had no other savings.
- Mrs D was 45 and expected to retire at 65. She held two existing personal pensions. 
One with Abbey Life, which had a fund value of £11,544 and a transfer value of 
£9,723. She was making monthly contributions to this of £50. She also had a paid-
up retirement annuity contract (RAC) with Merchant Investors, with a policy value of 
£6,303 and a transfer value of £4,712.
- Mrs D was said to have a medium to high attitude to investment risk and a 
moderate knowledge of investments.
BWM produced a suitability report for Mrs D recommending that she switch her existing 
pensions into a personal pension with Scottish Widows and four specific funds that would 
match the risk appetite assessment it had undertaken. It also said she should increase her 
monthly contributions.
MCS, on behalf of Mrs D, complained to BWM on 23 January 2019 about the advice it had 
provided in 2006. In broad terms it made the following points:
- She wasnt offered the option of a Stakeholder Pension scheme, which would 
likely have been lower cost.
- Mrs Ds attitude to risk was not properly assessed, and not matched correctly 
with the pension investment she was advised to switch to.
- The new pension has not performed in the way Mrs D was led to believe and as 
a result has lost out on the costs of advice and ongoing charges.
- Mrs D wasnt informed about the high charges shed pay to the financial adviser 
and pension provider.
BWM acknowledged Mrs Ds complaint on 8 February 2019 and issued its final response 
letter on 6 March 2019. It said the Scottish Widows arrangement it had recommended met 
her objectives and circumstances at the time. It considered the funds shed been invested 
in were suitable for her risk appetite and the longer term horizon of her retirement plans.
BWM said it had made clear the Scottish Widows plan did not have the lowest annual 
management charges and how much commission it would receive from the provider. It also 
asserted that Mrs D hadnt made a financial loss.
MCS asked BWM to demonstrate that Mrs D hadnt suffered a loss, but it didnt respond. So 
her complaint was brought to this Service.
The Investigator had concerns about certain aspects of BWMs advice. But he didnt 
require it to do anything further because he considered it unlikely Mrs D had suffered a 
financial loss. MCS rejected the Investigators view on the basis that failings had been 
found and a loss assessment should therefore be made.
The Investigator continued to liaise with BWM for it to produce a comparator calculation to 
put Mrs Ds mind at rest. I can see it provided this Service with a calculation; however this 
was using a different index to the one suggested by the Investigator. I understand this is 
still work in progress.
As the Investigator issued his view in October 2021, the time has now come to bring matters 
to a head. Ive been asked to review Mrs Ds complaint. I issued my provisional decision in 
February. Neither party provided any new evidence or arguments, so I see no reason to 
depart from my initial conclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats 
deliberate; ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial 
businesses and their customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive 
concentrated my findings on what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mrs Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by BWM for Mrs D. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G 
in the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care 
and diligence.- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
- Principle 7  which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of 
its clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and 
not misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at 
the relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like BWM. As 
such, I need to have regard to them in deciding Mrs Ds complaint.
When I consider a case where someone has switched their pension funds, I look at 
their circumstances at the time. Why were they interested in switching? Were those 
wants or needs reasonable? And so, should the adviser have recommended the 
switch?
Each case is different, but Id expect the switch to be in Mrs Ds best interests to make 
the advice suitable. And in this regard, Id expect to see a comparison was made 
between her former pensions and the recommended new arrangement.
In 2009 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), then the Financial Services Authority, 
published a checklist for pension switching that I think is still helpful today. It highlighted 
four key issues it thought should be focussed on:
-Charges - has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive 
than their existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason?
-Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good 
reason? This could include the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a 
guaranteed annuity rate or the right to take benefits early.
-Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their 
recorded attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
-Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a 
need for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put 
in place.
Although issued after the advice given to Mrs D, this wasnt new thinking from the FCA  
it was drawing out matters that were consistent with operation of the principles.
I agree with much of the Investigators analysis and findings in this case.
Mrs D isnt saying she shouldnt have been switched out of her existing pension 
arrangements in 2006. Shes arguing BWMs recommendations werent suitable because 
the level of investment risk didnt match her appetite. Shes critical of the performance of 
her Scottish Widows plan. She says the charges she paid under the new arrangement were 
too high and not properly disclosed. She thinks a cheaper alternative shouldve been 
explored.
MCS says the following about Mrs Ds attitude to risk (bolding is my emphasis):
her attitude to risk with her capital and pension arrangements is now and has 
always been very cautious. She was not willing to take any kind of medium or high risk 
with the potential of losing heavily with her Pension Policies and would not have agreed to 
a transfer with this level of risk had this been explained to her at the time.Mrs D had met with her adviser for a review of her pensions and financial situation. It was 
recommended to her by the adviser to consolidate the two pensions she already held into 
this Scottish Widows [plan]. She explained that she was unhappy with her previous plan 
not due to the performance however instead because she had felt she had been 
pressured into it.
While I dont doubt Mrs Ds current sentiment, Im mindful that memories can and do fade. 
It also seems more likely than not that her outlook now, as she approaches retirement, is 
understandably likely to be more cautious than she wouldve been 16 years ago. For these 
reasons I tend to put more weight on evidence contemporaneous with the events 
complained about.
Its not possible to know what was discussed between Mrs D and BWM. Unfortunately the 
records provided dont yield much detail about the assessment of her risk appetite. On a 
scale of 1 (lowest) and 5 (highest), the adviser has ticked the fourth box to indicate a 
medium/high risk outlook. But the associated commentary appears at odds with this 
(bolding is my emphasis):
As pension is a long-term investment, [Mrs D] is happy to have some exposure to 
equities and therefore an element of risk.
There are countervailing arguments. For example, given how long Mrs D had until 
retirement, it wasnt unreasonable for her to have been taking on some risk with the aim 
of building her pension pot  this was consistent with her recorded objective.
However, Im mindful that the advice Mrs D was receiving was in relation to her only 
pension provision. She had little by way of savings and other assets to fall back on. So her 
capacity for loss was low.
On balance, I think its more likely than not BWM overstated Mrs Ds appetite for risk at 
the time of the advice. So she took on more risk in the investments it recommended than 
was appropriate. I also think she now understates her appetite looking back to 2006. I 
consider Mrs D was prepared to take a small level of risk to attain some capital growth.
I agree with the Investigator when he found that given Mrs Ds likely risk appetite, then 
her existing Abbey Life and Merchant Investors plans were already above her tolerance 
due to the nature of the funds they were invested in. So, a change in her arrangements 
was more likely than not appropriate.
There were two main options. Mrs D couldve moved her money within her existing plans to 
more cautious funds. There are likely to have been some charges for this. But shes made 
clear that she was unhappy with her plans at the time, which she says shed been 
pressured into. So, its reasonable to assume shed have changed provider.
BWM has helpfully provided a copy of the research it did to analyse the pension options 
available to Mrs D. This compared the previous 5 years performance of her existing 
funds with the proposed Scottish Widows portfolio. It showed the recommended funds 
had returned, on average, between double and triple what the existing funds had 
achieved.
While past performance isnt a guide to the future, when making a decision about where 
to invest money, its reasonable to take into account the relative performance of 
established funds in this way. And to conclude on the balance of probability that there 
might be a better performance through the recommended funds in comparison to the 
existing ones.Turning to charges. I dont think BWM was as clear as it couldve been in the suitability 
report. For example about the costs of her existing plans. It did indicate the range of costs 
that could be applied under the Scottish Widows proposal. But again it couldve been 
clearer about specific costs.
However, BWM did carry out a cost comparison exercise. This found that to cover the 
additional costs of the recommended pension, it would need to outperform the Abbey Life 
plan by a yearly rate of 0.44% to achieve the same level of benefits. And on the same 
basis, comparing the recommended pension to the Merchant Investors plan, it needed to 
outperform the existing policy by 0.65% per year.
Arguably, based on the historic performance, these additional returns could be exceeded. 
So, it wouldve been reasonable to think it was potentially in Mrs Ds best interests to 
change to a new provider.
Having said this, the charges applied in the Scottish Widows arrangement were likely to 
be higher than a stakeholder pension plan. So, a lower cost alternative couldve been 
recommended. It probably wouldnt have had the managed investments which were 
recommended by BWM, but that doesnt mean good performing investments couldnt 
have been sought from a lower cost provider.
There was a paragraph in the suitability report about standard personal pensions, but it 
didnt explain why the recommendation was better for Mrs Ds circumstances than a 
stakeholder plan. Like the Investigator, Im not persuaded there wouldve been a need for 
external managed funds, unless it was demonstrated that they were clearly better than 
other lower cost plans which theyd considered.
I think there was another important failing in BWMs advice. The suitability report 
identified the fund values for Mrs Ds pensions with Abbey Life and Merchant Investors  
a total of £17,852. It also noted the transfer values would be somewhat less  a total of 
£14,435. This represents a penalty of around 20%. This is significant. But there was no 
explanation provided in the report, nor was the impact of these reductions on future fund 
prospects clearly set out.
I note Mrs D has said she wasnt made aware of the commission BWM would receive 
from the transaction. The suitability report did confirm it would receive £981.89 
commission from Scottish Widows. So, I dont agree that the adviser didnt disclose this.
While the Investigator found there were problems with the advice BWM provided Mrs D, 
he thought that ultimately she hadnt been disadvantaged, so he didnt require it to do 
anything further. This is where I depart a little from his recommendations.
I think there were important failures around risk assessment; explanation of the penalties 
applied to Mrs Ds pension pot and the impact of these for the prospects of her funds; 
and exploration of lower cost alternatives to the Scottish Widows proposals.
I note the Investigator did ask BWM to provide Mrs D with some reassurance by providing 
a comparison of how her Scottish Widows pension has performed against a notional 
basket of investments he thought wouldve been suitable for her risk appetite. And this is 
what MCS had sought early in the dispute.
I can see BWM has provided this Service with a calculation; however this was using a 
different index to the one suggested by the Investigator. I understand this is still work in progress. Its now time to move this complaint on and to formalise what is required of 
BWM.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mrs Ds case. So, she needs to be returned to the position she wouldve 
been in now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the 
failures which I hold Bond Wealth Management Limited responsible for.
If BWM had done everything it shouldve, I think Mrs D wouldve switched her pension 
funds, but to an arrangement with lower costs and better reflecting her risk appetite and 
capacity. Its not possible to say precisely what she would have done, but Im satisfied 
that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mrs D's circumstances and 
objectives when she invested.
I dont know whether Mrs D has ended up in a better position by being invested in higher 
risk funds with higher costs or not. But I think its time BWM undertook a calculation to 
demonstrate whether what it asserted back in 2019 in its final response to her  that 
shed not incurred a financial loss because of its advice  is correct.
Bond Wealth Management Limited must:
Compare the performance of Mrs D's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. If the 
fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is payable.
BWM should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, BWM should pay into Mrs D's pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If BWM is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs D's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of 
tax to HMRC, so Mrs D wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation 
is paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs D's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mrs D is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mrs D wouldve been able 
to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If BWM deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mrs D how much has been taken off. BWM should give Mrs D a 
tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mrs D asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Scottish Still exists For half the Date of Date of my 8% simple per
Widows and liquid investment: investment final year from final
Pension FTSE UK decision decision to
Private settlement (if
Investors not settled
Income Total within 28 days
Return Index; of the
for the other business
half: average receiving the
rate from fixed complainant's
rate bonds acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment wouldve been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, BWM 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
Any additional sum that Mrs D paid into the investment should be added to the fair 
value calculation at the point it was actually paid in. The same principle applies to 
any withdrawals.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
- Mrs D wanted capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
- The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone 
who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
- The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a 
range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take risk to get a 
higher return.
- I consider that Mrs D's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, 
the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mrs D into that position. It does 
not mean that Mrs D would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate 
bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this 
a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs D could 
have obtained from investments suited to her objective and risk attitude.My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mrs Ds complaint. As such, Ill require 
Bond Wealth Management Limited to put things right in the way Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman