DRN-2197523
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint is about problems and delays with an application for a lifetime 
mortgage with Nationwide Building Society.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr and Mrs R applied for a lifetime mortgage with Nationwide. They have 
said they were told at this point the process to release funds would take between eight and 
twelve weeks; twelve weeks being the absolute maximum. They have also said they were 
told theyd receive £1,000 on completion, which they could use towards the cost of legal 
advice. 
At the end of December 2019 the valuation was done on their property and this was received 
by Nationwide on 9 January 2019. The following day a mortgage offer was produced, but 
due to an error on Nationwides part, it wasnt sent. 
On 24 January 2020 the mortgage offer of 10 January 2020 was issued to Mr and Mrs R. 
Contained in the document were some special conditions. These set out that the mortgage 
offer was subject to the title check being satisfactory and not containing any onerous 
restrictions. It also set out that Mr and Mrs Rs solicitors were to ensure that where there are 
Service/Estate Charges that there is no provision for the rights granted under Section 121 or 
the Law of Property Act 1925. The offer was valid until 21 February 2020, although this was 
later extended by 30 days. 
Mr and Mrs R told us that when they received the mortgage offer, they paid a deposit on a 
vehicle. They needed the money from the mortgage advance to complete the purchase. 
Part of the mortgage process was that Mr and Mrs R had to meet with independent solicitors 
to ensure they understood the mortgage they were proposing. This meeting happened on 
30 January 2020 and the documentation was sent to Nationwide on 4 February 2020. 
Nationwide was concerned about the potential implications of the service charge special 
condition in the lease (for maintenance of communal grounds) attached to the property title. 
Although correspondence was exchanged about this issue and Nationwides legal 
department was chased, it didnt decide what needed to be done about the issue until 
16 March 2020. 
By this point Mr and Mrs R had decided to withdraw from the purchase they had committed 
to and didnt want to proceed with the mortgage. They complained to Nationwide about the 
delays it had caused and the losses they had suffered.
Nationwide responded to Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. It explained there had been a backlog of 
applications when they applied for their mortgage and it couldnt provide processing times for 
applications. However, it confirmed the process can take between 10 and 12 weeks. As 
such, it couldnt be held responsible for the loss of the deposit for the vehicle. It 
acknowledged that there had been delays and offered £200 compensation for this.
When referring their complaint to this service Mr and Mrs R said the whole application 
process put them under a great deal of stress, which is something that should and could 
have been avoided if Nationwide had told them about possible delays due to a backlog of 
applications. Financially they believe they are out of pocket due to the loss of their deposit, 
but also due to travel expenses to attend a Nationwide branch, in compiling the necessary 
paperwork and legal fees. They want the legal fees refunded.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend it be upheld. 
She concluded the processing of their mortgage application had taken longer than would 
normally have been expected. However, she considered the £200 already offered was 
enough to compensate for this. While she understood the time the application had been 
taking would have been frustrating, that wasnt enough for her to ask Nationwide to 
reimburse the cost of the legal fees  they would always have been payable and it was Mr 
and Mrs Rs decision to pull out of the mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They pointed out that the only 
time the legal issue with the lease was mentioned to either them or their solicitors was by the 
mortgage adviser quite late in the process. They said that if Nationwide didnt like such 
arrangements, which are quite common, perhaps Nationwide should add it to its list of 
undesirable factors for properties. 
It was highlighted by Mr and Mrs R that they only incurred legal fees because Nationwide 
required them to seek legal advice from a firm of specialist solicitors as part of the 
application process. So they hadnt had the option but to incur those costs if they wanted the 
mortgage. As such, they didnt feel they were back in the position they would have been in, 
but for the errors on Nationwides part. 
Mr and Mrs R also pointed out that whilst they pulled out of the mortgage, they felt someone 
needed to bring an end to the whole thing, as they felt they had reached stalemate. Theyd 
had to pull out of their proposed vehicle purchase, with the loss of their deposit, so there was 
no need for the money from the mortgage. They explained they felt quite stressed by the 
time they pulled out of the mortgage. They asked if Nationwide had withdrawn the offer 
because of the legal issue about the lease, would this service have asked it to refund the 
cost of the legal fees? They asked that the difference between the legal fees and the £200 
Nationwide had offered be paid to them, so that they werent any worse off than they were 
before starting the mortgage process. Mr and Mrs R asked that the complaint be referred to 
an ombudsman for consideration. 
Our investigator made further enquiries about the lease issues Nationwide had been 
concerned about. She confirmed that what is required by a lender in situations like this is 
entirely dependent on the individual conditions associated with the lease and title of each 
property. However, there was something in the mortgage offer they were sent, and they 
accepted, that highlighted more information needed to be provided to Nationwide in this 
regard. She didnt change her opinion about the outcome of the complaint and so it was 
referred for an ombudsman to consider. 
Mr and Mrs R remained dissatisfied with the investigators findings. They said they were 
trying to make the point to the investigator that because of the delays on Nationwides part, 
along with some negative words from a Nationwide employee, they felt it was highly likely 
that Nationwide was going to reject their application. Had anyone from Nationwide taken the 
time to explain the situation to them, they may have decided to continue to wait, but at the 
time they were under pressure from the vehicle dealership to complete the transaction. As 
they thought they might not be able to complete the purchase, they felt they had no choice 
but to withdraw from it and then they didnt need the mortgage monies. They commented 
that the money from the mortgage wouldnt have been enough to buy a new vehicle after the loss of their deposit. They made the decision to withdraw their mortgage application because 
they felt it was all hopeless. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her conclusions and so the complaint has been 
passed to me for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs R have commented that the type of arrangement attached to their property is 
common and feel that if Nationwide is not willing to offer mortgages on such properties, it 
should made that clear up front. I would agree that it is not unusual for properties in newer 
developments to include a lease for the communal grounds and for there to be service 
charges associated with that lease. However, each lease with have its own terms and 
conditions associated with it. As such, its not unreasonable for a lender to look into any 
potential risks that lease might present to its security. I dont think Nationwide needed to add 
this type of property to its list of undesirable features.
I also dont think Nationwide was unreasonable to look into the potential risks the lease 
might present to it. However, this process clearly took longer than would normally be 
expected because Nationwide was busier than usual. Businesses will have periods where 
their normal service standards are not met; if this is because it was unexpectedly busier than 
usual, I cant say it did something wrong.
The legal fees Mr and Mrs R have asked to be refunded were always going to be incurred as 
part of their mortgage application. It is not unusual for a lender to require a borrower to seek 
independent legal advice before proceeding with a lifetime mortgage to ensure they 
understand the mortgage and its consequences on their estate. Mr and Mrs R would have 
been aware at that point that the mortgage offer was conditional on Nationwide being 
satisfied the lease didnt pose any risk to it. 
At the point Mr and Mrs R withdrew from the application, Nationwide was still willing to move 
forward with the mortgage application. So I cant hold Nationwide responsible for the cost of 
the legal advice Mr and Mrs R paid, as it was not Nationwides actions that meant the costs 
were, effectively, wasted. 
Whilst Mr and Mrs R believed Nationwide was going to decline their application and saw no 
reason to continue with it because theyd had to withdraw from their purchase, I can 
understand why they didnt proceed with the application. However, I cant hold Nationwide 
responsible for that decision. Mr and Mrs R entered into a commitment to buy a vehicle 
when they received a conditional mortgage offer and before receipt of the mortgage funds 
was guaranteed. I also havent seen that Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs R any indication it 
was going to turn down the mortgage application. 
I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs R, but I am not persuaded I can hold Nationwide 
responsible for any financial losses they suffered. However, as I have said above, 
Nationwide has accepted the service it provided Mr and Mrs R was not acceptable and I 
agree that is the case and they should receive some compensation. I consider the £200 
Nationwide has already offered is a suitable sum in the circumstances.
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs R to accept or reject my decision 
before 7 April 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman