DRN-4005064
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Santander UK PLC didnt tell them that they had only 14 days to 
accept a mortgage product offer in June 2022. They missed out on the fixed interest rate 
then available and were forced to accept a higher rate in September when the term of his 
existing mortgage product expired.
What happened
Mr T says that he contacted Santander about a new mortgage product in June 2022 but 
wasnt told that he could have considered the offer for 14 days before accepting it. As a 
result, when he went back to Santander in July the rates had changed and he would have to 
pay much more on his mortgage. 
Santander said that it had no record of any call in June 2022 with Mr T, and, in any case, it 
wasnt its procedure to hold the offer from an enquiry for 14 days unless Mr and Mrs T 
wanted to proceed with the offer. But it accepted that there were delays in responding to the 
complaint and offered compensation of £75. Our investigator didnt recommend that this 
complaint should be upheld as there wasnt sufficient evidence to say that Santander had 
misled Mr T in June 2022 nor could she be sure as to what steps Mr T would have taken at 
the time. Mr T disagreed and questioned why his phone call hadnt been recorded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T had a phone conversation with a Santander mortgage adviser in June 2022.  Mr and 
Mrs Ts existing mortgage product was coming to an end, and he wanted to discuss the 
interest rate on future mortgage products. Santander says that it has done a search and is 
unable to locate this phone call so I cant listen to it. Mr T wants me to imply from this that I 
should automatically rule against Santander. But its not unusual that recordings of phone 
calls arent kept, and we have to proceed in the absence of that evidence. We are not a 
regulator that sets standards as to what calls should be recorded or not. We are a dispute 
resolution service, and our role is to consider the evidence that is available. 
Mr T says that in June 2022 he had a conversation with an adviser about interest rates and 
wasnt told that he could have an offer and would have 14 days to think about it. That may 
be true. But to get that offer and 14-day reflection period, Mr T would have needed to commit 
himself to an interest rate product on the day he phoned and go through an application 
process following which an offer might issue.  I can listen to a phone call between Mr T and 
a Santander adviser in July. In that call, whilst Mr T may regret his failure to take up the 
interest rates that were available in June, he does not ever say that there was a rate in June 
that he had wanted and was committed to. Indeed, hes unsure what the interest rate he was 
quoted was. Mr T says the interest rate quoted was 2.14%, the adviser says that the rate 
available then was 2.69% and Mr T doesnt disagree. My conclusion from this is that Mr T 
didnt choose an interest rate product that he wanted in his conversation with the adviser in 
June. 
So, my view is that in June 2022, Mr T rang to enquire about interest rates, didnt choose 
any rate, and so, didnt opt to go through an application process and no offer issued. In 
those circumstances, it wouldnt have been necessary to advise Mr T that the offer would 
only last for 14 days. So, I dont accept that Santander did anything wrong. It has offered to 
pay a reasonable fee for a delay in responding to this complaint. But for the above reasons I 
cant fairly uphold this complaint.   
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman