DRN-3440957
The complaint
Mr D complains that Remitly U.K., Ltd wont refund him the money he lost when he was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
Mr D has told us that an old work friend of his told him about an investment opportunity. He 
says he was told that if he invested £3,000, it would go into an offshore account in Ghana 
and he would triple his money in a number of months. Mr D says he trusted his friend that it 
was all legitimate, and so made a number of payments  totalling $3,253.42  from his 
Remitly account to the payment details he was given. Unfortunately, it now appears the 
investment was a scam.
The scam was uncovered a few months later, and Mr D asked Remitly to refund the money 
he had lost. But Remitly said it had contacted Mr D twice during the time he was attempted 
the payments, and he had told it the payments were to his cousin for family support. It also 
said it had ultimately suspended his account due to the concerns it had about the payments. 
And so it didnt think it could have done any more and didnt agree to refund the money. 
Mr D wasnt satisfied with Remitlys response, so referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at Mr Ds complaint. They felt Remitly had taken appropriate 
steps to try to keep Mr Ds account safe and so it wouldnt be fair to ask it to refund the 
money he lost. Mr D disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it would be fair to require Remitly to refund the money Mr D 
lost. Ill explain why below.
Its not in dispute that Mr D authorised the payments. He accepts he made them himself out 
of his Remitly account. So while I recognise that he didnt intend for the money to go to 
scammers, the starting position in law is that Remitly was obliged to follow his instructions 
and process the payments. So Mr D isnt automatically entitled to a refund.
However, I think good industry practice required that Remitly be on the lookout for account 
activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of financial harm. And this includes 
intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent customers falling 
victim to scams. So Ive also thought about whether Remitly did enough to try to keep Mr Ds 
account safe.
I cant see that Remitly intervened in any of the payments that were made out of Mr Ds 
account. But he only opened his account shortly before these payments were made, so 
there was no previous activity for Remitly to compare these payments to when deciding if 
they were unusual or out of character. The payments werent for large enough amounts to 
cause significant concern. And international payments are one of the main reasons Remitlys 
customers use its services, so I dont think the payments going to an international account 
would have caused significant concern either. And so I dont think Remitly acted 
unreasonably in letting the payments Mr D made go through.
And, in any event, Remitly did call Mr D before two payments that were ultimately not 
completed  one before and one after the payments that were made. Remitlys notes from 
these phone calls show that it asked Mr D what the payments were for and both times he 
said they were for a relative of his for family support, and that he would be sending money to 
them regularly. And so even if Remitly had intervened in any of the payments that were 
made, I think its likely Mr D would have told it this same information. And, based on that 
information, I dont think it would have been unreasonable for Remitly to allow the payments 
to go through.
I sympathise with the position Mr D has found himself in and I recognise that my decision will 
come as a disappointment to him. But, overall, I dont think Remitly acted unreasonably in 
letting the payments he made go through, and so I dont think it would be fair to ask Remitly 
to refund the money he lost.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman