DRN-3022062
The complaint
Mrs H complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has turned down a claim she made on her 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs H has travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged account with her building society.
On 6 March 2020, Mrs H departed on a driving holiday across Europe. She didnt have a 
fixed return date, although she intended to return to the UK by 14 April 2020. Mrs H travelled 
to a European island and planned to stay for a few days. 
However, on 16 March 2020, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, the island Mrs H was 
staying on was placed into lockdown. This meant that Mrs H was unable to leave the island 
as shed planned or travel on. The following day, the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) 
advised against all but essential travel abroad and on 23 March 2020, the FCO advised all 
UK nationals abroad to return to the UK.
Ultimately, Mrs H was able to return to the UK by ferry on 2 June 2020  around seven 
weeks later than shed planned. She made a claim on her policy for the additional 
accommodation costs she incurred and subsistence costs for the period of delay.
UKI turned down the claim. It said the claim wasnt covered by the policy terms. It stated it 
couldve potentially considered the claim under the curtailment section  but that as Mrs H 
hadnt pre-booked a return ticket, there was no cover. And it said the delay section didnt 
apply either. Thats because as no return had been booked, there had been no delay in the 
departure of any transport.
Mrs H was unhappy with UKIs response and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. She considered the cover 
provided by the policy terms. She didnt think the curtailment section applied, as Mrs H 
hadnt cut short her holiday. And she didnt think Mrs Hs costs were covered by any other 
section of the policy.
Mrs H disagreed and Ive summarised her response to our investigator. She didnt think 
either the lack of a ticket or the fact her claim didnt fall within the scope of curtailment cover 
was a valid reason to turn down her claim. She stated that the policy covered natural 
disasters and so she considered that a claim for the costs resulting from such a disaster 
should be covered. She paid for travel insurance so that the risk of a claim was transferred 
to UKI.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs H, I think it was fair for UKI to turn down 
her claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mrs Hs policy and the circumstances of her claim to decide whether UKI treated 
her fairly.
I understand that the situation in which Mrs H found herself was completely unprecedented 
and outside of her control. I also understand, that when the trip was arranged, the 
circumstances which unfolded surrounding Covid-19 couldnt have been foreseen by either 
policyholders or by insurers. 
However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide 
what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. This means 
UKIs obligations under its contract with Mrs H are limited by the terms, conditions and 
exclusions which are set out in the policy. 
Ive looked carefully at the terms and conditions of Mrs Hs policy, as these form the basis of 
her contract with UKI. UKI assessed the claim under the Cutting Short your Trip section of 
the policy. This says:
This section provides cover if you need to cut short your trip. Please contact our 
emergency assistance service as soon as reasonably possible if you are outside your home 
area and you need to cut short your trip.
You are covered for
We will pay up to £5,000 for each insured person for their portion of the trip costs if you 
have to cut your trip short, including:
 Unused commercially operated accommodation and travel costs.
 Unused car hire.
 Unused excursions and activities.
 Unused kennel, cattery or professional pet sitter costs.
 Unused car parking costs.
 If you have to return home early and you cant use your return tickets we will pay 
reasonable costs for additional accommodation and travel.
This section sets out that UKI will pay a curtailment claim because of one of a list of specific, 
insured events. I note that this list includes the FCO advising against travel to an area post 
departure. It also covers natural disaster if a policyholder is forced to move from their pre-
booked and pre-paid accommodation as the result of such a natural disaster badly affecting 
the surrounding area. And I agree that UKIs definition of natural disaster does include 
medical epidemic or pandemic.
But in this case, its clear that Mrs H didnt cut short her trip. In fact, her trip was extended as 
a result of the pandemic. Mrs H was undertaking a driving holiday and it doesnt seem she 
had any pre-booked accommodation or travel arrangements elsewhere which she couldnt 
use as a result of being locked-down on the island by the pandemic. (I appreciate Mrs H did 
book a ferry on 19 May 2020 which was later cancelled, but this wasnt booked as a part of 
her original itinerary). So I dont think I can fairly or reasonably find that shes lost out on 
unused, pre-paid costs. And theres simply no cover under this section for the costs incurred 
in the extension of a holiday due to a pandemic. This means then that I dont think it was 
unreasonable for UKI to ultimately conclude that Mrs Hs claim wasnt covered by the curtailment section of the policy. Id add that while pandemics are an insured event under the 
cutting short your trip section of the policy, this doesnt mean that UKI will pay any or all 
claims that are down to a pandemic. The contract set out the situations in which it will settle 
curtailment claims.
UKI referred to a specific exclusion which applies to the curtailment section of the policy. 
This says that UKI wont pay for any claim for your unused return travel tickets if we have 
paid to get you home. If you have not bought a return ticket we will not cover any
additional travel costs to get you home. 
In this case, Mrs H wasnt claiming for the costs of her ultimate transport home, as she 
recognised she hadnt booked a return ticket. Im not entirely clear whether UKI wouldve 
been aware of this at the outset. But given the costs Mrs H did claim for, I dont find this 
exclusion wouldve applied to her claim. As I havent found the curtailment section of the 
policy covers the circumstances of the claim though, I dont think this makes any material 
difference to the outcome of Mrs Hs complaint.
Ive looked carefully at the other sections of Mrs Hs policy. But I dont think theres any 
section which provides cover for the costs shes claimed for or the situation she found 
herself in. Id also add that most, if not all, travel insurance policies wont pay for a 
policyholders food.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mrs Hs position, Ive decided it was fair and reasonable for 
UKI to turn down her claim.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman