DRN-3236909
The complaint
Mr F complains about a loan from Bamboo Limited, trading as Bamboo Loans, (Bamboo), 
which he says was unaffordable. The complaint has been brought to this service on Mr Fs 
behalf by a claims management company. But for ease, I shall refer below to all actions 
being taken by Mr F.
What happened
Bamboo provided Mr F with a loan of £3,000 for home improvements on 16 May 2018. The 
interest rate was 34.05%, (39.9% APR). The loan was to be repaid over 36 months with  
monthly repayments of £134.10. If Mr F made each payment when it was due, hed pay 
£4,827.60 in total. The loan was repaid in late January 2019. Bamboo provided Mr F with a 
second loan in June 2019. As Mr F exercised his right to withdraw from this loan within the 
14 day period set out in his loan agreement, I dont intend to investigate this second loan as 
Mr F doesnt appear to have suffered any loss arising from this loan. 
Mr F said that Bamboo failed to carry out an effective affordability assessment. He said that 
this was quite clearly demonstrated as it was clear that had any effective assessment been 
carried out, the lender wouldnt have provided a loan to him.
In its final response letter, Bamboo said it had carried out sufficient and proportionate credit 
and affordability checks. After carrying out income checks and deducting all expenses 
(accommodation, living expenses and debt servicing), the monthly repayments were 
sustainably affordable for Mr F. It had looked at Mr Fs credit report and said there were two 
current accounts, one of which was shown as £755 overdrawn but within the overdraft limit 
of £800 and there were no late payment markers against them. There were also no active 
payday loans. The last payday loan had been settled 28 months previously. Mr F had one 
credit card account which was £37 over the credit limit, but there were no late payment 
markers recorded against the account in the 24 months before the loan was made. Bamboo 
also said that Mr Fs existing credit showed a disciplined payment record and he had good 
disposable income. 
Our investigators view
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. She said, in 
summary, that she was satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely 
than not have demonstrated that Mr F was unlikely to have been able to make the 
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. 
Bamboo disagreed and responded to say, in summary, that:
- The credit report obtained at the time of application showed no missed payments, 
defaults or County Court Judgements and had demonstrated sustainability and 
affordability. It did not feel it was proportionate to request bank statements.
- Mr F had not obtained any short term high cost loans since 2016 and had only taken out 
two lines of credit in the six months prior to his loan application. One of these appeared 
to have been settled within the right to withdraw period. This did not indicate a reliance 
on credit to supplement a gap in finances. 
- Mr Fs use of his overdraft facility was not concerning, particularly given that the account 
had been open since 2003 and his limit of £800 was not excessive when considering his 
net annual income of £32,400.
- Mr F made his payments in full and on time, settling the loan early.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr F
and to Bamboo on 16 December 2021. I summarise my findings:
I said that where the information was conflicting or incomplete, I needed to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities, which was what I did here.
I noted that when Bamboo lent to Mr F, the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). Its rules and guidance obliged Bamboo to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, 
this meant that Bamboo needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess 
whether or not a borrower could afford to meet his loan repayments in a sustainable manner 
over the lifetime of the agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet those 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detaiI was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so Bamboo had to think about whether Mr F 
could sustainably repay his loan. In practice this meant that the lender had to ensure that 
making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr F undue difficulty or adverse 
consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for Bamboo to simply think about the 
likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on  
Mr F. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks 
- the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);- the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit was 
likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make payments for an extended 
period);
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Fs case, Id considered the 
following questions:
 - Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Fs loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If 
not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
 - Did Bamboo make a fair lending decision? 
Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Fs loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
Bamboo gathered some information from Mr F about his income and accommodation 
expenses before it agreed the loan. It had also carried out a credit check. 
Mr F told Bamboo he lived with his partner and had two dependents. His net monthly income 
was £2,700. 
Bamboo said it had verified that Mr F had sufficient income to be able to afford the loan by 
using an income verification tool from a credit reference agency which drew on bank account 
data. But Id queried whether the income verification tool was able to accurately verify Mr Fs 
monthly income. Id noted from a list of Mr Fs bank transactions that the three monthly 
salary amounts hed received before hed applied for the loan ranged from £2,379.03 to 
£3,405.29. So, I thought that a more accurate verification would have arisen from checking 
payslips or bank statements, but not from a credit reference agency tool.
Mr F had also told Bamboo that hed contributed to a monthly mortgage payment of £442. 
Bamboo didnt ask Mr F for any information about his living costs. It had assessed these 
according to statistical information which Id said more about later in the decision. 
The lender had also assessed Mr Fs credit commitments from its credit checks. 
Id reviewed Bamboos credit checks. I noted that these showed that Mr F had ten active 
credit accounts and that two of these had been opened in the six months prior to the loan 
application. Mr F had a total loan balance outstanding of around £30,000 and his revolving 
credit balance was £37 more than his revolving credit limit. I thought the relatively high loan 
balance and the revolving credit balance in excess of the revolving credit limit might have 
suggested that Mr Fs finances were under pressure.
I could see that Mr F had one credit card with a credit limit of £2,550. He had exceeded that 
limit in March 2018, but there was no information after that date. I noted that the credit card 
provider had reduced Mr Fs credit limit by around £1,000 in October 2017. I could see that 
his credit balance had been around the previous credit limit for two months. But I didnt know 
if the credit limit was reduced as a result of Mr Fs request or if this had been actioned by the 
credit card provider.
I could also see that Mr Fs current account was near its overdraft limit of £800 with an 
overdraft balance of £755. I could see that the overdraft limit had increased by £250 in       
April 2018. I could also see that whilst Mr F had no overdraft in February 2018, his overdraft 
had increased to £303 in March 2018 and more than doubled in April 2018 to £755. Again, I 
thought this might have been a sign of financial pressure.Id also noted that Mr F had taken out two loans around four months before his loan 
application. Hed repaid one of these loans within the withdrawal period, but still had the 
other loan for £2,000 outstanding. Id also noted that Mr Fs application to Bamboo was for a 
loan amount which was 50% higher than his January 2018 loan. 
I could also see that whilst the credit checks showed no payday loans since 2015, they did 
show that Mr F had taken out other longer term loans since then and his loan balance was 
over £30,000. I thought all this suggested a possible reliance on and a relatively recent need 
for longer term credit.     
Bamboo was also likely to be aware that its credit checks might not have revealed the full 
extent of Mr Fs credit commitments at the time of his loan application. The information 
wasnt necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit 
file, or some data might be missing or anonymised. Also, not all lenders reported to the 
same credit reference agencies. 
Altogether I thought Bamboos credit checks ought to have caused the lender some 
concerns as they suggested that Mr Fs recent finances appeared to be under pressure. This 
was shown by Mr Fs relatively recent need for credit shown by the new loan for £2,000 just 
four months prior to his application to Bamboo, the fact that his credit card balance was over 
its credit limit and his current account overdraft had been increasing in the months prior to 
his loan application so that it was near its overdraft limit at the time of the lenders checks.
Id also thought Bamboo might have been concerned as to why someone with such a large 
proportion of available income (according to its own calculations) would need to borrow 
expensive credit. Bamboo calculated that Mr Fs disposable income each month was around 
£903 which I didnt consider to be consistent with the amount of debt he had, his overlimit 
credit card account, his increasing overdraft, and the need to borrow a high cost loan.
I also didnt think it was reasonable for Bamboo to rely on statistical information about Mr Fs 
living costs without verifying it. Bamboo used ONS data, which was based on the finances 
and expenditure of the average consumer, to estimate Mr Fs living expenses. But I didnt 
think it was reasonable for Bamboo to think that Mr Fs circumstances fell within this average 
portfolio. So, I didnt think that the lender had carried out proportionate checks. Bamboos 
affordability assessment wasnt tailored to Mr F and I thought it should have been in his 
circumstances.
In addition, Mr F was entering into a significant commitment with Bamboo. And given the 
amount being lent, the repayment amounts and the length of the loan term, I thought 
Bamboo should reasonably have taken steps to build a clearer picture about Mr Fs finances 
before providing him with an expensive loan in order to satisfy itself that Mr F could 
sustainably repay the loan over a 36 months period. He was, after all, committing to repay 
£4,827.60 over that period. 
Bamboo was required to establish whether Mr F could make his loan repayments without 
experiencing adverse consequences and not just to ascertain whether the loan repayments 
were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. It could have done this 
by, for example, requesting bank statements from Mr F, asking for copies of payslips, bills 
and/or receipts for his expenses and by asking him for more information about his existing 
credit commitments. Bamboo didnt say that it took steps to do this. So overall, I didnt think 
the checks Bamboo carried out on this occasion were reasonable and proportionate. 
But that in itself doesn't mean that Mr Fs complaint should succeed. I also needed to be 
persuaded that what I considered to be proportionate checks would have likely shown Bamboo that Mr F couldn't sustainably afford the loan. So, Id looked at Mr Fs bank 
statements and credit report to see what better checks would have shown Bamboo.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? And did Bamboo make a fair 
lending decision? 
Mr F had provided his credit report and Id seen a list of his current account transactions 
from around the time hed applied for the loan. The investigator hadnt seen this list at the 
time of her view. I wasnt suggesting that these were the checks that Bamboo should have 
done. But I thought looking at these gave me the best picture of what the lender was likely to 
have seen had it made better checks. Had it sought some verification of Mr Fs spending 
before lending, I thought Bamboo wouldve been in a better position to understand Mr Fs 
financial situation before it decided to lend to him. 
I could see from Mr Fs credit report that he had borrowed another high cost loan around a 
month before his loan application to Bamboo. The loan was for £2,000 and hed taken it out 
just three months after his previous loan for £2,000. The credit report also showed that whilst   
Mr F was able to repay £150 to his overlimit credit card balance in March 2018, his monthly 
repayment had reduced to £72 the following month. But the credit card balance still 
exceeded the credit limit. I thought the loan for £2,000 in the month before the application to 
Bamboo, the overlimit credit card balance and the decreasing credit card repayment were 
further evidence of Mr Fs recent difficulties managing his finances. 
Id reviewed the list of banking transactions for March 2018 and April 2018. The transactions 
didnt show all the payees for Mr Fs spending. But overall, I could see that Mr Fs financial 
circumstances appeared to be strained. His account was almost continually in overdraft and 
the account only saw a credit balance for around four days in each month. In March 2018, 
Mr Fs overdraft balance was around the overdraft limit within twelve days of Mr F receiving 
his salary. In April 2018, his overdraft balance was at the overdraft limit within ten days of 
receiving his monthly salary and notwithstanding that hed received loan proceeds of £1,900 
in that period. I could see that Mr F received small payments from his partner and others 
which assisted with keeping his account below the overdraft limit.
On balance, I thought that if Bamboo had made additional checks, it was likely to have seen 
that there was a significant risk that Mr F wouldnt have been able to sustainably repay the 
loan. It seemed to me there was a risk here that Mr F would need to borrow to meet his 
repayments on this loan, as he had recently been doing for his existing costs. I thought 
Bamboo would likely have realised that Mr F was having difficulty managing his finances. 
And I didnt think further checks would have provided any assurance that he could repay the 
loan sustainably. So, I didnt think that Bamboo had treated Mr F fairly when it agreed to lend 
to him as it was likely that agreeing more credit for him would simply add to his debt levels.
Id noted that Bamboo had said that Mr F had a good disposable income. But it seemed to 
me that Bamboo was focussing on its calculation of whether the loan was affordable for Mr F 
on a pounds and pence basis. But the lender was required to establish whether Mr F could 
sustainably make his loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The loan payments being affordable on 
this basis might be an indication that a consumer could sustainably make the repayments. 
But it didnt automatically follow that this was the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to 
borrow further in order to make their payments, it followed that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wouldnt be able to sustainably make 
their repayments if it was on notice that they were unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further. Id noted that Bamboo said that Mr F had made his payments in full and on time. But I didnt 
think that necessarily meant that the loan repayments were repaid without Mr F having to 
borrow further to meet the repayments and without being caused undue difficulty or adverse 
consequences. Id noted from the list of Mr Fs bank transactions that Mr F needed to borrow 
high cost credit again just three weeks after hed received Bamboos loan when he received 
a loan for £4,000.
So, subject to any further representations by Mr F or Bamboo, I said that I intended to 
uphold Mr Fs complaint and that Bamboo should put things right as shown below.
Putting things right  what Bamboo needs to do
I understand that the loan has been repaid. So, Bamboo should
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr F;
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*; and
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Fs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to take off tax from this interest. Bamboo 
must give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
Mr F responded to my provisional decision to say that he was happy with it.
Bamboo responded to my provisional decision to say that it had no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry
practice at the time.
Given that Mr F and Bamboo have given me nothing further to consider, I see no
reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I
uphold this complaint and require Bamboo to take the steps set out above under the heading
Putting things right - what Bamboo needs to do.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order Bamboo Limited, trading as Bamboo Loans, to put things right as Ive set out above 
under the heading Putting things right  what Bamboo needs to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman