DRN-4034949
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly declined her claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
The Section 75 claim, which is the subject of this complaint, is Mrs Bs, because it relates to 
a credit card in her sole name. But as the holiday product was in Mr and Mrs Bs name, Ill 
refer to Mr and Mrs B throughout much of this decision.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B purchased membership of a holiday club from a third party (the Supplier) in 
2015. The purchase price was paid in part using Mrs Bs credit card. They subsequently paid 
for upgrades using their debit card from a joint account.
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with what happened at the time the holiday products were sold 
to them. In July 2018, Mrs B - using a professional representative (PR) - made a claim for 
misrepresentation under the CCA. Mr and Mrs B said they were told the membership was for 
three years, but it was only for one year.
Santander investigated Mr and Mrs Bs claim under section 75 of the CCA but said that 
insufficient evidence had been provided to show that a misrepresentation had occurred.
Unhappy with Santanders response, Mr and Mrs B complained. As the parties were unable 
to resolve the matter, the complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our adjudicator issued a view in December 2020. They concluded that:
There wasnt evidence to show a misrepresentation had occurred under Section 75 
of the CCA.
There wasnt evidence to show an unfair debtor-creditor relationship existed in 
relation to Section 140A of the CCA.
Therefore, our adjudicator didnt think that Santander acted unfairly when it decided not to 
uphold Mrs B claim under the CCA.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with our adjudicators view.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. My conclusions were as follows.
Was the right arrangement in place?
Under Section 75 of the CCA, a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a 
precondition to claims under that provision.
Based on whats been said and/or provided to date, it isnt entirely clear whether Section 75 
applies here. But even if it doesnt, I dont think it really matters as far as the overall outcome 
of this complaint is concerned because, for reasons I get on to below, I dont think Santander 
dealt with the claim unfairly or unreasonably.
Section 75: Misrepresentation
For a claim to be upheld under Section 75 and the CCA, there has to have been an 
actionable breach of contract or misrepresentation. Mr and Mrs B raised concerns about the 
duration of the agreement. While I note the comments Mr and Mrs B have made, the 
paperwork Mr and Mrs B completed at the time sets out that the product was subject to 
availability and they had 12-months in which to use the product. While I appreciate that 
Mr and Mrs B may have received information from other sources, aside from the 
documentation, such as the Suppliers representative during the sales meeting and its 
marketing literature, I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that they were told that 
their membership term was three years when the purchase agreement clearly said it was 12 
months.
Taking this into account, I dont think Santander acted unfairly when it decided to decline 
Mrs Bs claim under Section 75 of the CCA.
Section 140A: Unfair Relationship
While Section 140A may be a relevant consideration, and I appreciate that our adjudicator 
went on to consider whether a court might conclude that the relationship between Mrs B and 
Santander was unfair, I cant see that Mrs B (through her representative) has ever asked 
Santander to consider this point or provided evidence or arguments to support it, or that 
Santander has had a chance to investigate it. So, in the circumstances, I think it would be 
better dealt with as a separate complaint  should Mrs B wish to make one to Santander.
No further information was provided in response to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required to take into account the relevant law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; and codes of practice and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened given 
the available evidence and wider circumstances.
Mrs Bs claim is based on her payment for part of the purchase price using her Santander 
credit card. I note she and Mr B have also raised a complaint about the additional payments 
using the debit card linked to their joint account. However, as debit card payments wouldnt 
be covered by the CCA, and this complaint relates to the investigation regarding the alleged 
misrepresentation under section 75 of the CCA, this decision relates only to the transaction 
made on Mrs Bs credit card.
As I set out in my provisional decision and as is detailed above, I do not find I have seen 
enough evidence to persuade me that Mr and Mrs B were told that their membership term 
was three years when the purchase agreement clearly said it was 12 months. Therefore, I do not find I have enough evidence to say that a misrepresentation or breach of contract has 
occurred and so I dont think Santander acted unfairly when it decided to decline Mrs Bs 
claim under Section 75 of the CCA.
In regard to Section 140A - as I explained in my provisional decision - I cant see that Mrs B 
(through her representative) has ever asked Santander to consider this point or provided 
evidence or arguments to support it, or that Santander has had a chance to investigate it. 
So, in the circumstances, I think it would be better dealt with as a separate complaint  
should Mrs B wish to.
In conclusion, while I can understand why Mr and Mrs B may be unhappy with the product 
they purchased, the evidence available does not appear to support their claim for a refund 
under the CCA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman