DRN-3545843
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited Lloyds have 
handled a claim on his home insurance following subsidence. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in May 2022 and I set out what happened as:
The circumstances of this case are well known to both parties, so Ill only summarise them 
here.
Mr B submitted a claim as hed observed subsidence damage at his house.
This service issued a decision in December 2020 following a complaint about delays 
in progressing his claim. 
In September 2021 Mr B has advised there were ongoing issues with cracks in his 
property.
Mr B believes problems with a drain are causing the subsidence and wants Lloyds to 
fix the problem before they commence repairs to the property. 
Lloyds says it has carried out remedial works to the drains Mr B is responsible for 
There is some dispute as to who is responsible for the drain Mr B believes is causing 
the damage.
Our investigator said Lloyds should carry out repairs to the drain.
Lloyds disagrees and says it cannot carry out repairs to the drain Mr B believes is 
causing the issue as it belongs to, and is the responsibility of, Thames Water.
Lloyds asked that an ombudsman decide the case.
And I set out my reasoning as:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator and Ill briefly 
explain why. I dont feel it necessary to mention all the points made and reference every 
piece of evidence. This isnt because I havent considered everything, its just a reflection of 
the informal nature of our service.
Its not in dispute that there is damage to the property, and its not in dispute that subsidence 
has caused the damage. And Lloyds has accepted the claim.
Ive seen that Lloyds has investigated the cause of the subsidence and its specialists 
identified issues with the properties drains which were causing ground movement or 
subsidence damage. It carried out remedial work to the defective drains its specialists say 
Mr B is responsible for. And its monitoring indicates the property is now stable.
During its investigation Lloyds identified a defect in a drain it says is the responsibility of 
Thames Water. And it advised Thames water of this defect.
Mr B contacted Thames Water and it carried out an inspection. It found the drain to be free 
flowing and clear with no evidence of operational issues in the sewers it maintained. Thames 
Water did note the gully outside Mr Bs kitchen was blocked. 
Lloyds unblocked this gully as part of its repairs. And given the results of its monitoring I find 
it reasonable for Lloyds to conclude the defect it identified in the drain isnt currently 
influencing the subsidence damage. 
The dispute about ownership of the damaged pipe appears to show Thames Water is 
responsible for it. However, that is a moot point for the purpose of this complaint because 
the expert testimony shows the defect isnt causing any issues (now that the remainder of 
the pipes have been repaired and unblocked by Lloyds).  So I find it reasonable in this 
complaint that Lloyds is acting fairly by wanting to proceed with repairs to the subsidence 
damage to Mr Bs home.
I note that Lloyds has apparently put Thames Water on notice about the defect and that in 
Lloyds view Thames Water should repair the pipe. I dont see what more Lloyds can do at 
this stage other than proceed with repairs to the property.
I invited both parties to let me have their further comments.
Replies to the provisional findings
Mr B spoke with our investigator and said the gully is still blocked and he can hear frequent 
cracking in his house. He has sent in testimony indicating the times hes heard cracking and 
provided photographs showing cracks in the property and of the gully showing it contains 
standing water. 
Lloyds had no comments on the provisional decision. It has since said it did unblock the gully 
whilst on site but it was liable to block again if fat and grease was fed into the drain. It says it 
hasnt kept detailed notes or evidence of the gully being unblocked as this didnt form part of 
the repairs and was carried out as a goodwill gesture.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as in my provisional decision.
Ive listened to all that Mr B said when he called our investigator in response to my 
provisional decision and seen everything hes submitted. His strength of feeling about this 
matter is clear. Ive carefully considered all hes said, but I dont intend to respond in similar 
detail. So if I dont mention a particular point, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it  its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy; it is just a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
I dont doubt that Mr B has heard noises when hes been in his house that he believes is 
cracking due to ongoing subsidence, and Ive seen the pictures of the cracks. However, I 
find the movement readings provided by Lloyds broadly support its view that the subsidence 
has stabilised. And whilst Mr B has provided testimony that the damage to the property is 
continuing, Ive not seen any compelling evidence of this.The evidence both parties have provided about whether or not the gully was unblocked is 
inconclusive. However, this is also a moot point given my finding that the movement has 
stabilised 
On balance, I find it reasonable for Lloyds to proceed with repairs to the property. Should 
further subsidence damage occur after repairs have been carried out then Mr B can contact 
Lloyds. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman