DRN-1066195
 
Complaint
Mr F says MYJAR Limited (MYJAR) irresponsibly lent to him.                         
Background
This complaint is about four loans MYJAR provided to Mr F between July 2016 and  March 
2017. Mr Fs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 08/07/2016 05/08/2016 1 £350.00 £417.00
2 06/08/2016 18/09/2016 3 £1,000.00 £487.00
3 15/12/2016 28/02/2017 6 £925.00 £280.00
4 03/03/2017 09/08/2017 12 £1,650.00 £249.00
 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Fs complaint and thought the loans from loan 2 onwards 
shouldn't have been given because Mr F was having problems managing his money. 
MYJAR disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. It said the 
adjudicator hadnt given enough information as to why they were upholding the complaint. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me to issue a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr F 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr F could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on 
time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to 
meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt think MYJAR needed to do more when it approved loan 1. Mr F didnt 
disagree with the adjudicators findings about this loan, so I wont be making any findings on 
it. But Ive kept these in mind when thinking about the context of the overall lending 
relationship. 
MYJAR says it carried out checks before it lent loan 2 to Mr F and the results of these 
checks didnt raise any concerns. But although this was only Mr Fs second loan, it was 
taken out the day after hed repaid his previous loan and it was for a considerably larger 
amount. He was also borrowing over a longer period. In these circumstances I think MYJAR 
should have been looking to build a clearer picture about Mr Fs finances before lending to 
him again.
Had MYJAR carried out checks to verify what Mr F was telling it, such as asking for copies of 
his bank statements, its likely to have found that Mr F was not managing his finances  he 
was exceeding his overdraft and Direct Debits were being returned unpaid. He was also 
borrowing from other short-term lenders. So, its likely this behaviour of indebtedness was 
becoming increasingly more difficult to sustain. 
So, Im also upholding the complaint about loans 2 to 4.
 
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr F paid on loans 2 to 4 onwards;pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 2, 3 and 4 from Mr Fs credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Fs complaint. MYJAR Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman