DRN-4441312
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about the service provided by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) when 
trying to make a claim on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S called UKI to raise a claim after his mother suffered a travel delay when going on 
holiday. Part way through the call, the line abruptly went dead. Mr S felt that UKI had hung 
up on him. During a later call, Mr S was unhappy with the following issues:
The call handler was just interested in putting the phone down or making referrals to 
management
He was continually spoken over
He felt dismissed and unheard
Double overlapping questions caused communication issues
UKI agreed that the phone call could have gone better and initially offered £75 compensation 
for the trouble and upset caused. When providing their case file to our service, UKI 
increased their offer to £150. Mr S was still unhappy with the amount offered.
Our investigator thought that UKIs offer was fair. They agreed that the call could have been 
better but thought the compensation was enough in the circumstances. Mr S didnt accept 
the outcome.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI has accepted that the service provided during the call couldve been better, so this isnt 
in dispute. In this decision, Ive concentrated on whether the £150 compensation is fair and 
reasonable.
In response to our investigators view, Mr S confirmed that there was only one part that he 
disagreed with. This was that Mr S felt that hed been accused of a breach of the terms and 
conditions. This led to Mr S feeling as though his account was going to be closed.
Whilst I appreciate how Mr S has said he felt and my decision here isnt meant to belittle that 
in any way. Having listened to the calls, I do think the compensation offered by UKI is fair in 
the circumstances.
Whilst there were some service issues during the call, the agent does confirm to Mr S that a 
mother and son account wasnt something that she had come across before and had raised 
it as something she needed to look into for herself. This was for her own knowledge and 
understanding and advises Mr S that it wont affect the claim whatsoever. Mr S told the 
agent talking to you hasnt felt easy and I do understand why he felt that way. But the agent 
apologised to Mr S for making him upset during the call and also offered to put Mr S through 
to the sales and service team as they would be able to provide a direct answer for him. Mr S 
declined this option. I dont think the agent made it seem as if the account might or was 
going to be closed.
Mr S has confirmed that hes received £75 of the compensation offer so far.
My final decision
U K Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all circumstances.
So my decision is that U K Insurance Limited should pay the remaining £75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Anthony Mullins
Ombudsman