DRN-2901542
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as H, complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined 
a claim made against its business protection insurance policy and cancelled the policy.
Mr T, who is a director of H, brings the complaint on Hs behalf.
What happened
Between 2015 and 2017 Mr T was involved in court proceedings with a third party. Mr Ts 
representative has let us know that, although he won these proceedings, the third party fled 
the jurisdiction and left Mr T with significant legal costs to pay. Ultimately these led to Mr T 
being made bankrupt.
Around this time, in 2017, Mr T suffered from mental health issues and as a result had to 
stop working for H. Mrs T took over the running of the business and Mr T resigned as a 
director of the company.
In May 2019, Mrs T took out an insurance policy with Aviva on behalf of H. At that time she 
was the sole director and shareholder of the company so the information she provided when 
taking that policy related only to her. In July 2019, Mrs T transferred her shares to Mr T and 
he was reappointed as a director of the company. By this time, Mr Ts bankruptcy had been 
discharged and Mr T had recovered from his ill health. However, Mr T, by his own 
admission, failed to update Aviva of the changes to the company at that time. He states that 
he hadnt appreciated that this would be an issue for Aviva.
In May 2020 the policy was due for renewal and Aviva sent a Statement of Fact, which 
included a statement that confirmed no director had been declared bankrupt. Due to the 
challenging issues Mr T was facing personally and the impact of the national pandemic on 
the business, Mr T didnt adequately check the Statement of Fact and says he didnt notice 
the incorrect statement or alert Aviva to it.
In July 2020, there was a break in at the property and a significant amount of stock was 
stolen. Mr T made a claim on Hs policy with Aviva and it appointed a loss adjuster. Mr T 
explained his mistake to the loss adjuster and informed him that he had previously been 
declared bankrupt. 
Aviva responded to Hs claim and explained that it intended to decline the claim and avoid 
the policy. It said that, had it been made aware of the discharged bankruptcy, it would never 
have offered terms and there would be no insurance policy in place. 
Aviva initially stated that it thought the non-disclosure of the bankruptcy by Mr T was 
deliberate or reckless and that it intended to keep the premiums paid to it. It also stated that 
it thought Mr T had been operating as a shadow director when the policy was incepted in 
May 2019 so it intended to avoid the policies from that date.
However Mr T responded to Aviva to explain what had happened and Aviva then decided 
that it considered the non-disclosure to be careless, rather than deliberate. As such, it 
maintained that it would be declining the claim and avoiding the policy but offered to avoid 
only the latest policy and to refund the premium from May 2020  the renewal date of the 
policy. Mr T didnt think this was fair and thought Aviva should accept the claim, so he 
referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In short he 
said that Mr T had failed to disclose his bankruptcy to Aviva and he was satisfied that Aviva 
wouldnt have offered terms had it been made aware of it. So he thought it was fair for Aviva 
to decline the claim and avoid the policy from the renewal date. He agreed with Avivas later 
stance that the non-disclosure was more likely careless than a deliberate attempt to mislead 
Aviva, so he thought Avivas offer to refund the premium was fair in the circumstances. Mr T 
didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator and for the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Aviva made the decision to avoid Hs policy on the basis of a misrepresentation made by H 
when renewing the policy. When considering whether Aviva acted fairly, the starting point is 
the Insurance Act 2015. Under this Act, commercial policyholders have a duty to make a fair 
presentation of the risk to the insurer when taking out a policy. This means they have to 
disclose either:
everything they know, or ought to know, that would influence the judgment of an 
insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms; or 
enough information to put an insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries 
about potentially material circumstances. 
If the business decides the policyholder didnt give a fair presentation, this is called a 
qualifying breach.
The Statement of Fact that was sent to H included the following statement:
Neither You or Your directors or partners involved with The Business or any other
company or business have . in the last ten years been declared bankrupt or
insolvent or been the subject of bankruptcy proceedings or insolvency proceedings or
been disqualified from being a company director...
And it explained that if any of the information provided on the Statement of Fact was 
incorrect, this could mean that any future claims may not be paid.
Mr T accepts that he failed to check this document and notify Aviva that he had previously 
been declared bankrupt. 
While I can sympathise with the challenging circumstances Mr T was facing at the time of 
the renewal, it was for him as a commercial customer of Aviva to ensure that he was 
providing a fair presentation of the risk to Aviva. As he didnt do that in this instance, I am 
satisfied that there was a qualifying breach.As there had been a qualifying breach, Aviva then had to consider what would have 
happened if Mr T had provided the correct information during the renewal. The Insurance Act 
sets out the actions Aviva should take; it says:
if the qualifying breach was deliberate or reckless the insurer can avoid the policy 
and refuse all claims and it doesnt have to return the premiums 
if the qualifying breach was neither deliberate nor reckless and the insurer wouldnt 
have provided the insurance, it may avoid the contract and refuse any claims, but it 
must return the premiums; 
if the insurer would still have provided the insurance but on different terms (other 
than the premium) the policy is to be treated as if it had been provided on those 
terms; and 
if the insurer would have charged a higher premium, it may take a proportionate 
approach to any claims.
Aviva has provided this service with its underwriting guidance and explained that, had it 
been told about the discharged bankruptcy, it wouldnt have provided terms at renewal. 
Based on the information I have seen, I am satisfied that is the case. I am aware Mr Ts 
representative has commented on another policy he believes Aviva has provided in similar 
circumstances; however it is clear that the two policies are covering different risks with 
different circumstances, so this doesnt change my opinion that Im satisfied Aviva wouldnt 
have offered H terms had it known about the discharged bankruptcy.
As I am satisfied that Aviva wouldnt have offered terms, I think it has acted fairly in avoiding 
the policy and declining the claim. I say this because if it had been made aware of the 
discharged bankruptcy, it would never have offered terms and there would have been no 
contract of insurance. Therefore, I think avoiding the policy puts H back in the position it 
would have been in had the misrepresentation not been made. 
Aviva initially intended to treat the qualifying breach as deliberate and/or reckless, but it later 
decided to treat it as careless. Aviva has therefore offered a refund of the premiums from the 
time of renewal (from when it has avoided the policy) onwards. This is in line with the actions 
prescribed in the Insurance Act and I see no reason to depart from this approach.
While I am sorry to hear about the difficult circumstances Mr T has experienced over recent 
years and have sympathy for the effect on his business of his mistake in not declaring the 
discharged bankruptcy, I dont think Aviva has acted unfairly in declining the claim or in 
avoiding the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman