DRN-4046687
The complaint
The trustees of a trust that I will refer to as T, complain about Metro Bank PLCs decision not 
to allow T to make payments to a third-party cryptocurrency-exchange. 
What happened
The following is intended only as a brief summary of events. 
In 2022, Mr A, a trustee of T, opened a bank account with Metro on behalf of T. Mr A then 
tried to make a transfer from this account to a third-party cryptocurrency-exchange that I will 
refer to as G. After this payment attempt failed a number of times, Metro identified that the 
issue was due to its policy not to allow customers to make transfers to cryptocurrency 
exchanges. 
Mr A was unhappy with this. He explained that the requested transfer was in GBP and of 
relatively low value, and that the terms and conditions of Ts account did not say that such 
transfers were not allowed. Mr A also pointed out that G is a regulated financial business. He 
feels that Metro should follow his payment instructions and that it is unfair T has been paying 
for an account that does not provide it with the required service. 
Metro responded to the complaint Mr A raised, explaining that it considers cryptocurrency 
related payments to be high risk, and has made a policy decision not to allow such transfers. 
Mr A remained unhappy and brought Ts complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
However, our Investigator thought Metro had made a decision that it was entitled to make. 
Mr A remained unsatisfied and as our Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it 
has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Generally speaking, there is a requirement for a bank to follow a customers payment 
instructions. However, this is not a requirement that is without limits. A bank needs to 
balance this against protecting both individual customers and itself. 
This is relevant in Ts case because over recent years there has been an increase in fraud 
and financial crime relating to cryptocurrency related transactions. This includes, but is not 
limited to, transfers to legitimate regulated financial firms and transfers made in GBP. 
For example, a common scenario involves fraudsters purporting to be financial advisers and 
tricking customers to sending funds to a cryptocurrency digital wallet, from where funds are 
then taken. Depending on the circumstances, not only can this lead to the customers losing 
their money, banks can find themselves responsible for having facilitated the transaction and 
have to refund the money and/or face fines from the industry regulator. 
I do appreciate Mr As comments that the transfer T is attempting to make is being carried 
out with (what appears to be) full knowledge and consideration by the trust. There does not 
appear to be a suggestion that the desired transaction is the result of a third-party attempt at 
fraud. So, I appreciate his frustration. However, Metro has not made its decision specific to 
this transaction. It has made a bank-wide policy decision not to facilitate these transactions.
I note Mr As recent submissions about Metro being on the industry regulators watchlist for 
financial crime compliance. Mr A has said that this shows Metro has double standards if it 
has allowed some types of transaction that have led to this concern, but yet is blocking the 
different type of transaction he is attempting. 
I appreciate Mr As comments. However, whether or not Metro has breached any regulations 
in respect of other types of transaction, does not mean it should not try to limit the risks it 
perceives in respect of others. And this action by the regulator demonstrates what Metro 
considers might have happened had it been allowing transfers to cryptocurrency exchanges. 
It made its policy in relation to these types of transfer in part to avoid such action by the 
regulator. The fact that this action has been taken in relation to another area of Metros 
business does not invalidate the decision it has in relation to cryptocurrency exchange 
transfers. 
Ultimately, Metro has made a policy decision not to facilitate these transactions. And I 
consider it is acting within its remit when doing so. Given Ts attempted transfer to G was 
contrary to this policy, it follows that I consider Metro not allowing it was fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman