DRN-1969014
The complaint
Miss M complains about the quality of a new car that was supplied to her through a hire 
agreement with Lex Autolease Ltd trading as Lex Autolease (LA). 
What happened
On 29 January 2019 Miss M leased a new car through a 36 month hire agreement with LA. 
The car was registered in January 2019, which means it was brand new at the time of 
leasing. Miss M paid an initial rental of £647.09, leaving 35 more monthly rentals of the same 
amount. 
Miss M explained that after entering into the lease agreement her car has had ongoing 
problems with the infotainment system freezing or not working.
In this particular vehicle the infotainment system is made up of an upper and lower dual 
touch screen, the navigation functions are controlled through the top screen, and the lower 
screen controls the cars climate, ventilation and other general vehicle features. 
Miss M made a total of four complaints to LA, all relating to the failure of the infotainment 
system:
first complaint made 23 March 2019, LA provided a full response on 26 April 2019
second complaint made 5 June 2019, LA provided a full response on 24 July 2019
third complaint made 25 October 2019, LA provided a full response on 18 December 
2019
fourth complaint made 3 March 2020, LA provided a full response on 14 April 2020
Ive summarised the circumstances surrounding each of Miss Ms complaints below. 
first complaint 
On 22 March 2019 Miss M complained about the reliability of her cars infotainment system. 
Prior to raising the complaint Miss M explained that the lower infotainment screen froze 
about 17 days after leasing it.  When she reported it to LA she was advised to contact the 
manufacturer who came out to assess the problem. The manufacturer explained to her that 
the car would need to be brought into the dealership for repairs. Miss M booked her car in for 
the 5 March 2019 for a system upgrade. However, the problem recurred soon after. It was at 
this point that Miss M raised her first complaint. So, the car was booked in again and was off 
the road for eight days. While the car was being repaired, the dealer supplied her with a 
courtesy car for the duration. LA investigated the complaint and concluded that the issue had 
been resolved. LA upheld her complaint and offered Miss M £150 in compensation which 
she accepted.
second complaint 
Miss Ms second complaint was raised on 5 June 2019 about the same issue. However, on 
this occasion she questioned the safety and suitability of the car, mainly because the 
infotainment system controls the temperature and driving features and so she couldnt 
demist or clear the windscreen when the problem occurred. After raising the complaint, the 
car was taken back to the dealer around a week later. The car was off the road for two days. 
However, later that month while driving in wet conditions the system failed again. Two days 
later the car was brought into the dealer again. A further upgrade was applied, and the car 
was given back to her. On this occasion LA offered to terminate Miss Ms agreement early 
and at no additional cost to her. Miss M explained that accepting the termination would have 
left her without a vehicle. LA advised shed have to re-order another car which, Miss M 
explained at the time, would have taken around twelve weeks to be delivered. She also 
explained that the cost for the same vehicle had increased by around £80 per month. Miss M 
said she felt she had no option but to keep the car. LA closed her complaint and credited her 
account with £200 in compensation.
third complaint
 
In September and October of 2019 Miss M explained that the lower infotainment screen had 
failed about five more times. So, on 25 October 2019 Miss M raised another complaint to LA. 
The car was booked in for later that month and was kept in the dealer for around 32 days. 
However, when she received it back she had to take it back the following day due to a 
recurrence of the same issue. The repairs were completed on 18 December 2019 after a 
new media system head unit had been fitted. The dealer provided Miss M with a courtesy 
car for the duration. Again, on this occasion LA gave Miss M the option to terminate her 
agreement, along with half a months rental payment of £323.55 as compensation. For the 
same reasons as before Miss M declined the offer to terminate the agreement.
fourth complaint
 
The fourth complaint was raised on 3 March 2020, after Miss M had brought her complaint to 
us. Miss M complained to LA because she was experiencing the same issues with her car. 
From the information provided I can see that Miss M asked for the agreement to be 
terminated with a 21-day grace period to find another car. However later that month she 
declined the offer explaining that due to the national restrictions in place at the time, shed 
decided to keep hold of the car for the entirety of the agreement. LA closed the complaint the 
following month and offered Miss M £75 for the inconvenience.
On 30 January 2020 Miss M brought her complaint to us. She explained that her car 
becomes unsafe to drive when the problem occurs, and this causes her stress and anxiety. 
To resolve matters shed like LA to replace her car like for like at no extra cost to her, 
ensuring she is mobile at all times. Shed also like to be given some further compensation in 
acknowledgement of the problems shes experienced since leasing the car.
An investigator looked into her concerns and concluded that the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld and LA didnt have to do anything more.
Miss M isnt happy with the investigators view and has asked that her complaints are 
referred to an ombudsman. So, her concerns have been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that our investigator only concentrated on the last two complaints due to timescales, 
however in my decision Ill be considering the circumstances surrounding all four complaints 
raised by Miss M to LA. Miss Ms current complaint is about ongoing issues with the car and 
to consider it fully Ive looked at the history since it was supplied. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. LA is also the supplier of the goods under this 
type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) applies to contracts which supply goods to a 
consumer and is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract to supply goods, there is 
an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for purpose and as 
described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods would need to meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So, it seems 
likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would consider 
might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history. 
My starting point is LA supplied Miss M a brand-new car at a cost of £647.09 rental each 
month. With this in mind I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the 
level of quality to be higher than a less expensive and more road worn car; and that it could 
be used, free from any issues, for a considerable period of time.
From the information provided Ive concluded that there was a fault with the car. This is 
apparent from Miss Ms description of events surrounding the infotainment system, the 
repairs that had been carried out on more than one occasion, LAs acknowledgment that a 
problem exists and their correspondence addressing and upholding Miss Ms complaint. 
Having considered the car had a fault, Ive had to consider whether it was of satisfactory 
quality at the time of supply. 
Miss M says the problems with the infotainment system started around 17 days after she 
was supplied with the car in January 2019; and has been ongoing since. LA provided a final 
response to Miss Ms first complaint in April 2019, four months after the car was registered 
acknowledging the issue and upholding her complaint. So, I think its fair to conclude the 
issue was present at the point of supply and I cant see that anyone has disputed this. 
If the goods supplied under the CRA are considered to be unsatisfactory quality, it would be 
considered a breach of contract. Section 19 of the CRA sets out certain remedies available 
to the consumer for goods that do not conform:
 
(3) If the goods do not conform to the contract because of a breach of any of the 
terms described in sections 9,10,11,13 and 14, or if they do not conform to the 
contract under section 16, the consumers rights (and the provisions about them and 
when they are available) are  
the short-term right to reject (sections 20 and 22);
the right to repair or replacement (section 23); andthe right to a price reduction or the final right to reject (sections 20 and 24).
Throughout the course of the lease so far Miss M has made four complaints. Each which 
have been upheld by LA. 
Ive provided my findings on the actions of LA in relation to each complaint raised.
LAs responses to each complaint
On each occasion that Mss M complained I cant see that the service she received had 
significantly failed in anyway. When Miss M contacted the dealer, her car was booked in for 
the first available appointment. Besides her first complaint when it took a few weeks to book 
an appointment, on every other occasion the car was booked in within days of the problem 
being reported. 
Miss M explained, that over the course of 16 months the infotainment display had failed 
more than ten times, and had been for repairs on about seven occasions. I acknowledge that 
in certain conditions the frozen display would cause safety concerns with certain settings 
being inaccessible. This would also impair the intended driving experience. However, the 
issue with Miss Ms car is non mechanical and is intermittent. So, notwithstanding an 
impaired experience at times, I must also acknowledge that the car is still driveable which 
allows Miss M to have continued use of it.
To fairly resolve Miss Ms concerns, LA have offered to repair her car at no cost to her, 
arranged for an alternative vehicle of similar size and specification where possible, to be 
provided while her car is off the road as a result of a repair, compensation for inconvenience 
caused; and the option of terminating the lease agreement at no additional cost to her. 
Having considered all the information provided, Ive found LAs response to Miss Ms 
complaints fair and reasonable. On each occasion LA provided a full response within the 
given timescales and upheld her complaints. I can see that theyve acknowledged when 
there may have been excessive delays and, in each instance, I can see that Miss M had 
been provided with a courtesy car.
In addition to this LA had compensated Miss M each time for the inconvenience caused to 
her. The total compensation has been £748.55. I think each amount, in context with the 
courtesy cars provided, have been a fair reflection of the impaired usage and inconvenience 
caused at the time. 
 
As pointed out earlier the CRA allows for the right to reject the car where its quality has 
been found to be unsatisfactory. So, I think is was right that LA gave Miss M the option to 
terminate the agreement on more than one occasion. I dont think its fair to expect LA to do 
anymore in the circumstances. For example, they are not obliged to source and supply her 
with a new car at no additional cost. I acknowledge however that they did offer a transition 
period of 21 days for her to find another car. I recognise that LA werent obliged to make this  
offer. Miss M may find it helpful to consider the offer made to her (if it is still available).
 
I note that in an email to our service on 20 May 2020, Miss M said that she was usually 
provided with a Discovery or Evoque as a replacement car. And that on all but one occasion 
all her courtesy vehicles had a lower specification than the one shed leased. 
LA have confirmed to me that the dealer would arrange the courtesy car, or theyd approach 
the manufacturer if they didnt have sufficient stock. They also confirmed to me that theyd 
aim to provide a vehicle with as close a specification as the lease car but could never 
guarantee it. On balance I think the cars that were given to Miss M as replacements were fit for purpose. And although they may not have been at the exact specification as her leased 
car, I note that shed received compensation each time for inconvenience caused. 
I havent seen any evidence that disputes what LA have explained to me. So, I cant say that 
LA have acted unfairly with the cars that have been provided to Miss M as a replacement; 
and I wont be asking them to do anything more in relation to this.
Within the same email Miss M also mentions that she felt pressured by LA to accept the car 
back. LA have denied this; Ive also not been provided with any additional evidence to 
suggest this occurred. I can see that LA have offered on more than one occasion for Miss M 
to terminate her agreement. On balance this would contradict any pressure of accepting the 
car as it was. So from the information provided I cant say that LA have pressured Miss M 
and so I wont be asking them to do anything more in relation to this.
I recognise from reviewing all the information and evidence in this complaint, that Miss M 
has been unfortunate with the circumstances surrounding the leasing of her car. I 
acknowledge her monthly rentals are considered significant, and that any reasonable person 
would expect a fault free vehicle in return. However, in the circumstances, as Ive explained I 
dont see that LA have done anything wrong here. I think their offers have been reasonable 
and Miss M may want to reconsider terminating her agreement and using the grace period 
as offered by LA.
My final decision
To settle the complaint LA has already paid £748.55 compensation to Miss M and has 
offered her the right to reject her car at no additional cost to her. I think this is fair in all the 
circumstances.
So my decision is that LA should maintain their offer for Miss M to reject the car. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman