DRN-3757840
The complaint
Mr S complains that PSI-Pay Ltd (PSI-Pay) hasnt refunded him the money he lost in an 
investment scam. 
What happened
Mr S says that he was approached by a company Ill refer to as P and decided to invest. He 
bought ecoVouchers provided by PSI-Pay through a sub-distributor of PSI-Pays contracted 
distributor and used the vouchers for his investment. The vouchers were bought in October 
and December 2020 and in January 2021 and the total value was in excess of 75,000 USD. 
When Mr S tried to withdraw his funds and was unable to do so he contacted PSI-Pay and 
requested a refund. 
Mr S believes that PSI-Pay shouldnt have allowed him to buy ecoVouchers to this value and 
also says that it should have checked the merchant he sent his funds to. He believes that 
PSI-Pay is supporting fraud and money-laundering. 
PSI-Pay says that all ecoVouchers were correctly processed and that it doesnt know how 
the ecoVoucher codes were transferred to the sub-contractor as the sub-contractor isnt a 
partner of PSI-Pay. Mr S then used the vouchers to pay a company he says is fraudulent, 
but this happened outside of its system. PSI-Pay referred to its terms and conditions which 
say that a request to execute a transaction cant be revoked and that it isnt liable in the case 
of a dispute with a participating merchant (a merchant that accepts ecoVouchers as a 
method of payment). 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Mr Ss complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
- Mr S doesnt have an account with PSI-Pay and didnt buy the ecoVouchers through 
it. Instead Mr S bought them through a sub-distributor of PSI-Pays contracted 
distributor. In the circumstances, PSI-Pay had no way of knowing that Mr S had 
bought so many ecoVouchers.
- PSI-Pays terms and conditions place a limit on the number of ecoVouchers that can 
be bought but the obligation is on Mr S as the buyer not to exceed the limit rather 
than on PSI-Pay.
- PSI-Pay didnt do anything wrong in allowing the vouchers to be redeemed and its 
terms and conditions are clear that once a voucher has been used it cant be 
revoked.
- He didnt agree with Mr S that PSI-Pay should have vetted the merchant as its terms 
and conditions make it clear that PSI-Pay will not be involved in any dispute or 
dealings with a participating merchant. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. In summary, he said:
- The company that scammed him was a participating merchant and so PSI-Pay had a 
contract with it.
- EcoVouchers are meant to be a secure method of payment. Mr S questioned why 
they should be used rather than a bank transfer or credit card. 
- He feels the investigator said PSI-Pay arent obliged to follow their own rules in 
relation to the number of ecoVouchers that can be bought.   
As Mr S didnt agree with the investigators findings his complaint has been passed to me to 
consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mr S has lost a lot of money and can understand why he wishes to 
pursue this complaint. But I need to consider whether PSI-Pay has done anything wrong 
and, if so, how it should put things right.
Mr S bought ecoVouchers which allow customers to pay online as if they are using cash. 
Customers buy a prepaid ecoVoucher and use it to pay online at websites that accept the 
voucher (known as participating merchants). PSI-Pays website says that ecoVouchers are 
perfect for those that dont have a bank account, credit card or debit card or who dont want 
to disclose their personal details online. 
I appreciate that Mr S was able to buy a large number of ecoVouchers and that PSI-Pays 
terms and conditions say, 
You may purchase from a Distributor (or from its authorised retailer) up to 4 (four) 
ecoVouchers of up to EUR £1,000 (one thousand euro) in total (or the equivalent in another 
currency on any one day, unless otherwise restricted to a lower value.
The terms and conditions go on to say that a buyer like Mr S may not hold more than 1,000 
EUR or equivalent in other currencies of ecoVouchers at any one time. But I agree with the 
investigator that these terms place an obligation on Mr S as the buyer of the vouchers rather 
than on PSI-Pay. Selling more vouchers may mean that a distributor has breached its 
agreement with PSI-Pay but, as Ive referred to above, the ecoVouchers purchased werent 
bought through an authorised distributor. 
Im also not persuaded that PSI-Pay knew that Mr S had bought a substantial number of 
ecoVouchers (and well above the limits set out in the terms and conditions). I say this 
because it wasnt a case of Mr S loading a wallet for example where it would have been 
apparent that the limit had been breached. Instead, Mr S bought vouchers from a sub-
distributor. So PSI-Pay would only have known that its authorised distributor had bought a 
certain number of ecoVouchers but not the identity of those that bought them. Given these 
points, I dont consider PSI-Pay had any reason to intervene.  
I think the real issue here is the fact that Mr S used the ecoVouchers to pay a company he 
says is fraudulent. 
PSI-Pays website explains that ecoVoucers are safe:
ecoVoucher is one of the most secure ways you can pay online, as you only need to enter 
the 18-digit ecoVoucher PIN. Just like paying in cash, you do not share any of your personal 
or financial information, so you can pay online with confidence.
So PSI-Pay are saying the vouchers are secure because of the 18-digit code and the fact 
that financial information isnt required online. The website goes go on to say that 
ecoVouchers work with verified merchants and distributors only. But I dont think I can hold 
PSI-Pay responsible if a participating merchant acts fraudulently. I say this because its terms 
and conditions specifically say,
Under no circumstances will We be liable for any claims, loss, or damage caused or alleged 
to be caused by any of the following:Fraud or misrepresentation committed by a Participating Merchant.
The terms and conditions also say in the Disputes with Participating Merchants section,
PSI-Pay have no involvement in any contract or other dealings You have with a 
Participating Merchant. PSI-Pay shall not be liable in any way under the terms of that 
contract or other dealings or in any way arising therefrom. 
Any refund of a payment resulting from a claim against a Participating Merchant is subject to 
the Participating Merchants own terms and conditions of business and refund policy. You 
should make yourself aware of such terms and policies before submitting Your ecoVoucher 
to the Participating Merchant.
The above terms are clear that PSI-Pay are not liable for any fraud or misrepresentation by a 
participating merchant and that it wont be liable in the event of a dispute with such a 
merchant. 
Im also satisfied that the terms and conditions say that once a voucher has been used it 
cant be revoked. So I dont think there was anything PSI-Pay could have done once Mr S 
reported the fact he was the victim of a scam. 
Overall, Im sorry to hear of Mr Ss loss but I cant reasonably hold PSI-Pay responsible. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman