DRN-4395796
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) declined a claim she made under 
her travel insurance policy.
What happened
Ms M took out a single trip travel insurance policy. It was issued on 28 January 2023 and 
was to cover a trip taken in the UK, between 9 March 2023 and 16 March 2023. The policy 
provided cover for various pre-departure and post-departure risks.
Ms M explained that she was due to travel to one area for an event, and then on to another 
location for a further, separate event. However, before travelling, Ms M was informed that a 
train she was due to take on the return leg of her journey was cancelled  this being due to 
strike action. This meant Ms M would have missed a connecting flight she needed to take 
home. As this meant Ms M wouldnt have been able to get home, shes explained she had to 
abort the whole trip. 
As Ms M couldnt travel any longer, shes explained she lost the cost of pre-booked flights, 
trains, and accommodation  at a cost of £580. As Ms M had suffered this loss, she 
contacted IPA to make a claim under her travel insurance policy.
IPA considered Ms Ms claim and declined it. It said there was no cover under Ms Ms policy 
for the situation she found herself in.
Ms M didnt consider this to be fair. She explained that shed taken out insurance for if this 
sort of eventuality had happened. And noted that she was unable to travel on the trip through 
no fault of her own.
IPA maintained its position on the matter. As Ms M remained dissatisfied, she referred her 
complaint to this service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They 
explained that the policy did provide cover for cancellation of a trip  in certain, listed 
circumstances. But Ms Ms reason for cancellation didnt fall into one of those listed 
circumstances. So, the investigator said IPA acted fairly in declining the claim.
Ms M didnt agree and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. So, this 
complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably decline it. So, 
Ive thought about whether IPA acted in line with these requirements when it declined to 
settle Ms Ms claim. 
Ive also reviewed Ms Ms policy documents, to see what cover they provided her with. On 
doing so, I can see the policy does provide cover for the need to cancel a trip. 
But, as is common in policies of this nature, for these costs to be covered, the reason for 
cancelling the trip must be one of those reasons listed in the section as covered. If the 
reason for cancelling the trip isnt listed, then the loss isnt covered, and the policy wont 
respond.
The section lists situations such as being injured or falling ill, being made redundant or 
having to attend jury service. Ive considered whether any of the things listed here apply in 
Ms Ms situation. But Im satisfied they dont. Ms M couldnt travel because of a train 
cancellation  which happened due to strike action. This isnt one of the reasons listed as 
covered in this section. So, Im satisfied IPA acted fairly in declining to settle Ms Ms claim. It 
acted in line with the terms of the policy.
Ive reviewed all other areas of the insurance policy to see if any of those provide cover for 
the incident Ms M is claiming for. But Im satisfied they dont provide cover for the situation 
Ms M found herself in.
Given this, Im satisfied IPA acted fairly and reasonably in declining to settle Ms Ms claim. It 
isnt covered by the policy. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Inter Partner Assistance SA to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman