DRN-4238007
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as S feels that LDF Operations Limited, trading as 
White Oak, havent provided reasonable support to it in response to financial difficulties it 
encountered surrounding its Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan (CBIL).
What happened
To briefly summarise: In November 2020, S successfully applied to White Oak for a 
£180,000 CBIL and received the loan funds that same month. Under the terms of the CBIL, 
Ss contractual obligation to begin making monthly loan payments began in December 2021.
S suffered financial difficulty and the CBIL fell into arrears in 2022. In November 2022, S 
reached out to White Oak to ask for support and was told that if it made a payment towards 
the loan that financial support would be provided. But, after S made the payment, White Oak 
didnt provide any support as promised. S wasnt happy about this and didnt feel that White 
Oak had provided reasonable financial support to it in general, so it raised a complaint.
White Oak responded to S and explained that it had requested several pieces of information 
from S regarding its finances that S had failed to provide. And White Oak confirmed that it 
didnt feel it had acted unfairly in how it had administered Ss account as a result. S wasnt 
satisfied with White Oaks response, so it referred its complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel White Oak had acted 
unfairly in how it had managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. S remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
I also note that S has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding its 
complaint. Id like to thank S for these submissions, and I hope it doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in line with this services role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if S notes that I havent addressed a specific point its raised, it shouldnt be 
taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read and 
considered all the submissions provided by both S and White Oak. Rather, it should be 
taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it directly 
in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
As per the terms of the CBIL, S was contractually obliged to make monthly payments 
towards the loan from December 2021 onwards. But S didnt make the required monthly 
payment in December 2021, meaning that the CBIL fell into arrears at the first opportunity.
This led White Oak to issue a Notice of Intention to Terminate on the CBIL on 18 January 
2022. However, White Oak then held off from terminating the CBIL until S could clear the 
account arrears, which it did in April 2022. 
The CBIL fell back into arrears a few months later, in August 2022. White Oak tried to 
contact S on several occasions about the arrears, but S didnt respond to White Oak for over 
two months, until 2 November 2022. At that time, S proposed to make one monthly payment 
towards the loan and to then clear the account arrears in instalments over the course of the 
next three months. 
White Oak responded to S the following day,3 November 2022, and explained that to 
consider Ss request it required several items of information from S within 24 hours. These 
included three months of up-to-date bank statements for all Ss business bank accounts and 
a 6-month cash-flow forecast.
S responded to White Oaks requirements on 8 November 2022, several days after the 
deadline given by White Oak, and explained that it would provide the requested information 
as soon as possible. But White Oak didnt receive any further correspondence from S. And, 
with the requested information still not received, and the promised payment from S not 
having been made, it issued a Termination Notice to S on 23 November 2022.
On 1 December 2022, S did make the monthly payment towards the CBIL it had offered to 
pay on 2 November 2022. Following this, White Oak reviewed Ss request for financial 
support but rejected it because it was evident that S was still making payments to other 
creditors as well as regular large payments to company directors. Additionally, White Oak 
noted that S had made several large transfers to other company bank accounts held by S 
that White Oak hadnt been provided any account statements for.
White Oak again asked S to provide the previously requested information to enable them to 
come to an accurate understanding of Ss financial position. But while S did promise, on 12 
December 2022, to provide this information to White Oak within a week of that date, S again 
failed to act in accordance with the promises it made. And, with the financial information still 
having not been received by White Oak on 3 January 2023, it defaulted Ss CBIL.
S complains that White Oak havent provided appropriate financial support to it. But, given 
the timeline of events Ive summarised above, I dont feel that this is the case. Rather, I feel 
that White Oak have provided several opportunities for S to provide the information Im 
satisfied it reasonably required from S to consider Ss arrears repayment proposals. And I 
also feel that S has consistently and repeatedly failed to respond to White Oak or to honour 
promises it made to White Oak, during the times that its CBIL has been in arrears. 
Furthermore, as alluded to above, Im satisfied that the information that White Oak requested 
from S before considering its arrears repayment proposals was reasonable. This is because 
I dont feel that White Oak should fairly be expected to allow S to not meet its contractual 
repayment obligations without fully understanding why S couldnt meet those obligations. 
And this is especially the case given the large director payments that S was making and the 
large amounts of money that S had transferred to bank accounts which it hadnt given White 
Oak any sight of. S complains that White Oak promised to provide financial support to it if it made a payment 
in November 2022. But S didnt make a payment in November 2022  it did so on 1 
December 2022. This was after 3 November 2022, when White Oak explained to S the 
financial information that it reasonably required from it, as previously explained. And it was 
also after 8 November 2022, when S responded to White Oak about that requested financial 
information, but which it then subsequently failed to provide.  
All of which means that I dont feel that White Oak have done anything wrong or acted 
unfairly here. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
White Oak to take any action. 
I realise this wont be the outcome S was wanting. But I trust it will understand, given all that 
Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman