DRN-4191429
The complaint
Mr M complains about Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited referring him to 
an accident management company (AMC).  
What happened
In January 2021 Mr Ms vehicle was involved in a collision with a third-party one. His son 
called Mr Ms motor insurance broker on his behalf, AA, to register a claim. AA provided two 
options. Mr M could pursue the claim through his own motor insurer. Alternatively he could 
make use of the services of an AMC. Mr M went ahead with the AMC option. This meant he 
wouldnt claim through his own insurance policy and insurer. Instead the AMC would deal 
with repairs, arrange a hire car and attempt to recover costs from the third-party insurer (TPI) 
 through a credit hire/repair agreement.  
A while later Mr Ms son complained to AA on his behalf. He said it had recommended the 
AMC as being the best option for Mr M  but the claim had yet to be settled. He said the 
AMC wasnt responding to enquiries. In response AA said his complaint was about a 
different firm  the AMC. It said it had nonetheless liaised with the AMC and the third-party 
insurer (TPI). AA explained the TPI hadnt been taking calls as it was short staffed due to the 
Covid pandemic. It explained the claim was now being progressed.
Mr M wasnt satisfied so our investigator considered his complaint. He listened to a recording 
of Mr Ms sons call with AA. He felt AA, when discussing the potential referral, had 
persuaded him to take the AMC option. He also felt it had failed to give him clear enough 
information about the potential implications  including that the AMCs service arent 
regulated and that he may end up liable for hire car charges. The investigator said this had 
resulted in distress and inconvenience for Mr M. So he recommended AA pay him £150 
compensation.  
AA didnt accept that outcome. So the complaint was passed to me to decide. It said the 
referral had been made correctly  and it was the responsibility of the AMC to provide its 
terms and conditions of service to Mr M.  
In July 2023 I issued a provisional decision. Its reasoning forms part of this final decision, so 
Ive copied it in below. In it I explain why I intended to require AA to pay Mr M £150 
compensation. I invited both to provide anything further they would like me to consider 
before issuing this final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If a consumer contacts their broker to claim following an accident, that broker should
provide them with information thats fair, clear, and not misleading  to enable them 
to make an informed decision about how they want to proceed. This should include 
discussing the pros and cons of claiming on their policy over using an AMC.
The significant risks of each choice should also be discussed. In particular, a broker 
should make the consumer aware that entering into an AMC agreement means 
stepping outside a regulated contract of insurance. This means theyre likely to lose 
the option to complain to us if things go wrong. It should also be explained that if the 
third-party contests liability that the consumer is potentially liable for any 
unrecoverable credit hire costs and that they would need to enter into an unregulated 
credit agreement for these.
The broker should also act in the best interests of their customer  so before 
discussing credit hire/repair, we think the broker should investigate to see if these 
services are suitable for the consumer  for example, by checking the accident is 
likely non-fault and that the consumer has a need for a hire car.
If a broker doesnt explain a consumers options properly, well try to put the 
consumer in the position they would have been in, had things been explained in a 
clear and balanced way. If we think the consumers choice is likely to be the same, 
but the poor referral caused them additional unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience, which they otherwise wouldnt have had. Then were more likely to 
say the referral was poor and ask the business to compensate them for the 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience it caused. However, if we find a business 
did everything wed expect, then we wouldnt be asking it to do anything differently.
Ive therefore reviewed whether AA complied with what wed expect below.
I agree with our investigator that AAs referral failed to provide some important 
information about the two options when explaining them to Mr Hs son. In summary it 
failed to outline any potential downsides to the AMC option. The investigators view 
set those omissions out, so I wont repeat that explanation in detail here. 
AA said it conducted the referral correctly. It says any further information on the 
terms of the agreement is for the AMC to provide. But I disagree. Its required to 
provide clear, fair and not misleading information. By focusing on the pros and 
omitting the cons it failed to do that in a balanced way. It also failed to consider if the 
service was suitable for Mr M  as an example it didnt make any attempt to 
understand if he required a hire car before encouraging him to opt for the AMC.
Like the investigator I feel AA should pay Mr M £150 compensation. However, my 
reasons for it are more focused than those given by our investigator. Ive listened to 
the claim notification call to AA. In summary I feel AA unfairly and unreasonably 
pressured Mr M (via his son) into choosing the AMC option. 
As Ive said AA didnt discuss the pros and cons of using the AMC. It presented only 
the potential benefits. Without any real discussion of Mr Ms circumstances (beyond 
the collision circumstances) it said that option would be his best choice. Its adviser 
also said he would use the AMC if he were in Mr Ms position (that was admittedly in 
response to a request for a recommendation). 
It was clear throughout the call that Mr M and his son didnt understand the options  
or the decision they were being pressured to make. The son explained a couple of 
times that his father had only just returned from accident and emergency (following 
the collision) so wasnt in a condition to decide. AA didnt accept that. Instead it 
highlighted the positives of the AMC choice again. Mr Ms son asked if the decision 
could be made another time  making it clear the preference was for a call back the 
following day. AA responded by acknowledging the decision didnt have to be made immediately  
but pushed for a call back in the next few hours. Mr Ms son again said the matter 
needed to be left until the next day as they had only recently returned from the 
hospital. In response AA increased the tension by introducing a potential risk. It 
warned the AMC option would be removed if not accepted before the TPI contacted 
Mr M. His son still didnt agree to the AMC. AA increased the tension again by 
introducing the possibility of the TPI contacting his father within the next hour. 
Again Mr Ms son didnt agree. He even said he wasnt sure his father required a hire 
car (one of the key potential benefits of the AMC option). So AA introduced the 
possibility of selecting the AMC referral there and then  but with the option of later 
opting out. Mr Ms son again confers with his father. He returns to agree to the AMC. 
There was much talk during the call by AA of it wanting the best for Mr M, by 
ensuring the AMC option remained available for him. This may have been genuine 
concern for Mr Ms interests. However, not only were the potential cons of the AMC 
omitted, but the overall tone and approach to the call created unnecessary pressure 
and tension for Mr M to decide during the call. This was despite his son making it 
clear he wasnt in a fit state to understand the implications or decide. The reasonable 
request to delay the decision overnight was met with further pressure. Instead Mr M 
had to repeatedly discuss the issue, taking in the added tension and warnings.
This pressure placed on Mr M was unnecessary and unfair in my opinion  
particularly so when he had only recently returned from hospital. I think its likely this 
caused him unnecessary distress  feeling pressure to make an important decision 
when he wasnt in a condition to do so. To recognise this I intend to require AA to pay 
him £150 compensation. 
Ive also considered the impact of the actual referral. We asked Mr Ms son to explain 
any loss or negative impact of using the AMC. However he failed to do so. Based on 
what Ive seen I cant say there was anything significant. There were some 
communication issues and a delay in payment of his settlement by the TPI. These 
were caused by it being short staffed due to the Covid pandemic. So its likely the 
same would have happened if Mr M had chosen his own insurer, rather than the 
AMC, for the claim.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither AA nor Mr M provided anything of significance in response to my provisional 
decision. That means I havent been provided with anything to change my position. So for 
the reasons set out above AA will need to pay Mr M £150 compensation.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited to 
pay Mr M £150 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman