DRN-3033468
The complaint
Mr D complains about the actions of FairFX PLC when he fell victim to an investment scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In May 2019 Mr D was tricked into believing he was making a legitimate long-term 
investment with a firm Ill refer to as W. He was taken through a convincing process which 
(common with many investments) involved him sharing his personal details. He made two 
payments totalling £64,500, believing he was buying investment bonds. The payments were 
made from his own bank, which Ill refer to as H and to the account details hed been 
provided.
One of these payments is relevant to this complaint. It was made in June 2019 for £49,500 
to an account held with FairFX.
In November 2019 Mr D received a call from an unknown third-party who informed him that 
W had ceased trading. It offered to help him recover the funds (subject to a fee). Mr D 
carried out his own research and learned hed likely fallen victim to an investment scam and 
that the account with FairFX (to which the payment of £49,500 was ultimately paid) had been 
opened in his name.
  
Mr D reported the matter to H, Action Fraud and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). He 
also contacted FairFX directly but couldnt pass its security checks. Mr D made a request for 
 and was provided with  all the information FairFX held about him. There were no funds 
remaining that could be returned. 
Mr D received a refund from H for half his total loss  £32,250. He pursued both the recipient 
firms for his remaining loss as theyd allowed a scammer to open and operate an account in 
his name.  
FairFX issued its final response after Mr D had referred his complaint to our service. In short 
it said the account had been opened in line with its regulatory obligations and it had 
completed appropriate security checks before processing the payment order. And whilst it 
sympathises with Mr D, as it has followed the correct procedures it would not be upholding 
his complaint.
 
Mr D remained unhappy as he says the account should never have been opened. For a 
number of reasons, he believes that FairFX has failed to carry out sufficient due diligence at 
account opening and that it has acted irresponsibly in processing the payment. He feels 
strongly that its failure in its obligations as a regulated firm has caused his loss. One of our 
Senior Investigators considered the complaint but didnt recommend it should be upheld. 
Mr D remained unhappy and asked for an Ombudsman to make a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr D, but Im not upholding this complaint. I dont 
doubt the significant impact being a victim in this way has had on him. I appreciate he feels 
strongly that FairFX should refund his remaining loss as the account should never have 
been opened in the first place. But it would only be fair for me to direct FairFX to reimburse 
Mr D his remaining loss if Im satisfied it reasonably failed to prevent this loss or did 
something wrong where it would be fair to ask it to provide a refund.
Here an account was opened in Mr Ds name by the scammers, using the information Mr D 
provided in the course of dealing with them. As Mr D had not opened the account which he 
was tricked into sending his funds to, its understandable that he argues FairFX failed in its 
due diligence. But simply because it is later discovered that an account was opened in 
Mr Ds name without his knowledge doesnt automatically mean the firm failed in its due 
diligence at account opening. 
I note Mr D challenges the robustness of the checks completed by FairFX at account 
opening. He gives an example of a reputable law firm who had verified his identity through 
video conferencing and questions why FairFX couldnt do the same. He also thinks FairFX 
should have written to him at his postal address to confirm hed opened the account. He 
argues had it done either of those things the account wouldnt have been opened and the 
funds wouldve either remained with FairFX and been available for recovery or wouldve 
been returned to H. Ive thought about what Mr D has said, but at the time there was no 
mandatory requirement on FairFX to take either of the steps Mr D believes it ought to have 
as part of its identification verification checks. 
Here, Im satisfied that FairFX correctly followed its account opening procedures; carried out 
electronic checks to verify Mr Ds identity; and opened the account in line with its legal and 
regulatory obligations. It has also explained that it mitigates the risk of impersonation by only 
accepting funds from a bank account held in the same name as its account holder. I 
appreciate Mr D says some of the information that FairFX held about him was incorrect, 
such as his: email address, contact number and place of birth. But an email address and 
contact number do not form part of due diligence or identification verification checks, and 
here where you were born was chosen as a security question and the answer was 
recorded in response. The purpose of the security question was to allow the account holder 
to be identified in future interactions. This information was not collated for account opening 
verification purposes and did not form part of the due diligence checks. So, taking all the 
above into consideration I cant see that FairFX reasonably could have known at the time 
that it wasnt dealing with Mr D or that there was anything untoward in the opening of the 
account that resulted in his loss. Mr D has also shared his concerns about the money he sent crediting and being transferred 
out of the FairFX account on the same day that it was opened. He says the activity shouldve 
flagged as suspicious. He believes there were grounds for FairFX to have had concerns 
about the possibility of misappropriation of funds. I think its important to acknowledge that 
FairFX is a money transfer and currency exchange provider. So an account held for that 
purpose will likely look very different to a regular bank account used for daily expenditure. It 
isnt uncommon for such accounts to be used for one off payments and for those payments 
to be for significant sums. I agree with the Senior Investigator that this is something FairFX 
will encounter with some regularity as part of its ordinary business, and on newly opened 
accounts. It wouldnt be a cause for concern in and of itself. So, in this context, taking also 
into account the funds received to fulfil the payment order were sent from an account held in 
Mr Ds name and that FairFX did complete additional security checks before releasing the 
payment. I dont think I can fairly say that there was anything about this transaction that 
ought to have prompted FairFX to have refused the payment instruction it had been given by 
its account holder. 
And finally, Ive considered FairFXs actions once notified of the scam. FairFX only became 
aware that Mr D had not opened the account into which hed transferred funds as a result of 
an investment scam in November 2019. None of Mr Ds funds were available for recovery at 
that time. They had all been transferred from the account shortly after theyd arrived  in 
June 2019. FairFX also shared with Mr D (upon request) all the information it held about him. 
As such, I dont think I can fairly say that FairFX didnt respond appropriately to the alleged 
fraud or that they could have done more to recover Mr Ds money. 
Whilst I know my decision will be disappointing and isnt the answer Mr D was hoping for, I 
hope it brings some closure to this matter for him. He is not obliged to accept what Ive said, 
in which case Mr D remains free to pursue this matter by alternative means, such as the 
courts (subject to any relevant time limits) should he wish to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman