DRN-3188870
The complaint
Mr K complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited failed to carry out sufficient due 
diligence activities when he asked to transfer some pension savings to a Small 
Self-Administered Pension Scheme (SSAS) in 2014.
What happened
Mr K has been assisted in making his complaint by a claims management company (CMC). 
But, in this decision, I will largely refer to all communication as having been with, and from, 
Mr K himself. At the time of the transfer Mr Ks pension savings were held with Friends Life. 
But Aviva is now responsible for that firm, and so is dealing with the complaint. For ease, 
I will refer to Aviva as the responsible business throughout.
Mr K held pension savings with Aviva. His pension savings were held in six different pension 
plans. Aviva completed the transfer of Mr Ks pension savings in two tranches. Four policies 
were transferred in March 2014 and the remaining two policies were transferred in later in 
the year, in December.
Mr K says that he was cold called by a firm offering him a free pension review. He found the 
proposals from the firm to be attractive and agreed to the transfer of his pension savings 
from Aviva (and another firm). Mr K says he was told that by investing his pension savings in 
an overseas property scheme he would receive a better return on his investments..
Mr K completed the paperwork the firm provided that created a new company that would 
employ Mr K, and set up a SSAS to provide him with pension benefits after it received the 
transfers from Aviva and the other provider. Aviva received the request for the transfer of 
Mr Ks pension savings in February 2014 via the automated Origo Options system. 
In his letter of complaint Mr K said that during the entire transfer process there was no 
effective communication from Aviva to him. In particular he said that Aviva should have 
warned him that his transfer request might be as a result of a scam, and warned him about 
the risks he was facing. Mr K said that those warnings would have resulted in him cancelling 
the transfer activity.
Mr Ks complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He accepted that Aviva 
might have done more in its communication with Mr K before the first tranche of transfers. 
But he noted that Aviva had warned Mr K about the dangers of the transfer before the final 
two policies were transferred. Since Mr K didnt stop the second part of the transfer when he 
received those warnings, our investigator didnt think that further communication with Mr K at 
the time of the first transfer would have made a difference. So he didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. 
Mr K didnt agree with that assessment. Although I am only briefly summarising here what he 
and his CMC have said, I want to reassure Mr K that I have read, and carefully considered, 
all the representations that have been made.
Mr Ks CMC says there is no evidence that Mr K received any information from Aviva in 
relation to his pension transfer that would have led him to become aware of the risks he was 
taking. So it doesnt think that Mr K completing that transfer gives any indication that he 
wouldnt have taken on board the warnings Aviva should have provided. It says that, had 
Aviva continued to delay the second part of Mr Ks transfer, it is likely that he would have 
changed his mind about moving his pension savings.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr K and by Aviva. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
The Pension Regulators (TPR) scorpion guidance
The scorpion guidance was issued on 14 February 2013 and updated the following year, in 
July 2014. Several bodies including the FSA (the Financial Services Authority which was 
succeeded by the Financial Conduct Authority, the FCA, shortly afterwards) were part of this 
initiative so its a relevant consideration for personal pension providers like Aviva which 
come under FSA/FCA regulation, rather than TPR regulation.
Briefly, the scorpion campaign involved an action pack that highlighted the warning signs 
present in a number of transfer examples, specifically: being cold-called, money being 
transferred overseas, incentives to transfer, inadequate information about investments and 
pressure to complete a transfer quickly. It suggested transferring schemes should look out 
for these issues, as well as receiving occupational schemes that were newly registered or 
were suddenly involved in multiple transfer requests. The 2014 update replaced many of the 
2013 warnings about pension liberation, with similar warnings about scams.
If any of the warning signs applied, the action pack provided a checklist schemes could use 
which suggested asking the member for copies of promotional materials, emails or letters 
about the scheme and for further details about how they became aware of the receiving 
scheme and how it had been described to them. If those enquiries established the member 
had been advised, it went on to suggest checking whether the adviser had been registered 
with the FCA. Where transferring schemes had concerns, they were encouraged to consider 
delaying the transfer and to seek legal advice.
The scorpion campaign also included:An insert to issue to members when a transfer pack was requested. The insert warns 
about offers to cash-in pensions early, cash incentives, cold calling, being put under 
pressure to transfer and the potential tax consequences of accessing pensions early.
A longer leaflet which gives more information, including real life examples, about 
pension liberation. This was to be used in order to help raise awareness about 
pension liberation amongst pension scheme members.
In addition to endorsing this guidance, Avivas regulator, the FCA, had since its inception set 
out Principles and Rules for Aviva to follow  including COBS 2.1.1R (the clients best 
interests rule) which Mr Ks representative has highlighted. So I think it was also appropriate 
for Aviva to have regard for this TPR guidance in meeting its existing regulatory obligations. 
In light of this Ill consider what (if any) warning signs Aviva ought reasonably to have noticed 
in Mr Ks request to transfer to the SSAS.
Status of the receiving scheme
Every SSAS is specific to its members, and consideration will often be given to transfers 
from a members existing pensions when a scheme is first set up. So it may not necessarily 
have been surprising that a transfer request was being received to a scheme Mr K had 
recently established as trustee, for what appeared to be a new employer he had 
incorporated as a director.
At the time, the actions being taken by TPR against suspected pension liberation schemes 
tended to involve larger multi-member schemes operated by unscrupulous trustees which 
were hurriedly set up and admitted members from all over the UK, with no connection to 
each other, over a short space of time. That wasnt the form of arrangement Mr K was 
entering into, which might have appeared a lot more like a decision he entered into to form a 
pension scheme for his own company. It wasnt until a further update to the action pack in 
March 2015 that TPR specifically highlighted that the focus of liberation or scam activity had 
now moved to single-member schemes.
And the SSAS administrator itself had been in existence for a number of years at the time of 
the transfer and was well regarded as a market leader. So I dont consider it should have 
been regarded as a recently established operator in the market. The transfer request that 
Aviva received was made through the industry wide Origo scheme. That scheme allows for 
vetted members of the scheme to move pension monies quickly and with limited paperwork. 
But although the use of Origo might have given Aviva some comfort, I dont think it absolved 
the firm from its responsibilities to conduct the appropriate due diligence on the transfer 
request.
Aviva says the transfer request provided it with little information about the ultimate 
investment Mr K intended. If Aviva had suspected the investment Mr K was making might be 
a scam there were several options open to it under TPRs guidance. Its important to say 
here that this applies whether or not that suspicion was correct, so Im making no judgement 
here about the status of Mr Ks investment. Part of the problem is that investment scams are 
often outwardly indistinguishable from what might simply be a risky investment proposal that 
could lose all the investors money.
The options Aviva had were to investigate whether there were grounds to delay or refuse to 
transfer to the SSAS altogether; or and particularly if not, to engage further with Mr K by 
providing risk warnings and check he understood the implications of what he was doing.Did Aviva have a basis on which to delay or refuse the transfer?
When Aviva first received Mr Ks transfer request it relied on its knowledge of the scheme 
administrator, and the use of the Origo system, to derive some reassurance that no further 
checks were needed. But, for reasons that arent entirely clear to me, Aviva only transferred 
four of the six pension plans that Mr K held.
Shortly after the initial transfer had been completed, Aviva updated its processes. It had 
become concerned about the volume of similar requests it was receiving for transfers to 
SSASs and so decided it would be appropriate to conduct further due-diligence activities on 
those requests. So the transfer of the final two pension plans was delayed.
Aviva has explained that the rules of its personal pension meant a customer had a right to 
transfer their pension plan to any scheme capable (and willing) to accept a recognised 
transfer under Section 169 of the Finance Act 2004. The HMRC registration of the scheme 
meant it fulfilled those criteria. Although Aviva didnt make any further enquiries of HMRC 
here, I have no reason to think additional enquiries would have highlighted any problems.
A statutory right to transfer to a SSAS would also exist given that the sponsoring employer of 
the SSAS was Mr Ks own company of which he was acting as a director. To ensure that it 
would have been necessary for Aviva to inspect the SSAS trust deed and rules  again it 
doesnt seem that was done. When considering the second tranche of transfers Aviva did 
ask for that information from the scheme administrator but it wasnt received. But it appears 
Mr K was entitled to secure transfer credits as a member of that SSAS using his Aviva 
personal pension, given he was clearly holding office as a director of that employer at the 
time.
Before making the second transfer Aviva appears to have had concerns that the new 
employer Mr K had set up might not have been genuine and therefore this wasnt a valid 
exercise of his statutory rights. But that stance by Aviva was met by a letter of complaint 
from Mr K about it delaying the transfer. 
The scheme was validly registered with HMRC, and there would have been nothing to 
suggest at the time that it was being used for pension liberation, particularly given that Mr K 
was already past the minimum pension age of 55. The case law subsequently established in 
Hughes v Royal London [2016] EWHC 319 (Ch) indicates that as Mr K already had earnings 
from his main occupation, a lack of further earnings from the sponsoring employer of which 
he was a director of in this case wouldnt have invalidated his statutory right to transfer.
Im not saying that Aviva should have anticipated the outcome of a court case that hadnt yet 
happened  if it had suspicions at the time, it should have communicated what those 
suspicions were, as Ill explain later below. But I think its important to recognise what its 
now been established the law actually meant for this sort of transfer.
Having considered all of this I think Aviva was right to conclude that its prospects were 
limited, for delaying or blocking Mr Ks transfer out of a suspicion that the sponsoring 
employer wasnt genuine - and could ultimately have been unsuccessful. 
 
In the case of an actual investment scam, it might be expected that engaging further with the 
member about the potential risks they were taking might lead to the member reconsidering 
whether they wanted to transfer in any event  and therefore was a more constructive way 
for Aviva to proceed in the particular circumstances of this case. So Ive next considered 
what happened when Aviva got directly in touch with Mr K to explain its concerns.Risk warnings
At a time when the TPR guidance was less prescriptive than it, and other industry codes, 
now are on the degree of contact a transferring scheme should have with the customer, a 
key method of passing on these risk warnings was to issue the scorpion leaflet. Since 
February 2013 TPR had been saying on its website that it would like to see the use of this 
insert in transfer packs for members becoming best practice.
At first Aviva seems to have taken the view that this wasnt a necessary step given that 
Mr Ks request had been received through the Origo system. But the danger in taking that 
approach is that Aviva is effectively relying on what might be a fraudulent party to protect its 
customer. So in my view Aviva should have sent the leaflet to Mr K before the first transfer, 
both to provide him with information about the risks he might be facing, and to ensure that it 
could demonstrate it followed the TPR guidance. 
But the evidence suggests that Aviva did send the scorpion leaflet to Mr K, on two 
occasions, when it was considering his complaint about the delay to the second tranche of 
his transfer. I have seen copies of the letters Aviva sent to Mr K, that warn him about the tax 
implications of unauthorised payments from pension savings and about potential pension 
liberation activities. And the letters also say a copy of the scorpion leaflet was enclosed. 
I appreciate Mr K says that he doesnt recall receiving these leaflets. But on balance I have 
no reason to think they werent sent. 
The Action Pack provided guidance to firms as to the steps they might take should they have 
concerns about a transfer. It suggested firms could:
Contact the member to establish whether they understand the type of scheme 
theyll be transferring to and send them the pension scams booklet available 
at www.pension-scams.com
Speak to the member at risk  over the phone, via email or letter. It could help 
you establish answers to more of the questions in the checklist, where youve 
been unable to answer them with the information you have available
Direct the member to Action Fraud if you think it is a scam, or The Pensions 
Advisory Service (TPAS) to discuss the potential consequences of the 
transfer, including tax repercussions, if any part of the arrangement is 
deemed as unauthorised
If the member insists on proceeding with their transfer request, and your 
concerns remain, then you should alert Action Fraud yourself. There could 
still be time to protect this member, or others who follow in their footsteps.
Avivas own investigations suggest that it decided not to make any direct contact with Mr K 
when it first received his transfer request. But I dont think I need to consider here whether or 
not that was a reasonable approach. I think that Mr Ks response to the delays on the 
second tranche of his transfer, and his lack of response to the scorpion leaflets he had been 
sent, suggest it would have made little difference.Could Aviva have gone further, and would it have made a difference?
The Action Pack does suggest getting in touch with the member but that is the only 
expectation  it doesnt specify how that contact should be made, and certainly not that the 
contact should be by telephone. This is left to the discretion of the provider. Although I know 
some providers have tried engaging over the phone it is not without its difficulties, including 
the risk of it being wrongly perceived as a self-interested attempt to retain Mr Ks business. 
Given that the staff involved in processing payments out of the transferring scheme are 
neither qualified nor authorised to provide financial advice, in reality such a conversation 
would also need to be heavily scripted  and might not end up being a lot more effective 
than a letter. So I couldnt fairly fault Aviva for deciding that it was best to engage with Mr K 
by letter.
The main risk in Mr Ks transfer was not one of liberation, but the potential for the 
subsequent investment to be either a scam or wholly unsuitable for him. However even if the 
Aviva had been alerted to the possibility of a scam (when it discovered the nature of the 
proposed investment), that doesnt mean it was straightforward for Aviva to tell Mr K directly 
that it thought it was unsuitable (or even likely to be unsuitable) for him. It would have been 
forming such a view based on insufficient information about Mr Ks personal circumstances  
and of course it was not qualified to formally provide such advice. If it had attempted to 
directly caution Mr K against making the investment it wasnt in a position to advise what he 
should invest in, which is a natural question to follow.
When Aviva initially blocked the transfer the of final two policies, citing concerns in line with 
the new guidance, I can see that the SSAS administrator, on behalf of Mr K, complained 
about Avivas actions. Ultimately those remaining plans were transferred in late 2014. So 
even in the face of resistance from Aviva, Mr K still pressed ahead with the transfer request. 
Mr K had already taken some significant steps here, not least the setting up of a limited 
company that bore the names of his children and the taking on of director duties for that 
company. There had been a lot of activity leading up to the transfer request with numerous 
points where someone less committed to changing their pension arrangements could easily 
have pulled out. Obviously, Mr K didnt do so which, to my mind, shows he had more than 
just a passing interest in the investment. 
So in that context, I dont think a statement from his old pension provider about regulated 
financial advice being a good idea would have prompted Mr K to take independent advice or 
to pull out of the transfer. I think he would only have done so if he had doubts about his 
investment and was prepared to unwind the steps he had already taken. Taking everything 
into consideration, including listening to two calls between Mr K and our investigator, I dont 
think this was likely.
Im not satisfied that flagging up any of the other messages in the scorpion guidance  for 
example the availability of TPAS to discuss any concerns  would have fundamentally 
altered Mr Ks decision to proceed in this case. Im drawn to the regrettable conclusion that 
Mr K was already satisfied enough with the advice he was getting  whether that was from 
the SSAS administrator or another firm that appeared to have been involved in the 
discussions  to have been willing to make the decisions he made at the time. I cannot 
reasonably say he would have been deterred from going ahead in spite of any further steps 
Aviva might have taken to alert him in line with what Ive set out above.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman