DRN-4120705
The complaint
Mr M complains Santander UK Plc (Santander) closed his new savings account without 
explanation. 
Mr M says this caused him distress and substantive inconvenience. He also says hes lost 
out on a preferential interest rate on the savings account and a switching bonus - causing 
him financial loss.
What happened
Around 13 October 2022, Mr M opened a savings account with Santander to take advantage 
of its preferential rate of interest. Hes previously held an account with Santander.
Mr M had an issue with logging onto his new account online. This matter, as our Investigator 
explained, doesnt form part of this complaint and decision. Later, on 19 October 2022, 
Santander wrote to Mr M and explained it couldnt offer him banking facilities and its closed 
his account. 
Unhappy with Santanders actions, Mr M complained. Santander didnt uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. In summary, it said:
- Looking at the information regarding closing the account, Santander regrets it cant 
offer Mr M banking facilities
- It said M will need to make alternative banking arrangements. Santander apologised 
for any inconvenience this caused
Mr M referred his complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into his 
complaint. They upheld the complaint part. In short, their key findings were:
- Santander was able to restrict and close Mr Ms account shortly after it was opened, 
alongside the terms and conditions of the account, in the same way a customer can 
leave it for another bank
 
- Santander isnt obliged to give him an explanation for doing so. However, Santander 
should explain to this service why its done so, so we can determine its acted fairly. 
But Santander has failed to do so 
- The terms of the account allow Santander to end an agreement immediately or with 
two months notice. Santander should have provided notice of closure to Mr M
- To put things right, Santander should pay Mr M £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience its caused him
Mr M didnt agree with what our Investigator said. He asked that the terms and conditions of 
the account are made available to him as the ones he saw when opening the account didnt 
say anything about Santanders ability to close the account. 
In response, our Investigator said they reached their findings based on the terms provided to 
them by Santander for the time the account was opened. They added that Santander made 
its terms and conditions of account available on its website, so they are readily accessible. 
Our Investigator sent Mr M a web link for the terms and conditions. 
Mr M said those terms had no date stamp on them, so how can he be sure they were 
effective for the date the account was opened. He also said the terms covered a variety of 
Santanders products - and the product hed applied for wasnt named specifically.
He added that Santander ought to have emailed him the terms and conditions given thats 
how he was communicating. And it ought to have told him these terms and conditions 
applied to his account.
Santander didnt agree with what our Investigator said. It said that it acted correctly when 
closing the account in the way it did and does not agree Mr M should be paid £100 
compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused.
Later, Santander continued to argue it had done nothing wrong in closing the account in the 
way it did. But it accepts it could have been clearer from the outset in supporting Mr M. 
Because of this it offered £100 compensation. 
As there is no agreement, this complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything Mr M and Santander have said 
before reaching my decision. 
Its important to note, my decision focuses on Santanders actions in regard to Mr Ms sole 
named savings account.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information 
Santander has provided is information we consider should be kept confidential.
Banks in the UK, like Santander, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order 
to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.Id also add that as a regulated business, Santanders legal and regulatory obligations 
generally cover the entire period of its customer relationship  from application to eventually 
the end of the relationship. This includes KYC checks and/or Customer Due Diligence 
(CDD).
Santander is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. 
But before Santander closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the 
terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which Santander and Mr M had to comply with, say 
that it could close the account by giving them at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice.
Santander has now explained in the detail we require why it closed Mr Ms account. Having 
carefully considered this information, Im persuaded NatWest acted in line with the terms of 
the account when closing it in the way it did.
Mr M says hes lost financially due to not being able to get the interest rate he wanted which 
the account offered, and not getting a switching bonus. Santander say the switching bonus 
didnt apply to him as he wasnt moving funds from another of his accounts with it. But even 
if that wasnt the case, I dont think it matters. Thats because I dont think theres basis to 
award any compensation here for financial loss, and for any distress and inconvenience 
caused as Santander hasnt acted improperly in closing the account immediately and without 
notice. 
I know Mr M would like an explanation as to why Santander took the actions it did. But Im 
not aware of any obligation under which it must. And for the reasons above about what 
information we consider in confidence, I wont be providing him with an explanation.
Mr M has made several points about the terms and conditions not specifically referencing his 
saving account by its product name, and it not being made sufficiently available to him. Ive 
thought about these points very carefully, and I dont agree.
The terms and conditions explicitly say theyre effective from June 2002. Given this 
pre-dates his application and the proximity to when the account was opened, Im satisfied 
they can reasonably be relied on as those applicable to Mr M. Theyre also clearly titled 
General Terms and Conditions and Important Information. Current Accounts and Savings 
Accounts.. So I dont think theyre ambiguous And I think they make it clear they relate to 
Mr Ms account.
Mr M says he should have been sent the terms and conditions by email given thats how he 
had communicated with Santander. I dont know exactly what Santander did at application to 
signpost him to the terms. But applications normally require new customers to affirmatively 
accept terms and conditions, and I dont think them being available on a website is making 
them unfairly accessible. After all this is also a digital channel, and from what Ive seen Im 
persuaded Mr M was able to use and access online channels.
Santander has pro-actively accepted that it could have been clearer from the outset in 
supporting Mr M. Because of this it has offered him compensation of £100 for any distress 
and inconvenience this caused. Im satisfied this is fair redress.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint in part. Santander UK Plc must now pay 
Mr M £100 compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman