DRN-3817886
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (OCRF) rejected his claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of 
some solar panels.
Mr T is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mr T bought solar panels for his home in June 2018. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from OCRF, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. Mr T says the installer misled him into believing that the 
panels would be self-funding, which they werent. The CMC also says that the installer failed 
to make it clear that interest would be charged on the loan.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator thought that the installer had 
misrepresented the system to Mr T and so she upheld the complaint. This was because she 
thought (in line with our usual approach in these cases) the installer had failed to compare 
the cost and benefits of the panels in the same document, and so Mr Ts account of the 
salesman telling him that the panels would be self-funding was plausible.
OCRF did not agree, and so the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision. I wrote a 
provisional decision which read as follows.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I am currently not minded to uphold this 
complaint. That is because I think the sales documentation sets out the cost and the 
estimated benefit of the panels clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach the cost.
This is a bit of a departure from our services usual approach to complaints of this sort, and 
so I will first need to say a little more about that.
Our starting point in these complaints is that where a consumer tells us that a salesman told 
him that their solar panels would pay for themselves, we accept that testimony at face value 
as being true, unless there is clear evidence to contradict it. That is because the consumer 
was there and can give a first-hand account of what was said at the sales meeting. If their 
story is clear and not contradictory, then we would usually not have any reason to doubt 
what they have to say. So while the onus is on a complainant to support their complaint with 
evidence, the complainants own recollection of a meeting at which they were present is 
itself evidence. Further evidence to corroborate their story is not always required. That is 
often a sufficient basis for upholding a complaint.
However, we usually take a different view if the complainants story is contradicted by clear 
evidence in writing that the panels actually would not pay for themselves. Where that is the 
case, an allegation that the salesman said the opposite is usually not plausible. In such 
circumstances, we will not accept the complainants account of the meeting, but instead will 
conclude that their recollection is mistaken, or otherwise unreliable.
Usually, the outcome of the complaint turns on the clarity of the written evidence which 
contradicts the complainants description of what the salesman verbally told them. We 
usually expect the installer of the solar panels to show the cost of the panels and their 
expected financial benefits together in the same document (although not necessarily on the 
same page), so that the consumer can easily compare them and see for himself whether the 
panels will be self-funding or not.
Respondent businesses often argue that it should be good enough for the installers contract 
or quote to just show the benefit alone, because the consumer can simply compare that with 
the loan agreement, which of course shows the cost. But we usually dont think that is clear 
enough evidence to rebut a complainants account of what the salesman told him. The 
complainant could still plausibly say that the salesman told him that the panels would pay for 
themselves, without the complainant having noticed that the paperwork contradicted the 
sales pitch. (And it is not a defence to a claim to misrepresentation for the defendant to show 
that the claimant could, with due diligence, have discovered that it was untrue. The issue is 
whether it is plausible that the salesman really said that the panels would be self-funding, not 
whether the complainant should have known better.)
In this case, our adjudicator followed the approach I have described above. Since there is no 
single document which shows both the cost and the benefits, she accepted Mr Ts 
description of what he had been told in the sales pitch and upheld his complaint. But our 
approach is not inflexible, and I can depart from it where I think it is fair and reasonable to do 
so. And my reason for doing so in this case is that the estimated benefit from the panels was 
set out in a single page document which was signed by Mr T on the same date as the sales 
meeting, and the total cost and the monthly loan payments were clearly set out on a two-
page document which he also signed on the same day. Comparing the figures on these 
three pages would have been no harder than comparing the figures in a single document 
would have been.
The first of the two documents I am referring to is titled Performance Estimation. At the 
bottom it says in bold type Total Estimate Year 1 Benefit = followed by the figures £257.77 
to 314.48. This document was signed by Mr T immediately below those figures, and so 
I think that the installers salesman did enough to bring this information to his attention. This 
document made it clear that this benefit figure was made up of both the feed-in tariff income 
and the savings on his electricity bills.
The second document is titled Validation Sheet and is also signed by Mr T. This says that 
the cash price of the panels was £5,400. Clearly ten times £314.48 a year would come to 
only £3,144.80, so the annual benefits would obviously not be enough to pay for the panels 
within the loan term.
The validation sheet also said that the loan term was 120 months, Mr T would have to pay 
£69.80 a month, and the total he had to pay including interest was £8,376.91. For that 
reason I do not uphold the complaint that the installer failed to tell him about the interest on 
the loan. (The same information appears in the loan agreement too.) But this is also relevant 
to the main complaint issue, about self-funding. It would have been obvious that a years 
worth of monthly payments of £69.80 would come to much more than £314.48.For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mr T about the benefits and 
cost of the panels. It was quite clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the 
term of the loan. So my provisional decision is that I am unlikely to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional findings
The CMC did not accept my provisional decision. It said that Mr T denied having been 
shown any comparison of the cost and benefit, and insisted that he had been told that the 
panels would cover their cost. He would never have bought them if he had known that they 
would not pay for themselves. The CMC argued that I had made unsupported assumptions 
about the level of information provided to Mr T at the point of sale.
The CMC also reiterated that the law does not require a consumer to scrutinise the sales 
paperwork to verify what a salesman told him. I note that I acknowledged as much in my 
provisional decision (see the passage in parentheses on page 2). The CMC went on to say 
that Mr T should not be expected to carry out various calculations to ascertain the financial 
viability of the solar panels.
My findings
Since the two documents on which I based my provisional conclusions were both signed by 
Mr T, I do not think that my findings were based on unsupported assumptions; they are 
supported by contemporaneous evidence. Mr T may have forgotten seeing these documents 
after more than four years, but I am satisfied that they were shown to him at the time.
I dont agree that this involved asking or expecting him to carry out complicated calculations. 
As I have already explained above, the comparison of cost and benefit was straightforward. 
So I remain of the view I expressed in my provisional decision. I am not persuaded that the 
salesman told Mr T that the panels would pay for themselves within the loan term.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman