DRN-2833464
The complaint
Mr T, Mrs N and Mrs T are unhappy with the way they have been treated by Santander UK 
plc. They have made the following complaint points:
They were told to visit their local branch of Santander in order to verify Mrs Ts 
identity but when they got there, they were turned away because of Covid-19
Santander didnt consider Mrs Ts income when they completed an affordability 
assessment, so a lower amount was offered to them than what they had applied for
Santander requested a power of attorney (POA) document from Mrs T and didnt 
accept the letter of authority (LOA) that was provided 
They made a right to buy (RTB) application and Santander didnt advise them early 
enough that the names had to match those on the application  so Santander caused 
delays
Santander cancelled their mortgage application and didnt notify them of this
What happened
Mr T and his wife, Mrs N contacted Santander to apply for a RTB mortgage to buy their 
council house. They wanted to make this application with their daughter, Mrs T  so there 
would be three applicants. 
Mr T and Mrs N said that their daughter has learning difficulties and when they contacted 
Santander in May 2020, they were told to visit their local branch in order to confirm the 
identity of Mrs T. 
On 29 May 2020, Mr T, Mrs N and Mrs T visited their local branch but the branch declined to 
see them because of coronavirus.  A complaint was raised but Santander said they didnt 
believe they did anything wrong.
For the application to proceed, Mr T, Mrs N and Mrs T, provided Santander with a LOA 
which was drafted by their solicitor. This document confirmed that Mr T had authority from 
Mrs T, his daughter, to deal with her financial affairs. Santander told Mr T, Mrs N and Mrs T 
that they were unable to proceed just on the LOA alone, and they needed a POA for Mrs T. 
Mr T, Mrs N and Mrs T thought that Santander should have accepted the LOA but because 
of this, they re-applied again with their son instead of their daughter. But Santander declined 
the application.
On 7 August 2020, Mr T and Mrs N re-submitted their application with their daughter, Mrs T. 
Mr T, Mrs N and Mrs T said there were delays in processing the application, so they raised a 
further complaint in September 2020. Santander responded on 16 September 2020 and they 
agreed that there were some delays, so they offered £100 compensation.
Santander informed Mr T on the 7 October 2020 that they were no longer proceeding with 
the mortgage application due to his behaviour towards their staff.
Mr T, Mrs N and Mrs T have since taken out a mortgage with another lender. 
Mr T, Mrs N and Mrs T were unhappy, so they brought the complaint to our service where it 
was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator thought that there had been some 
failings by Santander, so he asked them to award a further £200  which Santander 
accepted. 
However, Mr T, Mrs N and Mrs T remained unhappy. They said:
They were given an appointment over the telephone to visit their local branch, but the 
branch turned them away  it took 12 months to respond with a finding to their 
complaint
Santander didnt mention at the start of the application that they needed a POA and 
they dont understand why they needed it when they had the LOA  which was 
accepted by our service. They are not happy that Santander questioned Mrs Ts 
benefits and said they were not indefinite  so could not take them into account when 
assessing the application. These were not questioned at the start of the application, 
so this caused delays. They are confused about why our investigator accepted the 
LOA first and then declined it based on the banks policy
They were told after four weeks that their sons name needed to be removed from the 
RTB application  Mr T, Mrs N and Mrs T then had to apply again without their son 
which wasted time
The second application was made in August after Santander had received all the 
information, Santander then cancelled the application. They informed Mr T over the 
telephone that the application was cancelled but didnt write to them to inform him of 
this
As Mr T, Mrs N and Mrs T disagreed with our investigator, they asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are a number of complaint points that Mr T, Mrs N and Mrs T have raised and Ive 
thought very carefully about what they have said, along with Santanders submissions.
In order for me to require Santander to do more to resolve things, I need to be satisfied that 
they made a mistake or acted unfairly in their dealings with Mr T, Mrs N and Mrs T. 
Visit to the branch
Mr T, Mrs N and Mrs T said they were told over the telephone to visit their local branch of 
Santander because Mrs T has learning difficulties, so they needed to have a face to face 
appointment. They said they went to their local branch, but Santander refused to see them 
because of coronavirus. I appreciate why this would have been frustrating for Mr T, Mrs N 
and Mrs T.
Santander have said that the adviser made it clear to Mr T when he called, that the 
appointment was going to be over the telephone and the branch would then let them know 
when they should go in.
Ive listened to the calls prior to Mr T, Mrs N and Mrs T being turned away from the branch 
on 28 May 2020. Mr T called to discuss making a mortgage application for a RTB. The 
adviser did say to start with that a face to face interview needed to take place but later in that 
call, once he had made the appointment, he did say to Mr T that the adviser would call him 
first. And once they had a discussion on the phone, they would then arrange a date for Mr T, 
Mrs N and Mrs T to visit the branch.
Mr T called again on the same day and spoke to another adviser who told Mr T that a POA 
was needed in order to proceed with the application. The adviser told Mr T that he could take the documents and identification with him when he visited the branch. There were also other 
calls that had taken place where Mr T had called Santander as he didnt understand why 
they needed to visit the branch and he was still unclear on what documents they needed to 
bring.
Having listened to all the telephone calls, I dont think it was made entirely clear to Mr T that 
the appointment would be over the phone initially. Other advisers told Mr T that he could 
take the documents when he visited the branch for his appointment  so I can understand 
where the confusion has come from. I do think Santander could have made this clearer for 
Mr T as this did cause him, his wife and his daughter, some inconvenience. 
Benefits and affordability assessment
Mr T, Mrs N and Mrs T are unhappy because Santander wouldnt consider Mrs Ts benefits 
as indefinite. They said that because of this, they were only offered around £107,000 which 
was less than they were looking for. 
Mr T, Mrs N and Mrs T wanted to make a RTB application to purchase their council house. 
They said they wanted to borrow £130,000. Mr T said that Mrs T receives disability living 
allowance (DLA) which she has received for 20 years. He wanted this to be included as 
income in the assessment. Mr T said he feels this benefit should be classed as indefinite 
because his daughter does have learning difficulties and because she has received this 
benefit for many years. 
After completing the assessment, Santander told Mr T, Mrs N and Mrs T that they would 
lend them £113,000 but explained this could change. They said that after reviewing the 
information and documentation, they would only lend £107,000 because Mrs Ts benefits 
were not confirmed as being indefinite, and Mrs N was receiving furlough payments at the 
time  so they said this made a difference. I would confirm that its not unusual for lenders to 
change the amount they would lend after their own checks are completed, so Santander 
wouldnt necessarily have done anything wrong at this stage. 
Ive firstly looked at Santanders lending criteria in relation to Mrs N being on furlough. The 
criteria states that applications during the pandemic, where a borrower is in receipt of, or 
expects to receive, a reduced level of income, the income assessments need be carried out 
using the reduced level of income. Based on this, I think that Santander have assessed Mrs 
Ns income in line with their lending criteria. I would also state that this criteria is applicable 
to all of Santanders customers, so they have not treated Mrs N any differently in how they 
have assessed her income, so I dont think they have done anything wrong.
Ive then looked at Mrs Ts benefits and the assessment carried out on her income. From the 
information I have received, I can see that Mrs T gets employment and support allowance 
(ESA) and DLA. Having looked through the letters provided, it doesnt state that the ESA 
payments are made indefinitely, so I can understand why Santander didnt want to include 
this.
The letter that Mrs T provided us, which showed her DLA benefit, shows it as being 
indefinite.  The letter then goes on to say, benefits are reviewed every year and that the 
benefit is not guaranteed to change each year. It then says:
Middle rate care component for help with personal care  indefinitely 
Lower rate mobility component for help with getting around  indefinitely
I think having looked at this, the amount of the benefit could in fact change each year, but 
the benefits themselves are showing as indefinite. The letter also states that the benefit is 
not guaranteed to change each year so it looks like the benefit amount can change each 
year but the benefit itself is guaranteed. This could have made it difficult for Santander to 
accept the DLA as indefinite income when there could be a time when the benefits 
themselves decreased.  So I can understand why Santander had concerns about this benefit not being guaranteed. But I think Santander could have made further enquires in order to be 
certain if the DLA was in fact indefinite income or not before saying they wouldnt accept it. 
The issues with the DLA however do not change the overall outcome to this complaint. 
Requesting a POA
Mr T, Mrs N and Mrs T are unhappy that Santander asked them to provide a POA document 
specifically for Mrs T, in order to proceed with their mortgage application. Mr T said he 
provided a LOA which had been drafted by their solicitor which should be enough to 
progress the application. 
Santander said the LOA wasnt the same as a POA and wouldnt accept it. They said they 
needed a POA and would not be able to continue with the application without one. 
Santander have sent us evidence from their legal team which said they required a formal 
POA if Mrs T wanted her father, Mr T, to act on her behalf when dealing with the mortgage 
application. 
I have looked at Santanders policy regarding this and it does state that a POA would be 
needed in this situation, and a LOA would not be acceptable. 
Our investigator contacted the solicitor that drafted the LOA to understand what the intention 
was when it was drafted  and whether they classed it as a POA. The solicitor explained that 
the LOA was drafted with the intention of it being just that, a LOA and not a POA. 
As the LOA is not an official POA, I dont think Santander were wrong to ask for a POA. It 
formed part of their lending criteria which is the same for all their customers. So Santander 
have not treated Mr T, Mrs N or Mrs T any differently. Their policy says they will only accept 
a general POA in order to progress the application  so they have not acted unreasonably in 
not accepting the LOA. This would have also been for Mrs Ts protection as well as their 
own. Im therefore satisfied that they acted fairly in this situation. 
Mr T has questioned why our service accepted the LOA and then later declined it. This was 
not the case. We accepted the LOA as consent in order to proceed with the complaint itself 
and for no other reason  it was not declined by us. Mr T, Mrs N and Mrs T were making a 
mortgage application with Santander and that is different. 
RTB application
Mr T, Mrs N and Mrs T complained that Santander caused delays in their mortgage 
application because they were not told early enough, that the RTB documentation wasnt 
acceptable. 
Santander said they accepted the RTB document on 10 August 2020, but they didnt inform 
Mr T, Mrs N and Mrs T that there was an issue with the names on it, until 9 September 2020. 
The RTB paperwork I have been supplied with shows the names on there as Mr T, Mrs N, 
their son and Mrs T. Santander offered Mr T, Mrs N and Mrs T £100 for the delays they 
caused in relation to this.
The contact notes from Santander show that on 29 May 2020, Santander said that the RTB 
documents were in the names of Mr T and his wife Mrs N and his daughter Mrs T, which 
wasnt correct. The RTB documents also included their son. The notes suggest that the 
mortgage application with their names was made on 28 May 2020.
Because of the issues with the benefits for Mrs T, the application was made again but with 
Mr Ts son. So on 4 June 2020 a further application was made which included Mr Ts son, 
but this was declined. The contact notes show that Santander contacted Mr T on this day to 
make him aware. 
The notes also show that the adviser said they could proceed with an application with Mr T 
and his wife Mrs N with a maximum loan of just under £107,000 subject to underwriting but 
the RTB paperwork would need to be redone in just their names  if they wanted to proceed. The note shows that the adviser managed to speak to Mr T about the declined application, 
but the line disconnected before he had the chance to inform Mr T about the maximum loan 
and the RTB paperwork. 
The call note, from 17 September 2020, shows that Mr T called Santander asking to add his 
son back onto the application as he was named on the RTB paperwork. But Santander told 
him they couldnt do this as the previous application with the son had been declined. 
Mr T called Santander again on 22 September 2020 to discuss the application. And the 
contact note after this shows that Santander were happy to accept the RTB documents they 
had but would need income evidence to proceed. 
I appreciate this would have been frustrating for Mr T, Mrs N and Mrs T, especially as the 
application had to be made within a certain amount of time.
Santander didnt make Mr T, Mrs N or Mrs T aware of the issues with the RTB paperwork, 
and the names it needed to show until 9 September 2020. I think its clear that Santander 
were aware of what changes needed to be made and the issues surrounding the names on 
the RTB paperwork. And I think they should have informed Mr T, Mrs N and Mrs T of this 
much sooner.  
Cancelled mortgage application 
Mr T, Mrs N and Mrs T are unhappy that Santander eventually cancelled their mortgage 
application and feel that Santander should have informed them that they had done so. Mr T 
Mrs N and Mr T believe the adviser prevented them from obtaining a mortgage because of 
their ethnicity. 
Santander said they made the decision not to proceed with the application because of 
constant abuse by Mr T towards their members of staff. 
I have looked at the contact notes that Santander have provided. I can see there are various 
calls whereby it has been noted that Mr T made abusive and racist comments towards 
Santanders members of staff.  Some of the calls were terminated by the advisers because 
of this. A manager also got involved and also had to end the call based on the comments 
that Mr T was making  as detailed in the contact notes. 
On 6 October 2020, Mr T contacted Santander again to discuss the outstanding documents 
that were needed for the application.  Ive also listened to this call and listened to the 
comments made by Mr T. 
It was decided by Santander on 7 October 2020 they would no longer accept the application 
because of Mr Ts behaviour towards their staff members. Mr T was informed of this when 
he was called by Santander on the same day.
I appreciate that Mr T says he wasnt informed about the decision to cancel his application 
and was only told about it on the telephone. But having looked at the contact notes, the 
decision was made rather quickly after the 6 October telephone call. So Santander made the 
decision to call Mr T and inform him that the application was cancelled. I dont think they 
needed to put this in writing as this happened quickly. However, the final response letter that 
Santander sent Mr T, Mrs N and Mrs T in October 2020 explains why they cancelled the 
mortgage application.
I havent seen or found anything on any of the calls I have listened to that makes me think 
that Mr T, Mrs N or Mrs T were discriminated against or prevented from getting a mortgage 
because of their ethnicity. 
Our service is not here to tell Santander how to conduct their business. But they are entitled 
to make decisions if their members of staff are treated in a certain way. Santander should 
not need to tolerate any abuse from their customers so I cant say they have acted 
unreasonably in making the decision they did. Im satisfied that Santander did not act unreasonably in this situation, so I wont be asking 
them to do anything further. 
Santander has already offered Mr T, Mrs N and Mrs T £100 for the delays that have been 
caused. I agree with our investigator that a further £200 should be offered. So a total of £300 
should be awarded to Mr T, Mrs N and Mrs T for the delays caused in processing the 
mortgage application, and for the confusion with regards to the branch appointment. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint.
I direct Santander UK PLC to pay £300 to Mr T, Mrs N and Mrs T for the delays in 
processing their mortgage application and for the confusion relating to the branch 
appointment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T, Mrs N and 
Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman