DRN-3290713
The complaint
Mr H, the representative of Ms Hs estate, complains about the delays to a Stocks and 
Shares Individual Savings Account (ISA) transfer, which he says was caused by Halifax 
Share Dealing Limited (HS).
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 31 December 2021 where I upheld the complaint. Both HS 
and Mr H, on behalf of the estate of Ms H, accepted my provisional findings. So, the matter 
has been passed back to me for a final decision.
The following timeline is relevant to this complaint (all dates in 2020):
1 February  B (the ceding business) received Ms Hs transfer request from HS and 
responded with a valuation on 5 February;
15 February  B received a letter from HS saying it hadnt had a response from B. B 
noted its letter had already been sent so took no further action;
14 March  B received another letter from HS saying it hadnt received a reply to its 
transfer request. B responded on 20 March resending its letter from 5 February;
28 September  HS calls B asking if the transfer request from February could still be 
accepted and on 30 September HS confirmed receipt of the valuation from B;
1 October  B said it was unable to process the request as it needed a stock transfer 
form completed for each fund that was being transferred;
2 October  B sent HS another letter confirming it would accept the transfer request 
even though it had been over six months;
5 November  B received two letters from HS both dated 30 October enclosing the 
necessary transfer documents;
9 November  B sent confirmation to HS and Mr H confirming the ISA transfer.
Sadly, Ms H died in December 2020 and Mr H has been the representative of her estate 
since that time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given both parties accept the outcome as set out in my provisional decision, my findings 
remain the same. In summary, my reasons for upholding this complaint are as follows:
From all the available evidence, I think its more likely than not that HS caused 
unreasonable delays to the transfer process which it normally aims to do within six to 
eight weeks. In two letters it said it hadnt received the valuation sent from B. But Ive 
seen Bs letters enclosing the valuation and both are correctly addressed. So, I think 
on balance, its likely that HS did receive the valuations both in February 2020 and 
again in March 2020 when B re-sent its original letter.
It wasnt until late September 2020 that HS got in touch with B to confirm it had 
received the valuations. This was seven months after it received the valuation from 
B. So, I think HS caused unnecessary and avoidable delays to the transfer process. I 
appreciate the Covid-19 situation may have meant that HS wasnt meeting its usual 
timescales. But the delays experienced, were well outside of the usual timescales for 
a stocks and shares ISA transfer. 
In terms of the redress, I cant consider awarding compensation to Mr H for the time 
and effort he has spent trying to resolve this matter with both businesses. Our rules 
do not allow for this. But when the transfer was taking place Ms H was still alive and 
was also living with Mr H in the latter part of her life. So, I think its likely she had 
some awareness of the issues giving rise to this complaint as Mr H has described. 
Its clear Ms H was very ill and I dont doubt the time her family spent on dealing with 
delays involving her assets, would have been distressing for her.
Whilst I acknowledge the stress caused to Ms H, I think any inconvenience was 
mitigated by Mr H who was liaising with both businesses on her behalf. So, I remain 
satisfied that £250 is fair compensation for the distress caused by HS.
As said in my provisional decision, I cant fairly say that HS should be held 
responsible for any financial loss. As this was an in-specie transfer, the stocks and 
shares were simply moved from one provider to another. So, as the investments 
werent traded during the transfer, they continued as they did with the previous 
provider. Given this, I dont think the delays caused any financial loss to the estate of 
Ms H.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and order Halifax Share Dealing Limited to pay the estate of Ms H 
£250 for the distress and inconvenience it caused to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms H 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman