DRN-3201133
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain because Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt paid a claim 
under their travel insurance policy. 
All references to URV include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its behalf.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T held an annual travel insurance policy, provided by URV.
Mr and Mrs T were abroad when, due to the circumstances surrounding the Covid-19 
pandemic, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly the 
Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised all British tourists who were abroad to 
return to the UK. The airports in the country which Mr and Mrs T were visiting were closed 
and their return flight to the UK was cancelled. Mr and Mrs T remained abroad for a number 
of weeks after their original planned return date, until they were offered repatriation flights 
back to the UK. 
Mr and Mrs T made a claim under their policy with URV for the cost of the repatriation flights, 
less the refund theyd already received from their airline for their original return flights. 
URV said the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ts claim werent covered under the terms and 
conditions of their policy. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs T complained to URV before bringing the 
matter to the attention of our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened but said he didnt think URV had 
unfairly declined Mr and Mrs Ts claim. Mr and Mrs T didnt agree with our investigators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Rules and guidance set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say an insurer 
must handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules 
and guidance into account when making my decision about Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. 
I understand Mr and Mrs T found themselves in an unexpected  and unprecedented -
situation which was outside of their control. However, this doesnt automatically mean that 
their claim is covered under their insurance policy. Insurance policies dont cover every 
situation, and an insurer is entitled to decide what level of risk it is prepared to cover under a 
policy in return for the premium charged. Its not for me to tell an insurer what level of cover I 
think it should offer. Instead, I need to decide whether I think URV fairly assessed Mr and 
Mrs Ts claim under the terms and conditions of the policy they purchased. 
URVs obligations to Mr and Mrs T are set out in their policy documentation, which is the 
contract between URV and Mr and Mrs T. I understand Mr and Mrs T feel, if a situation isnt 
listed as an exclusion under their policy terms and conditions, then that situation should be 
covered under their policy. But, thats not how insurance works. It wouldnt be possible or 
practical for an insurer to list every situation that it doesnt wish to provide cover for. Instead, 
the limits of the cover provided are set out as listed, insured events under each section of 
the policy. If a situation isnt a listed, insured event then, generally, its not covered under the 
policy. 
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ts policy and theres no cover under 
any section of the policy for the circumstances they found themselves in. Mr and Mrs T 
werent unable to go on their trip, so theres no cover under Policy A Section 1. Policy B 
Section 1 provides cover in the event of disruption to travel plans, but the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Ts claim dont fall within any of the listed scenarios. And, Mr and Mrs T didnt 
cut their trip short and come home early, so they have no cover under Policy B Section 3 
either. Ive also considered Policy B Section 9 which provides natural disaster cover, but 
this only pays a benefit to enable a policyholder to continue with their trip, which isnt what 
happened here. 
Mr and Mrs Ts policy  in common with many standard travel insurance policies on the 
market at the time  didnt provide cover for additional costs incurred by a policyholder if a 
trip was extended beyond the original intended return date (other than in the event of certain 
medical emergencies and in limited situations where a flight home was missed because of 
an undriveable vehicle or delays on public transport). 
In any event, I note this policy has a general exclusion which says claims due to the 
following are not covered:
any prohibitive regulations by Customs or other government officials or authorities 
of any country.
So, in any event, it seems to me that a claim arising from the closure of airports and/or the 
prohibition of flights by a foreign government could fairly be considered to fall under this 
policy exclusion. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs T. I understand they had no alternative but to remain 
abroad and await repatriation flights. However, their claim isnt covered under the terms and 
conditions of their policy with URV and I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon 
which I could fairly ask URV to accept their claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman