DRN-3940657
The complaint
Mr M complains that Capital One (Europe) plc unfairly closed his credit card accounts.
What happened
Mr M had two credit card accounts with Capital One.
In September 2022, Capital One wrote to Mr M to say they intended to close his accounts. 
The accounts were closed two months later, in November 2022.
Mr M complained to Capital One. He says he made a number of phone calls which cost him 
a lot of money as he was calling from overseas and at times the calls were disconnected, 
which meant he had to spend time and money making further calls to try and sort things out.
Mr M said he relied on the accounts when travelling overseas and the closure of his 
accounts was unreasonable. He said that in August 2022 he had sent Capital One an email 
informing them that he had been diagnosed with a terminal illness and was also suffering 
from a mental health condition. 
Mr M told us that he believes that Capital One closed his accounts because hed previously 
made a complaint to Capital One about how it handled a dispute on his accounts. And 
because he has a disability, which he told them about in his email. Mr M says its no 
coincidence that Capital One closed his accounts following his email and believes that 
Capital One has discriminated against him on the basis of his disability and health condition.
Mr M says the closure of his accounts caused him stress and impacted his health conditions 
negatively. He wants Capital One to reopen his accounts, apologise and pay him 
compensation for the trouble and upset he suffered as a result of his accounts being closed.
Capital One said it hadnt done anything wrong when it closed Mr Ms accounts and had 
done so in line with the terms and conditions of the accounts. It accepted that it could have 
provided Mr M with better service and that he had experienced difficulties with his call 
connections. It paid Mr M £50 compensation for the inconvenience this caused Mr M and 
cost of calls, which Mr M accepted.
Unhappy with Capital Ones response Mr M brought his complaint to our service where one 
of our investigators looked into what had happened. Before issuing her view she asked 
Mr M for more information about his communications with Capital One concerning his health 
conditions. She asked Mr M to provide evidence that hed sent the email to Capital One. 
Mr M told the investigator that he wasnt able to do this as his email account had been 
hacked from overseas, which had led to his entire email inbox being deleted. The 
investigator also noted that Mr M had raised another complaint with our service in October 
2022 and hed told us that he had deleted his entire email inbox as it had reached its 
capacity limit.
The investigator noted that during a call with Capital One on 18 August 2022 that Mr M 
asked for an urgent final response letter to be sent to him but didnt want to disclose 
anything regarding his health conditions to the advisor. The investigator asked Mr M to 
explain why hed made this comment during the call, especially given Mr M said in his 
submissions to us that hed already told Capital One about his health situation in an email 
eight days prior to the call on 10 August 2022. Mr M wasnt able to provide an explanation 
but maintained he had sent the email to Capital One. And that Capital One had therefore 
discriminated against him when it closed his accounts.
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. She said it had closed Mr Ms account inline 
with the account terms and conditions. She didnt think Capital One had treated Mr M 
unfairly as a result of his health conditions. The investigator also said Capital One had done 
enough to put things right regarding the service issues Mr M experienced when he had rung 
in to speak to them about his accounts.
 
Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. So, the matter has 
come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms credit card account say Capital One can close a credit 
card account providing it gives at least two months notice. In some circumstances it can 
close an account immediately. In this instance, Capital one wrote to Mr M in September 
2022 and gave him 60 days notice of the account closure, which I think was reasonable  - 
and wouldve given Mr M time to apply for other cards if he wished.
I appreciate Mr Ms frustration and comments that he has been unable to obtain any further 
context regarding the closure. But a lender can decide who it provides credit to and isnt 
obliged to provide further information about its lending criteria, as its commercially sensitive 
and confidential. So, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require Capital One to do so. I do 
note however, that Capital One told Mr M during subsequent phone calls and emails the 
decision to close the accounts was reached in line with their internal lending policy. So, I 
think its likely Mr M had some understanding of the reasons behind Capital Ones decision.
Mr M told us that he believes Capital One closed his account because he sent them an email 
on 10 August 2022 informing them that he had a terminal illness and a mental health 
condition. And because hed also made a previous complaint. Weve asked Capital One 
about this. It said it never received an email from Mr M on 10 August 2022.
 
Capital One said it responded to Mr Ms complaint in line with its complaint processes. I 
havent seen any evidence suggesting that the action they took was in some way linked to 
Mr M making a complaint.
Mr M says he emailed Capital One on 10 August 2022 and hes provided a copy of an email 
he says he sent. Capital One says it never received any email from Mr M. Ive looked at the 
screenshot and I note that despite the investigator asking Mr M to provide evidence that he 
actually sent the email he hasnt done so. Ive also kept in mind that Mr M has provided this 
service with two very different explanations for why he is unable to provide evidence from his 
email account  one being that his account was hacked and the other being that he deleted 
everything in his email account due to it being close to the storage capacity limit. This makes 
it difficult for me to place much weight on what Mr M has told us about the email.I note too that during a call with Capital One on 18 August 2022 Mr M alluded to the fact he 
had health conditions but didnt want to disclose any details. Theres no reasonable 
explanation for why Mr M wouldnt want to provide information regarding his health if as he 
says he had already told Capital One about his health conditions in an email. Mr M also 
made no mention of his email during the call, which I find significant. Taken together Im not 
convinced Mr M sent an email to Capital One about his health problems.
Mr M has said that he thinks the reason Capital One closed his accounts was because of his 
illness and mental health condition, which he maintains he disclosed to Capital One in an 
email on 10 August 2022. So, he says that he has been discriminated against. Ive already 
said that Im not satisfied that Mr M sent Capital One an email about his health so I cant see 
how Capital One could have discriminated against Mr M on the grounds of his disability. 
It is not my role to decide whether discrimination has taken place as a matter of law  only 
the courts have the power to decide this.I have, however, considered the relevant law in 
relation to what Mr M has said when deciding what I think is the fair and reasonable 
outcome. Part of this has meant considering the provisions of The Equality Act 2010. But 
even if I were to accept Mr M did disclose his health conditions to Capital One as hes 
submitted, Ive not seen any evidence to indicate Capital One discriminated against Mr M on 
the grounds of his disability, so I havent found that Capital Ones behaviour was improper.
Mr M has said he had a lot of trouble contacting Capital One to sort things out. Hes said that a 
number of calls kept disconnecting and dropping out. And because he was calling  from 
overseas the calls cost him a lot of money. Capital One apologised for the difficulties Mr M 
experienced and paid Mr M £50 compensation which he accepted. I think this is a reasonable 
way to resolve this aspect of Mr Ms complaint, so I wont be asking Capital One to do anything 
more.
In summary, having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Capital One has acted in 
line with its terms and conditions. And it gave Mr M a reasonable period of notice. So, when I 
weigh everything up, I am not persuaded that Capital One has treated Mr M unfairly when it 
closed his credit card accounts.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman