DRN-3602731
The complaint
Mr H complains about the advice given by Tuto Money Limited (TML) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, the British Steel 
Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him 
and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Hs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension 
schemes, paying compensation to members of eligible schemes for their lifetime. The 
compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original schemes benefits 
for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from the original scheme. 
Alternatively, members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer their benefits to a 
private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Hs employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
On 18 September 2017, the BSPS provided Mr H with an updated summary of the transfer 
value of his scheme benefits, following the RAA taking effect. These benefits had a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £472,751.43.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
Concerned about what the recent announcements by his employer meant for the security of 
his pension, Mr H sought advice from TML.
TML recorded some information about Mr Hs circumstances. It noted that he was 49, he 
lived with his partner and he had one dependent child. Mr H was employed earning 
approximately £36,000 and his partner also worked and she earned around £22,000. 
They had a mortgage on their home, later established to have an outstanding balance of 
around £130,000 although no remaining term was recorded. Mr H had an outstanding loan 
of around £11,000 with five years remaining and he had cash savings of around £6,000. 
His and his partners combined income exceeded their outgoings, giving them a monthly 
disposable income of around £1400. TML also carried out an assessment of Mr Hs attitude 
to risk, which after discussion was deemed to be lowest medium.
TML issued a letter summarising its recommendation (a suitability report.) on 1 December 
2017. This said Mr H wanted to take control of his pension because of his growing distrust of 
the DB scheme. It said he didnt foresee working beyond age 60, and while the DB scheme 
allowed early retirement, a penalty would be imposed for doing so. It said Mr H wanted to 
take a higher initial income until his state pension commenced. It also said he wanted to take 
a cash lump sum to repay his mortgage at 55 to drastically reduce his monthly expenditure. 
It also said enhanced death benefits was important to Mr H.
TML recommended that Mr H transfer his pension as this would meet his stated objectives. 
And it recommended a pension provider and fund that it said was in line with his attitude to 
risk.
Mr H complained to TML in 2022 about the suitability of the transfer advice. In essence he 
didnt think the advice to give up a guaranteed pension income was suitable for him. 
TML didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. In summary it said that, given the balance of the trade-
offs and Mr Hs desire that he wanted to retire early in a flexible pension option, the advice to 
transfer was suitable. And it said, regardless of the outcome of the BSPS he would need to 
transfer to achieve his retirement goals.
Mr H referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He said he feels he was 
wrongly advised.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. They thought the advice was unsuitable 
as Mr H wasnt likely to improve on the benefits he was already guaranteed by transferring. 
And they thought the other reasons for transferring werent compelling  for example they 
said Mr Hs desire to retire early wasnt a fixed objective given his age; he couldve used his 
workplace DC scheme to help him retire early if thats what he ultimately decided; he didnt 
need to use his tax-free cash at 55 to repay his mortgage given it was affordable and on a 
repayment basis so it was naturally reducing anyway; and lump sum death benefits shouldnt 
have been prioritised over his security in retirement.
TML disagreed with the Investigators findings. But it said, without admission of liability, it 
was willing to carry out a loss calculation. And the loss calculation it carried out showed Mr H 
hadnt suffered a financial loss.
Mr H replied and said he would rather wait until after 1 April 2023 to have his losses 
assessed in accordance with the changes brought about by the regulators Policy Statement 
PS 22/13.
In May 2023, our Investigator wrote to both Mr H and TML to say that the regulator had now 
developed a BSPS-specific redress calculator, which it was encouraging businesses to use.  
And in October 2023, in an attempt to resolve the complaint informally, we asked TML to 
carry out an up-to-date loss assessment using the BSPS calculator which it would then put 
to Mr H. While TML said it was willing to do this, Mr H said he wanted his complaint decided 
by an Ombudsman. 
So the complaint was referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of TML's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, TML should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Hs 
best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) report, that TML was required to carry out by the 
regulator, said that the critical yield - how much Mr Hs pension fund would need to 
grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme  was 
6.45% to match the full pension hed have been entitled to under the scheme at age 
65. Or to match the maximum tax-free cash and reduced pension the scheme would 
provide at that age, was 5.05%. To match the full pension the PPF wouldve paid 
from 65 the critical yield was 5.07% and to match the tax-free cash and reduced 
pension the PPF wouldve offered, it was 4.63%.
Despite TML recording that Mr H wanted to retire at 60, it did not produce critical 
yields based on the benefits available to him under the scheme or the PPF at this 
age. While it produced critical yields based on a retirement age of 55, which were 
significantly higher, this wasnt relevant to the advice he was seeking and so wasnt 
very helpful to Mr H. I think TML shouldve provided them based on a retirement age 
of 60 as this was the advice Mr H was seeking. 
In any event, given Mr Hs recorded lowest medium attitude to risk, the discount rate 
of 4.3% for 15 years to retirement (age 65) and the regulators middle projection rate, 
I think Mr H was always likely to receive pension benefits, from age 65, of a lower 
value that those hed have been entitled to under the BSPS2 or the PPF by 
transferring and investing in line with that attitude to risk. And given what the TVAS 
noted about the critical yields for retirement at age 55  that these were significantly 
higher  I think based on a retirement age of 60, he was even more likely to receive lower benefits than either the BSPS2 or the PPF offered, if he retired early. And 
indeed the suitability report noted that it was ...highly unlikely that this level of growth 
would be maintained over a period of time.
I accept Mr H wasnt married and so the spouses pension might not have seemed 
important to him at the time. Nevertheless, carrying out the TVAS including this was 
still appropriate, in my view, as it showed the true value of the benefits Mr H was 
considering giving up. But even on a single life basis, the critical yields TML 
produced still likely meant Mr H would be worse of in retirement, whether through the 
BSPS2 of the PPF, if he retired early.
For this reason alone, I dont think it was in Mr Hs best interests to transfer to a 
personal pension arrangement.
At 49 I think it was likely that Mr H had given his retirement some thought. But while 
he indicated he wanted to retire early at age 60, I dont think he had anything that 
could be described as a firm retirement plan or that this was set in stone. 
Nevertheless he already had this option available to him  he didnt have to transfer 
to achieve the goal of early retirement. I can see TML recorded that taking early 
retirement through the scheme would mean Mr H would be penalised for doing so. 
But I dont think it was fair for it to describe an actuarial reduction for early retirement 
as a penalty. I think this implied there were no similar consequences for Mr Hs 
retirement income if he transferred to a personal pension, which wasnt the case. In 
the same way Mr H couldnt reasonably expect the same income from his DB 
scheme hed be entitled to at 65 from age 60, drawing a higher income earlier on 
from his transferred pension fund could mean hed run out of money sooner than 
expected.
 
TML said Mr H wanted to draw a higher income before his state pension was payable 
and that a transfer would allow him to alter the level of income he took. But without a 
retirement plan, Im not persuaded Mr H reasonably knew what his future retirement 
needs would be. It strikes me that the reference to this kind of flexibility was simply a 
feature or a consequence of transferring to a personal pension rather than a firm 
objective of Mr Hs.
In any event Mr H already had flexibility. He was contributing to his workplace 
pension scheme  a defined-contribution (DC) scheme which already provided 
flexibility in how and when he could access his benefits. Given the 16% of salary 
contribution being made to this, I think Mr Hs DB scheme income and this pension 
couldve given him the flexibility to retire early - if thats what he ultimately decided.
TML recommended the transfer to enable Mr H to take a cash lump sum at age 55 to 
repay his mortgage and defer taking an income until he retired later on. This was 
because it recorded that Mr H said this would reduce the income he needed because 
the mortgage was a large percentage of his total monthly expenditure. But I dont 
think TML shouldve encouraged Mr H to access his pension early for this purpose. 
I say this because nothing TML recorded suggested that Mr H was either behind or 
struggling to meet the repayments. In fact it recorded he had a surplus monthly 
income of almost £1,450. And I dont think giving up his guaranteed pension benefits 
to reduce a debt that he could afford, was in his best interests.
Mr Hs mortgage was on a repayment basis, so the balance was reducing. TML didnt 
record the remaining term. But if Mr H was keen to ensure it was repaid prior to his retirement, it couldve recommended he explore the possibility of making regular 
overpayments with his lender. While reference was made to Mr H wanting to secure 
a further fixed rate of interest, I dont think this meant overpayments werent possible. 
In any event, given Mr Hs intention to continue working for another 10 years or so, 
I think its likely the tax-free cash sum available to him through his DB scheme at 
retirement wouldve been sufficient to repay any outstanding balance at this stage.
 
Overall, as Mr H had no plans to stop working prior to age 60 and he didnt have a 
pressing need to clear any of his outstanding debt as this appears to be affordable, 
I dont think transferring to obtain flexibility was in his best interests.
Mr H indicated he wanted a retirement income of £14,400 a year or £1,200 net a 
month. But TML doesnt appear to have carried out a detailed income and 
expenditure in retirement analysis to arrive at this figure or to have interrogated it to 
determine whether it was realistic  it just accepted what he said. In any event, I dont 
think Mr H had thought through his retirement plans to fully understand what his true 
income need in retirement was.
I think in the circumstances Mr H stood a better chance of meeting his needs by 
remaining in his DB scheme. At 65 it was estimated to be around £25,686 a year - a 
guaranteed and escalating income for life, which wasnt going to be bettered by 
transferring. Mr H had his DC scheme he could supplement his income with. And 
because his partner was several years younger than him, its likely shed continue to 
work, so her salary would also contribute to their household expenditure. Once she 
retired, Mr H would likely be in receipt of his state pension and it was recorded she 
had her own private pension provision. I think in the circumstances this was a more 
appropriate way for Mr H to meet his future retirement income needs rather than 
risking his guaranteed benefits to attempt to do so.
TML said Mr H was interested in the enhanced death benefits a transfer offered to 
his family. But the priority here was to advise Mr H about what was best for his 
retirement. While I appreciate Mr H was wasnt married at the time, its possible that 
he would do so. And the existing scheme offered death benefits, by way of a 
spouses pension, that couldve been valuable to his family in the event of his death.
In any event, while the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a 
potential lump sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always 
likely to be different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it 
wouldve also been reduced by any income Mr H drew in his lifetime. And so it may 
not have provided the legacy that Mr H may have thought it would. 
If Mr H had wanted to leave a legacy for his family, TML couldve explored life 
insurance as an alternative. I can see reference was made to a life policy quote of 
around £45 a month based a sum assured equivalent to the CETV with a term to age 
60. This appears to have been discounted. But TML recorded that Mr H had 
significant disposable income through which he couldve met the associated 
premiums. 
And this couldve been considered on a whole of life or term assurance basis and 
based on a sum assured representing how much Mr H wanted to leave to his family. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr H. I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative. And ultimately TML should not have encouraged Mr H to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
TML recorded that the transfer would allow you to take full control of the 
investment. But I think Mr Hs desire for control was overstated. I cant see that he 
had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his 
own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr H  it was again simply 
a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Mr H may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his 
pension and the prospect of entering either the new scheme or the PPF. But it was 
TMLs role to objectively address those concerns. At the time of the advice, all signs 
pointed toward the BSPS2 being established. But even if not, the PPF still provided 
Mr H with guaranteed income, the possibility of taking early retirement and the option 
of accessing tax-free cash. Mr H was unlikely to improve on these benefits by 
transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as concerning as he mightve thought, and 
I dont think any concerns he held about this meant that transferring was in his best 
interests.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Hs best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension at this time. And I also havent seen 
anything to persuade me that he wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain 
in the DB scheme. In my view he had little investment knowledge or experience and nothing 
suggests to me that he otherwise had the requisite confidence or skill to do so. 
So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr H received from TML was unsuitable 
for him.
I can see the Investigator also recommended an award of £300 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr H. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish 
TML  which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and 
practical impact this had on Mr H. Taking everything into account, including what Mr H has 
said, and that I consider hes now at the age when his retirement provision is of greater 
importance to him, I think the unsuitable advice has caused him distress. So, I think an 
award of £300 is fair in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr H, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr H would most 
likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable 
advice had been given. 
TML must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
TML should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr H and the Financial Ombudsman Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what TML based the 
inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr H has not yet retired, and I understand he has no plans to do so at present. 
So, compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr H 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, TML should:
calculate and offer Mr H redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr H before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr H receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr H accepts TMLs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr H for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Hs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr H as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, B may make a 
notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that consumers would 
otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Hs likely income 
tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Tuto Money Limited  to pay Mr H the compensation 
amount as set out in the steps above. 
If Mr H accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Tuto Money Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024. 
Paul FeatherstoneOmbudsman