DRN-4481655
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the way AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has calculated the no 
claims discount on their private medical insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2021, Mr and Mrs W took out a private medical insurance policy with AXA. Mr W 
made claims on the policy in late 2021 and a further claim in February 2022. When the policy 
renewal documentation was received later that month, it showed that Mr Ws no claims 
discount (NCD) had been reduced as a result of him making claims under the policy. Mr W 
didnt make any claims in the following policy year but when he received his renewal for April 
2023, it showed that his NCD had been reduced again. When querying this with AXA, Mr W 
was advised his claim in February 2022 hadnt been included when the 2022 renewal was 
created and so this was why it had impacted his NCD for the following year.
Mr and Mrs W complained to AXA who said that the process for calculating renewal 
premiums was explained in the handbook. It referred to the handbook where it states 
renewal premiums are calculated up to three months prior to renewal  as Mr Ws claim was 
in the month prior to the renewal of the policy, AXA said it wasnt included in the renewal 
calculation and therefore it wasnt taken into consideration until the next year.
Unhappy with this response Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. She found that the policy 
terms and conditions were clear about how the policy renewal would be calculated and that 
claims up to three months prior to the renewal date may not be included. Mr and Mrs W 
disagreed with the investigators view. As no agreement could be reached the matter has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free 
alternative to the courts for consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made 
in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr and Mrs W. Rather it reflects the informal 
nature of our service, its remit, and my role in it.
Mr and Mrs W clearly feel quite strongly about what has happened. They disagree with the 
fact Mr Ws NCD has been affected in two renewals even though the claims all occurred in 
the first policy year. And I can appreciate why they feel this way. But while I know this will be 
disappointing for them, I wont be upholding their complaint, Ill explain why.
Within the policy terms and conditions, there is information about how the NCD is calculated 
for the next policy renewal. The policy states the following:
We work out your discount up to three months before your renewal date. This 
means that if you make a claim in the three months before your renewal, this may not 
affect your discount until the following years renewal.
Mr W made a claim on the policy which was paid on 17 February 2022. The renewal date of 
the policy was 31 March 2022. AXA says it had already calculated the relevant NCD before 
the claim was paid - the renewal documents were issued approximately one week after the 
payment, on 25 February 2022. As per the policy term stated above, any claims made up to 
three months before the renewal date may not affect the discount until the following year. I 
dont think this term is unclear or ambiguous in its explanation of how this process works, 
although I appreciate Mr and Mrs W think differently. Therefore, I dont think AXA has acted 
unfairly when reducing the NCD in the 2023 renewal, taking into account this claim.
Mr and Mrs W have said that, as the claim was paid prior to the renewal documents being 
issued, it was reasonable for them to assume that this claim had also been taken into 
account in the renewal. They think AXA should have done more to let them know at the 
renewal in 2022 that Mr Ws NCD percentage was going to be affected at the 2023 renewal. 
But as mentioned above, Im persuaded that AXA has set out clearly in the terms and 
conditions that claims paid in the three months prior to renewal may not have been taken 
into consideration and that these claims may impact the following years renewal. If 
confirmation as to whether this claim had been included was required, Mr and Mrs W could 
have contacted AXA prior to agreeing to the renewal.
Taking everything into account, I think AXA has acted in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy when calculating the NCD reduction for Mr W and Im not persuaded that there are 
any fair and reasonable grounds on which I should ask AXA to depart from them. So, I dont 
require AXA to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman