DRN-4188407
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the way Lloyds Bank PLC dealt with his complaint for money 
back in relation to a payment he made to a travel company. 
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint are known to both parties. So I wont go over everything 
again in detail. But, in summary, Mr W said he made a flight booking with a travel company 
and when he was going to make payment using his Lloyds credit card the web page shut off. 
He says he checked his email to see if the flights were confirmed and when he didnt see 
hed received anything he made the booking again using his Lloyds credit card. He later 
found out hed booked the flights twice. He said he didnt see the first booking confirmation 
because it had gone into a spam email folder. 
The payment for the first booking was £175.61, and the second booking was £196.75. Mr W 
says this was because he had around £20 on his online account with the travel company 
which went towards the first booking. 
Mr W contacted the travel company and asked for a refund. He said the webpage indicated 
hed been timed out on the first booking. The travel company replied to say since both 
itineraries were sent it could only offer to convert one of the bookings to a travel fund. Mr W 
requested a refund because he wasnt sure he could use the travel fund before it expired. 
The travel company refused. 
Mr W put in a claim with Lloyds which it declined, so he complained and referred his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. One of our investigators looked into things but didnt 
make any recommendations.
Our investigator said the initial booking was completed, but Mr W didnt see this because the 
confirmation went to his spam email folder. She said shed not been supplied evidence the 
travel company made an error. She said without evidence thered been an error she didnt 
think it was unfair for Lloyds to consider the terms and conditions of the contract. She noted 
those terms said fares are non-transferable, non-reroutable, generally non-refundable and 
may not be stored in a Travel Fund, but may be rebooked. The terms went on to say the 
fares are only refundable upon the death of a passenger or certain medical cases. 
Our investigator said the travel company had supplied two bookings which were available. 
So she couldnt see it breached the contract. She therefore said a chargeback wouldnt have 
had a reasonable prospect of success and neither would a claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Mr W didnt agree. He said its impossible to take a screenshot of what happened. But the 
fact two seats were booked on the same flight for the same passenger shows an error has 
been made. So he said it was only fair and decent for the travel company to refund one of 
those flights. He says hes not had an issue like this before where the web page has timed 
out. 
As things werent resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im considering whether Lloyds has acted fairly and reasonably in the way it handled Mr Ws 
request for getting his money back. In situations like this, Lloyds can consider raising a 
chargeback or assessing a claim under section 75. 
The chargeback process provides a way for a card issuer to ask for a payment to be 
refunded in certain circumstances. The chargeback process is subject to rules made by the 
relevant card scheme. Its not a guaranteed way of getting money back. 
While its good practice for a card issuer to attempt to chargeback where certain conditions 
are met and theres some prospect of success, there are grounds or dispute conditions set 
by the relevant card scheme that need to be considered. If these are not met, a chargeback 
is unlikely to succeed. And something going wrong with a merchant wont always lead to a 
successful claim. 
Ive first thought about the way Lloyds handled the chargeback claim. As Ive said above, for 
a successful chargeback there needs to be a valid chargeback condition for a successful 
claim. Ive looked at the list of chargeback conditions under which a chargeback may be 
processed with the relevant card scheme. There wasnt a problem with the actual travel 
service paid for so I dont think conditions relating to services not being as described or not 
being provided would be relevant. I dont think Lloyds could have used the condition relating 
to a credit not being processed because its not in dispute the booking wasnt refundable in 
this scenario. There is a condition relating to the purchase transaction not completing, but 
Mr W has shown us two confirmations he received for the two bookings. So I dont think that 
situation is covered either. 
Therefore, while I know hell be disappointed, I cant see that Lloyds acted unreasonably by 
failing to pursue the chargeback further because there wasnt a valid chargeback condition 
that mightve led to a successful claim. 
Ive next thought about Lloyds liability under section 75. Section 75 is a statutory protection 
that enables Mr W to make a like claim against Lloyds for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by a supplier paid by credit card in respect of an agreement it had with 
him for the provision of goods or services. There are certain conditions that need to be met 
in order for section 75 to apply. The relevant relationship between the parties seems to exist, 
and Lloyds hasnt said the booking was outside of the relevant financial limits. 
The issue in this case is that Ive not seen theres a breach of contract that Lloyds could be 
held liable for. While I appreciate Mr W didnt need two bookings, this doesnt give rise to a 
breach of contract. Ive not seen evidence the booking timed out. And while I understand 
hes unhappy the travel company let him make two bookings under his name, and that he 
thinks this should have alerted it to there being a problem, Ive not seen anything in the 
travel companys terms and conditions that say Mr W wasnt allowed to make two bookings, 
as unusual as that might be. 
Taking everything into account I have to remember Im considering a complaint against 
Lloyds and not the travel company. So I must consider its obligations as a provider of 
financial services  in this case the way it handled the chargeback claim and its liability for 
breach of contract under section 75. Even though I completely empathise with the situation and can understand Mr Ws frustration and why he thinks it would be fair and decent of the 
travel company to have refunded him, it doesnt mean I can direct Lloyds to refund him, 
where Ive not got the grounds to do so. So Im not going to direct it to take any action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman