DRN-2704060
The complaint
Mr P complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn).  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in February 2021. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont currently agree with the investigators view of this complaint and Im expecting to
uphold it. Please let me explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr P acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the supplier of the car, are
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr P. The car here 
was about seven years old and had already completed a high mileage of at least 87,626
miles. Ill come back to the mileage issue.
I think a reasonable person would not expect a car of that age and mileage to be in
outstanding condition. Theyd expect some signs of wear, but I dont think theyd expect the
car to lose power and I dont think theyd accept the car was of acceptable quality if there
was an Engine Management Light (EML) on.
Ive had a look at Moneybarns call log and can see that Mr P was in touch with them on 18
October 2019, a couple of months after he had taken charge of the car. The file note
explains that Mr P had problems with the car when leaving the forecourt as he noticed the
EML was illuminated. It refers to a fault with the Nitrous Oxide (NOx) Sensor.
That fault is corroborated in the diagnostic report Mr P has provided and the independent
inspector also notes fault codes relating to that fault in his report of 17 February 2020.
The investigator didnt think it would be fair to suggest the fault was present when the car
was supplied as she noted the mileage Mr P had completed when he took the car for a
diagnostic on 12 August 2019 was 88,932. She said that suggested he had been able to
complete 1,334 miles before the fault occurred. She thought the fault had most likely
developed during those 1,334 miles but I disagree, because:
Mr P says he didnt complete 1,334 miles in only six days of ownership: it does seem
a lot;
I dont think the mileage recorded in the finance agreement is correct. That mileage is
87,598 but a MOT completed four months earlier records the mileage as more than
that, at 87,626. That supports Mr Ps suggestion he hadnt completed 1,334 miles;
In August 2020 the mileage recorded in the MOT was 100,192. That suggests the car
has completed 11,260 miles in the previous year (some of which wont have been in
Mr Ps tenure). Thats an average of 938 miles per month and would again support
Mr Ps assertion that he doesnt typically complete a high mileage.
So, whilst I cant be certain how many miles the car had completed before Mr P had the
diagnostic completed, Im persuaded the car had not covered an excessive number of miles.
I think the chances of the fault occurring in the first six days is very limited and I think its
much more likely that there was a fault with NOx sensor and a leak from the heater when the
car was supplied.
The relevant legislation says that if a fault happens in the first six months it is to be assumed
it was there at inception unless the business can demonstrate otherwise. I dont think the
independent inspectors report does demonstrate that. The inspector suggests the fault
would not have been present when the car was supplied and refers to the cars mileage at
the point of inspection. But the inspector hasnt considered the fact that the NOx sensor
problem and the heater leak was reported when Mr P collected the car and I think, if he had,
he wouldnt have been likely come to the same conclusion.
Relevant legislation allows the business an opportunity to repair a fault that is present at the
point of supply. So, Moneybarn should now arrange to repair the NOx sensor and the heater
leak at no cost to Mr P.
Its clear that Mr P has been inconvenienced by this issue. Hes had to get a diagnostic
completed and hes had to escalate a complaint to this service when I think it could have
been resolved earlier on the evidence available. In those circumstances I think Moneybarn
should pay Mr P £200 in compensation.  
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to:
repair the fault with the NOx sensor and the heater leak putting right any water
damage;
pay Mr P £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn didnt provide any further information and neither did Mr P, although he did write 
back to say he was satisfied with the decision and wished to progress without further delay.
Putting things right
As no further information has been provided I have not found any reason to change my 
provisional decision and that now becomes my final decision on this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and to tell Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
to:
repair the fault with the NOx sensor and the heater leak putting right any water
damage;
pay Mr P £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman