DRN-3280766
The complaint
Mrs E complains about the quality of a car she acquired under a conditional sale agreement
(agreement) with Close Brothers Limited (Close Brothers).
What happened
Mrs E took possession of a used car in August 2019. It was approximately five years old and
had travelled approximately 83,000 miles.
The cash price of the car was £12,950. Under the terms of the agreement, everything else
being equal, Mrs E undertook to make an advance payment of £1,000 followed by 60
monthly payments of £256.25 - making a total repayable of £16,375 at 10.9% APR.
Shortly after taking possession of the car Mrs E says a light appeared on the dashboard
referencing a possible fault with the gearbox.
One of the manufacturers garages, having inspected the car and having carried out some
repair work concluded a new gearbox was required.
Unhappy with the quality of the car Mrs E complained to Close Brothers. Close Brothers
didnt uphold Mrs Es complaint. It said because unauthorised work had been undertaken on
the car it couldnt be established that the reported fault was present, or developing, at the
time of supply and therefore it wasnt liable.
Unhappy with Close Brothers response to her complaint, Mrs E referred it to our service for
investigation.
Mrs Es complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it
should be upheld. In summary he said he was satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied and to fairly compensate Mrs E for this
Close Brothers should allow rejection of the car and that it should:
refund Mrs Es advance payment of £1,000 together with interest
refund eight weeks worth of payments made by Mrs E from 10 September 2019
together with interest
refund two weeks worth of payments made by Mrs E from 30 November 2019
together with interest
pay Mrs E £100 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused her
remove reference to the agreement with credit reference agencies
Mrs E responded to say that she accepted the investigators view.
Close Brothers responded to say that it disagreed with the investigators view. In summary it
said:
the supplying dealership agreed to the car being taken to a manufacturers garage
for a software update, but that doesnt mean it agreed to any other work being
undertaken
there is no evidence to show that the manufacturers garage correctly returned the
car back to its original state
there is no evidence to show that the manufacturers garage didnt make matters
worse, or contributed to the problem, when it returned the car back to its original
state
despite being inspected and work being undertaken by a manufacturers garage, the
fault is still not fully diagnosed
it wasnt aware of Mrs Es concerns until after the car had been inspected and work
undertaken on it. So, an independent inspection would have added nothing of value
The investigator considered Close Brothers response to his view but wasnt persuaded to
change his mind. Therefore, Mrs Es complaint was passed to me for review and decision.
I issued a (first) provisional decision on this case in September 2021. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill
concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any
specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right
outcome.
Secondly, I would add that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or
contradictory, as some of its here, Ive to base my decision on the balance of
probabilities.
Mrs E acquired her car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints
about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of
satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Close Brothers, who are also the
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider
satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the
other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this, which involves a car, the other relevant circumstances would likely
include things like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mrs E.
Mrs E was supplied with a car that was approximately five years old, had travelled
approximately 83,000 miles and which cost £12,950.In my view although Mrs E should have expected that there might be some minor
defects with the car, and she would likely have to attend to one or more serviceable
items, after taking possession of it, Im satisfied that she was entitled to expect (given
the cars age, the miles travelled and the price paid) that it would be free from major
defects.
Now given how quickly after Mrs E took possession of the car she first raised
concerns about it, and given what the manufacturers own garage have submitted
was wrong, and is still wrong or possibly wrong with the car (this being a need for a
new gearbox), Im satisfied the car was of unsatisfactory quality when supplied.
In support of its decision not to allow rejection of the car, or to authorise repairs to it,
Close Brothers made a number of submissions which I now will address.
the supplying dealership agreed to the car being taken to a manufacturers garage for
a software update, but that doesnt mean it agreed to any other work being
undertaken
I accept that the supplying dealership didnt explicitly agree to work beyond a
software update being carried out. But like the investigator Im satisfied it was entirely
reasonable for Mrs E to allow further work to be carried out and the supplying
dealership didnt raise any concerns in this respect until sometime later. Furthermore,
Im not persuaded that the further work that was carried out prejudiced
Close Brothers in any way.
there is no evidence to show that the manufacturers garage correctly returned the
car back to its original state
I accept that there is no evidence that the manufacturers garage correctly returned
the car back to its original state. But equally there is no evidence to suggest that it
didnt. And taking everything into account Im simply not persuaded, on the balance
of probabilities, that the car wasnt returned correctly by the manufacturers garage to
its original state. I also think its worth reiterating what the investigator said, and that
is the car was inspected and worked on by one of the manufacturers garages,
experienced in working on cars such as Mrs Es, not an independent garage.
there is no evidence to show that the manufacturers garage didnt make matters
worse, or contributed to the problem, when it returned the car back to its original
state
I accept that there is no evidence that the manufacturers garage didnt make matters
worse, or contributed to the problem, when it returned the car back to its original
state. But equally there is no evidence to suggest that it did. And again, taking
everything into account, Im simply not persuaded, on the balance of probabilities,
that the manufacturers garage made matters worse, or contributed to the problem.
despite being inspected and work being undertaken by a manufacturers garage, the
fault is still not fully diagnosed
This point isnt in dispute and leads me to conclude there is a serious fault with the
car that made it of unsatisfactory quality when supplied.it wasnt aware of Mrs Es concerns until after the car had been inspected and work
undertaken on it - so an independent inspection would have added nothing of value
Im not persuaded there would have been no value in a further inspection. But, given
how long matters have been going on for, I accept that it wouldnt be appropriate for
a further inspection to be carried out now.
Having concluded that Mrs E was supplied with a car that wasnt of satisfactory
quality, Ive gone on to consider what Close Brothers should have to do to fairly
compensate her.
In her most recent submissions to our service Mrs E has suggested that she would
like to keep the car and for Close Brothers to be directed to repair it. But in my view
given the fault with the car, that the fault has not been fully diagnosed, the potential
cost of repair, the risk that a repair may be unsuccessful and how long this matter
has been going on, Im not persuaded directing Close Brothers repair the car is fair,
reasonable or proportionate. Therefore, I agree with the investigator that Mrs E
should be able to reject the car and that Close Brothers should have to collect it and
at no cost to her.
The investigator recommended that Close Brothers should refund to Mrs E her
£1,000 advance payment together with interest and £100 for distress and
inconvenience, and I agree. I also think that Mrs E should have refunded any
payments she made against the agreement whilst she was without the car, or a
courtesy car, together with interest.
And for the avoidance of doubt I find in this respect that Close Brothers should refund
the monthly payments made by Mrs E in September and October 2019 (circa eight
weeks) and half the monthly payment she made in December 2019 (circa two weeks)
together with interest.
Now based on what Mrs E has said and submitted its my understanding that
between August 2019 and July 2021 inclusive she was able to use, and was using,
the car. But in my view this usage would have been impaired given the fault with it
and she should be fairly compensated for this. Taking everything into account, I think
that for this impaired use Close Brothers should refund Mrs E 5% of each monthly
payment she has made (other than September, October and December 2019)
together with interest.
I can see that Mrs E says she has incurred the following costs:
May 2021 £150.23 (supply and fit battery)
March 2021 £620.00 (supply and fit four new tyres/MOT)
August 2020 £261.14 (service)
Now Ive considered whether these costs should be refunded by Close Brothers. But
given what they relate to, and given that Mrs E has had use, albeit impaired use, of
the car since August 2019, I dont think it would be appropriate for me to direct
Close Brothers to refund these costs.
Close Brothers responded to say that it had nothing further to add.
Mrs E responded to say that she still felt the fairest outcome would be for me to direct
Close Brothers to repair the car rather than directing it to accept rejection.I issued a (second) provisional decision on this case in January 2022. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with Mrs E that my first provisional findings dont compensate her
fairly, given, amongst other things, the value of the car in the current market (even with the
fault with it), the payments she has made to Close Brothers under her agreement with it and
the other costs she has incurred in keeping the car (as far as possible) in a good and
roadworthy condition.
So, I now propose that to compensate Mrs E fairly, Close Brothers (and for the reasons
given in this second provisional decision) should:
repair the car at no cost to Mrs E
ensure, whilst the car is in for repair, that Mrs E is provided with a courtesy car
refund Mrs E the monthly payments she made of £256.25 in September and
October 2019 and half the monthly payment she made of £256.25 in December 2019
pay Mrs E interest on the above three sums at 8% simple per year from the date of
payment to the date of settlement*
refund Mrs E 5% of each monthly payment she has made (other than September,
October and December 2019)
pay Mrs E interest on the above sums at 8% simple per year from the date of
payment to the date of settlement*
pay Mrs E £100 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused her
remove any adverse information it may have recorded with credit reference agencies
in respect of this agreement
*Close Brothers Limited is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax from any
interest paid. Should Mrs E request it, Close Brothers Limited should provide her with a
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off so that, if appropriate, she can reclaim
it.
Mrs E responded to say that she was happy with my (second) provisional decision and was 
prepared to take [the car] to a different [non manufacturers] garage if the cost will be less.
Close Brothers responded to say, in summary:
in its view rejection was a fairer outcome than a repair
the original supplying dealership is no longer available to assist with [any] repair.
although the information available indicates it is likely that faults were present from 
the point of sale, it also indicates that unauthorised work was completed and we dont 
(and cant) know the effect this has had and how it will complicate future work 
we look to assist customers wherever possible, but the issues were not raised to us 
initially giving us a chance to investigate and the burden placed on ourselves if a 
repair is to be completed appears disproportionate
if I was still minded to find a repair must be undertaken then:
othe courtesy car supplied would be a group A car
oas the dealer is no longer available it would like Mrs Es assistance in having 
the necessary diagnostic work completed and repairs arranged
othe car (on the grounds of cost) shouldnt be repaired at a main dealer
owhere appropriate second hand/reconditioned parts should be used rather 
than new ones
oif repairs are deemed uneconomical, then they shouldnt be undertakenoit should only be responsible for paying for the original repairs identified as 
being needed, not any other
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In support of its view that the car should be rejected, rather than repaired, I cant see that 
Close Brothers has added anything materially new for my consideration. Therefore, I see no 
reason to add anything further to my provisional comments and findings in this respect.
Turning to Close Brothers comments and observations about any repair, I can confirm that:
Mrs E only needs to be provided with a group A courtesy car whilst her car is in for 
repair
the car should be repaired at a non-dealership garage (assuming all repairs can be 
satisfactorily completed at a non-dealership garage)
Mrs E should assist Close Brothers in getting the necessary diagnostic work 
completed and repairs arranged, but this should be at no cost to Mrs E and, in 
providing her assistance, Mrs E shouldnt be caused any material distress or 
inconvenience
parts provided dont need to be new where used/reconditioned parts are available 
and, in the view of the repairing garage, its appropriate for these to be used
but where supplied and fitted, any used/reconditioned parts should come with a 
guarantee or warranty
if it transpires that the car is uneconomical to repair and Close Brother decide not to 
repair, then matters should be referred back to our service for further consideration 
under this, or a new, complaint reference.
My final decision
My final decision is that Close Brothers Limited must
repair the car at no cost to Mrs E  but this doesnt need to be done at a 
manufacturers garage
Mrs E should assist Close Brothers in getting the necessary diagnostic work 
completed and repairs arranged, but this should be at no cost to Mrs E and, in 
providing her assistance, Mrs E shouldnt be caused any material distress or 
inconvenience
parts provided dont need to be new where used/reconditioned parts are available 
and, in the view of the repairing garage, its appropriate for these to be used
but where supplied and fitted, any used/reconditioned parts should come with a 
guarantee or warranty
ensure, whilst the car is in for repair, that Mrs E is provided with a courtesy car, but 
this need only be a group A car
refund Mrs E the monthly payments she made of £256.25 in September and
October 2019 and half the monthly payment she made of £256.25 in December 2019
pay Mrs E interest on the above three sums at 8% simple per year from the date of
payment to the date of settlement*
refund Mrs E 5% of each monthly payment she has made (other than September,
October and December 2019)
pay Mrs E interest on the above sums at 8% simple per year from the date of
payment to the date of settlement*pay Mrs E £100 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused her
remove any adverse information it may have recorded with credit reference agencies
in respect of this agreement
if it transpires that the car is uneconomical to repair and Close Brother decide not to 
repair, then matters should be referred back to our service for further consideration 
under this, or a new, complaint reference
*Close Brothers Limited is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax from any
interest paid. Should Mrs E request it, Close Brothers Limited should provide her with a
certificate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman