DRN-2907198
The complaint
X complains about the charges he has been asked to pay by Mercedes-Benz Financial
Services UK Limited (MBFS) since a car he was financing through them was returned.  
What happened
I provided my provisional decision on this complaint in May 2021. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
X financed a used car through a hire purchase agreement with MBFS. At the point of supply
the car was almost three years old and had already completed 21,208 miles. The car was
collected on 10 February 2016 and the agreement (paid in arrears) was to end on 10
February 2020.
X returned the car a little later than expected on 10 March 2021 and was surprised by the bill
MBFS subsequently asked him to pay.
MBFS said they would charge X £442.85 for the additional 28 days he had kept the car.
They calculated that charge by dividing his monthly rental by 30 to get a daily rate and
multiplying that by 28. They added VAT to the additional rental cost as they said the
additional rental service incurred VAT.
Our investigator thought that clause 11.4 of the finance agreement suggested additional
rental fees should only be incurred 14 days after the contract end date. He suggested MBFS
should therefore reduce the additional rental charge to £171.34. He said as VAT had already
been added to Xs monthly instalment it wouldnt be fair to add VAT again.
MBFS also charged X to refurbish the car as they didnt think it had been returned in the
condition required by the contract. They charged £2,935 for several areas of damage.
Our investigator agreed that most of the charges were fair, but he thought there wasnt
evidence, in the inspection photograph, that the left-hand rear quarter panel was damaged,
and he suggested the charge of £195 should be waived.
Neither X or MBFS agreed with the investigators view. X continued to dispute the extra days
rental and MBFS said they had no choice but to charge VAT on the extra rental period and 
they had calculated that period correctly. So, the complaint was been referred for an
ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont currently agree with everything the investigator proposed. Whilst I agree with his
views on the charges MBFS have made for damage to the car, I dont agree with his view on
the additional rental charges. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
X acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
the additional rental period
The finance agreement explained that there would be 48 payments made towards the
agreement. The first was to be paid after X had been using the car for a month and the last
payment was therefore due on 10 February 2021.
Xs car was collected on 10 March 2021 and I therefore agree that an excess rental charge
is due. I think that extra rental period was for 11 February 2021 until 10 March 2021 which is
28 days.
I dont agree with the investigators interpretation of clause 11.4 of the finance agreement.
That clause relates to the Option to Purchase which is not something I think X had decided
to do. It says, in effect, that if a consumer fails to make the optional final payment within 14
days of the end of the contract, the contract will be terminated and that right to purchase will
no longer exist. I dont think its fair to suggest that clause extends the end date of the
contract.
I think the daily rate MBFS applied was reasonable as they charged X on a pro rata basis for
the additional 28 days hed had the car. But I dont think it was reasonable of them to charge
VAT on that figure.
I understand that MBFS say that they have to add VAT as its a statutory requirement. This
is because the contract was at an end and the sum being charged was in relation to a
service they were providing: a service which would attract VAT. But the monthly finance
instalment X had been paying already incorporated VAT and if MBFS were to charge VAT
again on that figure they would, in effect, be charging X a higher daily rental than they had
previously. That doesnt seem fair to me so I think MBFS should charge X for 28 days
excess rental at £13.18 per day inclusive of the VAT. 
the damage charges
The terms of the finance agreement held X responsible for keeping the car in good condition.
He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned
at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association
(BVRLA). MBFS say that they are not members of the BVRLA, but I still think that industry
standard is the most appropriate one to use when considering if charges are fair.
Ive considered the photographs of the damage that are provided in the inspection report
completed at handover.
The BVRLA guide says scratches which exceed 25mm or expose the primer or bare metal;
scuffs beyond 50mm along the circumference of the wheel; any spoke damage; tyre wall
damage or tyres that dont comply with UK legal requirements, should be considered to falloutside of fair wear and tear.
Im persuaded that all charges MBFS have levied are therefore fair as the inspection report
photographs show the damage is in excess of this standard.
However, I dont think the photograph of the quarter panel, in which there is supposed to be
a dent and paint damage, shows that. I think MBFS should therefore waive that charge of
£195.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint in part and to tell
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited to:
waive the charge they have made for repairs to the quarter panel of £195;
amend the excess rental charge to £13.18 per day inclusive of VAT, for 28 days.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr R nor MBFS provided any further information by the deadline.  
Putting things right
Ive not therefore had any further information to consider and Ive not been persuaded to 
change my provisional decision on this complaint. That now becomes my final decision.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and to tell Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited to:
waive the charge they have made for repairs to the quarter panel of £195;
amend the excess rental charge to £13.18 per day inclusive of VAT, for 28 days.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman