DRN-2868954
The complaint
Mr D complains that Metro Bank PLC recorded a marker at CIFAS, the national fraud 
database.
What happened
Mr D had accounts with Metro Bank. In 2016 his accounts were closed, and he wasnt told 
the reason why. In 2020 he found out that Metro Bank had recorded a CIFAS marker. He 
says that he paid in a post-dated cheque in 2016 for £500 before he went abroad. But that 
the person who gave the cheque to him didnt honour it and he is out of pocket. Since then 
he has made multiple applications for accounts and credit at other financial businesses that 
have been turned down. He wants his account re-opened and compensation of at least 
£2,000 for the impact on him and his family.
Metro Bank issued a final response to Mr D about this complaint in June 2020. It said that it 
received a notification from a third-party bank that fraudulent funds were paid into his 
account. And it had a duty to report this. When it submitted its business file to this service in 
October 2020 it said that as a gesture of goodwill it would remove the marker due to the 
amount of the cheque and the time that had elapsed. It said it wouldnt re-open the accounts.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld and Mr D paid £400 in 
compensation. He said that the bar for adding a CIFAS marker was a high one and he hadnt 
seen sufficient evidence to support the marker being added. He said that Metro Bank had 
since offered to pay Mr D £100 in compensation as a gesture of goodwill. Mr D didnt accept 
this as sufficient. There was no specific evidence of financial loss, but Mr D had been 
caused trouble and upset. Mr D had confirmed he would accept a payment of £400 in 
settlement.
Metro Bank said it didnt agree to pay £400 amount of compensation and offered £150. It 
said there were nothing specific to show Mr D had been turned down for other accounts 
because of the CIFAS marker. As Mr D didnt accept its offer it wanted this reviewed by an 
ombudsman. It said it was unreasonable to hold it responsible for the actions of other 
financial business in response to an advisory marker. This compensation was high in relation 
to other similar cases.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Metro Bank 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
Metro Bank accepts it has limited information about what happened in 2016. I would expect 
it to keep the records that support the marker being added. Mr D has said no more than he 
paid in a post-dated cheque. I havent seen any evidence to show that he knew, or ought to 
have known that this cheque was fraudulent or counterfeit  if that was the case. And it 
would be unreasonable now to expect him to show that this was a legitimate payment. 
While I appreciate Metro Bank has now removed this CIFAS marker as a gesture of goodwill 
Im not satisfied it had grounds to apply it in the first place on the basis of the evidence it has 
presented including details of any investigation. I would have expected it to retain the 
material that supported the application of the marker.
I agree with our investigator that Mr D hasnt shown that the CIFAS marker caused him a 
specific financial loss. And given what he says about being turned down for other accounts 
he could potentially have looked into why this was happening earlier. But hes provided a 
letter in January 2020 from a third-party bank declining his application and advising him to 
make a subject access request to CIFAS. I think its a reasonable inference that the CIFAS 
marker then in place was a relevant consideration for that bank. I understand that the marker 
was removed by December 2020. And Mr D had confirmation from CIFAS that there was 
nothing recorded in March 2021 after he contacted it. So, although he refers to another bank 
closing his account in March 2021 he would need to contact that business directly about the 
reasons.
Putting things right
Im afraid it was a matter for Metro Bank to decide whether to offer him an account. But Mr D 
has been caused trouble and upset by what happened with the CIFAS marker. I take into 
account our published guidelines and I am forming my own judgement about the 
circumstances of this specific case. I have found that the marker wasnt applied fairly, and I 
note it was in place for over four years. And that Mr D was aware of this for a number of 
months and had to refer this matter to this service after he complained before this was 
addressed. I consider that the compensation recommended of £400 is reasonable to reflect 
what has happened. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Metro Bank PLC to pay Mr D £400 in 
addition to the removal of the CIFAS marker as it has already done.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman