The complaint
Mrs P complains Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly placed blocks on her bank account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The terms and conditions of the account say Lloyds can stop a customer making
payments if they reasonably consider it necessary because of security or suspected
unauthorised or fraudulent use of the account. In June 2019, Mrs P made an online
request to transfer around £1,688. As the payment was for a high amount, and the
beneficiary was a new payee, Lloyds said they needed to ask Mrs P some questions
about the payment. Having listened to the call between Lloyds and Mrs P I dont think
these questions were unreasonable and its not unusual for a financial business to
ask a customer questions to help them comply with regulatory requirements. So I
dont think Lloyds have done anything wrong by asking them
Mrs P said she wasnt happy continuing to answer the questions and terminated the
call. As Lloyds had been unable to complete their questioning on the reason for the
payment, they were concerned Mrs P might be a victim of fraud  so they placed
blocks on her account. Lloyds had a duty to safeguard Mrs Ps account, so I dont
think in the circumstances this was unreasonable.
To remove blocks to her online banking and debit card, Lloyds told Mrs P she would
need to visit a branch with identification. I can appreciate this wouldve been an
inconvenience to Mrs P, as the blocks were placed on her account at a weekend and
this would mean she would have to wait until Monday to visit a branch. But Lloyds
needed to verify Mrs Ps identification as part of the steps needed to be able to
remove the blocks - and to be satisfied no fraudulent activity was taking place. So I
think Lloyds acted fairly here
Mrs P has also raised about the amount of time she had to wait in the branch for the
issue to be resolved. But I can see Lloyds system notes say, in branch, Mrs P
remained unhappy with answering the questions Lloyds required to remove the
blocks. So as Mrs P didnt want to answer them, they couldnt remove them. When
Mrs P did answer these questions the blocks were removed - and the notes show the
DRN-1868261blocks were removed the same day. So I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly here.
Lloyds said they were at fault for disconnecting a call with Mrs P. They offered her
£20 compensation for this. Mrs P is unhappy with this and I know she is very upset
by the whole incident. But as I think Lloyds have acted fairly in the points Ive set out
above, I think their offer of compensation reasonable as this fairly reflects the
inconvenience she has suffered in this instance.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman