DRN-2461040
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that QIC Europe Limited unfairly rejected a claim under their home 
insurance policy when a storm damaged the roof of their house.
Both Mr and Mrs E are named policyholders on their QIC policy, so any claim or complaint is 
brought by them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information about the 
complaint has been provided by Mr E, Ill refer mainly to Mr E from here onward.
QIC used a third party company to handle Mr Es claim and most of his correspondence has 
been with this company rather than directly with QIC. For the avoidance of doubt, any 
reference to QIC includes its agents, including the claims handling company.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E had a home insurance policy with QIC, first bought in 2016 via an insurance 
broker and renewed each year. In February 2020, a storm damaged the roof of their home. 
Tiles came away from the gable ends, and fillets on both front and rear gables were 
damaged leaving the roof exposed. They called their builder who made the roof watertight. 
Mr E then contacted QIC to make a claim under the policy. 
QIC said photos submitted with Mr Es claim had been taken after the roof had been 
repaired. This meant  in QICs view  that there was no evidence the damage to [the] roof 
was a direct result of storm winds. It referred to section 10 of the policy (Claims procedures 
and condition), which says: You may carry out any temporary repairs that are necessary to 
reduce any further loss or damage, but do not carry out any permanent repairs without first 
getting our written permission. It said that Mr Es builder had repaired the damage without 
QICs written permission, so rejected the claim. 
Mr E was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service. He said it was unfair 
for QIC to expect him to take photos of the damage during the storm when his priority was to 
make the roof watertight. He later told us that QIC cancelled an inspection by their surveyor, 
at which point he arranged for his builder to finish the repairs.  
In the end, our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Es complaint should be upheld. He 
accepted there was a storm but found that QIC couldnt inspect the roof before it was 
repaired. He accepted QICs argument that Mr Es policy said repairs shouldnt be carried 
out without its written permission, so thought it was reasonable for QIC to reject the claim.
Mr E disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Es policy covers him for loss or damage caused by a storm. Section 1.3 of the policy 
booklet says: We will cover loss or damage caused by storm winds of Force 10 or above 
(as defined under the internationally recognised Beaufort Scale). QIC agrees that there 
were storm force winds of up to 65mph around the time Mr and Mrs Es roof was damaged. 
However, QIC referred to section 10 of Mr Es policy. This says Mr E needs QICs written 
permission before he can make any permanent repairs. The key question for me to answer 
is: was it fair for QIC to rely on that policy term to reject Mr Es claim?
I understand why QIC wanted to be sure that the damage was caused by an insured event. 
But this can often be difficult. In this case, Mr E didnt have any photos of his undamaged 
roof  in fairness, Id imagine few people would be able to provide such photos  and he 
says his builder made emergency repairs before he was able to take any photos of the 
original storm damage.
Given these circumstances, its important to know what was discussed when Mr E first 
reported the damage. Ive listened to the call between Mr E and QIC on 20 February 2020. 
During the call, QICs advisor told Mr E that a surveyor would have to inspect the damage 
before repairs were approved, but he couldnt guarantee when this would be. He suggested 
it might be two weeks before a surveyor could visit his home. 
Understandably, Mr E wanted to see if this could be done more quickly. He also explained 
that his builder had already put up scaffolding and made a temporary repair, so he didnt 
have photos of the original storm damage. This is consistent with his email to QIC later the 
same day (Because of the urgency my builder has already started work on the gable 
ends.)
The advisor told Mr E he understood this and suggested another way of validating the claim:
If that builder  the roofer sorry  takes pictures before, after and during the works 
ok and just writes a report out for us to say why hes had to do those repairs, so 
what has caused the damage to the roof in terms of why the tiles have come off the 
roof and things like that, then we would be able to do it like that without sending out a 
surveyor.
Mr E agreed and asked what QIC needed his builder to do. QICs advisor set this out:
From this point onwards, if he takes pictures now during him doing the repair work 
and things like that and after, and just writes up a report saying why exactly the tiles 
have come off the roof, due to his expert opinion  yknow, whats happened in order 
for those tiles to come off  and you send that over to us, ok, we should be able to try 
to validate the claim that way 
I think this is clear. QIC wanted to see photos of the damage and repairs, and an expert 
opinion about what caused the damage. In my opinion Mr E didnt provide this. The report 
by Mr Es builder is a very brief and high-level email. Ive set this out in full below:
Both gable ends need replacing ie the tiled verges. 
They need rebeding [sic] due to strong winds and tiles that were blown of the main 
roof need replacing this requires scaffolding both sides of the property also all debris 
to be cleared away. 
For the sum of £2,450
I dont think this is what QIC told Mr E it needed. In my opinion this is simply a quote for 
repairs, not a report setting out the damage and its cause.
This might not have been an issue if Mr E had provided photos showing the damage to the roof at the different stages of the repair work, as QIC requested. However, I cant see any 
damage in the photos Mr E sent QIC and I agree with QICs technical experts when they say 
the photos show no evidence of storm damage. 
I accept that Mr Es builder had already made temporary repairs. However, Id still expect to 
see photos of damage that hadnt yet been repaired, particularly given Mr Es call with QIC 
on 20 February. For example, in that call Mr E said his builder advised that six or seven 
rows of tiles have got to come off and hes got to replace the felt underneath. So Id have 
expected Mr E to provide photos of these repairs to support the claim.
Given the circumstances, and the discussion between Mr E and QIC on 20 February, I dont 
think it was unfair for QIC to rely on the policy term to reject Mr Es claim.
Theres one other point to address. Mr E told us QIC did arrange for a surveyor to inspect 
the roof. He says this inspection was scheduled for 10 March but when he phoned the 
surveyor that day to confirm what time he was coming, the surveyor told him QIC had 
cancelled the inspection. Mr E says his builder had advised him that the temporary repairs 
needed to be made permanent urgently, and this was done shortly after the 10th [of 
March].
Im a little confused by this. Mr E told QIC on 20 February that hed rather go ahead with 
repairs rather than wait for an inspection. And QIC told us it didnt arrange an inspection for 
this reason. So its not clear to me why an inspection would have been arranged.
The photos Mr E sent QIC are timestamped at approximately 11am on 10 March 2020. 
Thats the same day Mr E says QICs surveyor was due to inspect the roof. Given the photos 
dont appear to show any damage, I think that if the inspector had turned up as scheduled 
its likely hed have found the repairs had already been completed. So, while I dont have a 
satisfactory explanation for the contradictory statements about the cancelled inspection, this 
doesnt change my decision.
Ive a great deal of sympathy with Mr and Mrs E and I understand why they didnt want to 
wait several weeks for an inspection before having their roof repaired. However, Im satisfied 
that QIC clearly explained what Mr E needed to provide for it to validate the claim. I dont 
think Mr E provided this, so I dont think QICs decision to reject his claim was unfair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2021. 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman