DRN-3773353
The complaint
Mr C has complained Santander UK plc allowed a third party to withdraw £70,000 from his 
bank account without checking with him.
What happened
Mr C held a joint account with a third party (who Ill call Mr E). This account had been 
deactivated since April 2019. In 2021 Mr C  expecting to receive a large credit  decided to 
start using the account again. He phoned Santander. He also contacted Mr E and asked him 
to take his name from the account.
Mr E didnt do this. Mr C received a legacy following his mothers death. In late September 
he noticed £70,000 had been withdrawn. He complained to Santander. Santander confirmed 
the account had remained in joint names and Mr E had gone into a branch to make the 
transfer to an account overseas.
As Santander didnt believe theyd done anything wrong, Mr C brought his complaint to the 
ombudsman service.
Our investigator noted Santander no longer held a copy of the call when Mr C believed hed 
been told the account was safe to use. However, our investigator believed the evidence 
showed the account remained jointly-held. Mr C had never checked with Santander that 
Mr E had taken his name off the account. Although she sympathised with what had 
happened, she didnt think it would be fair to ask Santander to repay Mr C.
Still unhappy, Mr C has asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Firstly theres no dispute this account was opened as a joint account for Mr C and Mr E. The 
terms and conditions of a joint account with Santander allow both parties to authorise 
transactions without the bank being required to get any further authorisation from the other 
account holder.
The key to this complaint is that Mr C clearly believes this was no longer a joint account. 
Hed asked Mr E to remove himself from the account and it seem logical this was done after 
Mr Cs initial call with Santander to reactivate the account.
From the records Ive seen theres no reason not to believe the Santander member of staff 
wouldnt have followed their normal training. When an account is reactivated, the record that 
Ive seen would suggest the member of staff would have confirmed the account remained in 
joint names. This would explain why Mr C was prompted into contacting Mr E.
The problem is that Mr E didnt remove himself from the account, nor is there anything to 
indicate that Mr C followed this up either with Santander or Mr E.
Im surprised this didnt happen. Particularly as Mr C was expecting to receive a large 
deposit into the account.
I dont dispute Mr Cs belief he was told the account was safe to use. But I dont think that 
means that it was no longer operating as a joint account, rather that it had been successfully 
re-activated after a period of dormancy. I do believe that if Mr C had specifically asked if the 
account remained a joint account, then Santander would have confirmed it was and thered 
be a specific record of this on existing call notes.
Mr C has told us he didnt receive paper statements. He also saw no need to review his 
electronic copies, available when using online banking. He managed his account by 
reviewing the transactions so didnt need to check his statements. I believe Mr C accepts 
that if he had reviewed a full electronic statement, it would have clearly shown that the 
account was in joint names.
Mr Cs argument is that both online and mobile banking didnt show the account was in joint 
names. Thats not at all unusual. When reviewing accounts you can generally only view 
those in your own name (joint and sole) whether thats using a mobile banking app or 
banking online.
I have looked at the specific transfer Mr E made in September 2021. I wondered whether 
there was anything about this that should have sparked Santander to ask questions when 
Mr E was making the payment. Certainly the amount and the destination (an overseas 
account in another persons name) meet those criteria. But from Santanders evidence, I can 
see their fraud department did ask more than a few questions of Mr E. These are generally 
to identify whether the customer is an unknowing victim of a scam. In this case  as Mr E 
was in fact the person scamming someone else  I can see Santander got the answers 
theyd need to allow the payment to be made. I dont believe Santander did anything wrong 
here.
I appreciate that Mr C has lost out badly but I dont think this was Santanders fault. The 
transfer was properly authorised. The payment wasnt being made by an account holder 
whilst being scammed. In fact a properly authorised account holder was committing a crime 
and stealing Mr Cs money. I know Mr C has raised this matter with the police and Im sure 
Santander will do all they can to facilitate this.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Cs complaint against Santander 
UK plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman