DRN-3919906
The complaint
A pension scheme trust which Ill call C complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) didnt
pay a cheque as expected and froze their account which caused them a financial loss.
The complaint is brought on Cs behalf by their trustees Mr M and Mrs M. Mr and Mrs M are
also represented by Cs pension practitioner, which Ill call X.
What happened
C holds a business account with BoS which was taken out in 1999. In line with pension
scheme rules, any payments made by C need to be counter signed by a pension
practitioner.
C told us:
They tried to issue a cheque in December 2020 which wasnt honoured by BoS as 
the bank said it wasnt signed in accordance with the mandate.
BoS has honored around 100 cheques which C has issued over the last eight years
that wouldnt have been in accordance with the mandate details the bank said it held
for C.
X had requested changes to the mandate in 2003 due to a change of name which it
didnt appear BoS had actioned. BoS said it didnt receive this request, but X had
requested a change of address at the same time which was actioned.
BoS had effectively frozen their account as they could only make payments via
cheque which meant C had to borrow money to pay their required invoices totaling
around £23,000 and they also hadnt been able to make a planned investment of
around £100,000.
The mandate was now updated but C had been given incorrect information by BoS
about what was needed to do this, which had caused them inconvenience.
BoS told us:
The cheques C had issued werent signed in accordance with the mandate it held on
file, so it was right for it to decline them.
It was Cs responsibility to update it when any changes were needed, and it had no
record of a request being made in 2009 when an existing signatory had retired.
Mr M had told the bank C hadnt issued the cheque for the investment as their 
account was blocked so there was no point. Therefore, any losses C says it has
incurred were speculative.
It was Cs decision to borrow around £23,000, they hadnt discussed this with the
bank before taking out the loan, so it couldnt be held responsible for Cs actions.
It had apologised and paid £276 compensation to Mr M as Cs trustee for the
inconvenience and call costs incurred, which it felt was reasonable.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. She said:
It was difficult to say when Cs mandate was updated at the bank due to the time that
had passed and because this was disputed by both parties.
She thought that it was unfair for BoS to honour so many cheques and then decide in
December 2020 that it wouldnt pay a cheque which had been signed in the same
way for so long.
It had taken too long for BoS to update Cs mandate in 2021 as the trust was in
regular contact with the bank and quickly provided any information that was required.
She didnt think BoS had told C about their mandate being updated, which
meant the trust didnt issue cheques for around nine months. When C was made
aware, they made an investment for £120,000 and repaid their loan.
She hadnt seen enough evidence to show that C had planned to make the
investment in January 2021 so she couldnt award compensation for any financial
loss from this. She also couldnt see that C had paid interest on the loan they had
borrowed, so she couldnt ask for this to be refunded. However, she agreed C had
been caused inconvenience from BoSs actions and recommended the bank pay the
trust a further £500 compensation.
C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. They said:
Mr M could claim trustee expenses which wouldnt have been incurred if BoS had
updated its records correctly.
They had various payments which needed to be made throughout 2021 when they
were unable to issue cheques so Mr M as the trustee had no option but to take out a
loan for C through his company and under the pension scheme regulations, interest
must be payable.
Historically, they had built up funds in the account held with BoS which had then
been invested, and this is what they had done as soon as they were aware in
September 2021 that they could now issue cheques from their account.
I issued a provisional decision on 6 January 2023. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided to 
uphold it in part. Ill explain why.
C says BoS treated them unfairly by not paying two cheques it issued in December 
2020 and January 2021. However, the bank says this was because they werent 
signed in accordance with the mandate it held on file. Ive looked at the evidence 
from both parties and I recognise Xs comment that they changed the mandate in 
2003, and that BoS must have received this as it was at the same time as they changed address and the bank had written to that address  but issue only appears 
to have arisen later in 2009 when a specific signatory retired from X.
I acknowledge that C believes BoS has acted negligently in not updating the 
mandate and that it should have contacted them to change this. However, the bank 
says it has no evidence of being notified of a mandate change in 2009 and neither C 
nor X have been able to show that this was sent either. And ultimately, it is the 
responsibility of the account holder to check that they have provided the bank with 
the relevant mandate information to ensure any payments can be made when 
requested.
BoS has told us that it is unable to provide a copy of the mandate which was in place 
when the December and January cheques were returned  as this was updated in 
July 2021 and old mandates are destroyed once a new one is created. So it would be 
difficult for me to say that BoS did anything wrong by declining the two cheques in 
question which werent made in line with the mandate it held on file.
However, both parties agree that C has issued numerous cheques since the 
retirement of Xs mandate signatory in 2009, and many of these have been for a high 
value which would have required them to counter sign the cheque. BoS told us that 
not all the cheques it receives are checked against the mandate and this is on more 
of an ad-hoc basis, and I think this process is reasonable. But I dont think its fair that 
C was able to issue cheques over a period of eleven years  including when they 
were for a significant value  without a single mandate check being carried out by the 
bank until 2020.
I say this because, BoS says that C didnt update their mandate as it has no record of 
this on file. This means that the bank shouldnt have paid out on any of the cheques 
issued by C since 2009 as none of them would have had the correct authority. I 
recognise that C hasnt been caused a financial loss as they wanted the cheques to 
be paid, so I dont think compensation is warranted for these errors. However, whilst I 
think BoS made an error in paying the earlier cheques, I think it was reasonable for 
them to decline the December 2020 and January 2021 cheques as these werent in 
line with the mandate it held on file. And just because BoS made a mistake in paying 
the other cheques, doesnt mean it was required to keep making the same error.
Ive seen that once C was made aware of the issue with the mandate, they looked to 
put things right with the bank as soon as possible. However, there were delays, 
issues with the documentation and periods where C was told they would receive a 
call back which didnt happen. I dont think BoS treated C fairly as it took from 
January 2021 to July 2021 for the bank to update the mandate, and I havent seen 
evidence from the bank which explains why it took so long to make the change. I also 
think C made it clear to BoS that they had no other way to make their required 
payments and this delay was causing them inconvenience. BoS since has 
apologised and agreed that its service could have been better here.
C told us that they had to borrow around £23,000 as they couldnt make their 
required payments from their account from January 2021 to October 2021. They 
explained that they took out a loan from the sponsoring employer at an interest rate 
of 8% as this was the rate used as statutory interest for business-to-business 
lending on the HMRC website. X also told us that as a pension scheme account, C 
was required by regulation to pay interest on all pension scheme borrowing, although 
there wasnt a set rate which needed to be applied which is why the sponsoring 
employer had used the statutory interest rate. BoS said it didnt think it should be 
liable for any loan repayments as C had chosen to take out the loanthemselves. But I dont agree.
Ive looked at the evidence from both parties and Ive seen that C made it clear that 
they needed to make payments from their account. Ive also seen that the trustees 
repeatedly contacted the bank to say that they couldnt make payments without the 
mandate being updated and explained that the trust was being caused reputational 
damage as their cheques had bounced to the same business  and I recognise how 
concerning this would have been for the trust and why they felt they needed to 
resolve this issue quickly - but I cant see that BoS offered to assist C in anyway.
As a trustee of the pension scheme, I think it was reasonable that Mr M wanted to 
mitigate any losses or reputational damage to C  given that several cheques had 
bounced to the same company already. And as a service, we would expect a 
complainant to look to mitigate any losses where possible. I also think C has 
provided a reasonable explanation for the rate applied to the borrowing  which was 
less than the rate offered by another bank at the time  and why this needed to be 
charged. So I think its reasonable for BoS to cover the interest payments for the 
period in question and for the amount of borrowing required to cover the
required repayments.
C told us that it needed to borrow around £23,000 between February 2021 to 
October 2021 and the interest payable on that period totalled £976.88. However, Im 
not persuaded thats a fair amount. I say this because, Ive seen evidence that BoS 
made C aware in July 2021 both in writing and by phone, that the mandate on the 
account had been updated and they could now issue cheques. So I think the interest 
should be payable from 3 February 2021 when the agreement was signed until 31st 
July 2021 to allow for the time it would have taken for C to receive the letter and 
repay the loan.
C has provided a list of 17 payments it needed to make whilst it couldnt issue 
cheques from its account  however only sixteen of these were due where I think C 
wasnt reasonably able to make the cheque payments. Ive also seen that Cs 
invoices were payable throughout the period to July 2021, so I think its reasonable 
for BoS to refund the interest from the date of each individual invoices to the 31 July 
2021. Although C would need to provide the evidence to BoS of the invoices which 
were payable and the date that these were paid so the bank can provide this refund 
as these were paid through Mr Ms third-party company.
C told us that as a result of the banks actions, they were unable to make their 
investment of £100,000 and had been caused a financial loss - but Im not persuaded 
thats the case. Mr M has provided a cheque stub (ending 173) which he says shows 
C intended to make the investment and therefore should be compensated for the loss 
of any return they would have made. However, the cheque stub Mr M has provided is 
hand-written and this information could have been completed at any point and made 
payable to anyone retrospectively so it isnt sufficient to show that the investment 
would have been made at this point.
I havent seen any evidence that C attempted to make the payment for the 
investment and that this was returned by the bank  in the same way that the other 
cheques were returned. I also think its worth noting that Mr M has repeatedly told 
this service that cheque was never actually written to make the £100,000 investment 
as there was no point as the account was blocked. He also told the bank the same 
information in February 2022 which was recorded in its Final Response Letter.Furthermore, Ive seen Cs account statements from January 2021 at the time the 
company said they intended to make the £100,000 investment. However, the account 
balance wasnt sufficient at that time to make this payment as C had paid out other 
cheques around the same time. And although C says that the cheque ending 173 
was written but couldnt be paid due to the issues with the mandate, later issue 
cheques, ending 175 and 178 were written, issued and debited Cs account after the 
date of the investment cheque. So if C always intended to make the investment but 
was unable to do so due to the mandate issues, its unclear why they chose to issue 
cheques after this date - because based on Cs logic, these wouldnt have been paid 
either.
I recognise C contacted X in January to say that they were unable to make 
investments and that they made the investment as soon as they could, once they 
were comfortable the account mandate had been updated. However, there isnt 
sufficient supporting evidence which shows that C intended to make an investment 
on a specific date, or for a specific amount. So based on what Ive seen Im not 
persuaded C intended to make the investment at the time that theyve said, and 
therefore I wont be recommending the bank compensate them for the financial loss.
Putting things right
Overall, I think C has been caused inconvenience by BoSs actions in not reviewing 
their cheques for around eleven years and then deciding not to pay two cheques 
after such a significant period. I also dont think BoS treated C fairly in how it dealt 
with the mandate change after it became aware of the previous signatory had retired 
and the impact on C as they were only able to make payments by cheque.
I can see that C has told us that it doesnt think that the investigators 
recommendation for a further £500 compensation is enough for the time theyve 
spent to resolve the complaint. However, this service doesnt look at an hourly rate 
when making awards, we look at the complaint holistically and consider the wider 
impact of any inconvenience caused. So to put things right, I think BoS should:
Refund the loan interest incurred by C for each of the invoices from the date 
they were paid to 31 July 2021. Interest should be at a rate of 8% simple.
Pay C £500 compensation for the inconvenience caused in addition to the 
£276 paid to Mr M. It is open to the trustees to decide if they wish to use this 
to pay Mr Ms expenses if they feel this is appropriate.
I invited C and BOS to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to 
consider before issuing my final decision. BOS didnt have anything further to add but 
requested C provide evidence of the interest they had incurred so this could be refunded. 
C didnt agree. They said in summary:
They believed the cheques honoured by the bank were in line with the mandate, so it 
was inappropriate for the bank to decline them. They also say the signatory changed 
in 2003 not 2009. 
They hadnt received the letter in July 2021, so they felt the loan interest should be 
payable until October 2021.
It is unfair to say that C had no intention of making the £100,000 investment when it said would, their account had never been overdrawn so they would have had enough 
funds to over the investment and other payment. They also feel it is only fair for BOS 
to cover the loss of investment. 
As the Pension Scheme Administrator Mr M was permitted to charge for extra costs 
incurred not expenses which he said totaled around £8,500 for dealing with the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision.
I acknowledge Mr M feels strongly about whats happened. Hes provided a lot of information 
and testimony in support of Cs complaint. Ive read and considered everything Mr M has 
provided, however, in this decision Ive not commented on each and every point hes raised, 
but I assure Mr M I have considered everything. My decision focuses on what I consider to 
be the key points. Our rules entitle me to do this, and it simply reflects the informal nature of 
this service.
Mr M has repeated that he feels BOS didnt treat C fairly by not paying the cheques they 
issued in December 2020 and January 2021. However, as I explained in my provisional 
decision, I do think the bank made an error with the pension scheme cheques. But as BOS 
has told us the mandate it held was effectively incorrect from 2009, it shouldnt have paid 
any of the cheques prior to this. I recognise that Mr M feels its unacceptable for the bank not 
to have the records he says are accurate. However, its not the role of this service to fine or 
punish the bank for making a mistake. We look at putting a complaint back in the position 
they would have been had the mistake not occurred, which I why I have recommended that 
the bank cover Cs loan costs for example.  
Mr M says that he wants the loan repayments paid between February and October as thats 
when he repaid Cs loan. He also says that he doesnt accept that the letter was sent by the 
bank in July as there isnt a signature saying it was received on Cs behalf. However, Im 
satisfied based on the evidence Ive seen that C ought reasonably to have been aware in 
July 2021, that the issues with their mandate had been resolved and they could issue 
cheques and therefore repay the outstanding loan before the end of the month. Just 
because C chose not to repay the loan until October, doesnt mean that BOS should be held 
responsible for the delay of several months. 
I recognise Mr M says that C always had the intention of making the £100,000 investment at 
the time they said. I also recognise that Mr M says funds would always be credited to Cs 
account if there wasnt enough to cover any repayments. However, this service is evidence 
based, and from the evidence available Im not persuaded C intended to make the 
investment at that time. Therefore any loss C says it would have made had it been able to 
invest would be speculative, and I dont think it would be fair to make the award Mr M is 
seeking. Nor can I accept that the investment would have been made simply because the 
service has been told after the event that this was the case.
Mr M told us that as the scheme administrator, he is able to charge for the costs involved for 
the extra work as a result of the complaint. I acknowledge this may be the case, however 
this service doesnt make awards based on an hourly rate, nor does it award compensation 
for bringing a complaint to this service or providing the information required as part of our investigation. To assess the level of any costs, I need to compare what actually happened 
with what would have happened in the absence of the banks failure. 
For this reason, I cant agree with the cost figures that Mr M has provided as I dont think 
they are reasonable in relation to the circumstances of the complaint. I have considered the 
inconvenience caused to C and awarded a further £500 compensation in addition to the 
£276 already paid by the bank - which I believe is reasonable under the circumstances. Ive 
also explained that it is the trustees decision on whether or not its uses the compensation to 
pay Mr Ms costs as he says these were incurred on behalf of the trust.   
So whilst I have considered Mr Ms comments in response to my provisional decision, my 
decision remains the same, in that BOS should pay C an additional £500 compensation and 
refund the loan interest incurred by C for each of the invoices from the date they were paid 
to 31 July 2021 plus 8% simple interest. C should supply evidence to BOS of the invoices 
and loan interest incurred by the trust so that the bank can arrange for a refund.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct Bank of Scotland Plc to do the 
following:
Refund the loan interest incurred by C for each of the invoices from the date they
were paid to 31 July 2021. Interest should be at a rate of 8% simple. C will provide 
evidence of the invoices and interest payable so the bank can undertake its 
calculations. 
Pay C £500 compensation for the inconvenience caused in addition to the £276 paid
to Mr M. It is open to the trustees to decide if they wish to use this to pay Mr Ms
expenses if they feel this is appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman