DRN-2070710
The complaint
Mr K complains about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limiteds decline of his pet 
insurance claim. My references to Red Sands include its agents
What happened
From December 2018 Mr K had an annual pet insurance policy for his dog, insured by 
Red Sands. 
In February 2019 Mr K took his dog to the vet as her tooth had recently fallen out and the vet 
found inflammation around the tooth area. In April 2019 Mr K took her to the vet again as 
she had a lump on her lower jaw causing her to lose more teeth. After a biopsy the vet 
provisionally diagnosed peripheral odontogenic fibroma (a mass that usually derives from 
the ligaments that hold the tooth into the socket). Mr K claimed for the costs of vet treatment. 
Red Sands declined the claim saying it related to dental or gum treatment, which the policy 
excluded.
Mr K complained to us. He said Red Sands had ignored his vets letter which explained that 
the mass wasnt a dental or gum problem but originated from the lower jaw bone rather than 
the gums or ligaments.
Mr K wants Red Sands to pay the claim and change the policy exclusion wording to be 
clearer about what Red Sands will pay for. He also told us that sadly his dog had to be put to 
sleep as the mass was inoperable.
Our investigator thought Red Sands fairly declined the claim.
 
Mr K disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. The vet had told him the aggressive 
spread of the mass indicated his dog had cancer in her jaw, not a dental problem. Mr K feels 
strongly that if Red Sands had paid the claim his dog could have had surgery sooner with a 
chance of saving her life.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision explaining why I was intending to uphold the complaint. I said:
We dont have the power to tell an insurer to change its policy wording. My role is to decide 
whether an insurer, in this case Red Sands, fairly and reasonably relied on the policy 
wording to decline the claim.
Our established approach is that where an insurer wants to rely on an exclusion clause to 
turn down a claim its for the insurer to show its fair to do so. Its not for the consumer to 
show the clause doesnt apply.
Im intending to uphold the complaint and require Red Sands to pay the claim subject to the 
remaining policy terms and conditions, plus interest as Ive detailed below. Mr K should note 
that the policy has an annual condition limit of £500, so less than he claimed.
The policy doesnt cover Any dental or gum treatment including root canal treatment. Mr Ks 
vet wrote to Red Sands that the mass was sampled and:
identified as a suspected 'Peripheral odontogenic fibroma'. there was marked 
invasion into the lower jaw which was likely responsible for the symptoms present. 
These types of neoplasm typically arise from gums, ligament or bones. In this 
instance it appears to be originating from the mandible.
In my opinion, this is not a typical tooth or gum related condition as it appears we are 
dealing with a primary tumour that is in the mouth causing secondary teeth and gum 
related problems.
Red Sands says the clinical history notes that the mass has invaded the jaw bone, 
suggesting it originated outside of the bone, within the gum. But Ive no reason to doubt 
Mr Ks vet clarification that for Mr Ks dog the mass appears to be originating from her jaw 
bone.
In addition, the vet notes from September 2019 show that when Mr Ks dog was 
anaesthetised with the aim of having surgery it was discovered that the mass had spread 
across the jaw and was inoperable. The vet notes say Mr K was advised the biopsy must 
not have been representative of whole tumour based on invasive behaviour. And the vet 
wrote to Mr K that: 
on my medical opinion (the dogs) illness was an invasive neoplasm affecting the 
bone of her mandible and could not have been caused by dental gum disease. Her 
teeth are normal on the x-rays obtained this week and remained unaffected by the 
tumour.
The vet doesnt say the mass was cancerous. But the May 2019 histology report describes 
the provisional diagnosis of peripheral odontogenic fibroma as a benign epulis that will not 
invade underlying bone. Given the vets evidence from September 2019 Im satisfied that 
the mass wasnt benign which throws doubt on the suspected diagnosis.
From the overall vet evidence Im satisfied that Mr Ks dog had an aggressive, probably 
cancerous, mass that originated from her jaw bone and wasnt caused by dental or gum 
disease. I dont think its fair for Red Sands to use the exclusion for dental or gum treatment 
to decline the claim.
Its not clear if Red Sands has seen the vet records after the provisional diagnosis and Ive 
asked our investigator to send them with my provisional decision.
I can see Mr K and his family have been badly affected by his dog passing away. But I dont 
think I can fairly say that if Red Sands had paid the claim his dog could have had successful 
surgery earlier. The vet notes show it would always have been a difficult operation. And the 
vet evidence shows the full extent of the mass wasnt known. As all the treatment was in one 
policy year Red Sands wouldnt have had to pay for the surgery as the annual condition limit 
had already been reached with the first claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
Red Sands accepted my provisional decision. Mr K also accepted. He said he still firmly 
believed that if Red Sands had paid the claim at the time his dogs cancer could have been 
diagnosed much sooner and she might have been saved. Instead he had to wait until he 
could afford the operation and by then it was too late.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr K and Red Sands accept my provisional decision Ive no reason to change my mind. 
For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings I uphold the 
complaint.
I do understand Mr Ks strong feelings around his dog not being able to have the operation 
sooner. But as Ive said, the evidence is the extent of the mass wasnt known and the 
operation would always have been difficult. So I cant fairly say earlier surgery would 
probably have saved his dog.
Putting things right
Red Sands must pay the claim subject to the  remaining policy terms and conditions, plus 
interest as Ive detailed below
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. 
I require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to pay the claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms and conditions. If Mr K has already paid the costs claimed interest* 
must be added at 8% simple a year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mr K how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr K a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman