DRN-4351582
The complaint
Mr D complains about a fixed sum loan he took out to finance the purchase of a car.
What happened
In October 2018 Mr D bought a brand new car from a dealer Ill call S. He paid for the car in 
part using a fixed sum loan from Santander. The car cost £35,528 and Mr D put down a 
deposit of £9,360. Mr D therefore borrowed £27,168.
The loan was repayable over 48 months followed by one payment of £14,275 (also known in 
the agreement as the guaranteed price).
The agreement also included a sales agency agreement. This allowed Mr D to appoint 
Santander as his agent to sell the car at the end of the agreement. In such event, the sales 
agency agreement permitted Santander to sell the car and deduct from the price realised:
commission of either 10% of the net price realised after deduction of its costs of sale 
or the amount (if any) by which the net price realised exceeded the guaranteed price;
its costs and expenses of sale, and;
the guaranteed price.
If the price realised after expenses of sale was less than the guaranteed price/final payment, 
Santander would make good the deficiency. And if the car failed to sell within 90 days from 
the end of the agreement, Santander would pay Mr D an amount equal to the guaranteed 
price. 
Towards the end of the agreement Mr D decided that he wanted to refinance the loan and 
arranged to enter into a hire purchase agreement with another lender, H. However, Mr D 
said that when H discovered his finance agreement with Santander was a personal loan and 
not a hire purchase agreement, it told him it couldnt lend to him. Mr D thought this was 
because of the way Santander had recorded the loan with the credit reference agencies. He 
said he spoke with Santander and it told him it would sort things out with H. 
H said it still wasnt prepared to lend to Mr D. Mr D said Santander offered to refinance the 
loan for another year but he was not happy with the interest hed have to pay. Mr D said he 
eventually decided to pay the final payment on the loan. 
Mr D complained to Santander in September 2022. He said he thought his agreement was 
personal contract purchase where the finance was secured against the car. He said the way 
the loan was being recorded with the credit reference agencies meant he couldnt refinance 
it with H. 
In response to Mr Ds complaint, Santander said that all of the information about the loan 
would have been provided by S and it was Mr Ds responsibility to read this before he signed 
the agreement. 
In May 2023 Santander provided some more context to its final response. It said the 
agreement had been recorded with the credit reference agencies as a balloon HP because 
it was a combination of personal contract purchase and a personal loan.  It said this is 
because, like a hire purchase agreement, Mr D could either pay the final payment and keep 
the car, return the car (via the sales agency agreement) or refinance the final payment with it 
at the end of the term. 
Santander offered to pay Mr D £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Our investigator thought Santanders offer was a fair resolution to the complaint. He didnt 
think there was enough evidence that Mr D had been unable to refinance his agreement with 
another lender because of something Santander had done wrong. And he said the type of 
agreement and its features appeared to have been explained to Mr D before he entered into 
it. He thought Santander hadnt been clear enough in some of its communications when Mr 
D was trying to resolve the issue with the other lender. But he thought Santanders offer of 
compensation of £150 was fair compensation for this. 
Mr D did not agree with the investigator and asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
In summary, he still thinks Santander sold him a type of agreement that meant he was 
unable to refinance with another lender, doesnt think the type of loan he signed was 
properly explained to him before he entered into it and doesnt think Santander explained his 
options properly at the end of the agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding what is fair and reasonable in this complaint, I must consider any relevant law 
and regulators rules and guidance. I find relevant law in this case to include Section 56 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 56). This had the effect of making S an agent of 
Santander during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mr D entering into the loan 
agreement. This means Santander can be held responsible for the things S said or didnt 
say, and what it did or didnt do during the sales process. 
It is I believe fair to say that most of Mr Ds complaint now arises from what he said was a 
failure by S to explain the features of his loan to him before he entered into the agreement. 
Mr D said he thought his loan was a PCP agreement where the lender remained the owner 
of the car until the loan was paid off. He didnt think he was entering into an agreement 
where he obtained ownership of the car straight away  as was the case with a personal 
loan. 
Mr D said he doesnt recall any specific comments by the salesperson, just that Mr D 
explained his overall goal was to have an arrangement where he paid a single monthly 
payment that would cover the entire running costs of the car and the salesperson 
recommended PCP. 
Santander said that S would have explained the features of the loan to Mr D and would have 
provided him with an explanation document and pre-contract credit information document 
which set out the key details of it. Mr D said he never received them. 
While Santander has provided copies of the documents, it has not evidenced that Mr D 
received all of them. And with memories fading over time, its difficult to know for sure now 
what was or wasnt explained. So, it is perhaps possible (although by no means clear) that some of the features of Mr Ds 
agreement were not explained to him before he entered into the loan. Ive thought about 
whether based on his comments, Mr D has lost out in any way as a result. 
My starting point here is that it's clear Mr D required finance of some kind to assist his 
purchase/acquisition of the car. And from what hes said, it appears Mr D may have been 
open to a number of different options  hes given us a quote he received for a conditional 
sale agreement for example. 
I have thought about Mr Ds comments that he thought he was getting a PCP agreement 
where the car would have been secured.  PCP is a name typically given to a kind of 
arrangement (often hire purchase) where the lender buys the car from the supplier and then 
rents it to the consumer for a monthly payment. There is usually an optional final payment 
(sometimes referred to as a balloon payment) which the consumer can pay to buy the car 
outright. Or, the consumer may have the option to return the car at the end of the agreement 
with no further cost to them (provided the car is in good condition).
Mr Ds agreement with Santander meant it was lending him the money to buy the car 
outright from S from the start. However, it did share some of the key features of PCP type 
arrangements. For example, it appears the agreement had lower monthly payments with one 
much larger payment at the end. And the sales agency agreement meant that if Mr D wanted 
to return the car just before the final/balloon payment was due he could do so by appointing 
Santander as his agent to sell it. And under that same agreement, if the price realised on the 
sale of the car was less than the guaranteed price (which was the same sum as the 
final/balloon payment) and Mr D had kept the car in good condition, Santander would make 
up the difference between the price realised and the final payment.  If on the other hand the 
price realised was more than the guaranteed price, this may have resulted in a sum 
becoming payable to Mr D (subject to the deduction of Santanders costs and commission).  
Thinking about this, it appears Mr Ds loan agreement was not that dissimilar from a PCP 
type arrangement. There are features of PCP that the loan didnt have such as the ability to 
terminate the agreement early and pay 50% of the repayments (usually known as voluntary 
termination) but theres no indication that Mr D wanted to do this so I dont think hes lost out 
as a result. 
Mr D hasnt said he made it clear to S that he didnt want any type of agreement where the 
car was not secured. So overall, it appears that the agreement Mr D ended up with was 
broadly in keeping with what he was open to taking out. 
Mr D has said he couldnt refinance the final payment on the agreement or part exchange 
the car elsewhere because of the way it was recorded on his credit file. Mr D hasnt 
evidenced why H made the decision to decline his application when it did, or that any other 
establishment refused to part exchange the car based on what was recorded on his credit 
file. As an aside on the latter of those issues, it seems unusual to me that another dealer 
would have based a decision not to part exchange the car on what was on Mr Ds credit file 
when its likely he could have evidenced he was the owner of the car. But as I say, Ive not 
seen enough evidence of this in any event. 
So, its not clear enough that the way the loan was recorded on Mr Ds credit file was the 
reason a refinancing deal was eventually declined by H or the reason Mr D could not part 
exchange the car elsewhere. 
Mr Ds loan was recorded as Balloon HP on the credit file he has provided. I do agree this 
wasnt perhaps the most accurate description of the agreement given it was not HP but a 
fixed sum loan. But as Ive said, Ive not seen enough that this was the reason H decided not to proceed with the loan. And hes settled the agreement now, so its very unlikely hell be 
disadvantaged by it going forward. 
Mr D has said that when he visited a dealership in May 2022 to discuss his options he was 
told he could not return the car to be sold and receive the net price realised on the sale. And 
also, that any trade in value would be based on the guaranteed price in the loan agreement. 
Mr D said the price he was offered was much lower than other valuations he got for the car 
and the dealer was in fact selling the same model for £7,000 more than the valuation he was 
given. 
Santander was not liable to Mr D for things said or done by the dealer after the loan 
agreement had been entered into, unless for example it was information it had asked that 
dealer to relay to Mr D.  And in this case it seems most likely it was the dealer, not 
Santander that would have been setting the part exchange value.  A part exchange did not 
involve invoking the terms of the sales agency agreement, and Mr D was of course the 
owner of the car. So, it seems unlikely to me that Santander would have exerted any 
influence over the price the dealer offered. 
Looking also again at the sales agency agreement, while Mr D could decide to appoint 
Santander as his agent to sell the car at any point not later than 30 days before the option 
date (the option date being 11 November 2022) Santander would not endeavour to sell the 
car until the option date at the very earliest. So, if Santander did tell the dealer that it 
wouldnt sell the car on his behalf yet in May 2022, that doesnt appear to have been 
contrary to the sales agency agreement. 
Mr D said his options were not properly explained to him at the end of the agreement. I can 
see he was sent a letter in September 2022, a couple of months before the end of the 
agreement, setting out three options available to him. Those options included keep the car 
and pay the final payment, return the car, or part exchange at another dealer and pay the 
final payment by the option date. 
This communication does appear to have been intended for Santanders hire purchase 
customers and did not elaborate, for example, on the full details of the sales agency 
agreement and what might happen if upon the sale of the car Santander realised a price in 
excess of the guaranteed price. However, I dont think Santander misrepresented the end of 
agreement options to Mr D in this letter or any subsequent communications Ive had sight of. 
Mr D was after all able to return the car to Santander under the sales agency agreement so 
that part of the communication wasnt wrong. It appears the focus of Mr Ds conversations 
with Santander after this was the way the agreement had been recorded on his credit file 
and it doesnt appear clarity was ever sought on just how the sales agency agreement would 
work should Mr D have invoked it. It is not disputed that Mr D was left with a copy of the loan 
agreement, so hed have been reasonably aware of the existence of the sales agency 
agreement and its terms.  
Overall, the evidence does not persuade me that Mr D was disadvantaged in the way hes 
said he was by the kind of agreement he took out, or that Santander has treated him unfairly. 
I do find Santander could have given Mr D better information in some of its communications, 
the end of agreement options letter being one example. I find the sum of £150 already on 
offer to be fair compensation for any distress and inconvenience Mr D has been caused by 
Santander. If Santander has not paid this to Mr D yet, it should do so. My final decision
For the reasons I have explained above, I require Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to pay Mr D 
£150 for distress and inconvenience if it has not already done this. I do not require it do 
anything else in respect of Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman