DRN-4014719
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) has not refunded them 
money that Mr R lost when he was the victim of a safe account scam.
As Mr R was the person who was scammed, going forwards I will be mainly referring to Mr 
R, even though this was a joint account.
What happened
The details are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here in detail. But in 
summary, Mr R was contacted by a scammer purporting to be from Starlings fraud team 
contacting him about a transaction on his account to a well-known department store. Mr R 
was told to sign into his online banking via the Starling App. Mr R saw that there was a 
payment pending which he did not agree to that needed an authorisation code. He was told 
by the scammer that he should cancel this transaction instead of entering the code.
After this Mr R was tricked into amalgamating all of his savings in his main joint account 
before a debit card payment for over £3,000 was made to an International Money Transfer 
company, which required Mr R to enter a code sent to his phone.
Shortly after the payment was made, Mr R realised that he had been scammed. Mr R  
contacted Starling to request a refund but Starling did not agree to this.
One of our investigators looked into this matter already and he concluded that the payment 
was not sufficiently unusual to have prompted an intervention from Starling and that there 
was no other means of recovering the funds. So, he did not recommend that Starling refund 
the transaction.
Mr and Mrs R did not agree and therefore this complaint was passed to me to issue a final 
decision. They have argued that the payment was unusual and that the transaction was not 
authorised by Mr R.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has argued that the payment in question was unauthorised. However, taking into 
consideration the Payment Services Regulation 2017, I think that the payment was 
authorised. To explain, Mr R did consent to the payment by entering the authentication code. 
I accept that Mr R was duped into doing this, but this does not mean he did not agree to the 
payment in question. Therefore, the payment was an authorised payment, even though it 
was part of a sophisticated scam. So, although Mr R did not intend the money to go to the 
fraudsters, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of 
this account, Mr and Mrs R are presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Starling should fairly and reasonably have been monitoring accounts and any payments 
made or received. The purpose of which is to counter various risks, including money 
laundering, the financing of terrorism, and fraud and scams.
Starling was required to have systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things).
This is particularly so, given the large increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, financial businesses 
should take additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment. In 
some cases, financial business will need to decline to make a payment altogether, to help 
protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
In this case, I need to consider whether Starling acted fairly and reasonably when the debit 
card payment was made, or whether it could and should have done more before processing 
it.
In this instance I have carefully considered this and I dont think that the payment was that 
unusual compared to other payments Mr and Mrs R made, to have prompted any 
intervention more than Starling asking confirmation that the payment was genuine - which it 
did by asking for a code. So, I dont think that Starling needed to do anything more than it did 
to prevent the payments.
Ive also thought about whether Starling took reasonable steps to recover the funds, once it 
was made aware of a scam. In this instance as the payment was made via debit card the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) does not apply. In some circumstances a 
chargeback could have been attempted, but given that the payment was made to a money 
transferring service, I dont think that there would be grounds for a chargeback to have been 
successful. After all, Mr and Mrs R were paying to transfer funds and the funds were 
transferred so they essentially got what was paid for, although I recognise that they wont 
see it that way.
It's clear that Mr and Mrs R were unfortunate victims of a scam, and I know this outcome will 
be very disappointing for them. However, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Starling 
should have done more to prevent their loss. So, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to ask 
Starling to refund the payment Mr and Mrs R made.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman