DRN-3648122
The complaint
Mr R complains about the advice given by Acumen Independent Financial Planning Limited 
(Acumen) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this 
has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Rs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Rs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In September 2017, the DB scheme administrators sent Mr R information about his 
entitlement under his current DB scheme including a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) 
illustration. The CETV stated that Mr R had 18 years and 6 months of pensionable service in 
the DB scheme and that the total transfer value of his benefits was £270,617.02.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them three options; to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Following a third-party introduction Acumen contacted Mr R in September 2017. Mr R wasnt 
sure what to do about his pension so a face-to-face meeting was arranged in early 
October 2017 so that Mr Rs options could be discussed. 
Acumen completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Rs circumstances and 
objectives along with undertaking an assessment of his attitude to risk. At that time Mr R was 
36 years old, married with one child under 13. Both he and his wife were working and his 
wife was an active member of her employers DB scheme pension as well as a deferred 
member of her former employers DB scheme. They owned their own home which was 
valued at £190,000 but was subject to an outstanding mortgage of £119,000 which was due 
to be repaid in 2032. It was also noted that they had £2,000 in savings and that Mr R and his 
employer were contributing 16% of his salary per month to his employers new defined-
contribution (DC) pension scheme. Acumen assessed Mr Rs attitude to risk and his 
capacity for loss to be medium. 
On 15 November 2017 Acumen sent Mr R its suitability report in which it recommended that 
he transfer his DB scheme pension benefits into a personal pension and invest the proceeds 
with a provider I shall call L through which some external discretionary fund managers were 
to be used so as to diversify the investments and give Mr P the potential for investment 
growth. The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were because Mr R 
wanted the flexibility to take early retirement at age 60, to have flexibility about how he took 
his income benefits in retirement and because he wanted to be able leave a legacy for his 
wife and child. 
In the suitability report Acumen also noted said the growth rates required (the critical yields) 
to match the benefits from the DB scheme were unlikely to be achievable. So from an 
investment perspective a transfer was likely not feasible. But Acumen said Mr Rs desire 
to live on a lower income, in order to have flexible access to his funds and greater death 
benefits were of a higher priority to him.
Mr R signed the forms that day to go ahead with the transfer. 
Mr R complained to Acumen through his representative on 25 November 2021. He said the 
advice he had received to transfer his DB scheme benefits had been unsuitable and that he 
should have been advised to join the BSPS2.  
Acumen replied to Mr Rs complaint in January 2022 but didnt think it had done anything 
wrong. Acumen said it had fulfilled its regulatory requirements and that it had taken 
reasonable steps to satisfy itself that its advice to transfer was suitable. It also said it couldnt 
recommend that Mr R join the BSPS2 as it hadnt been established at the time and there 
was no certainty it would be. Finally, It added that the PPF was widely (and correctly) 
considered to be an undesirable outcome.  
Unhappy with the outcome of Acumens investigation into his complaint, Mr R complained to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators looked into Mr Rs complaint 
and recommended that it was upheld. She thought that Mr R had been unsuitably advised to 
transfer and recommended that his complaint was upheld. She said Acumen should 
establish if Mr R had suffered a financial loss as a result of its unsuitable advice and if so 
pay him compensation, including compensation of £200 for any distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Acumen didnt reply to the Investigators findings. So, because things couldnt be resolved 
informally, the complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
What follows below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at 
the time of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Acumens actions 
here.PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Acumen 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Rs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
Financial viability 
When it gave its advice Acumen said that transferring to a personal pension was unlikely to 
achieve the relevant critical yields in order to match the benefits of the DB scheme. It also 
noted that from an investment perspective a transfer was likely not feasible. In other words 
Acumen recognised that transferring would most likely mean Mr R would be worse off in 
retirement by doing so. I agree with Acumen's analysis here. But I dont think it did enough to 
make it clear to Mr R how much he was likely be worse off by nor did it give him enough 
information on which to make an informed decision.
Acumen said the critical yields to match the benefits from the BSPS at age 65 was 6.3% and 
4.5% to match the PPF benefits. But Acumen didnt provide critical yields if Mr R decided to 
take the maximum tax-free cash (TFC) lump sum and a reduced pension. Also Acumen 
compared the benefits from the BSPS against the personal pension. But continuing in the 
BSPS in its existing form wasnt an option for Mr R. He needed to allow his funds to move to 
the PPF to opt to in the BSPS2. 
By time Acumen issued its suitability report the details of the BSPS2 were available. So I 
think Acumen should have provided a comparison of benefits from the personal pension 
against those from the BSPS2. Had it done so, given what I know about the BSPS2, I think 
the critical yields to match the BSPS2 benefits were likely to be between those of the BSPS 
and the PPF at age 65. But more likely than not it would be nearer to the BSPS critical yield. 
But as Acumen didnt set that out I dont think Acumen gave Mr R all the information he 
needed.
I can see from the suitability report that Mr R was considering retiring around age 60 
although this was far from certain and nothing was noted on the fact-find about Mr R taking 
early retirement. However, if taking early retirement had been a key objective for Mr R then 
its notable that Acumen didnt give him any figures for what his entitlements would be if he 
took early retirement. And if it had done so its reasonable to assume that it was likely the 
critical yields would have been even higher than for retirement at age 65. Thats because the 
funds would have been invested in a personal pension for a shorter time before Mr R 
accessed them and so would have had less time to grow. Those funds would also then have needed to support him for a longer period in retirement. That means the investments would 
have needed higher returns to match the guaranteed benefits from the DB scheme from an 
earlier age. But Acumen didnt give Mr R any of that information. So if Acumen believed 
early retirement was a genuine objective for him then it didnt give him sufficient enough 
information from which he could make an informed decision.
In any event, whatever age Mr R planned to retire at, I agree with Acumen's assessment that 
he was likely to be financially worse off by transferring to a personal pension than he was 
from leaving his benefits in the DB scheme and letting them move into either the PPF or, if 
he opted to, into the BSPS2. For that reason alone I dont think a transfer was in Mr Rs best 
interests. So I've gone on to consider the other key reasons that Acumen cited for 
recommending a transfer. 
Flexibility and income needs
Acumen said Mr R was prepared to accept a lower income in retirement in order to have 
flexible access to his benefits in the manner he chose. Its true to say that Mr R couldnt have 
had the same level of flexible access to his DB funds as he could from a personal pension. 
While he could have chosen to take his DB pension early, if he had wanted to take TFC, 
then he would have had to take that at the same time as drawing a regular income from his 
pension. Whereas the personal pension would allow Mr R to draw down funds as he saw fit. 
But while I can see why that might have been an attractive prospect for him, Im not 
persuaded that Mr R had any concrete need to vary his income throughout retirement. But, if 
he believed he did there was no requirement for him to give up the safeguarded benefits 
from his DB scheme in order to have some flexible access to retirement funds. 
I say this because I can see that Acumen noted that Mr R and his employer had begun 
contributing to a recently established defined contribution (DC) pension scheme. Mr R and 
his employer were together contributing around 16% of Mr Rs salary to that pension. And 
Mr R could have anticipated continuing to contribute to that pension (or a similar one if he 
were to change jobs in the future) for the remainder of his working life. And given Mr R was 
still only 36 years old that could have been for another 31 years until state pension age. The 
earliest Mr R could take early retirement from the DB scheme or a personal pension in any 
event would be age 57, around 21 years away; so by the time he reached retirement age, 
his DC pension should have built a sizeable pot.
The nature of a DC pension means Mr R was already provided with flexibility in how he 
could take his benefits and meant he could have taken lump sums as and when required 
and adjusted the income he took from it according to his needs. So, I think if Mr R retained 
his DB pension this, combined with his new workplace DC pension, would have likely given 
him the flexible access to pension funds if that was what he needed.
In addition, if Acumen had advised Mr R to join the BSPS2 and he had later decided he 
needed greater flexibly than the scheme provided, then he could have chosen to transfer 
from that scheme nearer to his retirement age. Mr R was only 36 at the time of the advice 
and based on what Ive seen he didnt have any concrete retirement plans. So I think any 
desire for flexibility in the way he accessed, or when he accessed, his pension benefits was 
something that Mr R could have explored closer to his intended retirement age; it wasnt a 
decision he needed to make straightaway. I think it was too soon to make any kind of 
decision about transferring out of the DB scheme. 
In any event, if Mr R had insisted on early retirement then both the BSPS2 and the PPF 
would allow him to do that. Although his benefits under those schemes would have been 
subject to actuarial reductions to reflect the fact that the pension would need to sustain him 
over a longer period. But there's no evidence Acumen made this clear to Mr R. And, as I've already said, it didnt give him details of his entitlements from the schemes if he took early 
retirement nor what the critical yields were to match those benefits. So I dont think Acumen 
gave him all the information he needed in order to make an informed decision.
Death benefits
Acumen also said the death benefits available from the personal pension were of a higher 
priority to Mr R than his income in retirement. That might have been the case. But Acumen 
was tasked with advising Mr R about what was best for his retirement. And the existing 
scheme offered death benefits, by way of a spouses pension and dependents benefits, that 
could have been valuable to his family in the event of his death.
If following the transfer to a personal pension Mr R had died immediately then the CETV 
sum would have been paid to his wife as a death benefit. I understand that would most likely 
have appeared attractive as a potential lump sum. But, in reality, the sum remaining on 
death following a transfer was always likely to be different. How much would remain in the 
fund on Mr Rs death depended on a number of factors. And there may not have been a 
large sum left in Mr Rs personal pension if he lived a long life, the investments performed 
poorly or if he took large sums from the fund early in his retirement. In any event, Acumen 
should not have encouraged Mr R to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through 
a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Further, I'm aware that Mr R had death in service cover from his employer. So that would 
have paid a considerable lump sum in the event he died while still working for his employer. 
But, if he wanted to leave a legacy for his family, which didnt depend on his employment, 
investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think Acumen 
should have instead explored life insurance. I appreciate life insurance can be expensive. 
So, the starting point ought to have been for Acumen to ask Mr R how much he would ideally 
like to leave to his family, and this could have been explored on a whole of life or term 
assurance basis. But there's no evidence it did so
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the likely 
decrease of retirement benefits for Mr R. I dont think that insurance was properly explored 
as an alternative. And ultimately Acumen should not have encouraged Mr R to prioritise the 
potential for alternative death benefits through a personal pension over his security in 
retirement.
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I've noted Acumen said in its reply to Mr Rs complaint, that at the time of the advice it 
couldn't recommend a transfer to the BSPS2 because there was no certainty it would come 
into existence. I accept the BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed to go ahead. But details of the 
scheme had been provided, the time to choose exercise was ongoing, and all the 
communications from the scheme trustees were very optimistic that the BSPS2 operating 
conditions would be met. So, I think Acumen should have factored the benefits available 
through the BSPS2 into its analysis. But it didnt do so.
I've also noted that, as well as saying that BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed, Acumen said the PPF 
was considered to be a poor outcome. I understand that Mr R may have legitimately held 
concerns about how his employer had handled his pension and the prospect of entering the 
PPF. But it was Acumens role to objectively address those concerns. As I've already said, at 
the time, all signs pointed toward the BSPS2 being established. But even if not, the PPF 
would still provide Mr R with guaranteed income, the possibility of early retirement and the 
option of accessing TFC. Mr R was unlikely to improve on these benefits by transferring. So, 
entering the PPF was not as concerning as he might have thought, and I dont think any 
concerns he held about this meant that transferring was in his best interest.Use of DFM 
Acumen recommended that Mr R use a DFM to manage his pension funds. As Im upholding 
the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr R, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is 
because Mr R should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the DFM would 
not have had the opportunity to manage his funds if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility and potential for higher death benefits on offer through a 
personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr R. But Acumen wasnt 
there to just transact what Mr R might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to 
really understand what Mr R needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I think the advice to transfer out of the DB scheme and into a personal pension 
was unsuitable for Mr R as it was not in his best interests. He was giving up a guaranteed, 
risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr R was very likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this.  
So, I think Acumen shouldve advised Mr R to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr R would've gone ahead anyway, against Acumens 
advice. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr R wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Acumens advice. I say this because Mr R was an 
inexperienced investor with a medium attitude to risk and this pension accounted for the 
majority of his retirement provision. So, if Acumen had provided him with clear advice 
against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I 
think he wouldve accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think Acumen should compensate Mr R for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
I've thought about Mr Rs representative's point regarding the 15% deduction from any 
redress payable, to take into account the tax Mr R would've paid had this been taken as 
income. It believes this is unfair as it doesn't account for the charges that would've been 
deducted from the fund value over that time. While I appreciate the representative feels this 
may unfairly reduce the redress payable, I'm mindful that it is not possible to provide exact 
compensation in these circumstances, as the only way to achieve this would be to put Mr R 
back into the scheme as if the transfer out hadn't happened. So, overall, I remain of the view 
that the redress proposed fairly compensates Mr R for the impact of the unsuitable advice he 
received.
Finally, like our Investigator, I agree that Acumen should pay Mr R compensation of £200 for 
the distress and inconvenience its unsuitable advice about his pension has caused him. 
Mr R has said that he has suffered stress and anxiety as a consequence of discovering he 
had received unsuitable advice. Where a financial business, through its words or deeds, 
causes a consumer trouble or upset, the Financial Ombudsman Service can require it to pay 
compensation. Ive thought about what this means for Mr R and Im satisfied that an award 
of £200 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his complaint and in line with the 
Financial Ombudsman Services approach to awards of this nature in general.
Putting things rightA fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr R, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr R would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if 
suitable advice had been given. 
Acumen must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Acumen should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr R and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what Acumen based the inputs into 
the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr R has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Rs acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Acumen should:
calculate and offer Mr R redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr R before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr R receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr R accepts Acumens offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr R for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Rs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr R as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Acumen may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Rs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that thebusiness pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Acumen Independent 
Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr R the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Acumen Independent Financial Planning Limited should also pay Mr R compensation of 
£200 for the distress and inconvenience its unsuitable advice caused him.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Acumen Independent Financial Planning Limited pays Mr R the balance.
If Mr R accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Acumen Independent 
Financial Planning Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr R can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman