DRN-3625974
The complaint
Mr H complains that Metro Bank PLC unfairly delayed releasing its charge after he repaid his 
mortgage. He asks for compensation.
What happened
Mr H repaid his mortgage with Metro in August 2021. Metro asked for information about the 
source of funds. Mr H says despite him immediately providing everything Metro asked for it 
didnt remove its charge. He says a family member had lent the money to him and being 
asked to provide documents to Metro put stress on their relationship. He says he was unable 
to add his wife to the title deeds, which would have reduced the tax he paid on rental income 
from letting the property. And Metro transferred his mortgage to another lender in November 
2021 and shared his personal information. 
The new lender released the charge. Mr H says Metro should pay compensation of £2,000 
for his costs and distress.
Our investigator said Metro was following regulations when it asked for information about the 
source of funds. She said Metro was only responsible for some of the delays and the £250 
compensation it offered was fair. Mr H didnt agree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to meet its regulatory obligations Metro asked Mr H for information about the source 
of the funds used to repay his mortgage. Mr H doesnt dispute that Metro had to do this. He 
complains about the process that Metro followed, essentially that it was too slow. 
Mr H repaid his mortgage in three instalments between 14 and 20 August 2021. Mr H told 
Metro the funds came from a loan from a family member.
Metro tried to call Mr H later in August 2021, and succeeded on 1 September 2021. It asked 
Mr H for information about the source of funds, including: 
a letter from the person providing the funds setting out their reasons, the date of the 
transfer to Mr H, explaining how they accumulated the money with evidence, and photo 
ID.
Mr Hs bank statement showing receipt of the funds. 
Metro told Mr H this was a back and forth process and it might need to ask for more 
information. 
I can understand the sensitivities involved in Mr H asking the family member to provide 
financial information, which will have involved some inconvenience. Most likely matters 
would have been more straightforward if Metro hadnt needed information from a third party. 
Unfortunately, I dont think Metro could reasonably have avoided asking for this.
Some information was provided between early September and early October 2021. But 
Metro didnt receive all the information it requested in an acceptable form. 
Metro called Mr H on 8 September 2021 to ask for information. The call handler apologised 
when Mr H said this had already been sent. The call handler called back later that day to 
explain that it needed further information, including the family members bank statements to 
show the funds accumulating and the evidence trail of where the funds came from. 
The family member that provided the funds sent copies of bank statements to Metro. The 
copies didnt include the name and address of the account holder. This didnt meet Metros 
requirements. It still needed evidence of how these savings had accumulated. 
Between 13 September and 6 October 2021, Metro tried to contact Mr H without success, to 
chase for the evidence. It wrote to Mr H on 6 October 2021. 
Mr H called Metro on 8 October 2021 in response to its letter. Metro said it still needed 
evidence of how his family member had accumulated the money, for which it needed his 
bank statements. It didnt explain that the problem was that the bank statements it had 
received didnt include the name of the account holder, and that it needed to know where 
hed got the funds. It called Mr H on 12 October 2021 to explain what it needed. Metro 
received a scanned copy of the family members payslip to match the payment shown on his 
bank statement the next day. It was unfortunate that Metro didnt explain what was needed 
on 8 October 2021. But it corrected this within two working days. 
The information received by Metro was reviewed internally. As it hadnt received all of the 
required documents a note was put on the file to contact Mr H again. However, this didnt 
happen. On 16 November 2021 the account was transferred to another lender and the 
charge was removed.
Metro accepts it delayed matters between mid-October and mid-November 2021. It offered 
compensation for this. 
Ive listened to the calls and I appreciate how frustrating Mr H found this process. Mr H says 
Metro caused delays throughout. I dont think thats fair. While there were times when Metro 
could have been clearer, I dont think this was the cause of the delays. Metro explained why 
it needed the evidence, and that this was a back and forth process. It needed to review 
documents once they arrived. And its not unreasonable that, having reviewed documents, it 
needed more information. Overall, up to mid-October 2021, I think Metro made reasonable 
efforts to contact Mr H about the information. 
Metro was responsible for some delays. In particular, it didnt contact Mr H after mid-October 
2021. I dont know if the charge would have been removed from the property title sooner if it 
had  Mr H said it wasnt possible for his family member to provide bank statements with the 
account holders name so this might have continued to be a problem. 
I should say here that I can only usually require lenders to pay compensation to a 
complainant, and for the complainants own loss. So Mr H needs to show he was in a worse 
financial position due to the delay.
Mr H wanted to add his wifes name to the property title and attribute income from letting the 
property to his wife. He says this would reduce his income and, therefore, his tax by about 
£220 per month. Mr H considers the tax he paid on the rental income to be his loss. Mr H says his wife was studying and wouldnt have paid tax. No doubt Mr H and his wife wanted 
to arrange matters in the best way for their household. But Mr Hs individual financial position 
was likely better, not worse, for receiving the rental income. 
Ive considered whether it would be fair and reasonable to require Metro to pay 
compensation for Mr H incurring tax, due to being unable to transfer the property title and 
rental income to someone else. I dont think it is. I dont think its clear that Mr H himself has 
a financial loss. Its not certain that the charge would have been removed sooner (or how 
much sooner) if Metro had continued to chase Mr H for the missing information after mid-
October 2021. And, in fairness, Metro had told Mr H it needed bank statements with the 
account holders name. I dont think it said (as Mr H suggests) the payslip was a suitable 
alternative to this.
The mortgage terms and conditions allowed Metro to transfer Mr Hs mortgage to another 
lender. I can understand his frustration that this happened some three months after he 
repaid the mortgage. Theres no suggestion this caused Mr H a financial loss. As the new 
lender will have to meet data protection requirements, its unlikely this will cause loss in the 
future.
Mr H says Metro should allow complaints to be raised electronically. Complaint handling isnt 
itself a regulated activity, and I cant fairly require Metro to change its complaint handling 
systems. 
Putting things right
Mr H found this process extremely frustrating, and I do understand that. It was inevitable 
there would be some inconvenience to Mr H in providing the information and evidence Metro 
needed about the source of the funds, especially with a third party involved. 
I think for the additional upset and inconvenience caused by Metro being unclear about what 
information was oustanding on two of the calls, and failing to contact Mr H about the 
outstanding information after mid-October 2021, its offer of £250 is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that Metro Bank plc should pay £250 to Mr H. It can deduct any amounts it 
has already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman