DRN-3932545
The complaint
M  a business  complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) delayed acting 
on an instruction to pay €25,000 from its business account to a director of the company.
What happened
On 25 September 2021, M instructed NatWest to pay €25,000 from its business account to a 
company director. The payment constituted repayment of a directors loan. The director 
intended to invest personally in a start-up business. There was a specific deadline by which 
an investment was required to be made.
A few days passed and no payment was received into the directors personal account. M 
contacted NatWest and was informed that the payment instruction was missing a second 
signature. A second signature was supplied after which NatWest requested a copy of the 
directors passport.
However, no payment was received into the directors bank account. NatWest initially stated 
the transfer was rejected by the receiving bank because there was a problem with the 
SWIFT code. M says it was not informed about this until the director called to chase matters.
The director missed the deadline to invest in the start-up company. He was subsequently 
allowed to invest in the company, but says he incurred legal fees of €3,000 caused by 
NatWests delays. The director says that he was further inconvenienced by NatWest 
because there was an error on Ms statements showing the transaction being debited on an 
incorrect date. Although NatWest provided him with a letter explaining this error, the director 
did not consider this to be sufficient. It contained a typographical error and was sent to him in 
an editable format. In summary, the director thought NatWest should pay €5,000 for its poor 
service.
NatWest said a second signature was required for withdrawals from Ms account that were 
over £10,000. It told us that it had to request further identification in the form of a passport 
from the director because the signature on the withdrawal mandate did not match the 
signature it held for him on file.
NatWest says it completed its identification checks on 5 October 2021 and then released the 
payment. However, it was rejected by the receiving bank because NatWest missed that 
days deadline by 48 seconds. The transfer was eventually made on 15 October 2021. It 
recognised it had offered poor service but offered to pay £750 to M in compensation for that 
poor service.
Our investigator agreed NatWest had offered M poor service, but the offer of £750 was fair 
compensation.
M did not agree with that view. It said that NatWest should have notified it that the payment 
had been rejected straightaway. If it had done so, M said it would have been able to send a 
further instruction for the transfer and the director would not have missed the investment 
deadline. The director told us that requesting a further copy of his passport was futile 
because the signature in his passport did not match that of the mandate and so the identity 
checks NatWest had undertaken were of no value.
The matter was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision. I issued a provisional decision 
because I thought it was necessary to clarify the powers of this service to award 
compensation to a limited company. I said: 
First of all, I want to clarify the extent to which I can require NatWest to pay 
compensation to M. In considering the representations made to us by Ms director, it 
appears to me that the losses and inconvenience complained about were largely 
experienced by him personally.
However, in this case, the account holder and complainant is M. It is a limited 
company and it is an entirely separate legal entity to the individuals who run it. What 
that means in practice is that I cannot tell NatWest to personally compensate its 
directors for any losses or inconvenience they have been put to in a personal 
capacity.
Instead, I must look at the impact of any mistakes made by NatWest on the legal 
entity  which is M. I can consider whether there were any financial, operational or 
reputational consequences for M arising from any NatWest errors.
With that in mind, I can see the first mandate requesting the transfer of funds from M 
to the directors personal account was sent at 6:54pm on Saturday 25 September 
2021. The mandate only had one signature. However, Ms prior instructions to 
NatWest were that two signatories were required for any transfers above £10,000. I 
can see that NatWest identified two signatures had not been provided at 10:01am on 
27 September 2021, which was the first banking day after M sent the payment 
mandate. It then cancelled the request without notifying M.
I cant say NatWest could have processed the transfer request at this point if the 
required signatories had not authorised the transaction. But I agree with M that 
NatWest should have notified it that the payment had been cancelled. I can see how 
it may have been detrimental to M for its directors time to have been spent querying 
and resolving this issue.
A second mandate was then signed by both signatories and sent to NatWest on 
Friday 1 October 2021 at 12:18pm. I can see NatWest started working on Ms 
instruction at 12:49pm.
However, it was noted that the second signature did not match that held on file for 
the second signatory. It was then sent for further verification at 3:03pm on 1 October 
2021.
M contacted NatWest on 4 October 2021, but it was not informed that the further 
verification check was required until the next day.
The parties accept that the second signature did not match that which was held on 
file. On that basis, I cant say it was unreasonable for NatWest to verify the identity of 
the second signatory. I know that M argues that the check was not necessary 
because the signature on the passport provided by the director did not match that on 
the mandate regardless. But in considering the check that was undertaken, Im 
satisfied that this was not to check the signature of the director, but to verify the 
identity of that director. The passport was requested and he was also asked to supply 
a selfie for verification.
I appreciate the director found this check to be personally inconvenient. But I would 
expect NatWest to be satisfied as to the identity of both people before authorising a 
significant transfer from Ms account. Having said that, my provisional view is that 
that NatWest could have requested the further identity check more quickly. Again, I 
can see how it may have been detrimental to M for its directors time to have been 
spent in chasing the matter with NatWest.The required information was provided by M in the afternoon of 5 October 2021. 
However, the funds were not received into the directors account. From the 
information before me, it appears NatWest told M that the reason the payment failed 
on 5 October 2021 was because the SWIFT number was incorrect. In my provisional 
view, this was not the reason the payment failed. NatWest released the funds 48 
seconds too late and the payment was rejected by the receiving bank on 12 October 
2021. That meant the whole process had to begin again.
M sent a third transfer request to NatWest at 14:43 on 13 October 2021, which 
included the SWIFT code. The transfer was eventually made on 15 October 2021. 
NatWest accepts that M should not have been told there was an issue with the 
SWIFT code because the transfer could have been undertaken without it. And I can 
see how that would have caused some operational inconvenience to M in having to 
obtain a SWIFT code that was unnecessary for the transaction.
Putting all of this together then, my provisional view is that there were delays in 
NatWest acting upon Ms instructions. I havent been provided with any information to 
suggest M lost out financially because of these delays, but I can see how the time 
taken to resolve the issue could have had an operational impact on the business.
I know that Ms director wanted me to direct NatWest to cover the cost of the legal 
fees he incurred to be admitted as a late investor to the start-up company. However, 
as those fees were incurred by the director in a personal capacity and not by or on 
behalf of M, I cannot tell NatWest to do that.
I can see there has been a further issue in that on Ms bank statements, the transfer 
shown as being debited from the account on 5 October 2021, which was incorrect. I 
can see how this would have caused the director some personal inconvenience in 
light of his intended investment. But I havent seen any evidence to suggest that this 
incorrect date had a detrimental impact on M.
Overall, Im provisionally satisfied that the £750 suggested by NatWest and our 
investigator is fair compensation for the impact the identified delays and incorrect 
information provided by NatWest had on M as a business.
NatWest responded to say that it agreed with the provisional outcome. 
M did not accept my provisional decision. In summary, it said that my provisional decision 
was based on a pseudo legal technicality and that the harmed party  ie the director as a 
shareholder of M and the company were effectively the same. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should depart from my provisional findings. Ill 
explain why below. 
I know M and its director feel strongly that I should be able to award compensation in respect 
of alleged losses incurred by its director in a personal capacity. However, when Im 
considering complaints, I am bound by the rules that apply to this service. Those rules are 
set by the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) and are known as the DISP rules. A copy 
can be found online in the FCAs handbook. 
DISP 2.7 says that this service can only consider a complaint if it is brought by an eligible 
complainant. For the purposes of the DISP rules, M is a micro-enterprise and so it is M that 
is the eligible complainant as set out at DISP 2.7.3. It follows then that when Im considering 
a complaint, I have to look at the impact any mistake had on that eligible complainant. In this case, that is M and not the director.  I cannot look at the impact on others unless such an 
impact would have affected the eligible complainant. 
I appreciate the director is a shareholder of M, but M remains a separate legal entity. For 
example, that means Ms assets belong to the company and not to its shareholders or 
directors. I cannot agree that alleged losses to the director incurred in a personal capacity 
are effectively the same as those incurred by M. Accordingly, I cannot act beyond the 
powers set out in the FCAs DISP rules and I cannot consider an award for alleged losses 
incurred personally by Ms director. 
Neither party disputed what I said about the inconvenience caused to M as a business. So 
for the reasons set out my provisional decision, it follows that NatWest will need to pay £750 
to M to compensate it for the incorrect information and delays I previously I identified.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I require National Westminster Bank Plc to pay £750 to M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman