DRN-3910471
The complaint
Mr E complains about the poor service he received from TenetConnect Limited 
concerning advice to potentially transfer out of his defined-benefit (DB) pension scheme. 
Mr E believes hes suffered a financial loss as a result.
Mr E was advised by a financial adviser who was granted temporary permissions by 
Tenet whilst her firm was going through the Appointed Representative (AR) approval 
process. Tenet has since ended its direct links with that adviser. But, as she was acting 
for Tenet at the time Mr E sought advice, it remains responsible for the advisers 
actions. So, Ive referred to Tenet throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr E was previously a member of a DB pension scheme.
He was first in contact with Tenet around April 2020. Hed apparently already received an 
indication from a different financial adviser that transferring out of his DB scheme might 
be a good idea for him.
Having received a signed client agreement and answers to a risk profiler questionnaire 
from Mr E in May 2020, Tenet wrote to him on 8 June 2020 to let him know about the 
process it would carry out when assessing his retirement plans.
Also in June 2020 Tenet completed an initial fact find; financial planning questionnaire 
and risk profile report with Mr E. Although the documents on file arent complete (as the 
advice process wasnt ultimately concluded) a number of personal details are recorded. 
Those include that Mr E was age 61 and was hoping to retire at age 62 (using the tax-
free cash lump sum from his DB scheme to fund his retirement), even though his DB 
scheme retirement age was 67. He owned his own home and had savings and an ISA.
Part of the advice process was for Tenet to ask Mr Es DB pension administrator for a 
cash equivalent transfer value (CETV). Mr E completed the letter of authority around 
mid-June 2020 and the request was made to the pension administrator sometime after.
In a letter dated 23 August 2020 the DB scheme administrator said the CETV was 
£805,348. It said that this value was guaranteed until 23 November 2020. The 
administrator said that given the size of Mr Es fund, it needed to see evidence that Mr E 
had taken regulated advice in order for a transfer application to proceed. It suggested that 
the advice process could typically take about six to eight weeks to complete. And, once all 
forms had been received and checked  it said it would need a discharge form and 
receiving scheme form and payment would then usually be made within about ten working 
days.
During September 2020, Tenet asked Mr E to complete a new client agreement following 
some changes in the regulators rules. On 29 September 2020 Tenet confirmed receipt of 
Mr Es updated client agreement.
Mr E says he was in contact with Tenet during October and November 2020 to 
chase a progress report.
It seems that during October 2020 Tenet was in the process of removing the adviser who 
was helping Mr E from its network of ARs. That process was apparently concluded about 
the time that the CETV was due to expire in November 2020.
In December 2020 the adviser whod initially been acting for Tenet told Mr E that as 
the CETV had expired, a new one had been requested. She also gave Mr E the 
name of a different adviser working for another firm who might be able to help him.
In February 2021 the DB scheme administrator wrote to Mr E in relation to the more 
recent request for a CETV. It said that members were entitled to one quotation each 
year and that subsequent requests came at a cost of £432. And, as the previous CETV 
was only guaranteed until November 2020, Mr E needed to sign new forms if he wanted 
to go ahead with a new calculation. It sent a similar letter to Mr E in April 2021.
I understand that a new CETV was provided sometime in 2021. By this time the value 
had reduced to £744,337. Mr E transferred out of his DB scheme later in 2021. But he 
believes Tenet is responsible for him receiving a reduced CETV and the fact that he had 
to pay a fee for a revised CETV to be produced.
Mr E complained to Tenet. It partially upheld the complaint on the basis that there were 
shortcomings in its service. It offered £500 compensation in respect of the impact that 
had. But, it didnt accept that it caused a financial loss. Amongst its comments it:
Referred to an extract from the engagement letter to Mr E which explained 
that the CETV only had a limited window before it expired, following which it 
would need to be recalculated and may go up or down in value. It said that 
analysing pension benefits is a lengthy and complex process.
Explained that should the expiry date for the CETV allow an insufficient 
amount of time to carry out the research needed, Mr E would be told that the 
pension trustees may need to carry out another calculation.
Appeared to accept that after obtaining the transfer value around August 2020, 
little work was done to complete the advice process. And Mr E then found out 
that the adviser was no longer able to help. She referred Mr E to another firm, 
which helped him complete the transfer process by which time the CETV had 
reduced.
Explained that at the time Mr E sought advice, the adviser worked for another 
firm, which was in the process of obtaining FCA permissions to become one of 
Tenets ARs. The adviser was given temporary permissions by Tenet whilst that 
process was underway with the expectation that shed then give advice under 
the umbrella   of her own firm. But Tenet subsequently decided not to continue 
with the FCA application or use the adviser. Those events coincided with the 
time that Mr E was due to receive advice. Tenet accepted however that it 
should have contacted clients like Mr E to make sure they were offered the 
option of continuing the advice process.
Said that despite the shortcomings in its service, the situation as far as the 
transfer value was concerned wouldnt have been any different even if the 
transfer process had been completed on time. Largely because the advice 
process wasnt a formality to allow Mr E to access his pension. It was a 
process that required advice to be given about whether Mr E should transfer 
his pension or not  and that advice should typically be to remain in the scheme, given the FCAs stance that most DB transfers arent suitable. Tenet 
felt it was more likely than not that it wouldnt have recommended Mr E transfer 
out of his DB pension and would have refused to deal with the matter on an 
insistent client basis. It felt that Mr E would have needed to obtain a new 
CETV in any case, so it didnt think hed likely have received the August 2020 
transfer value.
Even if the advice had been to transfer, Tenet didnt think there was a guarantee 
the process would have concluded within a three-month window because your 
adviser would have been reliant on receiving information from various parties 
who may have not responded in time.
Mr E wasnt happy with Tenets response, so he complained to our Service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint and said things such as:
He couldnt conclude that Mr E would have received the higher transfer value 
had it not been for Tenets actions.
DB scheme pensions are valuable due to the guaranteed income that they 
provide. So, regulated advice must be sought before considering a transfer of a 
fund valued at more than £30,000. And, the regulator says that the starting point 
for advisers should be that a transfer wont be suitable.
Ultimately the adviser providing advice to Mr E didnt obtain the relevant 
permissions to complete the advice process.
Hed thought about whether, given the updated agreement signed in late 
September 2020, Mr Es pension transfer was likely to have gone ahead had the 
required permissions not been withdrawn. But he wasnt persuaded that there 
would have been enough time to search the market for appropriate products; 
make suitable recommendations and speak to Mr E whilst also completing the 
relevant paperwork.
But even if all of that could have been completed in time, it was on the 
assumption that Tenet would have recommended Mr E go ahead with the 
transfer. The investigator thought it unlikely that Tenet would have made such a 
recommendation. So, irrespective of the fact that another adviser had 
recommended a transfer, the investigator thought there would have to be 
compelling reasons for Tenet to make a similar recommendation. He also didnt 
think that Tenet would have treated Mr E as an insistent client.
All of that said, the investigator didnt feel Tenet had handled things particularly 
well and he concluded that Mr E had been inconvenienced as a result. But, he 
thought the £500 compensation Tenet offered fairly recognised the impact of 
that.
Mr E didnt agree with the investigator and made a number of comments in response. 
Amongst those, he referred to other members of the DB pension who had managed 
to successfully transfer out of it under the umbrella of Tenet within the three-month 
window allowed. Our investigator considered Mr Es objections, but they didnt change 
his opinion overall. As agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was referred to an 
Ombudsman. Its been passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I sent Mr E and Tenet my provisional decision on 22 December 2022. Ive included 
the relevant extracts below:Theres a conflict between Tenet and Mr E about the extent of its responsibility when it 
comes to the financial loss that Mr E says hes suffered. Mr E clearly believes that Tenet 
could have given him advice within the three-month window that the first CETV was valid 
for  even if that advice was to say that Tenet couldnt support a DB transfer. Although 
from other comments hes made and references to other cases that he thinks are similar 
to his (in which under Tenets supervision DB transfers were apparently recommended 
and facilitated) Mr E thinks Tenet could and should have recommended a DB transfer in 
his case in the time that was available.
Tenet accepts that its handling of the advice process fell short of the standard Mr E 
might have expected. But it doesnt agree that its responsible for the financial loss that 
Mr E says hes suffered. Its put forward a number of arguments to support its position.
So, whilst accepting that it didnt give Mr E the sort of service he could have expected, 
Tenet appears to be saying that even if things had gone smoothly theres still a chance 
that it wouldnt have concluded the process in time before the deadline for accepting the 
offered CETV had passed. Especially when, as far as Tenet is concerned, it probably 
wouldnt have made a recommendation for Mr E to transfer his DB pension.
Ultimately, the advice process wasnt concluded by Tenet at the time. So, whilst Tenet 
now believes it wouldnt have recommended a transfer even if things had gone smoothly, 
realistically speaking, I think thats difficult to say after the event. Likewise, its difficult for 
me to say with any certainty exactly what would have happened had things been handled 
differently.
In situations like this I have to conclude things on the balance of probabilities. That is 
what I think is most likely to have happened based on the evidence Ive seen and the 
wider surrounding circumstances.
And having considered that evidence, on balance, Im persuaded that had Tenet handled 
things as expected, it would have been able to complete the advice process within the 
time available and give Mr E a personal recommendation  even if that recommendation 
was not to transfer. Or at the very least, if it didnt feel able to help Mr E, it could have told 
him so, which would have enabled him to approach another adviser. Tenet didnt do any 
of those things before the deadline to accept the CETV had expired. For the reasons Ill 
go on to explain, I think Tenet is responsible for the delays that occurred.
I can see that Mr E first engaged with Tenet around April 2020 and it received his client 
agreement the following month. By mid-June 2020 it had completed some of its 
preparatory work including its initial fact find and risk profile report. So, whilst there was 
still some work to do on receipt of the CETV, including obtaining a transfer value analysis 
report (TVAS) and compiling a suitability report with its recommendation, it seems likely it 
could have done the remaining work in good time and well in advance of the CETV expiry 
date of November 2020.
I say that in particular because the letter from the DB scheme administrator to Mr E states 
that it typically takes about six to eight weeks for an advice process to be concluded. Ive 
taken that to mean thats how long the process typically takes from start to finish. And I'm 
aware that CETVs typically come with a three-month window to accept them as, in the 
majority of cases, that gives advising firms ample time in which to: do the appropriate 
research; produce the required documents; and make a recommendation. It should also 
give customers like Mr E enough time to consider their options before making a choice.
But in Mr Es case, as Ive said, Tenet was already part way through the advice process by 
the time that it received the CETV dated 23 August 2020. That being the case, I see no 
reason why it couldnt have concluded that process and given Mr E a recommendation in the three months before the CETV expired. Even if issues had cropped up (theres no 
suggestion that happened) I cant see any reason why they wouldnt have been resolved 
in the time that was available. And its worth repeating here that the very fact CETVs are 
valid for three months is because thats generally considered to be a reasonable amount 
of time in which to give advice.
Also, the deadline of November 2020 effectively meant that Tenet had seven months 
overall from first engaging with Mr E to completing the advice process. That seems a 
reasonable amount of time to me.
Ive taken account of the arguments that Tenet has put forward such as the advice 
process being lengthy and complex. In general terms, Id agree with that - especially 
where information isnt forthcoming or objectives change along the way. But thats not 
what happened here.
First, from whats been recorded, Mr Es aims seemed to be fairly simple and clear. He 
wanted to access his tax-free cash to fund his early retirement ahead of his DB schemes 
normal retirement age. And Mr E appears to have complied with any information requests 
in a timely way.
Second, this isnt a situation where Tenet came up against other unexpected obstacles. 
Rather, by Tenets own admission, nothing really happened on receipt of the CETV. So, 
as far as I can tell, the only real obstacle it came up against was whether the application 
to grant AR permissions to the adviser should proceed. And, whilst no doubt a concern 
for Tenet, Im not persuaded thats a situation Mr E should have been caught up in. 
Having agreed to give Mr E advice, Tenet ought to have known that a CETV is time-
sensitive, so as soon as it became aware of issues concerning the adviser (which didnt 
apparently happen until about October 2020 in any event), it should, in my opinion, have 
either made other arrangements for completing the advice, or at least let Mr E know there 
could be a problem. It didnt do those things either and it seems that the next update Mr E 
received was after the CETV had already expired.
Tenet also said the advice process isnt a formality to transferring a pension. Thats a 
reasonable comment to make given the regulators starting position (which Tenet has 
also referred to) that a DB transfer is unlikely to be suitable. However, the fact of the 
matter is, because Tenet didnt give advice, we cant say one way or the other what its 
recommendation would have been. But, I have to keep in mind that even if Tenet didnt 
recommend a transfer, which is entirely possible, had it completed the advice process 
in a timely and efficient way, Mr E would have had a suitability report confirming that 
recommendation. Thats important because the regulatory requirement is only that a 
customer like Mr E has received regulated advice. The fact that the advice might be not 
to transfer would not prevent a DB transfer from going ahead. So, even if Tenets 
recommendation was not to transfer, Mr E could have satisfied his pension 
administrators requirement of having received regulated advice. I note that Tenet said 
that if its recommendation was that Mr E should not transfer then it would have refused 
to transact the business. That might be the case. But, ultimately, Mr E didnt need Tenet 
to facilitate the transfer for him. Once hed received its advice, he could even have 
completed the transfer request himself. So, I think it should have been possible to 
complete the transfer before the expiry of the first CETV.
For all of the reasons Ive outlined, I think its likely that had Tenet handled things better, 
Mr E would likely have received a personal recommendation in the time that was 
available. As that didnt happen as a result of Tenets shortcomings, it follows that I 
currently think its responsible for any losses that Mr E then suffered.Im intending to uphold this complaint. When awarding redress, my aim is to try to put Mr 
E back into the position he would have been in (or as close to that position as possible) 
had Tenet handled things fairly and reasonably. In this case, I think that means that Mr E 
would have transferred his original CETV sooner. Meaning that he would have had a 
higher transfer value, taken the same percentage of tax-free cash, and invested the 
residual amount in the same way.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr E responded and indicated he was pleased with my provisional findings. He also made 
some additional comments, including: 
He hadnt previously been seeking compensation  just the sums that he felt he 
was entitled to. But given the stress and anxiety hed suffered, he felt some kind of 
remuneration was warranted.
The time it took for him to find out that the adviser was no longer dealing with 
things was incredible. And it was him who had to keep chasing responses. Mr E 
feels strongly that if Tenet had been upfront with him about not being able to deal 
with his case, he wouldnt be in the position he is now.
Tenet didnt agree with the provisional decision and made the following comments:
After reviewing its file again, it strongly believed it wouldnt have recommended a 
DB transfer in Mr Es particular circumstances.
Had a recommendation been given in the timescale set out in my provisional 
decision, Tenet acknowledged it was possible Mr E could have completed the 
transfer himself by contacting the DB scheme trustees confirming hed received 
advice. However, it also referred to that as a little-known fact seeing as the FCA 
website doesnt even refer to it being an option. Instead, the FCA website refers to 
completing things on an insistent client basis, although Tenet was under no 
obligation to transact on behalf of Mr E. 
Its reasonable to consider that had Mr E received advice by the start of 
November 2020 to remain in the DB scheme, he would have accepted that advice. 
If hed gone against it, as per the FCA website, hed have been guided towards an 
insistent client process. But as that wasnt something that Tenet usually offered, its 
unlikely things would have progressed in that way. 
If Mr E still wished to pursue a transfer, hed have needed to contact another 
adviser, by which time the CETV from August 2020 would either have expired, or 
would not have enabled a new adviser to start the process again (using the 
August 2020 CETV). So, Mr E would have needed to obtain a new CETV at his 
own expense.
Tenet remains of the view that it cant be held responsible for the CETV expiring or 
the fact that Mr E had to pay for another CETV, which ultimately had a lower value.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken account of Mr E and Tenets responses. But they havent caused me to change 
what I said in my provisional decision. I say that especially as Tenet has made many of 
the same arguments it made previously and which Id already taken account of before I 
reached my provisional decision. So, whilst I dont propose to address each individual 
point made, Ill address those I believe go to the heart of my decision. Im inclined to agree with Mr Es point that had Tenet been upfront with him about not 
being able to help, he probably wouldnt be in the position that he is now. And I said as 
much in my provisional decision when commenting that Or at the very least, if it didnt feel 
able to help Mr E, it could have told him so, which would have enabled him to approach 
another adviser. The fact that Mr E did later engage another adviser who helped him to 
secure a transfer tends to suggest that probably would have happened sooner had Tenet 
better managed his expectations about what it could (or in this case couldnt) do. In 
relation to Mr Es wider point about compensation, I agree with him. But as I said in my 
provisional decision, Im satisfied that the £500 compensation Tenet offered fairly 
recognises the impact of its service issues. I remain of that opinion.
Tenet continues to argue that it probably wouldnt have recommended a transfer in Mr Es 
particular case. But as I said in my provisional decision, the fact that it didnt give advice one 
way or the other means that we cant say what its recommendation would have been. 
But, even if I were to accept that Tenet would most likely have advised Mr E not to transfer, 
that wouldnt change my decision. Its notable Tenet now accepts that if it had made a 
recommendation (even if that wasnt to transfer) its possible that Mr E might have been able 
to complete the process himself by contacting his scheme trustees. Although its referred to 
that as a little known fact. Whether it was little-known or not, isnt entirely relevant, as this 
was an option that was available to Mr E but was one that he lost because Tenet didnt 
complete its advice process. At the very least, Tenet ought to have known that Mr E could 
contact his scheme trustees directly, especially as the letter from the scheme administrator 
didnt say anything about Mr E needing a recommendation to transfer, it simply said Mr E 
had to provide confirmation that hed received advice. 
Again, whilst noting Tenets other comments, I remain of the opinion that it had enough time 
to complete the advice process before the expiry of the CETV. That meant that, even if 
Tenet wasnt willing to transact for Mr E, hed still have had enough time to complete the 
transfer himself if necessary. And that would have avoided the need for Mr E to request 
another CETV because there would have been enough time for Tenet to do what it needed  
before the first CETV expired. 
Further, I note that Tenet said it wouldnt have dealt with the transfer for Mr E on an insistent 
client basis. An insistent client is a consumer who wishes to act against a financial advisers 
regulated advice. But even if Tenet had given Mr E a recommendation not to transfer, it was 
still confirmation hed received advice, so Mr E could have gone ahead with the transfer 
without Tenets further involvement. And there wouldnt have been a need for Tenet to treat 
him as an insistent client.
Given all of the factors Ive set out above, its still my view that Tenet should reimburse Mr E 
for the costs of having to secure a new CETV whilst taking the other steps I set out in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
So, to put things right now, TenetConnect Limited should do the following:
Step 1  To compensate Mr E for the reduced residual pension, Tenet should work out 
the notional value of Mr Es fund if hed invested the August 2020 CETV sum (less the 
same percentage of tax-free cash that he took when he eventually transferred his 
pension) in the same funds  he invested in after receiving the reduced CETV in 2021.
I cant know exactly when Mr E may have been able to complete the transfer but for 
Tenets errors. But I think it would have been before the expiry of the August 2020 CETV. 
So, I think that Tenet should make this calculation assuming that Mr E had invested the original residual CETV on 23 November 2020. This means that Tenet should calculate 
the notional value from 23 November 2020 up until the date of my final decision.
If the notional value is greater than Mr Es residual pension on the date of my decision, 
then Mr E has suffered a loss. Tenet should allow for the impact of charges and any 
withdrawals or contributions. It should pay the difference into Mr Es personal pension.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, 
it should instead be paid directly to Mr E as a lump sum after making a notional 
reduction to allow for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid - 
presumed to be 20%.
If Tenet is unable to ascertain the way that Mr Es residual pension was invested, 
then it should use the benchmark Ive set out below, which I consider to be relevant 
for Mr Es recorded attitude to risk.
Benchmark - for half the investment: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return 
Index; for the other half: average rate from fixed rate bonds.
Step 2  To compensate Mr E for the loss in his tax-free lump sum Tenet should pay Mr E 
the difference between the amount of tax-free cash that Mr E actually received compared 
to what it would have been had he received the same percentage based on the higher 
CETV. Tenet should also pay Mr E 8% simple interest from 23 November 2020 up to the 
date of my final decision, to compensate Mr E for the loss of use of that income payment.
Step 3 - Refund Mr E the fee of £432 that he had to pay for the revised CETV. Tenet 
should add simple interest to that sum at a rate of 8% a year from the date Mr E paid the 
fee for the revised CETV to the date of my final decision.
This matter has clearly been a source of worry and concern to Mr E. However, I think the 
compensation payment of £500 that Tenet has offered fairly recognises the impact of its 
handling of things. Tenet should pay that amount to Mr E if it hasnt already done so.
Tenet must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr E 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. TenetConnect Limited should now put things right as Ive set out 
above under the heading of putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman