DRN-2432210
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about the way AXA Global Healthcare (UK) Limited 
administered their private medical insurance policy. They have also complained about the 
price charged for the policy.
What happened
In 2007, Mr and Mrs C took out a private medical insurance policy with AXA Global. The 
policy renewed in January each year.
In 2016, Mr C contacted AXA Global to point out that his renewal documents were being 
sent to a broker who was no longer associated with the policy. AXA Global agreed to amend 
its records so that Mr C received the documents directly.
In May 2018, Mr C contacted AXA Global to say that he again hadnt received any 
documents relating to the renewal which took place in January 2018. On checking, AXA 
Global discovered it hadnt removed the broker from the policy as it had promised. It again 
agreed to do this so that documents would henceforth be sent to Mr and Mrs Cs home 
address. Mr C advised AXA Global that this had now changed from an address in Spain to 
an address in the UK. AXA Global agreed to amend its records accordingly.
Mr C complained about the service hed received and also raised a concern about the 
increase in the premium which had taken effect in January 2018, particularly as he hadnt 
received paperwork in advance.
In June 2018, AXA Global issued a final response letter offering one months discount to the 
policys premium by way of compensation for its poor service. Mr C accepted the offer.
In December 2018, Mr C contacted AXA Global because he was unhappy with the renewal 
price he and his wife were being quoted for the renewal in January 2019. AXA Global agreed 
to provide two months cover free of charge. Mr C agreed to this and the policy renewed.
In March 2020, Mr C contacted AXA Global because he had only just received the 
paperwork relating to the renewal which had taken place in January 2020 and the premium 
had again increased.
AXA Global apologised that, due to an administrative error, it had recorded Mr and Mrs C as 
still being resident in Spain and it was this which had caused the delay in him receiving the 
documents. It said it would honour a new cooling off period in case Mr and Mrs C decided 
they wanted to cancel the policy.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with AXA Globals response. They were also unhappy at the 
increase in their premium. They complained to AXA Global.
In April 2020, AXA Global issued a final response letter to the complaint. It explained again 
how the problem had occurred. It also explained that it could only offer worldwide cover and 
that if Mr and Mrs C wanted only UK cover they should contact its sister company. It pointed 
out that the discount it had provided in January 2019 applied only to that years premium and 
so this partly explained the increase in premium in January 2020. In recognition of the poor 
service it had provided, it agreed to waive one months premium, worth £1,239.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy at AXA Globals response. They referred their complaint to us.
While their complaint was under investigation, Mr C tried to make a claim for a consultation 
but discovered his policy had been suspended. He complained to AXA Global.
AXA Global explained that a further administrative error meant that it had failed to collect the 
direct debit premium payments which had led to the policy becoming suspended. It 
apologised for this and agreed to waive a further months premium. It also agreed to pay for 
Mr Cs consultation without any reduction in his outpatient benefit.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She was satisfied 
that AXA Global had done nothing wrong in terms of its pricing of the policy. She considered 
that although AXA Global had made errors in its administration, the compensation it had 
provided had been fair.
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept the investigators findings. The matter has therefore been passed 
to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, let me clarify that although I have referred in the background above to previous 
events, AXA Globals final response letter of June 2018 dealt with its administrative errors up 
to that date. Mr and Mrs C didnt choose to refer a complaint to us within six months of 
receiving that letter. I am therefore not considering events before then within this decision.
With regard to the pricing of the policy, we generally take the view that it is up to an insurer 
to decide how much to charge for its policies. Provided it exercises this judgement fairly and 
consistently, in line with its internal guidelines, it is not a matter in which we would normally 
interfere. AXA Global has provided details of how its calculated the premium. I cant share 
this information with Mr and Mrs C because it is commercially sensitive. However, I have 
checked it and am satisfied it has calculated the premium accurately and fairly. I note that 
one of the reasons why the increase seemed so steep to Mr and Mrs C in January 2020 was 
because they were no longer benefitting from the discretionary discount which AXA Global 
had agreed to apply to the previous years premium but I dont consider this to be unfair.
AXA Global accepts it was at fault for the fact Mr and Mrs C didnt receive their renewal 
documents before the policy renewed in January 2020. However, it has offered 
compensation equivalent to £1,239 for this error. Im satisfied this was fair. Mr C has 
mentioned that he didnt get the opportunity to review the renewal offer. However, AXA 
Global agreed to honour a new cooling off period so Im satisfied that he was not 
disadvantaged in this respect.
AXA Global also accepts it was at fault for the policy becoming suspended later on in 2020. 
I consider that this would have caused some concern and inconvenience for Mr and Mrs C, 
particularly as Mr C was trying to make a claim at the time. However, AXA Global has 
offered compensation equivalent to a further £1,239 and has also agreed to pay the cost of 
Mr Cs consultation without affecting his outpatient benefit. I consider this is fair.Mr and Mrs C have also raised a concern that the policy document stated an incorrect start 
date for the policy. However, AXA Global has now corrected this and Im satisfied that the 
error had no material impact on their cover.
Overall, AXA Global has made mistakes in its administration of the policy since June 2018 
but Im satisfied its offers of compensation have been fair. I dont require it to do anything 
more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman