The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance
(PPI) policy, when it was trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester Building Society.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1991. The policy was taken out to cover Mr 
and Mrs As mortgage and was in Mr As name only. It provided him with cover for accident, 
sickness and unemployment.
The policy was sold by Cheltenham & Gloucester Building Society which has since been 
taken over by Lloyds Bank plc. To keep things simple, Ill refer to Lloyds as the seller in the 
rest of my decision.
Our adjudicator didn't recommend that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs A didnt agree so the complaint was referred to me. I didn't think the complaint 
should be upheld, and I issued a provisional decision to allow Mr and Mrs A a further 
opportunity to provide any final information. 
My provisional decision
I set out the reasons why I didn't think the complaint should be upheld, as follows:
The PPI policy was sold almost 30 years ago so, unsurprisingly, some of the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory. So I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Im not minded to uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs A recall they had a meeting at their home with an independent financial advisor. 
And the mortgage application shows that an advisor introduced them to Lloyds. Its likely Mr 
and Mrs A then had at least one meeting with Lloyds at one of their branches to complete 
the application paperwork. And from what Ive read and been told, it was probably Lloyds 
who sold them the PPI.
I cant be sure exactly what was discussed, so Ive looked at the paperwork that was 
completed at the time. A page that was completed on 20 January 1991  probably with the 
advisor  shows that Mr and Mrs A ticked a box to request a quotation and details about  
PPI. But, the paperwork completed with Lloyds on 21 February 1991 suggests Mr and Mrs A 
DRN-1908518may not have taken out PPI at that meeting  the yes has been deleted for payment 
protection.
Ive considered this carefully. Overall, I think the paperwork presented the PPI as optional 
and it would have been reasonably clear to Mr and Mrs A that they didnt have to have a 
policy for their mortgage application to be successful.
Mr and Mrs A say PPI wasnt discussed and they didnt knowingly take the policy. For the 
policy to be set up, Lloyds would have needed Mr and Mrs As details, instructions that the 
policy should be in Mr As name only, and a signed direct debit mandate  separate from the 
mortgage. So I think it most likely that Mr and Mrs A would have completed the paperwork. 
Im not surprised they cant remember this given the time thats passed, or that this 
paperwork is no longer available. Overall, I think Lloyds made Mr and Mrs A aware the PPI 
was optional and that they chose to take it.
Lloyds says it couldnt be certain if it provided advice. To be fair to Mr and Mrs A, Ive 
considered the case to the higher standard of an advised sale. This means Lloyds had to 
make sure the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs A.
I dont know what, if any, steps Lloyds took to do that. But it doesnt look like the PPI was
unsuitable for Mr and Mrs A based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say 
this because:
Mrs A wasnt working at the time of the application so wouldnt have been eligible for the 
policy. It was taken out in Mr A's name only. He was eligible for the policy given his 
circumstances and the terms and conditions.
Mr A told us he would have received 12 months full pay from his employer, followed by two 
further years half pay if he couldn't work due to sickness or an accident. And hes told us the 
seniority of his role at the time and his length of service. But he hasnt been able to provide 
evidence of what his sick pay would have been. He has told us that his level of sick pay was 
the same as that of the civil service.
After careful consideration, I think it's unlikely that when he took out the PPI in 1991 Mr A 
would have received the level of sick pay he recalls. I say this because of what I know from 
experience, and have seen of employee benefits across a wide variety of industries and 
sectors. Without any supporting documentation, I don't think I can fairly rely just on Mr A's 
recollection to conclude he didn't need PPI. If hes able to provide any supporting evidence, I 
will of course reconsider my view. But, taking into account typical civil service benefits, I 
currently think its more likely that Mr A would have received full sick pay for six months, 
followed by half pay for the following six months.
The mortgage was a significant long term financial commitment and Mr and Mrs As home 
was at risk if they didnt keep up with the repayments. Mrs A wasnt working, so if Mr A  
found himself unable to work, they didnt have any other income  or savings - to rely on. 
The PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months in the event of a successful claim for 
accident or sickness. So I think the PPI could have been a useful benefit, in addition to Mr 
As existing arrangements. It also covered Mr A if hed become unemployed - in addition to 
any redundancy payment he might have received.
Mr A wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As he 
could have benefitted from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely better advice or 
information about the policys exclusions and limitations would have changed Mr and Mrs As 
decision to have the PPI, which Ive concluded they probably did choose to do.Its not clear whether the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr and Mrs A 
before they agreed to purchase it. For this reason I have considered whether clearer 
information about the cost would have affected Mr and Mrs As decision to purchase the 
policy. They had chosen to take out the policy, knowing they would have to pay something 
for it. The policy was competitively priced. Mr and Mrs A have explained that Mrs A wasnt 
working and that they had a young family  so they were being careful with how they spent 
their money. But it looks to me that the policy was affordable. So I think it unlikely they would 
have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Mr and Mrs A would have 
made a different decision about taking out the policy if better information had been  provided 
to them  overall, I think they would still have taken out the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Neither party provided any further information in response to my provisional decision. In 
particular, Mr and Mrs A did not provide any evidence to support what they'd told us about 
the sick pay Mr A would have received.
So I find no reason to depart from my earlier conclusions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman