DRN-3214350
The complaint
A partnership, which Ill call S, complains that Santander UK Plc misled the partners about 
the interest rate on a commercial mortgage.
What happened
In 2007, S took out a commercial mortgage with Abbey National (later to become Santander 
UK Plc). The partners borrowed £672,437 for 25 years, secured on the business premises 
and partly on a second charge on the partners home. The partners say they understood that 
the interest rate would be the Bank of England base rate plus 1.5%.
In 2008 the base rate fell below 3.5% and the partners asked when their mortgage rate 
would be reduced, but the bank pointed to clause in the agreement saying the minimum 
interest rate was 5% and so the rate wouldnt fall any lower. That wasnt how the partners 
had expected the product to operate. There were exchanges between the parties and in 
2012 they discussed restructuring the lending, but there was no new agreement. Exchanges 
between S and the bank continued, and a final response letter was issued in 2019.
Unhappy with the banks response, the partners referred their complaint to this service.
Having considered the evidence and arguments, our investigator concluded that the partners 
had not been given clear information about the mortgage in 2007, but were offered the 
opportunity to move away from the product in 2012. She therefore recommended that S be 
put back in the position it would have been in if, from the outset of the mortgage to the end of 
2012, there had been no minimum interest rate. She gave the following reasons:
S was introduced to Abbey National in 2007 by a broker. The partners had a face-to-
face meeting with an Abbey National representative, during which they asked about 
the basis on which the lending would be made. The mortgage wasnt sold on an 
advised basis, but the bank should have provided the partners with clear information 
to allow them to make an informed choice on whether or not to go ahead.
The partners provided us with a faxed copy of the repayment terms from the bank, 
which doesnt refer to the minimum interest rate of 5%. This copy of the agreement, 
including its direct debit, was signed by the partners on 5 October 2007 for a loan of 
£674,975. There is also a later copy of the agreement, provided by the bank, dated 
29 October and signed by the partners on 1 November. This was for £672,437 and it 
said the earlier offer was superseded. It included an additional condition  condition 9 
 that the minimum interest rate would be 5%.
The investigator didnt think the partners were aware that the minimum interest rate 
condition had been added. They were signing the new offer on the basis that the 
amount to be borrowed had changed. The information regarding the minimum 
interest rate should have been provided from the outset so that the partners could 
have made an informed decision as to whether to progress with the loan. Their later 
behaviour also supports their testimony that they werent aware of the minimum 
interest condition until it came into effect in 2008.
There were email exchanges between the parties in 2012 and 2013 showing that the 
partners had concerns about the banks restructuring offer. But the restructure would 
have reduced the monthly payments. The investigator concluded that the partners 
were offered the opportunity to move away from the original product and they chose 
not to do this. So it wouldnt be reasonable to award compensation for interest that S 
paid after that time.
The partners largely agreed with the investigator but thought the compensation ought to 
include the interest paid after 2012. They gave these reasons, in summary:
During the discussions, the bank offered a replacement mortgage but the rate was 
still higher than the one the partners thought had been agreed in 2007. There were 
other aspects of the replacement offer that were risky  for example, it would have 
been a shorter term and the partners were concerned that on its expiry they might 
have been unable to refinance. In the end the actual replacement offer wasnt 
produced.
The bank didnt treat the problem as a formal complaint, so the matter wasnt 
resolved properly at the time.
Santander didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. It made the following points, in 
summary:
The partners were introduced to the bank by a broker. The offer letter is provided to 
the broker to discuss with the customer and its expected that the broker would have 
a conversation with the customer to explain the terms.
Both letters made reference to a minimum lending rate in another condition.
The bank didnt merely reissue the offer letter to include the minimum lending rate. 
There were several other changes in the final offer letter, to amend the loan amount 
and in turn other associated amendments.
The customer signature confirms they acknowledged and accepted the above terms 
and conditions. The mortgage was sold on a non-advised basis.
The customers have had the opportunity to refinance. The bank was prepared to lend 
at a reduced rate, subject to conditions. The partners have also been free to leave 
the deal without any large penalties and have chosen not to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons. 
I agree that the partners signed the final loan offer in 2007 which contained the minimum 
interest rate condition. But to determine a fair and reasonable outcome of the complaint, I 
need to decide whether the bank had given the partners sufficiently clear and easily 
comprehensible information so that they could make an informed choice. I would look for the 
information to give a balanced view of the product offered so they could have an accurate understanding of the financial implications. I also need to take into account all the 
circumstances of the events in the complaint.
The partners say that when they were introduced to Abbey National, they were seeking a 
business loan that simply tracked the base rate. I believe the partners when they say they 
were originally given comfort, in their meeting with the banks representative, that the 
commercial mortgage would do just that. This was an unadvised sale, but how the interest 
rate would be set was a matter of information, not advice. The first loan agreement didnt 
have the minimum rate condition, and it therefore matched the customers expectations.
The effect of adding the minimum interest rate condition was to make the loan a 
fundamentally different proposition. Instead of tracking the base rate up and down, it would 
track the base rate but never go below 5%. I think the bank should have brought that change 
to the attention of the customer. 
There was another condition in both versions that made reference to a minimum rate as part 
of the interest calculation, but in the absence of a minimum rate in the agreement I believe it 
wouldnt have been clear or comprehensible. 
Im making no suggestion here that there was a deliberate intent to trick the customers into 
signing an agreement they didnt want. But nor do I believe that when the minimum rate 
condition was omitted then later inserted, the bank was mindful of the significance of the 
change and made it with a conscious expectation that the broker would explain it to the 
partners. In my view, what probably happened was just a drafting error in the first version, 
which was corrected with little thought. In any event, the effect of the bank omitting the 
condition then later adding it, without drawing attention to it, was that the partners 
reasonably believed the final offer loan operated in substantively the same way as their 
earlier understanding, except for a small reduction in the sum borrowed and some 
associated changes in payments. I therefore think it was an error by the bank which left the 
partners with a loan whose characteristics were different from those they reasonably thought 
they had agreed.
I agree with the investigator that things changed at the end of 2012. The partners had 
become aware of the minimum rate condition and the parties had discussed a replacement 
agreement. The bank had set out terms for a new offer, with a lower interest rate. Agreement 
wasnt reached on a new loan, but there was no longer any misapprehension about the 
terms of the existing contract, and the bank was offering an alternative. In any event, there 
were no substantial break costs associated with the loan, so the partners were free to end 
the contract and seek a better rate elsewhere. In the circumstances, I dont think it would be 
fair or reasonable to require the bank to compensate S for any of the minimum interest 
payments after the end of 2012.
Putting things right
For the above reasons, I conclude that the bank should compensate S for the excess 
interest paid up to the end of 2012 as a result of the minimum interest rate condition.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Santander UK Plc to put S in the position it would have 
been in if, from the outset of the mortgage contract to the end of 2012, there had been no 
minimum interest rate. This should reflect the following practical considerations:
The bank should reconstruct the mortgage as if the interest rate had been the Bank 
of England base rate plus 1.5%, from the outset to the end of December 2012. 
Thereafter the mortgage interest rate should be as specified in the existing contract.The bank should reimburse any difference in payments between the existing and the 
replacement product.
The bank should add compensatory interest at 8% simple per annum to the 
reimbursed payments from the date the cost arose to the date of settlement. If 
Santander UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell the partners how much and, if requested 
by the partners, should provide a tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman