DRN-3216026
The complaint
Mr F complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) hasnt done enough to retrieve funds sent to the 
wrong recipient.
What happened
Mr F holds a Cash account with TSB. In August 2021, Mr F accidentally transferred around 
£100 to the wrong account. Within a few hours he contacted TSB to try to recover the funds. 
TSB say they raised a request on the same day to try to retrieve the money from the 
recipient bank. They say they advised Mr F that this does not guarantee that his money will 
be returned and they also say he was also told about the timescales of such claims during 
the call he had with them.
In September 2021, TSB received a response from the recipient bank who explained the 
money was unable to be recovered. TSB say they sent a text message to Mr F, explaining 
the outcome of his claim. Mr F contacted TSB later that day and complained to them. He 
believes they could have done more to retrieve the funds. He also requested the account 
holder details. During the call, TSB say Mr F suggested he would harm the recipient once he 
received their details, and so TSB declined to process the request Mr F had made for the 
recipients details.
TSB sent Mr F their final response a few days later explaining they do not believe they made 
an error in relation to the recovery of his payment. Mr F, unhappy with TSBs response, 
brought his complaint to our service. He says his personal circumstances werent considered 
by TSB.
Our investigator found that TSBs terms state that they would provide a refund but only if a 
mistake was made by them. He concluded that the error of paying the wrong account wasnt 
TSBs fault and that they correctly followed their processes and timescales of contacting the 
recipient bank to try to retrieve the funds. As TSB arent able to force the recipient bank to 
return the money back to them, and he feels they made this clear to Mr F, our investigator 
found that TSB acted fairly and in-line with what hed expect them to do in the 
circumstances.
Mr F wishes to appeal the investigators findings and so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why below.
Ive reviewed the terms of Mr Fs account to understand TSBs process when money has 
been sent to an incorrect account. TSBs personal banking terms say:
Dont forget. If you provide us with the wrong sort code or account number, the payment 
will be made, but it will go to the wrong person.. The terms go on to say, Well refund you if: 
you havent made any mistakes in the information about the person you wanted to pay, such 
as an incorrect sort code or account number..
Mr F has told us that he did accidentally send money to the wrong account. I can also see 
from a phone call Mr F had with TSB that he says he selected the wrong person from his 
contacts. So, I dont think it is in dispute that TSB executed Mr Fs instructions by paying the 
recipient Mr F chose, albeit, one he selected accidentally.
Mr F contacted TSB within a few hours when he noticed he paid the wrong person. TSB say 
if a payment is made in error, a customers first recourse should be to contact the beneficiary 
and try to recover the funds directly from them. If unsuccessful, then they will contact the 
recipients bank to try to reclaim the funds. They say they cant guarantee the money can be 
recovered. TSB also say it can take up to 20 working days to receive a response and 
provide an outcome.
TSBs file notes of this call Mr F had with them to request a refund show that they explained 
to Mr F that it is not a guarantee that funds can be recovered.
A payment service provider should take reasonable steps to recover funds that have been 
mistakenly applied to an account. And when its told about a mistake, the sending bank must 
contact the receiving bank within two working days.
TSB has shown us a copy of the message they sent to the recipient bank. And I can see it 
was sent the following day of when they were told about the payment to the wrong person  
so, within 2 working days of when they needed to have contacted the recipient bank by.
TSB has also shown us the response they received from the recipient bank and has also 
provided us with an additional file note from 9 September 2021. The file note says, No 
funds recovered. Reason given for non-recovery is: NO FUNDS AVAILABLE.. They then 
communicated this to Mr F on the same day.
So, I dont think TSB has done anything wrong as they have correctly followed the processes 
by contacting the recipient bank within two working days of knowing about the mistake and 
they communicated the outcome of Mr Fs refund claim to him around the timescales they 
say they would. 
Mr F has told us that he has a mental health condition and that TSB should have taken this 
into consideration in the outcome of his claim for a refund. While I appreciate Mr Fs 
circumstances, the retrieval of the money is broadly out of TSBs control as they are reliant 
on the recipient bank being able to return the funds to them. And from what Mr F has told us, 
I cant fairly say that he accidentally paid the wrong person as a result of his mental health 
condition. I think it was likely a genuine mistake Mr F had made of selecting the wrong 
contact. And so, I dont think it is fair to hold TSB at fault for this.
TSB has said that if Mr F needs them to work with him differently, because of a physical or 
mental wellbeing need, then for Mr F to get in contact with them and they will try to do what 
they can to tailor their support for his individual banking needs.
I note that Mr F later asked for the recipients contact details and TSB were going to request 
these from the recipient bank. However, during the call, Mr F made a comment to suggest 
he would harm the recipient. TSB have a duty of care to protect its customers or those that 
may be at threat of harm. So, they didnt feel it was appropriate to request the recipients 
details from the recipient bank. I dont think TSB has acted unreasonably on this occasion.  In this instance, I dont think TSB need to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman