DRN-4322016
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Retail Money Market Ltd (RateSetter) unfairly delayed returning her
money following her withdrawal requests. She complains that RateSetter reinvested her
funds despite her changing her reinvestment settings in order to prevent this from
happening.
What happened
RateSetter is a peer-to-peer crowdfunding platform which was acquired by TP in September
2020. However, for ease, I shall refer to both parties separately throughout this decision.
RateSetter provided several types of investment accounts in which investors could lend
money to third party individuals and/or businesses in return for interest. While each of these
accounts had a set Going Rate - a market interest rate determined by RateSetter -
investors could also decide to set their own target interest rates. The actual interest earned
was based upon the loan contracts contained within an investors account.
Mrs M previously invested in RateSetters Rolling Market account in which she had the
option to transfer capital and interest repayments to a holding account. However, In March
2019 RateSetter changed its accounts on offer and Mrs M started investing in the Access
account which didnt have the feature to transfer these repayments to a holding account.
Mrs M requested to make a full withdrawal from her investments in March 2020. To stop the
reinvestment of capital and interest repayments, Mrs M changed her reinvestment settings
on 18 March 2020 from the Going Rate to 8% in order to prevent her funds being matched to
borrowers. However, RateSetter then reinvested her funds at lower interest rates than she
had set.
In March 2020 Mrs M complained to RateSetter as she was unhappy with the time it was
taking to complete these withdrawals and she felt RateSetter hadnt adhered to her
reinvestment settings.
RateSetter considered Mrs Ms complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary, it said:
RateSetter manages a queue of money (made up of new investments and 
reinvestments) so that investors can access their money at any time. However, this is 
not a guarantee and in extreme circumstances investors may have to wait for the 
borrowers regular repayments.
This explains how the platform operates and access to Mrs Ms funds is not 
guaranteed as the platform works on a supply and demand basis.
When Mrs M made her request to release her investment, her request was put in a 
queue, dependant on market liquidity. Whilst her request is being processed, 
repayments will still follow the reinvestment settings and thus her funds would still be 
earning and once the request has been processed, her funds would be released and 
this would include the additional interest earned.
The Access account was renamed from the Rolling Market account when it 
introduced the new products. When RateSetter introduced the Rolling Market, the 
changes were explained on the blog section of its website which explained that when 
an investment is matched to a borrower, it would remain matched to that borrower, at 
the same rate of interest, until that loan is repaid.
RateSetter had reviewed the repayments and reinvestments and confirmed that 
these are working as normal. This is because the funds Mrs M stated as having been 
matched at a lower rate are the funds which are the remaining portion of the original 
contract and these are sent back to the previous borrower to complete the remaining 
loan term.
Mrs M remained unhappy with RateSetters response and so she referred her complaint to
this service for an independent review.
Having referred her complaint to this service, Mrs M told this service that she had received
emails from RateSetter regarding a computer script shed used to automatically log into her
account and withdraw funds. RateSetter said in these emails that it considered the script to
be in breach of its terms, and likely constituted an offence under the Computer Misuse Act
1990. Mrs M said the content of the emails might constitute criminal harassment, due
to unjustified threats of legal action, and that it wasnt treating her fairly.
RateSetter considered this to be a new complaint issue and didnt consent to it being
included in the existing complaint.
One of our investigators considered Mrs Ms complaint and upheld it. In summary, he said:
He felt RateSetter had made it clear to Mrs M in its Investor Terms that her ability to 
withdraw was dependent on there being liquidity in the market.
There was clearly an imbalance in supply and demand caused by the reaction to the 
Covid-19 pandemic, with reduced demand on the secondary market. So, he didnt 
think it was unreasonable that it took longer than normal for RateSetter to process 
Mrs Ms withdrawal requests.
Auto-reinvesting during a period of low demand, like during the Covid-19 pandemic, 
meant Mrs Ms money was effectively trapped on the platform. He felt Mrs M had 
given a clear instruction that she didnt want to continue investing on the platform and 
by leaving auto-reinvest on RateSetter unfairly prevented her from ending her 
contract. So he felt Mrs M should be compensated for this.
He didnt think RateSetter had provided a clear explanation as to why Mrs Ms funds 
were reinvested at lower interest rates than she had set in her reinvestment settings.
His understanding was that a borrower may be scheduled to receive multiple 
payments as part of their contract. And therefore, repayments might be diverted back 
to the same borrower. But having viewed the account terms, and screenshots of what 
lenders see on the platform, he didnt think this was made at all clear to lenders.
He had concerns regarding the way in which RateSetter communicated the changes 
made to the new accounts  including the Access account. He said hed reviewed a 
copy of the emails that were sent out when the new products were introduced and 
noted RateSetter provided a link to a blog post setting out the key changes, including 
that The new products will automatically reinvest until you want to withdraw..
He said this was misleading as using the wording until you want to withdraw gave the 
implication that auto-reinvest will stop at the point the customer asks to withdraw.
That said, he wasnt convinced that, if RateSetter had been clearer about the 
changes being made, Mrs M would have exited the platform. Its only in hindsight, 
knowing whats happened with the pandemic, that its become clear the inability to 
turn off auto-reinvestment has created a problem. In normal circumstances, shed 
likely still have been able to withdraw relatively easily via selling on the secondary 
market.With regards to Mrs Ms computer script complaint issue, he said, ultimately, it all 
stems from the same issue  namely that RateSetter were automatically reinvesting 
Mrs Ms funds after shed already requested a full withdrawal. So, he consider this to 
be new information/evidence in connection with the existing complaint and not a new 
matter entirely.
He didnt think it was necessary, or within our remit, for him to comment on whether 
the script put Mrs M in breach of the terms and/or the Computer Misuse Act  and so 
to make a finding on whether RateSetters email was a reasonable response.
However, he said that had RateSetter not been automatically reinvesting funds in 
clear breach of her instructions, this situation would never have happened to begin 
with. And as Mrs M was having to log in manually each morning to try and release 
funds before auto-reinvestment took place, he felt it was clear she implemented the 
script to save her the trouble of doing so.
He acknowledged that RateSetters email would have been distressing for Mrs M to 
receive and he recommended RateSetter pay her £200 for the level of upset caused 
as a result of the incorrect auto-reinvestment of her funds.
Both parties disagreed with the investigators findings.
Mrs M said she received approximately £1,500 in interest at the lower rate and about £1,000
of this interest was in relation to the Access product. She said that if all of this interest had
been eligible for the 8% rate, she had set in her reinvestment instructions then she ought to
receive around £300.
RateSetter said the auto-reinvestment was a feature of the Access account which was
designed to reinvest continuously and carry on with existing loan contracts. It said this meant
that, until funds were released, Mrs M continued to earn interest. With regard to the emails
sent to Mrs M, it said that its records show that from the 1 November 2020 until the 25 of
November 2020 Mrs M visited the login page over 1,000 times and this had the potential to
cause serious disruption to its systems. It said it asked Mrs M to stop using any
scripts to access the RateSetter website and asked her to contact it to discuss this further.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on the matter in August 2023, which I include below:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, Ive taken into account
the relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms, such as RateSetter, are required to
follow. These are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance. The FCA Principles
for Business (PRIN) are a general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under
the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G) The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R.
The most relevant principles here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
RateSetter was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligation here is:COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
I appreciate that Mrs M is unhappy with the amount of time it took for RateSetter to complete
her withdrawal requests. However, having reviewed the information provided to her at the
time of investing on the platform, Im satisfied RateSetter made her aware that her ability to
withdraw from the investment was dependent on liquidity of the market he was invested in.
Some platforms (including RateSetter) have put in place secondary markets that allow
investors to sell their loan parts to other investors in order to withdraw funds. There is no
regulatory requirement on platforms to have this facility available. And it follows that there
are no rules dictating how these secondary markets should be run. Ultimately, how
RateSetter decided to process withdrawal requests was a commercial decision which its
entitled to make. This isnt something this service can change. Instead Ive looked at whether
Mrs M has been treated unfairly as a result of that decision.
RateSetters Investor Terms explained:
8.3. If your funds have already been matched to a loan contract, you can only
withdraw them using the Release Investment function detailed below.
9. The Release Investment function
9.1. Once your funds are matched and a loan contract is formed, you may be able to
withdraw matched funds before they are repaid by the borrower by using the
Release Investment function, but this will only be possible where there are sufficient
funds available in the market. We may temporarily suspend your ability to use this
function in order to manage supply and demand on the platform.
Taking into account the above terms, I think RateSetter made Mrs M aware that withdrawing
would only be possible where there were sufficient funds available in the market. RateSetter
has explained it received a larger number of requests to release funds during the onset of
the Covid-19 pandemic which, in turn reduced liquidity and increased queue times. Im also
aware that RateSetter did provide updates regarding withdrawal wait times on its website to
manage investors expectations.
I also understand that Mrs Ms main complaint is regarding RateSetter having continued to
re-invest her money once she had requested to fully withdraw from the platform. Ive thought
very carefully about this and on balance, I dont think I can fairly conclude that she has been
financially disadvantaged as a result of this.
RateSetter has explained that auto-reinvestment was a key feature of the investment
product, designed to re-invest continuously and carry on with existing loan contracts. The
Investor Terms explained how this would work:
7.3. Capital and interest will (subject to the amounts received reaching the minimum
offer amount of £10) be automatically reinvested into the same product in which you
initially invested, either at the Going Rate or at Your Rate.
So Im satisfied that RateSetter made Mrs M aware in the Investor Terms that her money
would continue to be re-invested until she could fully withdraw. As Ive explained above, the
only way Mrs M could access her funds was by requesting a release of her investment,
which was subject to liquidity. And as there was lower liquidity in the market and insufficient
number of investors willing to invest when she requested to withdraw, it took longer for the
withdrawal requests to take place and his money continued to be reinvested.I appreciate that, by reinvesting Mrs Ms money, it took longer for her to fully withdraw her
funds. Whilst I think it could be argued that RateSetter ought to have turned off auto-
reinvestment, considering it was aware of the increase in demand to withdraw during the
Covid-19 pandemic, even if RateSetter had done so Im not persuaded Mrs M would have
been in a better financial position. I say this as she continued to receive interest during this
period and had her money not been reinvested, she would have still had to wait some time
for her original withdrawal requests to complete. So shes essentially benefitted from interest
she wouldnt have been entitled to had RateSetter not continued to reinvest her money.
Its also not clear whether Mrs M would have been able to make a greater investment return
had she invested his money elsewhere. As Mrs M would have had to have waited until all
her investments had been released, I think its reasonable to suggest she wouldnt have
received all her money back in one lump so and so its difficult to say what she would have
done each time she received some of her money back.
Im also aware that Mrs M says RateSetter reinvested her funds at a lower rate than she had
set in her reinvestment settings. Its not clear why this happened. RateSetter says its
because funds on existing loan contracts can go back to the same borrower, at the rate
originally agreed. RateSetter has not provided any evidence to show this happening on an
individual loan-basis for Mrs Ms account. Also, looking at the terms and the information
provided to Mrs M when her account changes from the Rolling Market to the Access
account, I cant see that this was clearly explained to her. However, for the reasons Ive
given above, I dont think Mrs M has been financially disadvantaged as a result of this  as
shes benefitted from some interest, albeit less than the 8% rate she had set in her
reinvestment settings.
I also agree with the investigators findings that had RateSetter made this clearer, Im not
persuaded Mrs M would have exited the platform. I say this as it seems in normal
circumstances, outside of the implications of the Covid-19 pandemic where requests to exit
the platform increased, Mrs M would have likely still have been able to withdraw
relatively easily via selling on the secondary market.
Ive also thought carefully about the emails Mrs M received from RateSetter regarding the
computer script she was running on her account. Despite this being an additional complaint
point raised following Mrs Ms original complaint to RateSetter, Im satisfied I have the power
to address this in my decision. I say this as our service has an inquisitorial remit, which
allows me to consider the subject matter of a complaint as a whole and not limited to just
considering the specific complaint points or alleged losses that are put to us by a
complainant. The courts have upheld this approach  for instance in R (Williams) v Financial
Ombudsman Service [2008] EWHC 2142 (Admin), Irwin J said:
The ombudsman is dealing with complaints, not causes of action. His jurisdiction is
inquisitorial not adversarial. There is a wide latitude within which the ombudsman can
operate.
RateSetter sent Mrs M some emails in December 2020 warning her not to use the computer
script shed been running in order to manually withdraw her uninvested funds. In these
emails RateSetter suggests that Mrs Ms actions breached its Website Terms of Use and
were likely to constitute an offence under the Computer Misuse Act 1990. It isnt within my
remit to comment on whether the script put Mrs M in breach of the Computer Misuse Act and
so Ive focused on whether Mrs M actions amounted to a breach of the Website Terms of
Use.
The Website Terms of Use Section 2.5.7 explained:[You will not attempt to] use the Websites or Exchange in any manner that
disrupts their operation.
RateSetter said in its 22 December 2020 email to Mrs M that an individual customer using a
script within reasonable bounds is unlikely to disrupt its systems. Its clear from this email
that Mrs Ms actions didnt disrupt the operation of RateSetters website and that
RateSetters concerns were regarding the prospect of greater disruption caused if several
customers were to use Mrs Ms script. So, it follows that Mrs M didnt breach the Website
Terms of Use.
Whilst Im pleased to see both parties engaged in the discussion regarding the use of the
script, I do think RateSetters first email sent to Mrs M on 8 December 2020 was a little
heavy handed and I can appreciate why it caused Mrs M concern. In this email RateSetter
said Mrs Ms actions were likely to constitute an offence under the Computer Misuse Act
1990 and it said it would take all necessary actions to protect itself. However, in the next
email sent on 22 December 2020, RateSetter clarifies that it would only look towards taking
any action under the Computer Misuse Act in extreme cases. I think this suggests that
RateSetter recognised that the references to potential illegal activity was disproportionate
and unnecessary.
Ultimately, Mrs M was running a computer script as RateSetter had made it difficult for her to
withdraw her funds before they were reinvested, I dont think her actions breached the
Website Terms of Use and I agree that the language used in the first email was quite
threatening. So I think RateSetter should pay Mrs M £200 to recognise the distress and
inconvenience the email caused her.
Responses to my provisional decision
RateSetter accepted my provisional findings and Mrs M didnt respond by the deadline 
provided. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As RateSetter accepted my provisional findings and Mrs M didnt provide any further 
comments for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. And as 
Ive already set out my full reasons for upholding Mrs Ms complaint, I have nothing further to 
add.
Putting things right
RateSetter should pay Mrs M £200 to recognise the distress and inconvenience the email 
caused her.
My final decision
My final decision is that Retail Money Market Ltd must pay Mrs M the compensation as set 
out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman