DRN-3977625
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the way his motor insurer, U K Insurance Limited (UKI) dealt 
with a claim he made on his policy and with the quality of repairs done to his car by one of its 
approved repairers. 
What happened
In September 2021 Mr B was involved in an accident as a result of which his car needed 
repairs. The repairs were carried out by one of UKIs approved repairers and the car was 
returned to Mr B. Mr B was unhappy with the quality of the repairs and complained. He said 
there were several issues including one with the exhaust alignment.
 
UKI agreed that there were issues with the repairs and the car was taken back to the 
repairers for further work. Mr B was awarded £150 compensation as a result of this 
complaint.
The car was collected around the middle of November 2021 and returned to Mr B in late 
December 2021. Mr B was again unhappy with the quality of the repairs. He said the cars 
lights were not aligned properly and also one of the exhausts was lower than the other. UKI 
arranged for one of its engineers to inspect the car. The engineer authorised the 
replacement of one of the exhausts. 
UKI upheld Mr Bs complaint in January 2022 and once again awarded him £150. Mr B had 
said he didnt want the same repairers to carry out further repairs. UKI said it would arrange 
for the same repairers to fit the new exhaust but would ask one of its engineers to inspect 
the work to determine whether it was to a good standard.
 
Mr B raised a further complaint in February 2022. He said the repairs were carried out with 
poor care and skill and reiterated that he didnt want the car to go back to the same 
repairers. He added that his car was losing value due to these delays and that he had 
planned to sell it before the accident. He added that he only wanted the exhaust aligned and 
didnt understand why a new one was needed. Mr B called UKI around two weeks later and 
reiterated that he didnt want his car to go back to the same repairers. And he made a further 
complaint in March 2022 and said that he had been promised call backs which he didnt get.
 
Mr B brought his complaint to us in April 2022. 
UKI issued a third final response letter in April 2022 and acknowledged that Mr B didnt 
receive a call back as promised in March 2022. And for that it awarded him £75. It didnt 
agree it was responsible for any delays though. It said that the parts needed for the repairs 
had to be ordered from abroad and it took time for them to arrive. It said they had now 
arrived and the repairers would make contact with Mr B.
Mr B responded to UKI saying he was still unhappy for the particular repairers to carry out 
the repairs. As a compromise UKI proposed to Mr B that he picks up the relevant parts from 
the repairers and takes them to a garage of his choice to fit. It said it would pay the labour 
costs which it estimated at £150 but could pay more if Mr B provided an invoice.
 
Mr B confirmed to us that he had since had a garage realign the existing exhaust and had 
since sold his car. 
In his complaint to us Mr B asked for compensation for the distress and inconvenience he 
was caused by UKI. He said he had to postpone the sale of the car which meant that where 
the car could have been sold for around £21,000 in September 2021 it was exchanged for 
another one several months later, which was only worth £16,000.
The complaint was reviewed by two of our Investigators. The first investigator thought it 
should be upheld and that UKI should pay Mr B £200 compensation. She didnt think it was 
reasonable for UKI to say that the car should have gone back to the same repairers for a 
third time given how poor the repairs had been up to that point. She also agreed for UKI to 
pay Mr B £150 for the repairs or a higher amount if he provided an invoice and agreed with 
Mr B that a new exhaust wasnt needed. She said she wasnt able to award anything for the 
loss of value of the car as she had seen no evidence of the price the car was originally up for 
sale for, if this had been agreed, the price it sold for etc. 
UKI didnt agree. It said that an overall compensation award of £575 was too high in the 
circumstances, though it agreed that the repairs had been poor. It said Mr B had provided no 
evidence to say that a new exhaust wasnt needed. 
 
The second Investigator said that a further £200 compensation, as awarded by the previous 
Investigator, was warranted in the circumstances. She agreed that there was no other 
engineering evidence to say a new exhaust was not needed but she felt that if the exhaust 
was needed it should have been ordered from the start. She said this caused unnecessary 
delays. She also thought that given that Mr B had had the exhaust realigned it would be fair 
for UKI to reimburse him for the cost subject to him providing an invoice in support. 
UKI didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. It said even if another garage had 
taken over the repairs, the new exhaust would have always needed to be ordered and there 
would have been delays regardless. It added that it had minimal touchpoints from Mr B 
throughout the claim but always dealt with his complaints. It added that Mr B said he wasnt 
happy for the repairers to do the repairs in February 2022, and this is why the part had 
already been ordered.
Before I issued my decision, I asked our Investigator to clarify to UKI that as it was happy to 
pay Mr B £150 without an invoice (or more if Mr B provided an invoice in support) to have 
the new exhaust fitted, in my decision I will ask it to pay him £150 without him having to 
provide an invoice. Mr B says it cost him £150 to get the exhaust realigned but isnt able to 
provide the invoice as this was given to the new buyer. As UKI already thinks this is a 
reasonable amount to rectify the problem its repairer caused with the car, I think it should 
reimburse him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided to uphold it.
 
UKI accepts that the repairs were poor and that the service it provided could have been 
better. But it doesnt agree that an award of £575 is reasonable in the circumstances. I dont 
agree. Mr Bs car went in for repairs in September. It went back again in November because the 
repairs were poor and need to go back again so that further work could be done. UKI and its 
engineers agreed that the repairers had done a poor job. In the circumstances I thought it 
was unreasonable for UKI to insist, until April 2022, that the car went back to the same 
repairers. Given how poor the repairs had been, I think Mr Bs request that the same 
repairers dont attempt a further repair was reasonable. 
Mr B said that a new exhaust wasnt needed and that ordering the new part caused 
unnecessary delays. UKI said it had to go by its engineers opinion which was that a new 
exhaust was needed. Like our second Investigator has said, the only available expert 
engineering evidence with regards to this was from UKIs engineer who felt a new one was 
needed. So I think it was reasonable for UKI to rely on this advice. And I dont think that the 
delay in the parts arriving from abroad was down to UKI. But I agree that if this part was 
needed it could have, arguably, been ordered from the start and that this caused delays.
Mr B said that lack of communication from UKI meant that it didnt tell the repairer not to 
order the part. UKI said Mr B told it in February 2022 that he no longer wanted the same 
repairers to undertake the work and by that point the part had been ordered. However, I note 
that in its January 2022 final response UKI acknowledged that Mr B had already said he 
didnt want the repairers to carry out the work. So I dont think UKI is right about the timings. 
And despite the fact that Mr B understandably didnt want the same repairers to do the 
repairs, in January 2022, the solution offered by UKI was for them to do the repairs and for 
one of its engineers to inspect them. I dont think that was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, and I think the option of having a new garage do the work should have been 
given to Mr B.
 
UKI said there were minimal touchpoints from Mr B during his claim but that when an issue 
was raised it would deal with it. Mr B wasnt happy with UKIs communication and I can see 
why especially after his February 2022 complaint. I note Mr B had to call UKI a few times 
and complained about the lack of call backs or an acknowledgment of his complaint. 
The parts arrived by April 2022 and even at that point, after Mr B had said for months that he 
didnt want the same repairers, UKI still suggested that the repairs be carried out by the 
same repairers. It wasnt until a few days later that it suggested to Mr B that he collects the 
parts himself and takes them to a garage of his choice. Though I appreciate the repairers 
said they couldnt post the parts to Mr B, I dont think it was ideal to ask Mr B to go to the 
trouble of collecting the parts himself.
For the reasons above, given that the matter had been ongoing since September 2021, the 
poor standard of repairs and the fact that the matter wasnt adequately resolved  not until 
Mr B eventually sold the car, I think a further £200 compensation is warranted in the 
circumstances. 
Mr B said he had wanted to sell the car since before the accident and that the delayed 
repairs caused his cars value to decrease. Unfortunately, without any evidence in support of 
this its not something I can award compensation for. What I will say though is that we find 
that it is often the case that cars actually sell for a price which is lower than the advertised or 
desired sale price. So, its possible Mr Bs car wouldnt have sold for the advertised sale 
price he wanted to achieve. And I also think that the price of the car is likely to have been 
affected in any event by the fact that it had undergone substantial repairs as a result of the 
fact that it had been in an accident.  Mr B said he got the existing exhaust realigned before selling the car but didnt retain the 
invoice because he gave it to the new buyer. I dont think this is unusual. UKI said it 
considered £150 reasonable to fit a new exhaust and would have paid this to Mr B even 
without him providing an invoice. In the circumstances, bearing in mind Mr B has since sold 
the car and also the fact that UKI acknowledges the exhaust needed realignment, I think it is 
fair and reasonable it now pays him £150 even if he is unable to provide the invoice. But as 
he isnt able to provide an invoice showing the date the work was done, I will not ask UKI to 
pay any interest on this amount.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I have decided to uphold this complaint. U K Insurance Limited must 
pay Mr B a further £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused him. 
This is in addition to the £375 it has already paid him and so the total would be £575.
It must also reimburse him for the cost of having his exhaust realigned  which he said was 
£150.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman