DRN-3933061
The complaint
Miss H complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) hasnt settled 
her claim on her car insurance policy fairly.
What happened
Miss Hs car was stolen, so she made a claim on her car insurance policy.
Advantage accepted Miss Hs claim and offered her £8,287 to settle it (minus her policy 
excess). This offer was based on the valuations given by two of the motor trade guides. 
Miss H didnt think this offer was fair and believes her car was worth about £400 more. She 
complained to Advantage about its valuation and, when it didnt uphold her complaint, 
brought it to us.
The investigator who looked at Miss Hs complaint upheld it. She thought Advantage should 
value Miss Hs car at £8,471. Miss H accepted our investigators findings. Although 
Advantage asked our investigator to send it the valuations shed got (which she did), it hasnt 
responded to our investigators findings. 
So Miss Hs complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Miss Hs complaint.
My starting point is Miss Hs car insurance policy. This says, if Miss Hs car is lost because 
of theft, Advantage will pay the market value of her car immediately before the loss. It says 
the cars market value is the cost of replacing Miss Hs car in the UK at the time of the loss 
with one of the same make, model, age and condition as her car. 
Generally, its not our role to put an exact value on a car. But, when looking at a complaint 
like Miss Hs, we check the relevant motor trade guides to see if the insurer has made a 
reasonable offer in line with them. We place weight on the valuations these trade guides give 
because theyre based on nationwide research of likely selling prices, so we think theyre 
more reliable than, for example, individual adverts.
Advantage based its valuation of Miss Hs car on two of these guides. But there are four 
guides from which valuations are generally available and its our approach to check all of 
them. Our investigator did this by getting valuations from the two motor trade guides hadnt 
used, one of which she discounted as an outlier (which is in line with our approach). And she 
re-ran the valuation for one of the guides Advantage had given us because it had used an 
incorrect incident date for the valuation. This produced a higher valuation. She then took an 
average of the three valuations to reach a figure of £8,471.
As Ive already mentioned, Miss H accepted this valuation but Advantage hasnt responded 
to it. Having looked at all the evidence I have, I think the valuation we have given of £8,471 
is fair and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of Miss Hs policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Miss Hs complaint and direct Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to settle Miss Hs claim for the theft of her car on the basis of a valuation 
of £8,471. 
I understand from Miss H that Advantage Insurance Company Limited has paid her £8,142 
(that is, its original settlement amount of £8,287 minus her policy excess of £145). So 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must pay Miss H the outstanding balance to settle 
her claim. Advantage Insurance Company Limited must also pay Miss H simple interest at 
the rate of 8% a year on that outstanding balance from the date it paid Miss H the original 
settlement amount to the date of payment of the balance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman