DRN-2535250
The complaint
Mr M says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for 
a mortgage.
What happened
Mr M took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2001. Mr M paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered him in case he was off work sick or 
lost his job.
I sent Mr M and HSBC a provisional decision on 23 December 2020, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
This sale was nearly two decades ago, and the accounts involved have long since closed. 
So I think its completely understandable that neither side still have all the original 
documents from the time. Indeed, under data protection rules, HSBC were required to 
dispose of data rather than hold onto it for too long  so if anything, it seems rather fortunate 
that I am still able to look at the remaining electronic records. Often times, data is deleted 
after around six years.
I realise that Mr M may find it disappointing that there isnt more information still available, 
but its quite normal given just how much time has passed. I understand he feels that HSBC 
must have some sort of in-depth analysis regarding his local branch staff from up to twenty 
years ago and the PPI complaints made in the decades since. Im not sure what gave Mr M 
the impression this would be available, but as far as I can see its not, and I would not 
normally expect HSBC to have held onto such staff data for so long.
Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have happened based on the limited 
information I do have. According to the electronic record of Mr Ms application, it looks like 
he was offered several insurance products, and declined some but chose PPI. From what 
I can see, the PPI was not a condition of his mortgage. Ive not seen any wider problems 
with HSBCs sales process from the time, nor any evidence which shows that Mr M was 
misled or unfairly pressured into buying PPI here. So I dont have a fair basis on which to 
conclude that HSBC did something wrong here. I think its more likely that they followed a 
relatively normal sales process  offering Mr M a choice  and that he chose PPI at the time.
Its not clear whether HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr M, or not. The requirements were 
stricter on HSBC if they did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr M, Ive assumed they did. That 
means HSBC had to check the policy was right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, I think it was.
For example, it looks like Mr M was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its 
main exclusions or limitations. It wouldve paid out on top of Mr Ms work benefits and 
offered him more comprehensive cover, such as for when his benefits reduced to just a 
fraction of his normal pay. And while I understand Mr M felt secure in his job and health, 
accidents, illnesses, and redundancies can and do happen, even to people who feel their 
situation is secure. Ultimately, this mortgage was a very significant, long-term commitment. 
There was no guarantee that Mr M would have the same benefits or savings available in the 
many years to come, and if he fell behind on his mortgage he couldve lost his home. So it 
seems very reasonable for him to have taken out PPI, so that he could protect his home and 
have some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information HSBC gave Mr M about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed his 
mind. But as I explained above, Mr M wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for him in case something went wrong. And 
the policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. Overall, 
I dont think that better information was likely to have put him off taking out the cover.
Lastly, I understand that Mr M is concerned about some issues with the policys cancellation 
some years down the line. In this decision, Im only considering the sale of the PPI rather 
than what happened after. But if Mr M feels HSBC didnt administer his policy correctly, then 
he can raise that with them  and he may then be able to ask for our services help with that 
as a separate case. I should clarify, though, that with a standalone policy such as this it 
would often be the policyholders responsibility to cancel it. 
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
22 January 2021. HSBC said they didnt have anything further to add, whereas Mr M sent 
in some further points which Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M clarified that he didnt expect HSBC to have kept detailed records about individual 
employees, but thought that we might have identified trends of mis-selling. He asked 
whether my point about wider problems was based solely on my own caseload. I do 
understand his line of thinking and am grateful for his clarification. To explain, as a service 
we have looked at trends for PPI mis-selling, and have compiled information based on a 
number of factors  not just individual caseloads  in order to see where sales might have 
been particularly concerning. I cant go into too much detail as this is sensitive information. 
Here, I have little information available, because the sale was so long ago. But based on 
what I do have, Ive not seen anything to make me think that there was a wider issue with 
these sales, nor anything which shows that Mr M in particular was misled.
Mr M also queried what the electronic records said about the other products he was offered. 
To clarify, it simply listed the extra products that had been offered alongside his mortgage 
application, such as contents insurance, or the banks own brand of building insurance. Then 
it had either a Y or N option to signify if the offer had been taken up or not. Here, its 
recorded that Mr M turned down other products but chose PPI. I have not put a great deal of 
weight on this as its only a supplementary record and not the original application. But it was 
worth pointing out, as it indicated that Mr M was offered a choice about extra products, that 
he knew he didnt have to take everything on offer, and that he chose PPI.I understand Mr M no longer remembers being offered these other products, but thats rather 
understandable. Buying insurance is rarely memorable, and not buying financial products is 
even less so  not least after two decades. Mr M questioned whether the salesperson might 
have only pretended to offer the other products as a tick-box exercise. Its technically 
possible, but I think its rather unlikely indeed  it would make much more sense for them to 
just offer the product and record the answer. Not least as they have no chance of getting the 
sale if they dont at least offer the product. And normally, the options for these extra products 
would have been set out on the actual paper mortgage application that Mr M wouldve filled 
out. So Id expect him to have been aware of the optional extras at the time  though I do 
acknowledge that his paper application is no longer available.
Mr M explained that since hed assumed the PPI would cancel when the mortgage finished, 
it must have meant that he thought it was a compulsory part of the mortgage. I see his line of 
thinking, but many optional extra products  including other types of PPI  did automatically 
cancel at the end of the term. Whereas standalone policies like this one didnt. So its easy to 
see why he might have been mistaken. Its also understandable for someone to be mistaken 
about cancellation terms for a minor financial product a number of years after taking it out. 
So while I take Mr Ms point, I dont think this substantiates that the policy was mis-sold.
Mr M pointed out that many other PPI policies had been mis-sold, and I understand why he 
raised this. But different policies worked in different ways, were suitable in different 
circumstances, were sold using different methods at different times, and so on. So while 
some policies were mis-sold, others were not. Thats why we look at each case individually  
and in this particular case, Ive not found this policy to have been mis-sold.
Lastly, I understand that Mr M is unhappy with the way HSBC handled his complaint, 
including their failure to acknowledge communication or address his case. And Im sorry to 
hear hes found it a stressful experience, not least when complaining can be stressful 
enough in and of itself. Im afraid I cannot consider this point though, as Im only able to 
decide complaints about regulated activities  such as the selling of insurance. But 
handling complaints is not a regulated activity in and of itself. That means Im not allowed to 
consider this aspect of the case. Im conscious that Mr M did not specifically ask me to look 
into this, but I thought it needed clarifying only to make sure that he didnt come away feeling 
it had been ignored.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint in this particular case.
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the case, and means we 
can no longer discuss the merits.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman