DRN-3682901
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Society of Lloyds unfairly refused to pay for repairs to defective 
drains as part of a subsidence claim.
Any reference to Society of Lloyds in this decision includes its appointed agents and any 
reference to Mr and Mrs F includes their representative.
What happened
In November 2020, Mr and Mrs F made a claim to Society of Lloyds when they became 
aware of subsidence at their property. Society of Lloyds investigated the cause of the 
subsidence and found it to be due to ground movement as a result of defective drains.
Society of Lloyds accepted the claim but said that the drain defects fell under the accidental 
damage part of the policy and that because the defects had occurred gradually over a period 
of time, they couldnt be described as sudden (as required by the policy) and so the 
accidental damage part of the policy wouldnt provide cover.
It told Mr and Mrs F that because there was no cover for the defective drains, Mr and Mrs F 
would need to arrange for the drains to be repaired, before it could progress the subsidence 
claim. 
Mr and Mrs F were unhappy about this and made a complaint. Society of Lloyds maintained 
its position, so Mr and Mrs F referred their complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and thought Society of Lloyds had acted unfairly. 
She said that in order to carry out a lasting and effective repair to stabilise the property, the 
defective drains would need to be repaired first. And that this should be done under the 
subsidence claim and not a separate accidental damage claim.
Society of Lloyds disagreed with our investigators recommendations. It said the subsidence 
provision in the policy didnt include cover for drains, which is why the separate section of 
the policy existed.
Because an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has now come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered what the policy says about Society of Lloyds obligations when a valid claim 
arises. It says that Society of Lloyds will cover the buildings for loss or damage directly 
caused by: Subsidence, landslip or heave of the site on which the buildings stand and that it 
will settle a subsidence claim by repairing, replacing, reinstating or by cash payment. In Mr 
and Mrs Fs case, it agreed to carry out repairs to the damage caused by the subsidence.
In order to meet its obligations under the policy, when a valid claim arises and is accepted by 
an insurer, the insurer must carry out a lasting and effective repair. This usually means 
repairing the underlying cause of the subsidence, and not just the damage the subsidence 
has caused, to prevent the subsidence continuing. Society of Lloyds doesnt dispute that the 
drains need to be repaired  but say Mr and Mrs F should cover the cost of this.
I dont consider it fair for Mr and Mrs F to cover the cost of repairing the defective drains. I 
say this because the obligation for Society of Lloyds to carry out a lasting and effective 
repair extends to areas that the policy might not cover  for example, in this case, the 
defective drains, which Society of Lloyds says arent covered by the accidental damage 
provision in the policy, due to the defect happening over time and not suddenly.
But Im persuaded that the defective drains dont need to be covered by the accidental 
damage part of the policy and should be covered under the subsidence provision, even 
though the subsidence provision doesnt provide cover for defective drains. This is because 
if the drains arent repaired first, then the subsidence could recur, and so the repairs wouldnt 
be lasting and effective. And its Society of Lloyds duty under the policy to carry out a lasting 
and effective repair which will stop the subsidence recurring for a reasonable period of time.
So Im satisfied that a fair resolution in this complaint would be for Society of Lloyds to pay 
for the repair of the defective drains that are the cause of the subsidence first, before 
repairing the damage caused by the subsidence itself. In doing so, it should only apply one 
excess to the claim and deal with all the repairs under the subsidence part of the policy. Mr 
and Mrs F have already had the drain repairs carried out, so Im going to require Society of 
Lloyds to reimburse them for this, plus interest.
Society of Lloyds accepts it couldve provided a better service to Mr and Mrs F throughout 
the course of the claim. Mr and Mrs F say the claim has caused them stress and anxiety 
ever since the drain repairs were refused. I can see from the information provided that 
Society of Lloyds had to be chased by email and phone several times about the progress of 
the claim, that there were delays in the handling of the claim, and that this caused Mr and 
Mrs F to worry.
Ive considered the impact that Society of Lloyds level of service and its decision to unfairly 
refuse the drain repairs has had on Mr and Mrs F, and Ive also been mindful that Mr and 
Mrs F are in their 90s and had to pay for the drain repairs from their savings. Im satisfied 
from what theyve said that this was upsetting for them and unnecessary. So in recognition 
of the distress and inconvenience caused, Im going to require Society of Lloyds to increase 
the amount of compensation it pays to £300.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr and Mrs F, Society of Lloyds must now:
Reimburse Mr and Mrs F for cost of the drain repairs upon receipt of evidence of 
those costs. 
Pay Mr and Mrs F 8% simple interest per annum from the date Mr and Mrs F paid for 
the drain repairs to the date of settlement.
Charge only one excess and deal with the issues as one subsidence claim.
Pay Mr and Mrs F an additional £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience, 
bringing the total amount of compensation to £300.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Society of Lloyds to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman