DRN-4070328
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs K complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund the money they lost 
when Mr C fell victim to an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So rather than repeat them all 
again here, Ill briefly summarise the key points.
In 2016, Mr C received a call from a company Ill refer to as S, claiming to offer investment 
services. He says he was looking to invest, so had been researching investments online and 
had signed up to some websites. The call therefore didnt seem unexpected.
Mr C looked up S and didnt find anything which made him doubt their legitimacy. He 
checked the financial regulators (the FCAs) warning list and there was nothing published for 
S. He says Ss contact was also professional; they went through the expected know your 
customer checks, provided documentation, had a sophisticated website and generally gave 
the impression of being a reputable company. He thought the were regulated by the FCA.
Over a period of around six weeks, Mr C made six debit card payments, totalling £19,500, to 
S from the current account he and Mrs K held with HSBC. After appearing to make a good 
profit, Mr C asked to withdraw some funds in late 2016. He was told he could only do so 
once he met a certain trading volume. That concerned him as it hadnt been mentioned in 
any of the documentation. On questioning S about this, he realised he had been scammed. 
Mr C contacted HSBC about raising a chargeback claim against S around May 2017. Then 
in 2022, he complained to HSBC (via a professional representative)  arguing it should have 
intervened and uncovered the scam when he made the payments.
HSBC didnt agree with the complaint and declined to refund Mr C and Mrs K. So they 
referred the matter to our service. An investigator here looked into what had happened  and 
didnt uphold their complaint. 
The investigator thought HSBC ought to have spoken to Mr C about some of the payments 
as they werent in keeping with the usual account activity. But he wasnt persuaded that 
appropriate intervention would have uncovered the scam. He also didnt think HSBC could 
have pursued the chargeback claim given the time limits that apply. And because Mr C 
hadnt provided the necessary information.
Unhappy with this response, Mr C and Mrs K have requested a final decision. They said the 
scenario should have raised alarm bells with HSBC. And they would have realised it was a 
scam much earlier if HSBC had provided scam education. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions of the investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2009, in force at the time, HSBC was 
expected to execute authorised payment instructions without undue delay. Its not in dispute 
that Mr C was scammed. But nor is it in dispute that he authorised the payments. So the 
starting position is that he (and Mrs K, as the joint account holder) are liable for them. 
But there are some situations where we believe that bankstaking into account relevant 
rules, codes and best practiceought to have identified a fraud risk, so should have looked 
at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before making the payment. If HSBC 
failed to do so, and that failure led to a fraudulent loss, it might be fair to hold it liable.
I dont think the first payment to S appeared so unusual, in amongst the genuine account 
activity, that HSBC ought to have been concerned about fraud. At the time, there werent any 
warnings about S so the recipient wouldnt have caused concern. There had also been 
previous payments for higher amounts in the months leading up to the scam.
A few weeks later, Mr C made a further four payments between £2,000 and £5,000, in one 
day, to S. That was a significant departure from Mr C and Mrs Ks usual spending. So I do 
think HSBC should have spoken to Mr C (as the authorising party) to find out more about the 
circumstances of the payments. 
However, if it had done so, Im not persuaded its likely HSBC would have succeeded in 
uncovering the scam and preventing further loss. If it had questioned Mr C, it seems likely 
they would have established that he had done due diligence to reassure himself S seemed 
legitimate and reputable before making the investment. Although it could have guided him on 
what might be indicative of a scam, and what to check, a lot of this appears to match what 
Mr C had already checked/considered.
For example, Mr C was aware of how to check the FCA website, having already looked at 
this to make sure there werent any warnings issued about S. He has also told us he thought 
S were FCA regulated. That wasnt true, and Im not clear on where that belief originated 
from. The representative suggested it may have come from Ss website. But, having 
accessed an archived version, I havent seen anything showing it was falsely claiming to fall 
under FCA regulation. And in fact, the type of investment the website said it offered (Binary 
Options) didnt require FCA regulation at the time. 
Regardless, HSBC isnt expected to do research on a customers behalf, nor is it able to give 
investment advice. If it had asked Mr C if S were regulated, its likely he would have said 
they were  as that was his belief at the time. Even if it came to light they werent, as Ive not 
found anything to show they were making a false claim, and given the investment type, its 
unclear this would have uncovered the scam. 
There may have been enough about the circumstances to prompt HSBC to give a general 
warning about investment scams. But given the research Mr C had done, Im not persuaded 
he was likely to have been concerned about Ss legitimacy. And some circumstances that 
appeared more akin to a scam seemed less concerning in context. For example, although 
Mr C says he was cold called, he says this was in the context of him having sought 
out/signed up to investment websites first. So it may have appeared that S were following up 
from contact initiated by Mr C. This was a sophisticated scam. Its clear S operated professionally, to the extent of having a 
website seemingly showing Mr Cs funds being loaded and invested. There wasnt public 
information at the time which suggested they might be a scam  as Mr C found himself when 
looking into the investment. In the circumstances, Im not persuaded its fair to conclude 
HSBC ought to have uncovered the scam at the time. Meaning it isnt at fault for not 
preventing Mr Cs loss. 
It's not clear to me whether the circumstances of the chargeback claim are still in dispute. 
But, for the sake of completeness, Ive considered whether HSBC missed an opportunity to 
recover Mr Cs loss. However, the scope for a successful chargeback claim in the 
circumstances was very limited. There were specific evidential requirements which, from 
what Ive seen, I dont think would have been met. And there was a time limit of 120 days 
from the transaction processing date. It also appears Mr C didnt respond to HSBCs letter 
seeking more information to consider whether it would raise the claim. So I dont think 
HSBCs actions in relation to the chargeback claim had a material impact on Mr Cs loss.
Despite my sympathy for Mr C  who has clearly fallen victim to a cruel and sophisticated 
scam  Im not persuaded HSBC is at fault for his loss. I therefore dont consider it fair to 
direct it to refund him or take further action to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman