DRN-1562547
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (when it was trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold 
him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
In 2000, Mr M applied for his Barclaycard by filling in a postal application. 
This complaint is about PPI sold to him during a phone call with Barclays around four years 
later in 2004. The policy protected Mr Ms Barclaycard monthly repayments in the event of 
accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mr M mainly said that he never asked for PPI and didn't need it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Heres why I say this. 
Where theres only limited information and disagreement about what happened I have to 
look at everything and decide what I think is most likely. And whilst Mr M is sure about what 
hes told us, what he says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold his complaint. 
Theres no call recording available after so long  but thats not a reason for me to uphold 
this complaint. And it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr M to remember in detail what was 
said as this call was a long time ago. 
Based on what this service knows about the way Barclays sold PPI over the phone at this 
time, I think its likely that during the call Mr M decided he wanted to have the benefits that 
PPI offered and so it was added to his Barclaycard account when he asked to take it out.
I think Mr M wouldve known at the time that it was up to him to say whether he wanted to 
have PPI or not. I say this because hed been using his Barclaycard for a number of years 
without PPI so hed have understood it was optional.  
And it looks like this is probably what happened because when Mr M had to pay a monthly 
premium for the PPI this showed up on his credit card statements. So I think hed have seen 
this information  and if PPI wasnt something he wanted, or he hadnt agreed to have it, 
I think its likely he wouldve gone back to Barclays to query it. Ive seen nothing that 
suggests Mr M did this at the time. So, on balance, I think its likely that Mr M felt PPI would be useful in his circumstances, and he was happy to have it then  even if hes forgotten this 
now. 
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Mr M. If a business makes a recommendation 
about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy information in a clear way. It also has 
an extra obligation to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is 
suitable. 
Ive taken into account that Mr M told us that he wouldve had full sick pay for 3 months then 
half pay for the next 3 months from his employer if he was off work sick. But the policy 
wouldve paid more than his minimum credit card repayments for longer - up to 12 months 
per claim in the event of accident or sickness  on top of any work benefits. As Mr M 
mightve also had some additional costs if he was too unwell to go back to work or disabled, 
I think this couldve been a useful benefit at a difficult time. 
The policy wouldve also protected Mr Ms Barclaycard repayments if he lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Being entitled to redundancy benefits wouldnt have helped Mr M if he was off work sick. And 
PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money he mightve got if hed lost his 
job, giving him some additional financial security in those circumstances.
I dont know if Mr M would've always had savings he could rely on to pay his Barclaycard. 
And as he told us he just had a minimal amount saved, I think its likely that the policy 
could've paid out for longer than the amount of savings Mr M has mentioned if hed had to 
depend on these to pay his monthly outgoings when he wasn't able to work. 
So I think PPI offered Mr M worthwhile benefits in his particular circumstances and the policy 
was suitable for him.  
Mr M was eligible for the policy. There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it 
doesnt look like those applied in Mr Ms case when he took out the PPI. So, I dont think 
having more information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve put him off taking it 
out. 
Its possible some of the information Barclays gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. I dont think its likely that Barclays properly explained what the policy would 
cost, or what it might pay out if Mr M made a claim. But Mr M chose to take out the policy 
when he didnt have to  so he seems to have wanted it at the time, even if hes forgotten 
this now. The policy seems to have been affordable for him when he took it out  and he 
couldve cancelled it at any time if his circumstances changed or he didnt want to keep 
paying for it.
Mr M has mentioned that the PPI is still running  thats because its up to him personally to 
make contact with Barclays to confirm he wants to cancel the policy if he no longer wants to 
keep it. Barclays has already explained this in the final response letter it sent to Mr M. But in 
case its helpful, here are the contact numbers he can call: contact Barclaycard on 0800 151 
0900 (landline), 0333 200 9090 (mobile) or+44 1604 230230.
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered him, I think it unlikely Mr M wouldve made 
a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think hed still have 
taken out the policy.
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr M, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
 The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman