DRN-3189183
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA) charged a second excess in a 
new policy year for a follow up consultation. 
What happened
Mr B has private medical insurance underwritten by AXA. He called AXA relating to some 
treatment he needed and this went into the new policy year so Mr B had to pay a £100 
excess, twice.
Mr B complained to AXA as he thought it had delayed in paying the specialist and so he felt 
AXA was responsible for the second excess charge. 
AXA looked into the complaint and explained it didnt have any control over the speed with 
which specialists worked or responded and that the policy terms were clear about when an 
excess was payable.
Mr B referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the complaint but 
didnt think AXA had done anything wrong as the terms clearly set out when the excess was 
payable. 
Mr B disagreed and in summary, said the claim value was exactly the same and so only one 
excess should be payable. He said AXA should take some responsibility for the specialists 
actions because it was AXA who provided the specialists name to Mr B. 
And so the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. The relevant 
industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt 
unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms confirm when an excess is payable:
If you have an excess on your membership, you can see the amount on your membership 
certificate in your membership guide. Here is how the excesses work:
We will take your excess off the amount covered by your plan for the first claim for 
each person in each membership year. For example, if the claim was covered for 
£800, and the excess was £100, we would pay £700
We count the treatment costs for each year according to the date the treatment took 
place
We only take off the excess once per person per membership year. So even if you 
claim several times, we will only take the excess off once. It does not matter whether 
you claim several times for the same medical condition or for several medical 
conditions. 
It also applies for each membership year. This means that if you incur costs during 
this membership year, we will take the excess off what we pay for your claim. If you 
then incur more costs in the next membership year, even if its for the same 
condition, we will take the excess off that claim. 
If your claim goes over your renewal, we will take the excess off the amount we pay 
for your claim before renewal, then we will take the excess off the amount we pay for 
your claim after renewal.
Having considered the above terms, Im satisfied AXA has clearly explained an excess is 
payable per person, per policy year. And is based on the date the treatment took place. Mr 
Bs policy had a £100 excess and renewed on 1 October 2020. 
Ive seen that Mr B had treatment before October 2020 for which £100 excess was payable. 
He then had a further consultation on 5 October 2020 and so a further £100 excess was 
payable.
Mr B feels AXA delayed in paying the specialists and so it should be responsible for the 
second excess charge. But I havent seen any evidence that AXA delayed in paying any 
invoices and so I dont agree that it is responsible for any delay.
AXA doesnt act as an agent for the specialists. The specialists are responsible for their own 
actions and if Mr B is unhappy with any delay by the specialist, he should take that up 
directly with the specialist. AXA did provide possible options of specialists to Mr B which 
means they would be fee assured. But that doesnt mean AXA then becomes responsible for 
the service or treatment provided by those specialists. 
I note what Mr B says about the claim value. But I think the policy terms are clear about 
when an excess is payable. As some of his treatment carried on into the new policy year, a 
second excess was payable. I dont think AXA treated Mr B unfairly and I dont agree AXA is 
responsible for the timing of the treatment. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman