DRN-1378142
 
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that TSB Bank plc didnt help her with her financial difficulties.
What happened
Mrs B opened her bank account with TSB in 2017. In 2019, Mrs B complained to TSB that it 
had applied significant fees on her account. She said this had a negative financial impact on 
her and meant that she had to borrow money from other people. The money paid into her 
account was benefit payments, which was her only source of income. She wanted TSB to 
refund the fees charged.
TSB replied and said the charges were in line with its terms and conditions and were 
because Mrs B had an unarranged overdraft. It suggested ways that Mrs B could monitor her 
account and sources of help if she was experiencing financial difficulty.
Mrs B complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought 
that TSB had been reasonable in charging the fees and that it acted appropriately when Mrs 
B said she was in financial difficulty.
As Mrs B did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B is concerned that when TSB charged fees on her bank account that this put her into 
financial difficulties, which she thinks TSB could have done more to help her with. Mrs B has 
also said that she thinks it was illegal for TSB to charge her fees, as the source of the money 
was benefit payments.
We cant say whether or not a bank has acted legally or otherwise. Only a court can 
determine that. But we can look at whats fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances 
of a complaint, taking into account the relevant law and legislation, amongst other things. 
Mrs B hasnt been able to provide details as to why she thinks TSB has acted illegally by 
debiting charges while shes been receiving benefits. However, I think it is likely to be 
because of section 187 of the Social Security Administration Act 1992. This says:
Certain benefit to be inalienable
(1)Subject to the provisions of this Act, every assignment of or charge on
(a)benefit as defined in section 122 of the Contributions and Benefits Act;
(b)any income-related benefit; or
(c)child benefit,
and every agreement to assign or charge such benefit shall be void; and, on the bankruptcy 
of a beneficiary, such benefit shall not pass to any trustee or other person acting on behalf of 
his creditors.
The Tax Credits Act 2002 also contains similar wording.
In 2008, the government explained its position on this issue in response to an e-petition and 
said:
The purpose of the Social Security Administration Act 1992 Section 187 and section 45 of 
the Tax Credits Act 2002 is to prevent peoples benefit money being at risk by it being 
assigned over to a third party in settlement of a debt. It is not intended to prohibit the 
application of bank charges. Bank charges are in the nature of an expense, and are incurred 
by the holder of the account; tax credits and benefits are payable in order to help customers 
meet their expenses, and as such it is legitimate for banks to deduct charges from the 
balance of an account held in that bank, whether the money paid into the account comes 
from tax credits, benefits or other sources, such as earnings
(https://webarchive.nationalarchives.gov.uk/+/http://www.number10.gov.uk/Page16882)
On that basis, I am satisfied that the legislation doesnt prevent bank charges from being 
deducted where the source of the money in the account is benefit payments. So I dont think 
TSB has done anything wrong in applying charges on this basis.
Each time TSB charged Mrs B fees on her account it was because she went into an 
unarranged overdraft. She also had some direct debits returned unpaid. TSBs Banking 
Charges Guide, which forms part of its terms and conditions, says:
Youll have to pay a fee if:

 you use an Unarranged Overdraft
The guide also says:
 Returned item fee
This is a fee youll pay when you dont have enough money to make the following types of 
payment:
 Direct Debit
It also explains that it will give at least 14 days notice of fees and charges.
So Im satisfied that it is within the terms and conditions of the account to charge a fee for an 
unarranged overdraft and for returned items, such as unpaid direct debits. Ive also seen 
evidence that Mrs B was informed of the charges in advance of them being taken from her 
account.
Mrs B says that TSB should have been aware that she was having financial problems before 
she raised her complaint in 2019. This was because TSB would have known that she was in 
receipt of benefits and would also have known she had insufficient funds in her account, as it 
kept charging her fees.
Ive thought about this carefully. I dont think that someone being in receipt of benefits, or 
regularly incurring charges and fees, is in itself an indicator of financial hardship. There is 
great variation in peoples circumstances and I dont think that the way Mrs B managed her 
account was automatically an indicator of hardship that would have meant that it was 
obvious that TSB should proactively contact her. Nor can I see that Mrs B contacted it, prior 
to June 2019, to tell it that she was experiencing any difficulties.
However, Im aware that Mrs B contacted TSB in June 2019 to say that she was having 
financial difficulties. As a result of this, TSB offered her a control facility on her account, 
which meant that measures could be put in place, such as stopping Mrs B from using her unarranged overdraft. Control also limited the fees and charges that TSB could charge on 
the account. TSB offered this to her for free for the first six months. On that basis, I think 
TSB did therefore take steps to directly address her financial difficulties when she raised 
them.
Having thought about all of the above, Im satisfied that TSB acted reasonably in how it dealt 
with Mrs Bs account, including by charging fees, and that when Mrs B raised her financial 
difficulties with TSB that it took steps to address them.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman