DRN-3411458
The complaint
Mr A complains that esure Insurance Limited accepted liability for a claim he didnt think was 
his fault, under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr A was involved in car accident. He was driving out from a petrol station forecourt when a 
third-party vehicle collided with his car. Mr A says his car was stationary when the collision 
occurred. He says the third party is at fault and did this deliberately as part of a scam. He 
says the third-party works next to the petrol station at a hand car wash. Mr A sent photos to 
esure to show the damage and position of the cars after the accident. 
esure thought from the description of the accident the liability should be a 50/50 split. It says 
it couldnt prove the third party deliberately drove into Mr As car and that most forecourts 
dont have clear direction on who has right of way. 
esure contacted the petrol station, which confirmed it had CCTV footage of the accident. Its 
employee described the accident to esures claim handler. He says Mr A had manoeuvred 
away from the pumps into the path of the third-party vehicle. The employee thought Mr A 
shouldve waited and not pulled out when he did. He thought Mr A was at fault for the 
accident.
Mr A disagreed. He maintained the third-party was at fault and had exited the forecourt the 
wrong way. He says his no-claims bonus and insurance premium have been impacted by 
this. Because he didnt agree Mr A referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter but decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. 
He thought esure had fairly considered the available information when considering the claim. 
He felt its explanation for accepting liability was reasonable that it would lose in court based 
on the evidence available.
Mr A didnt accept our investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to consider his 
complaint. 
Its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. I appreciate this will come as 
a disappointment to him, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
My role here is to consider whether esure handled Mr As claim in a fair and reasonable 
manner. It isnt to decide who was at fault for the accident. A decision about who is 
responsible for an accident is best made by a court of law.
Mr A doesnt think esure treated him fairly by accepting he was at fault. I have read his policy 
terms to understand what is expected here. The terms say:
We have full discretion in the settlement of your claim or any legal proceedings which may 
arise and we may take over, defend or settle the claim in your name for our own benefit.
This means that its for esure to decide how to it wants to deal with Mr As claim and whether 
to accept liability or not. Most motor insurance policies contain this term. But we still expect 
any decision on liability to be based on the facts and evidence. 
To support his argument Mr A provided photos of the cars taken after the accident, a 
diagram of the forecourt layout and his account of what happened. In his diagram Mr A 
indicates the third-party shouldve taken a different route around the back of the forecourt. I 
acknowledge hes shown a different route, but I dont think this shows the third party was at 
fault for the collision.   
esure sent a recording of the call between it and the petrol station employee who viewed the 
CCTV footage. I have listened to this call and Ive set out the relevant parts from what was 
said below:
Silver car on pump three pulls off the pump and goes to exit...but goes into the laneit 
shouldve waitedblue car hits itcame out of car sales and down the road to the 
exitsilver car pulled off the forecourt that joined that roadpulled half a meter onto 
itboth tried to stop and they collidedsilver car at fault because it didnt waitblue car 
was going a bit quick but it had right of way.
In the call esure asks that the CCTV is downloaded and available should Mr A want to view 
it. The petrol station employee agrees. Esure emailed Mr A in mid-May 2021 to explain what 
the footage showed and that it thought he shouldve given way to the other car. It also says it 
will be accepting liability for the accident and tells Mr A the footage has been saved to a pen 
drive should he want to collect and view it himself. 
We asked esure why it didnt request to see the footage directly. It says its claims team 
were very confident the circumstances of liability were clear cut and that it was an at fault 
accident. It says Mr A had moved into the path of the third-party vehicle, who was 
proceeding correctly and had the right of way.
I have thought about whether esure behaved fairly toward Mr A given it didnt view the 
footage. 
Effectively the petrol station employee is an independent witness and his description of 
events supports the third-partys version of events. I acknowledge that esure couldve 
viewed the footage, but I dont think it was unreasonable to rely on the information it received 
over the phone to inform its decision. 
  
Based on this I think esure behaved reasonably. I acknowledge Mr As view that there was 
an alternative route the third-party couldve taken out of the forecourt. But even if this is the 
case, the third-party was still driving along an established route with right of way when Mr A 
manoeuvred in front. I think esures view that this is why the collision occurred, is 
reasonable. 
Mr A has since said that the boss of the car wash where the third-party driver worked 
admitted this was a scam. He says this is carried out regularly and the third party did it again 
the day after his accident.  We asked esure for its comments. It says it has no information to support this was a scam. It 
says it would be very difficult to disprove the third-partys injury claim as there is medical 
evidence to validate this, which was considered prior to its settlement. It maintains that its 
not viable to deny liability for the claim given the evidence available.   
Mr A hasnt supplied information to support his view that the third-party was involved in a 
scam and Im not aware that he reported this to the police. I dont dispute what hes said, 
and I understand he feels strongly that he wasnt at fault, but I dont think hes shown that 
esure behaved unreasonably in accepting liability, based on the available evidence. 
Having considered all of this, although I sympathise with Mr A that his no-claims bonus and 
insurance premiums have been impacted, I dont think esure handled his claim 
unreasonably. So, I cant fairly ask it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman