DRN-2527511
The complaint
Ms S complains that PRA Group (UK) Limited, trading as PRA Group, applied for a County 
Court Judgement (CCJ) against her in error and left it unchecked and unknown by her for a 
year. She also complains that once alerted to its mistake PRA took too long to have it 
removed 
What happened
Ms S said after a lengthy unpleasant divorce she was left with a great deal of credit card 
debt and hadnt been in the position to repay it. PRA purchased two of the credit card debts 
from the original card provider. In 2016 it sought repayment of the first debt and Ms S said it 
would only accept full payment. She said if she had a CCJ against her name she would lose 
her job in financial services.
In March 2018 PRA sought full payment for the second credit card debt. Ms S said she 
offered to pay £25 per month, which PRA accepted, and she received communication from 
PRA confirming repayment terms.
Ms S said she secured an order to force her ex-husband to sell the family home but 
unfortunately, he paid the last mortgage payment late which she said affected her credit 
rating. She said she waited a year for it to improve. In April 2019 Ms S wanted to apply for a 
new mortgage and in making enquiries discovered a CCJ against her name. She brought a 
complaint to PRA. Ms S said she also experienced poor customer service and unnecessary 
delay in getting the CCJ removed.
In its final response PRA accepted that due to errors with its process the CCJ was obtained 
and not identified by its legal team. In recognition of this error it applied to have the CCJ 
removed and reduced Ms Ss balance by £350; £250 for the CCJ being applied and £100 for 
the lack of customer service.
Ms S wasnt satisfied with this response and brought her complaint to this service. She 
explained the importance of not having a CCJ against her name; that she has a financial 
review annually as part of her contract of employment and having a CCJ would be grounds 
for immediate termination. She said that in trying to get this rectified she repeatedly called 
the complaints team and the staff she spoke to knew little about her situation. She said they 
didnt know the processes involved and there were no methods of following up on calls and 
complaints. She said PRA had ruined her life over the year by risking her job, her home and 
kept her from securing a mortgage or a loan to enable her to get on with her life, leaving her 
in abject poverty. And that its practices had breached all regulations.
Our investigator concluded that PRA had not made any errors when starting its litigation 
process. But he agreed it had made errors by not managing Ms Ss expectations after this. 
He felt £350 in total from PRA for compensation was fair. Ms S disagreed with the 
investigator, so the decision came to me. After considering all the evidence I issued a 
provisional decision to Ms S and PRA.
I noted Ms S had made some mortgage enquiries prior to April 2019 and that during this time 
Ms S said she had checked her credit score frequently, so I thought it reasonable she would 
have had access to her full credit file to understand the reasons for her low score and would 
have seen the CCJ earlier. But as Ms S didnt apply for a mortgage during this time it was 
difficult for me to determine what might have happened.
I agreed with Ms S that a CCJ on an individuals credit file would have a negative impact on 
their ability to obtain finance. On examining two credit reports, from April and June 2019 I 
noticed there were also details of two outstanding defaults on active accounts with two other 
lenders in addition to the default (and CCJ) with PRA. There was also a fourth default on a 
settled account. All the defaults were registered in 2013. Ms S was making monthly 
payments of £1 to one lender, £25 to PRA and no payments to the third.
The credit report in June 2019 no longer had the CCJ as it had been removed by PRA. But it 
also no longer recorded the defaults or accounts for PRA, and two other lenders. This was 
because by the June report the defaults were all six years old so would have dropped off the
credit file. One of the defaults remained because this was registered in October so was still 
within six years. 
Ms S was adamant it was just the CCJ that prevented her getting a mortgage, but I wasnt 
sufficiently persuaded this was the case. I said default markers on a credit file would also 
likely impact the ability to get finance. Ms S also did not apply for a mortgage between April 
and June so again we were not able to know for certain if she would have been rejected and 
why. I said lenders are legally obliged to check if finance is affordable for a customer and will 
use many data points of information, in addition to a credit file, to establish this. So, having 
four defaults on a credit file would likely impact it further even without the CCJ, especially 
when only small repayments or no repayments at all were being made. 
And although Ms S has said her ex-husband made the final mortgage payment late, I noted 
from the credit file there were many late payments in the previous years. This wouldnt 
necessarily mean it wasnt possible to borrow money but the combination of all this 
information meant it likely would have been harder and more expensive. So, I didnt think it 
was fair or reasonable for me to hold PRA responsible for Ms S not obtaining a mortgage.
Ms S also said PRAs practices had breached all regulations and that customer service was 
poor. She said it was very aggressive with its collection process, that she was classed as a 
vulnerable customer and that all the other companies corresponded with her, but PRA would 
not.
Its not my role to look at the business practices of financial organisations. Thats the role of 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) so in my provisional decision I wasnt able to 
comment on the processes used by PRA to contact its customers. I could only determine if 
the process had been applied fairly, including treating Ms S as a vulnerable customer if she 
made PRA aware of it. The default was applied in 2013 so I did think it was reasonable for 
PRA, as the debt purchaser, to pursue the debt through to 2018. Ms S didnt engage with 
PRA until the court paperwork arrived. And when she did, I could see from the internal 
contact notes PRA did take her circumstances into account, including the risk a CCJ would 
have on her employment and agreed to a payment plan of £25 through a Tomlin Order to 
prevent a CCJ. So up to that point I thought PRA was responsive and acted reasonably.
Ms S had said the suggested levels of compensation for an incorrectly applied CCJ should 
be between £500 and £2000 where a mortgage application was denied - these levels are 
guidelines that we follow. Ms S didnt apply for a mortgage, so I concluded no mortgage was 
denied. Ms S had also said the actions of PRA risked her job, but I said Im generally not able to 
make an award on something that might have happened but didnt. 
However, I did examine the payment history of Ms Ss account. I noticed there were several 
fees added in early 2018 relating to the CCJ. PRA said total costs of £1,158.18 were added 
to Ms Ss account. It agreed the costs should have been removed from the account when it 
agreed to set aside the judgement and would refund them. I thought in light of this PRA 
should also pay Ms S a further £100. Added to the £350 balance adjustment I thought £450 
in total was a fair amount for the distress and inconvenience this had caused. 
PRA agreed with my provisional decision. Ms S did not and provided a number of comments 
which I have responded to below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Ms S for her detailed response. She has said the evidence she provided is 
unequivocal and has been misunderstood. I do understand her strength of feeling in this 
matter and Ive thought very carefully about it but having done so I believe my provisional 
decisions still stands. Ms S has said she does not agree with my conclusion but has no 
choice to accept it, a decision which she said she made under financial duress due to the 
current climate. Im very sorry to hear about this. We are an informal resolution service and 
Ms S does not have to accept my final decision, she may instead take action through the 
courts. But Im aware this does come with some financial risk. 
As I said in my provisional decision, I understand the last few years have been quite 
financially challenging for Ms S and to her credit she has reduced the debt burden she had, 
but my role is to be impartial and fair to both parties. I must be persuaded that any award I 
might make for financial loss Ms S may have suffered is as a result of PRAs actions. 
PRA has accepted, and the evidence is quite clear, that it did not refund the costs when it 
set aside the CCJ and so has agreed that these should be refunded. And I believe £100 on 
top of the £350 balance reduction is fair and reasonable under these circumstances.
Ms S maintains she has suffered additional loss because she was denied a mortgage. She 
said that while she didnt formally apply for a mortgage, she had approached different 
brokers, evidence of which she provided, and was told by them it was not possible to borrow 
based on her top line credit store, which included the CCJ. She said this was why no formal 
applications were completed. She considered the initial enquiry was indeed a formal attempt 
to get a mortgage, that brokers would not apply on a customers behalf if there was no 
chance of success. I understand Ms Ss point but, as she has said herself, she only made 
enquiries with the brokers and did not actually apply for a mortgage with any lenders, which 
it still would have been possible to do directly. Ms S wasnt denied a mortgage by any 
lenders because she didnt apply. So, Im not persuaded PRA is responsible for Ms S being 
denied this credit. 
Ms S said she was aware of the defaults and low payments to the debts on her credit file 
and she knew high street lenders would be unlikely to help. But she maintained there are 
lenders who will lend to customers with third party debts but would not under any 
circumstances lend with a CCJ on the credit file. Im not disputing this point but that doesnt 
necessarily mean a non high street lender would automatically lend where a customer has 
third party debts. The number and nature of the debts and Ms Ss proven ability to pay, or 
not, are important factors which would contribute to the lenders own assessment of risk. I noted in my provisional decision Ms S had other adverse markers on her credit file at the 
time she wanted a mortgage. Ms S has said a default on 3rd party debt is completely 
different to a CCJ. I agree they are different, but Ms S had several defaults which would 
have had a combined impact on her credit score. In addition, Ms S said her ex-husband 
made the last payment to her previous mortgage late, and I can see this was the case, but I 
also note there were many missed payments and sustained arrears on this account 
throughout the period between 2013 and 2016. This would also have impacted her credit 
score and likelihood of obtaining further mortgage. So, while I accept there may be lenders 
who give credit to customers with defaulted accounts it is indeed also possible that Ms S 
may have found it very difficult to obtain credit or a mortgage at that time even without a 
CCJ.  
In my provisional decision I said I thought it reasonable Ms S would have had access to her 
full credit report. Ms S has disputed this on the basis that at the time she was in severe 
financial hardship and could not afford or justify this. I am very sorry to hear this was the 
case. While Ms S believes she almost certainly wouldve been able to get a mortgage with 
the defaults on her file but not with the CCJ, Im not sufficiently persuaded. As I said above, 
with the range and number of adverse markers on her file at the time she wanted the 
mortgage, which was prior to some of the defaults dropping off, I think its entirely possible 
Ms S may have been unable to obtain a mortgage even if there was no CCJ. Having access 
to the full report earlier would of course have allowed Ms S to discover the CCJ earlier but I 
dont believe it wouldve had a material impact.  
Ms S has explained that an incorrect CCJ has a devastating impact on someones life and 
she described the difficult financial circumstances following her divorce. I do understand this 
is a serious matter and Im sympathetic to Ms Ss situation, but I must take all these 
circumstances into account, including the fact that Ms Ss financial difficulty extended 
beyond PRA. Im afraid it wouldnt be reasonable for me to hold PRA responsible for the 
impact of those other debts. 
Ms S is concerned that PRA faces no financial penalty for this error. Its not my role to 
punish a business, my role is to look at the individual circumstances of each complaint. Ms S 
has also said £450 compensation is not enough for the far reaching consequences of this 
error. I do understand that it was upsetting for Ms S to see a CCJ on her credit file and that 
this caused her some distress during the weeks before it was removed. But, for the reasons 
Ive outlined above, Im satisfied that a total of £450 is fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances. 
 
Putting things right
PRA Group (UK) Limited trading as PRA Group should:
Refund costs of £1,158.18.
Add simple interest at 8% a year to this amount from the date the costs were applied,
to the date the refund payment is made.
Pay Ms S £100 for distress and inconvenience this has caused her, in addition to the 
£350 balance reduction it has already applied.
All of the above to be paid to Ms S directly. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct PRA Group (UK) Limited to make the payments as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman