DRN-3501539
The complaint
Ms B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC declined her application for an overdraft facility. Shes 
also unhappy that transactions have been incorrectly processed on her account and that 
payments have been declined.
What happened
Ms B held an account with Lloyds. Shes unhappy about the following issues:
Overdraft facility declined
Incorrectly processed transactions
Payments declined
Ms B raised a complaint with Lloyds but Lloyds didnt uphold it. It said it declined Ms Bs 
application for lending because she didnt meet the eligibility criteria. It said that there had 
been occasions when Ms Bs debit card had been declined but that these transactions had 
been declined correctly.
Ms B was unhappy with the response and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Lloyds decision not to approve Ms 
Bs application for an overdraft facility was a business decision and not something that this 
service could change. In relation to the transactions which were processed earlier than Ms B 
expected, the investigator said that if the payment was set up so that the merchant could 
request the payment, and if the merchant requested the payment early, then this wasnt 
something that Lloyds had control over. In relation to declined transactions, the investigator 
reviewed Ms Bs account and said that the majority of transactions had been approved and 
that there was no evidence that any of the payments which had been declined had been 
declined incorrectly.
Ms B didnt agree. She said that transactions had been declined when there were sufficient 
funds in her account to make payment. She also said that her account entitled her to an 
overdraft facility but that this had been blocked.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Overdraft facility
Ms B applied for an overdraft facility on her account in November 2021. Lloyds declined the 
application.
When a consumer applied for credit, the lender is obliged to carry out checks in accordance 
with FCA guidelines. These checks need to be focussed on the consumer and are one of the 
ways in which a lender assesses whether credit is affordable. In addition to affordability 
checks, lenders will apply their own lending criteria to assess eligibility, A lender doesnt  
have to tell a consumer what eligibility criteria it applies when assessing applications for 
credit. Ultimately, its a business decision for the lender whether or not it approves an 
application for credit.
I understand that Ms B was disappointed by Lloyds decision to decline her application for an 
overdraft facility. However, I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Lloyds treated Ms B 
unfairly when it assessed her application.
Incorrectly processed transactions
Ms B has explained that a direct debit payment which was due to be paid from her account 
at the beginning of August 2019 was paid three weeks early on 12 July 2019. Ms B didnt get 
the payment refunded until 26 August 2019.
Ms B says that other payments have been paid from her account prior to the agreed 
payment date which has left her short of funds.
In relation to the payments which were taken earlier than expected, I can see that these 
were direct debit instructions. This means that payment is requested by the business in 
whose favour the direct debit instruction has been given. So if the payment is requested 
early by the business, the payment is made. Lloyds dont have the authority to control the 
direct debit process (other than to decline the payment due to insufficient funds).
Payments declined
Ive reviewed Ms Bs account statements from September 2021 to January 2022. I can see 
that there are a few declined payments. This service has asked Lloyds about the account 
and it has confirmed that theres no block on it. Lloyds has explained that there are a number 
of reasons why a payment might be declined. Insufficient funds is one reason. But it might 
also be incorrect PIN entered or fraud protection reasons.
Looking at Ms Bs account generally, I can see a steady flow of transactions going in and 
out. I havent seen anything to suggest that payments have been blocked.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think Lloyds have made any errors here or treated Ms B 
unfairly. So I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman