DRN-3978482
The complaint
Ms G is unhappy with how Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) has handled a 
claim for subsidence under her home insurance policy. She says Lloyds unfairly declined 
part of her subsidence claim. And she doesnt consider the compensation it offered to be 
reasonable. Any reference to Lloyds includes the actions of its agents.
 
What happened
The events of this complaint are known to both parties, so Ive summarised whats 
happened. 
Ms G has a home insurance policy which is underwritten by Lloyds. In 2016, Ms G 
made a claim because she noticed cracks in her property. 
Lloyds initially declined the claim saying the cracks werent caused by subsidence. 
So, Ms G instructed her own engineer - who concluded the damage was caused by 
subsidence. 
Lloyds subsequently accepted the claim having arranged for another engineer to 
assess the damage and who agreed it was caused by subsidence. It also awarded 
£750 compensation for the poor service Ms G had received. 
Ms Gs property was subsequently monitored for movement. Vegetation in her 
neighbours garden was identified as the cause of the subsidence and this led to a 
tree being cut down and another heavily cut back. 
Having conducted further monitoring, Lloyds deemed Ms Gs property stable and 
said substructure repairs could begin. It produced a schedule of works and offered to 
cash settle the claim. 
Unhappy, Ms G complained to Lloyds saying: because the vegetation remained, it 
would likely cause further problems; monitoring showed the cracks were worsening; 
the cash settlement wasnt fair because it was only the amount Lloyds would have 
paid its contractors.
She subsequently brought a complaint to this Service. In May 2020, an Ombudsman 
decided Lloyds had dealt with the subsidence as monitoring showed the property had 
stabilised. The Ombudsman said Lloyds cash settlement was reasonable, and she 
wasnt persuaded Lloyds needed to cover Ms Gs engineers fees. Nor did she think it 
was reasonable to consider Lloyds as being at fault for any increase in future 
premiums.
In January 2022  whilst carrying out repairs to the property  Ms G contacted Lloyds 
to say there was evidence of further damage. She provided photographs of the 
damage for Lloyds to consider.
Lloyds said the damage wasnt caused by subsidence and was instead due to 
mechanical root ingress. It said because the damage wasnt caused by subsidence 
there wasnt cover under the policy. 
Ms G complained about Lloyds having not physically visited her property to inspect 
the damage. 
Lloyds arranged for an engineer to attend Ms G property in May 2022. Following the 
visit, Lloyds maintained its position. But it acknowledged its handling of Ms Gs claim 
since January 2022 could have been better and offered compensation totalling £400. 
Unhappy with its decision to decline her claim, Ms G complained to this Service. She 
also said: the compensation didnt reflect the difficulties shed experienced; Lloyds 
are responsible for devaluing her property since it diagnosed it as having subsidence; 
she wants the premiums refunded as shes paid for a service she hasnt received; 
Lloyds wrongly advised her to cut back her neighbours tree which could have had 
legal implications for Ms G.
An Investigator considered it but didnt uphold the complaint. Because Ms G 
disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it and Ill explain why. But before I do, I need to make it 
clear this decision is only focussing on events from January 2022 (when Ms G told Lloyds 
about the damage shed discovered) to October 2022 - the date Lloyds issued its most 
recent final response letter. I wont be commenting on any aspects considered by the 
Ombudsman under Ms Gs previous complaint. 
Im aware Ms G had also complained about the cash settlement amount  saying it was too 
low because it didnt account for the increased cost of building materials and labour following 
the pandemic, and because value added tax (VAT) had been omitted. Lloyds has since paid 
the VAT element and an additional sum to reflect the increase costs. As this is no longer in 
dispute, I wont comment on this further other than to say I will keep in mind the difficulties 
Ms G said she experienced in obtaining these additional payments. 
Cause of damage
The crux of Ms Gs complaint is that she considers the damage discovered in January 2022 
to be caused by subsidence and therefore, covered under the policy. Furthermore, because 
Lloyds didnt assess the damage when it was first reported, she considers the engineers 
findings to be unreliable.
From what Ive seen, Ms G provided Lloyds with photographic evidence of the damage to 
her property. It considered this and concluded the damage hadnt been caused by 
subsidence. On the face of it, Lloyds conclusion doesnt seem unreasonable as whilst some 
photos show cracking  which may or may not indicate subsidence  Lloyds engineer has 
explained:
I highly doubt the growth of this vegetation would result in pushing over a masonry 
building, however, in any case, this is not downward subsidence movement and 
therefore, the policy cannot respond to this.
Clay shrinkage subsidence is caused by the moisture extracting influence of 
vegetation roots on clay soil, which causes the clay to shrink, resulting in downward 
movement. This mechanical growing action in this area has not caused any 
subsidence to occur, and as such unfortunately there is no policy cover.And when I consider this - in combination with the photos which shows physical root ingress 
- I consider the engineers conclusion that the damage appears to be unrelated to 
subsidence to be reasonable and fair for Lloyds to rely on. 
As to whether Lloyds should have sent an engineer earlier on  its arguable it should have. 
But I dont think it would have made a difference as ultimately, Miss G hasnt provided timely 
expert evidence which says the cause of the latest damage is subsidence. 
Whilst I understand she considers her surveyors report from 2016 to be sufficient evidence 
of this, this report pre-dates the latest damage by six years. Without expert evidence from 
the time, which confirms the cause of the latest damage to be subsidence, I dont think its 
reasonable to rely on findings from 2016 to say the later damage was caused by 
subsidence. If Ms G can provide contemporaneous expert evidence which says the damage 
was caused by subsidence, Id expect Lloyds to consider this. 
Ms G is also unhappy Lloyds sent its own engineers to reassess the damage in May 2022 as 
opposed to instructing an independent one  and so, she thinks the engineers findings are 
bias and shouldnt be relied upon. 
With regards to whether Lloyds ought to have appointed an independent engineer to assess 
the damage, Im not persuaded this was necessary at the stage Ms Gs claim was at. I say 
this because a reasonable next step  after reviewing the photographs  would be for 
Lloyds engineer to physically attend themselves. Its important to keep in mind that whilst 
Ms G considers the damage to be connected to the first claim  where subsidence was 
identified  Lloyds position is that the damage is distinct from this, and so it doesnt 
necessarily follow that an independent survey should be carried out. 
I also havent been provided with evidence which persuades me Lloyds engineers report 
shouldnt be relied upon. So, having considered everything, Im not persuaded theres 
sufficient evidence to show the damage in question is as a result of subsidence  and it 
follows that I consider Lloyds decision to decline the claim to be reasonable. 
Refund of premiums 
Ms G says Lloyds should refund the premiums shes paid since first logging a claim in 2016 
 her reason being that it hasnt provided a service shes paid for. Whilst I appreciate Ms G 
might be frustrated with Lloyds decision to decline her most recent claim for damage, 
insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality and risk, and so, an insurers 
decision to decline a claim isnt reason alone for refunding premiums. 
In any event, Ms G has benefited from the policy as her initial claim for subsidence was 
covered. A refund of premiums would lead to Ms G benefiting twice from the policy  which 
would lead to an unfair result. And so, I wont be asking Lloyds to refund the premiums in 
this instance. 
Compensation
I can, however, consider Ms Gs concerns about the lack of service shes received from 
Lloyds when determining whether the £400 compensation its paid is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
Its not in dispute that Lloyds hasnt acted as promptly as it ought to have from January 
2022. I note Ms G has had to initiate much of the conversation between the two parties to progress her claim and seek clarification on Lloyds position. Understandably, this has been 
a stressful time for Ms G and having to chase for updates no doubt compounded this. 
It seems Ms G would like to be compensated for the time it took Lloyds to visit her property 
having been notified in January 2022 of the further damage. Having looked at events during 
this time, it appears Lloyds didnt consider it necessary to visit Ms Gs home to assess the 
damage as shed provided photographs which it was satisfied enabled it to assess the 
damage. Theres clearly a difference of opinion between the parties as to whether this was a 
reasonable approach. Ive explained above why Im not persuaded Lloyds approach was 
unreasonable. It did subsequently visit Ms Gs home after she expressed her dissatisfaction 
with its decision to decline her claim, which I consider to be fair. 
Ms G says Lloyds incorrectly advised her to cut back her neighbours vegetation to prevent 
future problems. She said this could have had negative legal repercussions for her. Lloyds 
has acknowledged it could have been clearer with its advice and has apologised  which is 
what Id expect it to do. Its since confirmed the onus to maintain the vegetation is on Ms Gs 
neighbour. Whilst I appreciate Ms G was upset about being given misinformation, I must 
keep in mind that Lloyds clarified things and the repercussions she was concerned about, 
ultimately, never materialised. So, I consider Lloyds mistake to have had minimal impact. 
Ms G considers Lloyds declinature of the most recent damage to mean there was never 
subsidence in the first place. She says her property has now been unfairly stigmatised as 
having had subsidence - which she says will have an adverse impact on its value. But
Lloyds havent said the original damage wasnt caused by subsidence, rather its said the 
latest damage wasnt caused by subsidence. So, I dont think its fair to say Lloyds has 
incorrectly diagnosed Ms Gs property as having subsidence and that its therefore, 
responsible for any depreciation in value. In any event, both Lloyds and Ms Gs engineer 
said in 2016 the damage was caused by subsidence  which Ms G didnt dispute at the time. 
Overall - having considered Lloyds handling of the claim since January 2022  Im satisfied 
the £400 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint and so, 
I wont be asking Lloyds to pay an additional amount.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or reject my decision before 
3 August 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman