DRN-4252983
The complaint
Mrs N holds an account with Wise Payments Ltd. She was a victim of fraud. After travelling 
abroad, she returned to the UK in November 2020. In March 2021, the fraudster called her. 
He pretended to be from the UK Home Office.
The fraudster persuaded Mrs N that she had to pay several thousand pounds in extra fees 
and fines to stay in the UK. Mrs N transferred the money to an account the fraudster 
controlled, some through her Wise account and some direct from an account she had with a 
UK bank.
Mrs N thinks that Wise should have intervened to stop the payments from her Wise account. 
It didnt, so she wants it to refund the money she lost. 
What happened
There is no dispute that the fraudster convinced Mrs N that he was genuine and legitimate. 
Amongst other things, he told her that she had filled out her landing card incorrectly and had 
to pay additional money immediately to avoid arrest and deportation. 
The fraudster persuaded Mrs N to send him just under £6,500. As far as Wise is concerned, 
Mrs N made four separate payments with a total value of £4,554. The fraud took place on 24 
March 2023. Details are as follows.
Time of day Amount (*) Payment method Recipient
12.41 £300 Transfer Named UK personal account
12.54 £1,995 Transfer Named UK personal account
13.01 £570 Transfer Named UK personal account
13.11 £1,689 Transfer Named UK personal account
Total amount £4,554
(*) During our investigation, we have seen slightly different amounts quoted for some of 
these payments. However, the differences are very small (a few pence) and not really 
significant. I have rounded all values to the nearest pound. 
I understand that at the start of the fraudsters call, Mrs N did not have sufficient funds in her 
Wise account to make these payments, but that shortly before each transfer out, the 
fraudster persuaded her to transfer the relevant amount into her Wise account from a 
separate bank account she held.
I also understand that the phone call lasted at least an hour after the time of the fourth 
payment and that during this time the fraudster kept Mrs N engaged in conversation and 
asked for more money. Mrs N has told us that she had no more money available and so 
contacted a neighbour to ask for a loan. The neighbour told Mrs N that the caller was 
probably fraudulent, and Mrs N finished the call. 
One of our investigators has already looked into Mrs Ns complaint. In outline, the 
investigator didnt think Wise could have done anything to stop the first three payments but 
should have acted to prevent the fourth. The investigator recommended that Wise should 
refund Mrs N half of the fourth payment and add interest.
Neither Wise nor Mrs N initially agreed with all of the investigators findings. Mrs N wrote to 
us to say she thought Wise should pay her more than half of the fourth payment, but after 
further correspondence she accepted the investigators recommendation. Wise didnt think it 
should refund anything and asked for the case to be re-assessed. So, it has come to me as 
an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before discussing the details of Mrs Ns case, I would like to say how sorry I am for what 
happened to her. The fraudster seems to have been particularly callous and to have played 
on her insecurities. As well as losing money, she must have suffered significant emotional 
upset at his hands. She has my sincere sympathy. 
Clearly, the crux of this complaint is about what level of responsibility, if any, Wise should 
take for Mrs Ns loss. Wise has told us that its a money remittance and transfer platform 
(not a bank) and so isnt liable for the loss incurred as it cant be involved in 
sender/receiver disputes. However, this complaint is not about a dispute between Mrs N 
and the receiver, or fraudster, it is between Mrs N and Wise. 
Wise has added that the nature of its business means that its screening policy (for fraud) is 
different from a bank that would have a more holistic vision of its customers spending. I 
have not seen anything to show me that it told Mrs N that its screening would be less holistic 
before she chose to use it services. And, more significantly, although I accept that Wise is 
not a bank, I do not agree that this means it automatically has no responsibility for what 
happened to Mrs N. It is still subject to various laws and regulations. It has also sent us a 
copy of its terms and conditions, which say that it will do everything it can to keep 
customers safe. 
 
To expand on what I would expect Wise to do to keep its customers safe by helping to 
prevent fraud, the starting position in law is that a financial firm is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the customers account. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider was good industry practice at the time, I consider Wise should 
fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing frauds and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). 
And if Wise saw anything worrying about a payment, or a pattern of payments, I would have 
expected it to contact the customer concerned to check if the customer really wanted to 
proceed.In this case, there is no doubt that Mrs N followed Wises normal procedures when she 
transferred her money to the fraudster. I accept that she only did this because of the 
fraudsters illegal actions, but in effect, she authorised Wise to move the money on her 
behalf. So, the critical question becomes whether there was anything sufficiently unusual 
about the payments that Wise ought to have intervened. 
Mrs N does not seem to have made a great deal of use of her Wise account. The gist of 
Wises position is that the four payments she made to the fraudster reflected the type of use 
for which its service is designed, and that it did not have sufficient grounds to intervene. It 
has specifically highlighted some transactions Mrs N had made a few months earlier (which 
were in an overseas currency and for larger amounts) to argue that there was nothing 
unusual about the payments Mrs N made to the fraudster. 
I partially accept Wises position about the payments. I think its reasonable for the first three, 
but not the final one. By this time Mrs N was:
Transferring a fourth payment into her Wise account in a very short period (the earlier 
transactions Wise highlighted had involved fewer transfers in). 
Making a fourth payment out of her Wise account in a very short period (the earlier 
transactions Wise highlighted had involved fewer payments out).
Transferring four payments to a single personal account with which Wise has not 
shown she had any previous connection (the earlier transactions Wise highlighted 
had been to someone with a similar name, suggesting a family connection). 
I think that this pattern was sufficiently unusual for Mrs N that Wise should have intervened 
before processing the fourth payment. Had it contacted her to alert her to potential fraud, I 
think its highly likely that she would have withdrawn her authority for the final payment. After 
all, in only slightly different circumstances, this is broadly how she responded to her 
neighbours comments. 
While Wise has accepted that it didnt attempt to intervene, it has told us that even if it had 
tried to do so, its unlikely that it would have been able to contact Mrs N as the fraudster had 
told her to isolate herself from external contact. I accept the fraudster did this, although I do 
not share Wises certainty that Mrs N wouldnt have taken its call. Furthermore, I think Wise 
had sufficient grounds to hold the fourth payment while it checked things. 
Wise has told us that at the time of the fraud scam prevention warnings were not an aspect 
of its internal tooling, but it has since changed things and its tooling (now) suspends 
transactions when necessary. I understand Wises point to be that it has recently introduced 
a new procedure which will make it easier for it to put payments on hold if a similar situation 
to Mrs Ns case arises in future. Assuming the new procedure works, I welcome it as an 
improved practice, but unfortunately it wasnt available to help Mrs N, so I cant take it into 
account in this case. 
However, I think it would be unfair for Wise to bear the full cost of Mrs Ns loss from the 
fourth payment. I think that the instructions the fraudster gave to her were so unusual that 
she has some responsibility for following them. There seem to have been several indicators 
that she was not dealing with the Home Office. These include:
Making the payments to a personal account, not one which belonged to a 
recognizable government department. 
Having to make the payments through her Wise account when they could equally well have been sent direct from her bank account.
Making four separate payments when there was no significant reason why a single 
payment would not have worked equally well. 
Having to isolate herself from other contacts. (I accept the fraudster gave reasons for 
this, but it would be a highly unusual practice for the Home Office to follow).
Taking all these factors into account, I think its reasonable for Mrs N and Wise to equally 
share the cost of the loss from the fourth payment. 
Once Mrs N told Wise that she suspected fraud, I would have expected it to try to get her 
money back from the financial firm the fraudster used to receive it. This can often be difficult 
as once fraudsters receive money into an account they control, they often move it away 
quickly to prevent such attempts at recovery from succeeding. So, time is of the essence. 
Mrs N has told us that she contacted Wise almost immediately after the payments left her 
account, but Wise didnt take any action and told her that it was unable to get involved in 
disputes between senders and recipients. Wise has since accepted it should have 
attempted to recall Mrs Ns money at the time but didnt do so until many months later due to 
a human mistake. It has paid Mrs N £100 in compensation for this mistake. 
Despite Mrs Ns recollection of when she reported the fraud to Wise, I think it was actually 
quite a bit later than she remembers, probably at least an hour later. From what she has told 
us, she didnt suspect fraud until after the conversation with her neighbour and only then 
reported the fraudster to Wise. We have been in touch with the firm the fraudster used to 
receive the money, and it has told us that the funds were depleted by 13.15 on 24 March 
2023. In other words, the fraudster had moved Mrs Ns money beyond Wises reasonable 
reach within around five minutes of the last payment. So, even if Wise had acted promptly, it 
probably wouldnt have been able to recover Mrs Ns money for her. In these circumstances, 
I think the compensation Wise has already paid Mrs N for its mistake is reasonable. 
So, in summary, I am very sorry to hear about the loss Mrs N suffered and the stress she 
went through. I think Wise should take 50% responsibility for the part of the loss which arose 
directly from the fourth payment. It should put things right for her by paying her appropriate 
compensation. I also think that Wise should have acted far more quickly to try to recover Mrs 
Ns money after she reported the fraud. However, Im satisfied that by the time Mrs N made 
her report, the fraudster had moved the money away from Wises reasonable reach and it 
was already too late. So, I dont think it would be fair for me to tell Wise to pay Mrs N any 
further compensation for this delay. 
Putting things right
To put things right for Mrs N, Wise should:
Refund her half of the fourth payment (£845 to the nearest pound). 
Add 8% per year simple interest to the refund, from the date of the payment until the 
date it makes the refund.My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am upholding Mrs Ns complaint about Wise 
Payments Ltd. If Mrs N accepts my decision, Wise must put things right for her in the way I 
have described.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman