DRN-2901432
The complaint
Mr G complains that IG Markets Limited allowed him to trade in inappropriate trading 
conditions on his contracts for difference investment account and gave him unsuitable 
trading advice. He says this resulted in him making a loss.
What happened
Mr G held a contracts for difference (CFD) trading account with IG Markets Limited (IG) and 
had been trading with them since around 2009. He says he started to have issues with the 
trading account, so he complained to IG in 2013, 2015 and again in 2019. I have 
summarised the key points below:-
- They didnt do any checks to see if the leveraged trading was appropriate for him
- They increased his credit trading limit without checking his affordability
- They gave him advice on his trades when not authorised to do so
- They advised him to change his gold positions to futures trades
- He wasnt able to close his gold positions online or use a stop loss as hed 
expected
- They failed to inform him about margin calls
He says this all caused him to suffer significant losses which eventually amounted to a total 
of around £7,500,000. 
Mr G brought his complaint to us and IG objected to us considering this saying it was out of 
time on the six and three year rule. Our investigator considered whether Mr G had brought 
his complaint out of time and concluded that it wasnt. It was one we could consider because 
IG hadnt issued him with a final response to his complaint.
IG later did issue two further responses and said Mr G had been trading for many years and 
hadnt previously mentioned any concerns. They say he was well informed about the nature 
and risks of CFDs and an appropriateness assessment was done when his account was 
opened. In addition, they say no advice was ever given as they operate on an execution only 
basis.
Mr G felt this didnt adequately resolve his complaint, so he asked us to consider this.
Our investigator proceeded to consider the merits of the complaint and commented that 
limited information was available due to the length of time that had passed. Based on the 
information that was available he couldnt say if the account was appropriate or not but did 
say IG had asked Mr G about his trading history which showed he had prior knowledge of 
CFD trading. He also concluded there wasnt any evidence to suggest that IG had given any 
advice to Mr G contrary to the terms and conditions of the business. The investigator also 
didnt uphold his complaint about the increase in credit available and leverage trading. 
Mr G didnt agree with the investigators findings and so this has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I havent commented on every single point, Id like to assure Mr G that I have 
considered everything and summarised the key issues below. Having done so, I wont be 
upholding this complaint, Ill explain why.
Appropriateness of account
IG are required to ensure the account the open for Mr G is appropriate and so they are 
required to ensure he had enough relevant knowledge or experience to have understood 
trading and the associated risks.  
As a result of the amount of time that has passed since the account was opened, information 
relating to this is limited so Im unable to see what Mr G says about his net worth and risk 
profile. What I have seen, is that IG have asked questions around his history of shares 
trading, exchange traded derivatives and spread betting. So, I am aware that the relevant 
appropriate checks have been done and his response to this suggests he had the required 
knowledge and experience to trade in derivatives. 
I also need to consider whether the risks of CFDs and trading using leverage had been 
explained to him. Whilst the information for account opening is limited, I am satisfied that 
Mr G was aware of the risk involved with CFD trading and using leverage where he was at 
risk of losing more than his initial deposit amount. 
He previously held a trading account before opening his account with IG suggesting he had 
prior knowledge of trading. Warnings would also have been given when his account was 
opened with IG, and the numerous trading risk notices would be clearly visible. In addition to 
this, he agreed to the terms and conditions of the account which do highlight the high risk 
nature of CFD trading. 
Mr G was an individual with a high net worth and an appetite for risk which is evident in the 
information Ive seen. Given that he would have been given the risk warnings and proceeded 
with the account regardless suggests he understood the risks involved. With this in mind, it 
would be difficult for me to see why the account wouldnt be appropriate for him or that IG 
should have been prompted to refuse his initial account, so I dont think IG needed to do 
anything differently.
Account type and credit limit increase
Mr G complained about the lack of clarity around the type of account he held, a select or 
plus account. IG have confirmed that he has always held a select account which gives some 
additional discretion around margins calls on accounts. This allows them to open up or 
increase credit facilities as required to maintain their open positions and that is whats 
happened here. 
Mr G says IG increased his credit trading limit without checking his affordability. His initial 
credit limit was £0.5 million and was subsequently increased to £1 million and then £2 million 
within a matter of days. Due the length of time thats passed, Im unable to see what 
information was given to Mr G when he opened his account. IG say these were likely to be 
allowed because he was depositing large sums of money and had made significant profits 
too. This suggests an ability to sustain the increase in credit to support these positions. 
Ive also seen that Mr G later requested a further increase in his credit limit to £3 million to 
cover his positions and referred to having significant wealth to do this. It isnt unreasonable for IG to rely on this information. This in addition to the limited information thats available 
make it difficult for me to say IG have acted unfairly or done anything wrong.
Did IG give advice?
IG operates on an execution only basis. The terms of their business and the rules within 
which they operate specifically do not allow them to give advice. It is their responsibility as a 
regulated business providing an execution only service, to ensure that they are not giving 
advice to their clients. They say they didnt give Mr G any advice and have given him 
guidance and information on how to trade. 
I understand the distinction they are trying to draw, and I also understand the argument that 
despite this he understood this guidance to be trading advice. The regulators guidance in 
this situation is to distinguish between advice and the provision of information. The 
difference is whether the information did or did not carry the force of a recommendation. 
In other words, is there evidence that guidance given to Mr G on how to trade extended as 
far as recommending what to trade? 
Ive listened to numerous calls and seen communications between IG and Mr G. Ive heard 
several discussions around market conditions, the state of his positions and trading 
strategies generally. These calls also demonstrate that he possessed a level of 
understanding of the trades that where being discussed. But I havent heard anything that 
would suggest advice was given on specific trades or what to trade in.
Ive also considered what Mr G says about being advised to change his gold position to 
futures trades. Ive heard IG give him information about futures trades and the overnight 
trading fees that were being applied to his account. The information given, is exactly that, 
information about the benefits of moving to futures trading. Futures trades are held for a 
longer period and dont attract the overnight charges that short term trading does.
Here I consider IG to be acting in the best interests of their client to keep him informed of his 
options so finding alternative ways to prevent him paying the costly overnight trading fees. I 
dont consider this to be advice but simply the provision of information, an alternative option 
that would assist Mr G in making an informed choice if he continued to trade in gold. 
Overall, I havent heard or seen anything that I consider would fall within the scope of advice, 
so I cant say that IG did give him any advice.
Closing gold positions
Mr G complained that he wasnt able to sell his gold positions all in one go. He said he put a 
stop loss and limit order in place and was told he had to do this over the phone and not 
online. He said he it was unfair he was told this because the impact the size of his positions 
could have on the market especially considering the size of the gold market and frequency of 
trading. 
IG said his gold exposure would be as high as £122 million so the position is large. The size 
of the positions meant it could take some time to close in one go, the stop loss when 
triggered wouldnt guarantee closure of the positions at that price. The market rate available 
after the trigger is what its likely to close at which could be considerably lower by the time 
the whole position would have closed. 
This is more so the case, in periods of volatility in the market. The size of Mr Gs large trades 
going in one direction could have had a downward impact on the market. So, allowing IG to manage the closure of positions gradually instead of via a stop loss, would allow for a better 
closing price. 
With this in mind, it is understandable that traders are asked to close large positions through 
their brokers instead of doing this via a stop loss. This also allows the broker to act in the 
best interests of their client, so, I dont think IG have done anything wrong here.
Margin calls
Mr G complained that IG didnt give him notice when the margins calls were triggered. The 
terms and conditions of the account make it clear that maintaining margins on these 
accounts remains the responsibility of the account holder. They are required to ensure 
sufficient funds are available. Whilst IG may have in the past contacted him to inform him of 
the margin calls, they are not obligated to do so under the terms of the account. I havent 
seen anything that would suggest any other agreement was made.
In 2016, Mr G also complained that funds sent to his account hadnt yet been credited and 
no allowance was made for the funds having been sent to IG. A cash in transit service is 
offered by IG but it would need to be considered by their credit teams which do not operate 
on a 24 hour basis. It is offered on an ad-hoc basis and there is no automatic right to this. 
Ultimately, the responsibility to maintain the margins on his account remains with Mr G so, 
he should have ensured cleared funds were available in the account to manage these 
margins which in turn would prevent the margin calls. With the mounting losses he was 
incurring, IG decided to wait for cleared funds to show in the account. Whether allowances 
should be made for funds that have been sent or not, it is for IG to use its discretion to 
decide this. So, I think its fair to say that IG havent done anything wrong in exercising their 
discretion as they see fit. 
I know Mr G will be disappointed with my decision, especially considering the losses hes 
suffered and impact this has had on him. I have considered all the information hes provided 
me as well as IG and overall, I havent seen anything that would suggest a breach of the 
terms of the agreement or the COBS rules and so I wont be asking IG to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against IG Markets Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman