DRN-3455020
The complaint
Mr N complains about how FinecoBank SPA (Fineco) handled a request for his card to be 
cancelled. 
What happened
Mr N holds an account with Fineco. In December 2020, he advised them that his debit card 
was due to expire in June 2021, and he requested that no new card was sent as he said he 
hardly used the one he currently had.
Fineco responded, and explained that in order for the new card to be cancelled, Mr N would 
need to put his request in writing and sign it, quoting the card number that he wished to 
cancel. 
In April 2021, Mr N contacted Fineco again, and provided the last four digits of the card he 
wanted to cancel. And he was told again that hed need to send in a signed written request, 
or alternatively, he could call on a specific phone number they had listed below. But Mr N 
said that Finecos previous communications didnt mention needing to send in a signed 
request, so he complained. 
Fineco responded and said that they had informed him hed need to write in when he first 
contacted them in December, so they didnt uphold his complaint. But Mr N remained 
unhappy, so he referred his complaint to our service. He said he was also unhappy that 
Fineco didnt provide referral rights to our service in their final response letter (FRL), and 
requested they refund the £2.25 postage cost for raising the complaint.
Fineco apologised, and paid the £2.25 to Mr N. They later confirmed that the apology was 
for the lack of referral rights being present in their FRL. The case was then referred to an 
investigator. 
An investigator considered Mr Ns complaint but didnt recommend it was upheld. He made a 
number of findings regarding the lack of referral rights in Finecos FRL, but his latest opinion 
on the complaint as a whole, was that Fineco had made clear what the process was for Mr N 
to cancel his card, when they wrote to him in December 2020. 
And while he accepted that referral rights were not provided in Finecos final response, he 
thought their agreement to refund the postage costs for the complaint, along with their 
apology, sufficient  this was because it seems Mr N was aware he could refer his complaint 
to our service regardless, and did so, well within the required time limits. So, he didnt seem 
to have been negatively impacted as a result of Finecos failure to provide this information. 
But Mr N remained unhappy and referred his complaint to our service. He also raised a 
subject access request (SAR), and requested that further internal communications be sent to 
him from our service before he provided a full response to the view. The case has now been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ns set out his position at length and Id like to thank him for taking the time to do so. But 
my findings will concentrate on those matters I consider central to the outcome of this 
complaint. So, while I have considered everything, I may not explicitly address each and 
every point Mr N has made. I trust this wont be taken as a discourtesy, but reflects the 
informal nature of this service.
I can also see Mr N has made several references to a SAR he raised, but this request for 
information from our service falls outside of the merits of the complaint Im investigating. So, 
I wont be commenting on this area in my decision. 
I can also see that Mr N has continually asked for a copy of an email from myself to the 
investigator, and has explained that he wont be in a position to respond until all the 
information he has requested has been provided. 
But as the investigator has rightly explained, this is not something we are required to share, 
as its not information weve relied upon in order to reach an outcome on the case. And I can 
also see that Mr Ns SAR has since been fulfilled. So, Im satisfied Mr N has been given 
ample information, opportunity and time to respond fully to the investigators findings. And 
Im satisfied Im now in a position to issue a final decision on his complaint with the 
information already available to me. 
The issue Mr N initially raised with Fineco in December 2020 was that he didnt want them to 
send a replacement card, when his current card expired in June 2021. When Mr N followed 
up this request in 2021, requesting again that he wanted the replacement card to be 
cancelled, he was informed that he would need to send in a signed written request for this, 
or alternatively, could contact a designated contact number. 
Mr N complained that he should have been told that hed need to write in when he initially 
raised the above point in December 2020, and this seems to be what the crux of his 
complaint stems from. But having looked at the evidence provided, I can see that the initial 
letter Fineco sent in December 2020, did inform Mr N of what he needed to do in order to 
cancel the card. 
When they wrote to him, they explained:
Regarding your concern, we inform you that to cancel one card, you need to send us a 
written request indicating the number of the card you want to cancel. You can write the 
request on blank paper, sign it with a handwritten signature and send it back via email. For 
further information you can get in touch with us through the Contact Us section in the client 
Area or by calling: (phone numbers provided). 
So, Im satisfied Fineco made Mr N sufficiently aware of what was required in order for his 
request to be processed. So, Im not asking them to do anything further in that regard. 
Fineco have also told our service that following the April 2021 request, they received written 
confirmation from Mr N for his card to be cancelled, and therefore no replacement card was 
sent, as per Mr Ns wishes. So, it seems that Mr Ns request was complied with, despite his 
complaint. So, Im not asking Fineco to do anything further in regard to this issue. The next issue Mr N has raised concerns about is the fact that Fineco failed to include 
referral rights to our service when they responded to his complaint. Mr Ns point here is 
correct. And given it seems Fineco were providing their final response on the matter, then 
referral rights to our service shouldve been included as part of that request. 
But in this case, it seems that Mr N knew to refer his complaint to our service, and did so 
shortly after Fineco issued their FRL. So, while I recognise that information was missing from 
their letter, and Fineco accept this, the failure to provide that information seems to have had 
no impact on Mr Ns ability to bring the complaint to our service within the time limits that 
apply. So, for this reason, Im not asking Fineco to do anything further in respect of this 
issue. 
So, for the reasons set out above, I wont be upholding Mr Ns complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman