DRN-3697649
The complaint
Mr D, through his representative, complains that Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 
118 118 Money, lent to him when he says he could not afford it.  
What happened
Mr D took two loans, the second one appears to have been used to repay part of the first 
loan. Here is a brief loan table using information from Madisons records.
Loan Date taken Amount 
including 
interestTerm Monthly 
repaymentAmount 
received in 
handDate repaid
1 10/09/2019 £4,278.72 24 months £178.28 £3,000 11/03/2020
2 11/03/2020 £5,696.64 24 months £237.36 £1,550.00 Active
Mr D complained to Madison in November 2020. After receiving a final response letter (FRL) 
in January 2021 which did not give Mr D the answer he wanted, he referred it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
This complaint has been with the Financial Ombudsman since March 2021. One of our 
adjudicators looked at the complaint and in October 2021 issued a view in which he 
considered that Madison had not done anything wrong.
Mr D, through his representative, asked that the complaint be passed to an ombudsman in 
October 2021. It was allocated to me earlier this month  September 2022. So, due to the 
passage of time, I am unsure whether the second loan remains outstanding or not. 
Mr Ds comments following receipt of our adjudicators view, were that he did not consider 
that Madisons checks were adequate at the time, and the loans were completely 
irresponsible , and he did not consider it was reasonable to expect to be able to afford £237 
a month. Mr D also said that his bank account was overdraft, so he was already in debt. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Madison completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr D  
would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have shown 
that Mr D  wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Madison did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr D and that 
he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Madison to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ds ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Madison had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Mr D. In 
practice this meant that Madison had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr D undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Madison to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr D. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
I have received from Madison a copy of the application forms in which Madison had details 
about Mr Ds income and expenditure. Those figures seem to have been the same for both 
loans. His monthly income was declared as £2,583 and the expenditure was £1,002 which 
has not been itemised. 
Madison has sent to us a copy of a credit search. It does seem to have been done in 
September 2019 which was at the time loan 1 was approved by Madison. That formed the 
basis of the document Madison has labelled an affordability report. And I can see that Mr D 
did not have a great deal reported on his credit file and his debt situation was light. The 
summary said: 
Indebtedness Indicators
Total Balances (All): £ 749Total Balances (Revolving Credit/Budget): £ 749
Total Limits (Revolving Credit/Budget): £ 800
Balance to Limit Ratio (Revolving Credit/Budget): 93 %
There was a record of one default which related to an account which had opened in 
January 2015 with a default date of April 2015 and the original default balance had been 
£989 which had since been satisfied. This default was several years before Mr D applied for 
the first loan from Madison and not something to cause it concern. And I agree with that 
approach. 
Mr Ds bank account entry in that set of credit search results showed that he did have an 
overdraft limit of £1,600 and that there were no concerns and no adverse entries on that 
record. So, although Mr D refers to his overdraft if its a well-managed one and Mr D stayed 
within his £1,600 credit limit then usually that is not an adverse element to report onto a 
credit file. And so that was not likely something to cause Madison to be concerned. 
Mr D had a credit card entry where he was within his limit, and an earlier loan and a utility 
account entry. 
So, the credit search Madison did revealed nothing to cause Madison to think that Mr D was 
unable to afford £178 a month. But for a loan for £3,000 over 24 months I do think that 
additional checks could have been carried out. And that could have been verifying Mr Ds 
salary and possibly reviewing his bank accounts. But considering that the credit search 
results were so light in what it revealed about Mr D I doubt that additional checks would have 
revealed more.
However, I did review the bank account statements that Mr D has sent to us. 
The first thing I note is that these cover 6 May to 5 June 2019 and so were not that close in 
time to the September 2019 application. I do notice that Mr Ds income was less than what 
he declared but does not reveal any other expenditure which Mr D had not already revealed. 
So still I consider that Loan 1 would have been thought of as affordable by Madison even if it 
had reviewed copy bank statements at the time and seen the lower salary. And I have to 
account for the fact that between May 2019 and September 2019 Mr Ds salary may have 
increased to the sum he gave to it in September 2019. 
I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint about loan 1.
Loan 2 was applied for six months into the 24 month term for loan 1 and no reason is given 
as to why Mr D did that. Reviewing the Madison statements of account, it seems that Mr D 
put most of loan 2 towards paying off the balance on loan 1 in March 2020 which 
precipitated a £736 interest rebate on loan 1. The total capital sum borrowed for loan 2 was 
£3,995.09 of which Mr D received £1,550 as cash in hand and £2,445.09 used to pay off 
loan 1. 
As at 1 March 2021, which is the date the statements of account go up to, Mr D owed to 
Madison £2,848.32. As I have said earlier I do not know the up-to-date position.
Loan 2 was therefore a larger loan and was going to be for a further 24 months and I would 
have expected Madison to carry out a full financial review of Mr Ds circumstances. I have 
reviewed the credit search Madison has provided but the update dates for account entries 
in that set of results suggests it was from September 2020 which post-dates the application 
for loan 2 in March 2020 and I do not know the reason why. And I can see that the second 
Madison loan is listed in that credit search. So, it was not the set of results Madison did 
before loan 2 was approved. And Madison may not have done a credit search as loan 2 was applied for so soon after loan 1.
In any event, the second credit search report sent to us from Madison does reveal a sharp 
increase in debt from the credit search results from September 2019. But a large part of that 
debt would have been the Madison loan 2 debt. And I can see that Mr D took another loan in 
June 2020 for £4,500 with another lender which post-dates the March 2020 second loan with 
Madison and so is irrelevant when I am being asked to review the March 2020 lending 
decision.
Mr D had a credit card which was within its limit and his overdraft limit appeared to have 
been reduced to £900 and again, no adverse entries were entered for that bank account.  
Mr D has sent to me a copy of his own personal credit file and that is dated November 2020. 
That assisted to cross-reference what I have already seen and show me Mr Ds financial 
position as at November 2020. 
And having reviewed that personal credit file it does exactly what I expected it to have done: 
theres nothing in that report which was different to the credit searches Ive already reviewed 
being the ones from Madison. And so, as I consider that at the time Mr D took loan 2, his 
financial position was in a relatively good state then I do not consider that Madison did 
anything inappropriate or lend irresponsibly.
I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint about loan 2.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman