DRN-2829343
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy with the service she received from U K Insurance Limited (UKI) following a 
water leak. Where I refer to UKI this includes its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
Mrs R had a home emergency insurance policy underwritten by UKI. She contacted her 
insurer following an escape of water that also affected her ceiling lights. Mrs R said UKI sent 
a plumber who sorted out some of the problems. But despite many phone calls an electrician 
never attended. So she called an electrician herself to put things right. 
Mrs R said that despite spending around £200 of her own money the damage still hadnt 
been fully repaired. And she wants UKI to reimburse the amount shes spent.
UKI said Mrs R needed a plumber and electrician after a water leak affected her light fittings. 
UKI was able to send a plumber but it had difficulty finding an available electrician. It 
apologised for any distress this caused and arranged for £50 to be credited to Mrs Rs 
account.
UKI said it felt the plumbing repairs had been carried out satisfactorily. Theyd sent a 
different plumber to inspect the work and theyd been unable to find any further leaks. Re-
routing the overflow pipe was a maintenance issue - it wasnt an emergency. UKI said itd 
agreed to pay Mrs R for the work carried out by her electrical contractor to prevent any 
further delays. But it needed a receipt or invoice before it could reimburse her. 
Mrs R wasnt satisfied with UKIs response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He could see UKI had arranged for a plumber to carry out 
repairs on the same day Mrs R had reported the problem. But the home emergency policy 
was designed to protect the property from damage caused by a sudden or unexpected 
insured event. It didnt provide cover for wear and tear or maintenance-related issued. And 
he said Mrs R wouldnt be able to claim for rerouting the overflow pipe. 
Our investigator listened to the calls between UKI and Mrs R in relation to the electrical 
repairs. Although UKI had tried to arrange for an electrician to visit, no one had arrived. So 
Mrs R had called someone herself to carry out the emergency repairs. Mrs R told UKI shed 
paid a total of £155 to the electrician and she could email a copy of the receipt. But UKI 
hadnt received anything. And he felt it was fair for UKI to ask for a receipt to confirm 
payment for the works carried out. So he wouldnt be asking it to do anything further. 
Mrs R didnt agree. Mrs R said the plumber hadnt done a very good job and shed been 
forced to carry out further work at her own expense. She feels let down by UKI. And shes 
asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It mustve been very worrying for Mrs R to suffer a leak in her home and for her lighting to be 
affected as a result. And Im sorry to hear about the difficulties shes been put through. 
Mrs R is unhappy with the service she received from UKI. So Ive looked very carefully at 
everything thats happened and whether UKI has acted fairly and within the terms and 
conditions of the policy. But Im afraid Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator 
for broadly the same reasons.
Mrs Rs home emergency policy provides cover when there is an emergency in the home. 
Under plumbing and drainage it states UKI will pay for the cost of emergency assistance 
needed for an emergency involving internal plumbing and drainage. And under electrical 
supply the policy pays for the cost of any emergency assistance needed if the permanent 
electrical supply to the home fails.
When Mrs R reported the leak to UKI it was able to arrange for a plumber to attend and carry 
out emergency repairs on the same day. And the plumber returned within two days when 
Mrs R reported that the leak was still occurring. So I think UKI responded to the plumbing 
emergency quickly and acted within the terms of the home emergency policy. 
UKI was also trying to arrange for an electrician to attend Mrs Rs property. But they didnt 
turn up and Mrs R told UKI that shed sorted out the electrical repairs herself. During the call 
Mrs R said shed paid a total of £155 including the call out charge. And she made a note of 
the insurers email address to send the receipt to. 
Insurers normally prefer to arrange for their own contractors to carry out work so they can 
maintain control over both costs and the quality and safety of repairs. Mrs R arranged for the 
electrical repairs herself while UKI were still trying to get an authorised electrician to attend. 
But on this occasion UKI has agreed to refund Mrs R. 
I think thats fair in the circumstances  the leak had placed Mrs R in a difficult situation and 
although UKI had been able to look at the plumbing problem it hadnt been able to obtain the 
services of its own electrical contractors.
But I dont think is unreasonable for UKI to say it cant consider reimbursing Mrs R until its 
seen a copy of the invoice or receipt for the electrical work. The insurer needs to record what 
work was carried out and confirm the invoice had been settled. If Mrs R is able to contact the 
electrician she used and obtain a receipt for the work carried out then I would expect UKI to 
consider this for reimbursement. But without any form of documentation Im afraid I cant ask 
UKI to do anything else.
I can see Mrs R still felt there was a problem after the second plumbing visit. And UKI 
arranged for a different plumber to inspect the repairs to make sure the emergency had been 
dealt with properly. The inspection couldnt find any further leak. And UKI felt that any work 
in relation to the overflow pipe was a maintenance issue and wasnt covered by the home 
emergency policy. 
I realise this wouldve been upsetting for Mrs R. And I understand shes now had some work 
carried out by another party. But the home emergency policy is designed to respond rapidly 
to an emergency. It isnt intended to deal with ongoing wear and tear or maintenance issues. 
UKI has accepted its failure to provide an electrician meant its service fell below the 
standard Im sure it normally aspires to. Mrs R had to make a number of calls to find out why 
an electrician still hadnt arrived. And she decided to ask someone else to carry out the 
emergency repairs. UKI has accepted it shouldve done better in this regard and its paid Mrs R £50 compensation for any upset caused. I think thats the right response in the 
circumstances. 
But with any insurance claim the business would expect to receive a receipt for work carried 
out by an external contractor. And although UKI has agreed to consider the cost of the 
electrical repair work, its not unreasonable for the insurer to ask for an invoice or receipt to 
confirm the work has been completed and paid for.
I know Mrs R will be disappointed with this outcome. Shes a long-standing customer and I 
do appreciate how upsetting this mustve been. But based on everything Ive seen I think 
UKI has dealt with Mrs Rs complaint fairly. And I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman