DRN-3045867
The complaint
Ms T and Miss C complain that Norton Finances and Mortgages Limited mis-sold their 
secured loan. They said they were led to believe that it wouldnt show as a mortgage on 
their credit files and that they were told that Miss C would still be classed as a first-time 
buyer if she was added to the loan as a joint borrower. Ms T said that it had prevented her 
from remortgaging.
What happened
Ms T and Miss C are mother and daughter. In 2019 Norton Finance recommended that 
they should take a joint secured loan  even though the property the loan was secured 
against was owned solely by Ms T.
Ms T and Miss C complain that they were told that the loan wouldnt appear as a 
mortgage on their credit files and that Miss C wasnt advised about the consequences of 
being added as a joint borrower. They said that Norton Finance didnt tell them that Miss C 
wouldnt be regarded as a first-time buyer if she was added to the mortgage  so wouldnt 
qualify for any deals or other benefits that might be available to first-time buyers. Ms T has 
also said the loan is preventing her from remortgaging.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Ms T and Miss C didnt agree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the available recordings of the phone calls that Ms T had with Norton 
Finance. I know she considers that we dont have all of the phone calls. But Norton has 
shown that it has given us all of the phone recordings it has a record of. And Im 
satisfied that I have enough information to make a decision on the information I have.
Im afraid that the phone calls Ive listened to dont support that Ms T and Miss C told 
Norton Finance that they needed the loan to operate in the way they say they wanted or 
that Norton Finance led them to believe that it would operate in that way. In any case, its 
unlikely that Norton Finance would be able to source a loan that met those requirements. In 
my experience, it would be very unusual to find any joint loan (secured or not) that was not 
given on the basis that each borrower was jointly and individually liable for the full balance 
of the loan. As far as I can see, there was no joint loan available that would operate in the 
way that Ms T and Miss C wanted  that is with each of them liable for only half the loan 
amount.
There was no specific requirement for Norton Finance to tell Ms T and Miss C how the loan 
would appear on their credit files. Their credit files should be a true and accurate reflection 
of their borrowing. They took out a joint secured loan or mortgage  the paperwork from the 
lender sets out clearly that Ms T and Miss C were taking a mortgage and that they are 
jointly and severally liable for the full amount of the mortgage. That means each of them is 
liable for the full amount owed. Miss C confirmed she was aware of her liability before 
entering into the loan  if she was unsure, she should not have sent that email. So it is 
correct for the full balance to show on both Ms T and Miss Cs credit files and for it to be 
called a mortgage  that is a true and accurate reflection of the loan that they took.
Norton Finance was giving Ms T and Miss C mortgage advice. It was required to gather 
all relevant information about their needs and circumstances and recommend a mortgage 
that was suitable for them. I am satisfied that Norton Finance took reasonable steps to 
gather sufficient information from Ms T and Miss C for this purpose.
Norton Finance told Ms T and Miss C that its advice was based on their current 
circumstances and any reasonably foreseeable change they told it about and that it was 
secured against Ms Ts home. I consider it made it clear it was giving advice on that basis.
Ms T and Miss C told Norton Finance that the purpose of the borrowing was to extend their 
home so that each of them had their own space. I cant see that Norton Finance knew that it 
was Miss Cs plan to buy her own house or that this was a specific requirement. Norton 
Finance was only required to make its recommendation on what it knew (or reasonably 
should have known) about Ms T and Miss Cs needs and circumstances. I dont consider it 
was wrong for it to recommend this loan to them based on what it knew and I cant see any 
reason why it should not have accepted what Ms T and Miss C told it about their plans. The 
loan was suitable for Ms T and Miss Cs stated needs and allowed them to meet their 
objectives.
Ms T and Miss C consider that Norton Finance ought to have warned them in any event 
that Miss C would no longer be classed as a first-time buyer if she took this loan. Ms T and 
Miss C said that she has lost out on first-time buyers rights because of this loan. There 
are mortgage products aimed at first-time buyers. And there might be other benefits 
currently available in certain circumstances, such as an exemption to stamp duty. But I 
dont consider there was any requirement for Norton Finance to warn Miss C that by taking 
this loan, that is something that she may or may not lose out on in the future.
Ms T said that this loan is preventing her remortgaging. But I havent seen any persuasive 
evidence that is the case. In any event, I wouldnt expect a mortgage broker to be able to 
assess whether the loan it recommended would affect the ability to obtain credit or 
remortgage in the future. Its obligation was to recommend a loan (if there was a suitable 
one available) based on what it knew about Ms T and Miss Cs needs and circumstances  
and I am satisfied it has done so.
I appreciate Ms T and Miss C are unhappy that the loan they have taken doesnt operate as 
they understood and that has hampered Miss Cs plans to buy her own home. But for the 
reasons I have explained, I dont consider that was because Norton Finance acted unfairly 
or unreasonably. It recommended a suitable mortgage based on what it knew and 
explained the terms of the loan in a clear, fair and not misleading way.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T and Miss 
C to accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
Ken Rose Ombudsman