DRN-3632601
The complaint
Mrs D has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Company Limited (RSA) unfairly 
turned down her business interruption insurance claim after her business was forced to close 
due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mrs D held a business interruption insurance policy with RSA. She has a dental practice.
As a result of restrictions imposed by the Chief Dental Officer for England on 25 March 2020 
Mrs D closed her practice. 
Mrs D claimed on the policy. RSA declined the claim. It said the policy covered business 
interruption as a result of a notifiable disease manifesting itself at the premises and it didnt 
think Mrs D had demonstrated that was the case.
Mrs D disagreed. She said three members of staff had displayed symptoms of Covid-19 or 
been diagnosed with Covid-19 before the practice closed.
Mrs D brought her complaint to our service. Our Investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. 
She didnt think Mrs D had shown that thered been a manifestation of Covid-19 at the 
premises. 
As Mrs D disagreed, she asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Mrs Ds business. But I dont intend to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether RSA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Mrs Ds claim.
The most relevant part of Ds policy is an extension to the policy that covers losses arising 
from:
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval of the 
Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable human disease 
manifesting itself at the Premises.
For this extension to provide cover, the policy requires the closure or restrictions placed on 
the business premises to have been the result of a case of a notifiable human disease 
manifesting itself at the premises. As Covid-19 is a notifiable disease, Ive considered the 
information I have to decide whether its most likely Mrs D closed her practice because there 
was a case of Covid-19 manifesting itself at her premises. 
Some policies refer to the occurrence of a disease, whereas others  like Mrs Ds policy  
require there to have been a manifestation. An occurrence of a disease can take place 
without the individual who has the disease displaying symptoms. But for a disease to have 
manifested, it is likely the individual will need to have displayed symptoms or given some 
other positive sign  potentially a positive test result  at the time they were at the premises. 
It is not enough, in the circumstances of this complaint, for a pre-symptomatic individual to 
have sustained the disease and been on the premises. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a business will be able to produce a positive 
test result, or conclusive diagnosis, from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to 
demonstrate a case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, the fact that there 
was a manifestation of Covid-19 at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any 
insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that 
theyve suffered a loss their policy covers.
Mrs D has since provided evidence to support the fact that an additional staff member was 
also suffering with Covid-19 symptoms in March 2020. Ill look at each of the cases in turn.
The first staff member phoned Mrs D on Sunday 22 March 2020 to say that she was unwell 
with symptoms of Covid-19 and would not be attending work on the following day. She had 
been in work on 20 March and several days previously in that month. I accept Mrs Ds point 
that if the staff member had Covid-19, she would probably have been infected when she was 
in the surgery on 20 March. But the policy requires her to have had symptoms of Covid-19 or 
given some other positive sign of infection when on the premises and theres no evidence 
that this is the case.
This staff member tested positive for Covid-19 antibodies on 21 May 2020. But in any event, 
as explained above, even if I accept that they were absent from work because of Covid-19, 
the policy requires the staff member to have had symptoms whilst on the premises and not 
just to have been infected.
Mrs D says the second staff member was working at the premises on 20 and 23 March. He 
has told us he was ill with Covid-19 symptoms such as fever, fatigue, a new cough, tiredness 
and loss of smell starting from 26 March 2020. He might well have had Covid-19. 
Unfortunately for Mrs D though theres no evidence he had these symptoms while on the 
premises on 20 and 23 March.
The third staff member was last in work on 12 March 2020. She contacted Mrs D on 17 
March to say she had a temperature and a cold. Again, theres no evidence to show that she 
had these symptoms whilst on Mrs Ds premises.
The fourth staff member contacted NHS 111 on 9 March 2020 because shed had a 
persistent cough for three weeks after returning abroad. She did not have a fever or 
breathlessness. She worked in the surgery until 19 March and then self-isolated.Although this staff member was displaying some symptoms of illness, it seems to me that 
these could have been symptoms of a chest infection or other non-coronavirus related 
illness. A cough lasting a few weeks or so could be the result of any number of things. And 
many people with such symptoms around the time in question would not have been suffering 
from Covid-19.
Overall, I dont think the evidence is sufficiently convincing to conclude that there was most 
likely a case of Covid-19 at Mrs Ds premises before it was required to close. So Im satisfied 
RSAs decision to decline Mrs Ds claim was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
case.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means RSA should have met Mrs Ds claim.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mrs D was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require RSA to pay her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman