DRN-3968020
The complaint
Mr S complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) wont refund over £24,000 he lost to an 
investment scam beginning in June 2022.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr S authorised the disputed payments he made to his crypto 
wallets using his Revolut debit card (where his funds were subsequently transferred on 
to the scammer). The payments were requested using his legitimate security credentials 
provided by Revolut, and the starting position is that firms ought to follow the instructions 
given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Revolut should have done more to prevent Mr S from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a firm should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For 
example, if it was particularly out of character. 
I appreciate that overall, Mr S has lost over £24,000 which is a significant amount of 
money. But this amount wasnt paid in one large or out of character transaction. It was 
spread over eight separate smaller increments over the course of three months which, in 
my judgment, would not have appeared particularly unusual or indicated a heightened 
risk of fraud. I can see from Mr Ss statements that he had previously invested money 
from his Revolut account. And while I appreciate the payment he made to Moonpay on 
23 June 2022 was the first time he was paying a crypto merchant, it isnt unusual for 
Revolut customers to use their accounts for such purposes, particularly when they have 
a history of investing. And the first payment he made to Moonpay was not so significant 
that it ought reasonably to have appeared out of character either.
I acknowledge that the largest payment Mr S made to Moonpay as part of the scam was 
for around £7,000 on 12 August 2022. However, by that point, he had already made 
three payments to the same account, so from Revoluts perspective, this wouldve 
appeared to have been going to what was then an established payee. And I dont think 
the payment on 12 August 2022 marked a significant escalation in spending to the 
merchant either.
So, having considered the payments Mr S made to his crypto wallets, Im not persuaded 
there was anything that ought reasonably to have triggered Revoluts fraud monitoring 
systems, or that would have indicated he was in the process of being scammed, such 
that it should have provided a scam warning. 
Ive also thought about whether Revolut could have done more to recover the funds after 
Mr S reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be recovered via the 
bank raising a chargeback dispute. However, in these circumstances, Mr S used his 
debit card to pay a legitimate crypto-exchange platform before the funds were 
subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So, hed be unlikely to make a successful 
chargeback claim in these circumstances because the merchant he paid had provided 
the services as intended (i.e. the purchase of cryptocurrency). Therefore, I do not think 
Revolut were under any obligation to pursue a chargeback for all the payments Mr S 
made either.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr S, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold Revolut liable for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman