DRN-3304791
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly sold his account debt to a third-party business 
without telling him.
What happened
Mr C says his current account debt was sold to a third-party debt collection business by 
Lloyds. He says Lloyds didnt tell him it was selling the debt and that he has an issue with his 
mail. Mr C says if he had known what Lloyds intended doing then he would have taken steps 
to avoid the sale. He would like the debt returned to Lloyds to deal with.
Lloyds says Mr Cs account balance was over £3,000 and his agreed overdraft was £2,950. 
It says it wrote to Mr C on 26 November 2020 telling him his account would be closing and 
also on 20 October 2020. It says it also wrote to Mr C on 29 September 2020 about his 
account and sent him numerous text message. Lloyds says it spoke to Mr C about his 
account in July 2020, but he didnt remain on the call. It says it called Mr C on 3 August 2020 
as agreed and left a message as Mr C didnt answer its calls. Lloyds says it closed Mr Cs 
account in early 2021 and later sold the debt as it told Mr C it would do.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Mr Cs account balance exceeded his overdraft facility and that Lloyds had sent 
letters to him and text messages telling him what it intended to do. The investigator thought 
Mr C had access to his account statements which clearly showed the balance and explained 
that in line with account terms and conditions an overdraft is repayable on demand.
Mr C doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr C will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked carefully at Mr Cs account terms and conditions which I think he would have 
agreed to when the account was opened. Those terms and conditions make clear that an 
overdraft is repayable on demand. So, I dont think Lloyds made a mistake or acted unfairly 
by asking Mr C to repay the account balance or speak to it about his options when he 
exceeded his overdraft amount. Im satisfied the account was overdrawn for some time and 
that it appears no credits were being made into it before it closed.
I have looked at Lloyds records and can see that it sent Mr C three letters from September 
2020 to November 2020 about his account and telling him the account would close if no 
contact was made. Im satisfied those letters also told Mr C that Lloyds may instruct a third-
party business to collect the debt which is what took place. So, I think Lloyds fairly told Mr C 
what would happen with his account.
I appreciate Mr C says he didnt receive any of those letters and has problems with his mail. 
I cant fairly hold Lloyds responsible for that. But I can see that Lloyds also sent Mr C text 
messages about his account and spoke to him in July 2020. I can also see that Lloyds tried 
to contact Mr C by telephone, but he didnt answer the calls and that Mr C had access to the 
account statements which showed the account balance. So, Im satisfied that Mr C ought 
reasonably to have known that there was an issue with his account and known that he 
needed to speak to Lloyds about it. I dont think Lloyds had any choice in the matter when Mr 
C didnt make contact with it or repay the account balance to close the account.
Overall, Im satisfied that Lloyds was entitled to close Mr Cs account and sell the debt to a 
different business. Im also satisfied it clearly told Mr C what it intended to do. In those 
circumstances I cant fairly order Lloyds to buy back the debt.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman