DRN-4090422
The complaint
Mrs D complains about how Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni Capital) responded 
when she asked it to cancel her agreement with it.
What happened
Mrs D is represented by her son in her complaint- but Ill mostly refer to everything as if Mrs 
D had said it, for ease of reading.
Mrs Ds son wanted to take a training course, with a third party supplier who I will call F, but 
regrettably and through no fault of his own, he could not afford to pay for it. So instead Mrs D 
took out a finance agreement with Omni Capital to pay for him to do the course. Omni 
Capital sent all the money Mrs D borrowed from it to F to pay for the course.
However, Mrs Ds son became dissatisfied with the course. In particular, he thought the 
course had been misrepresented to him by F and that F had also breached his contract with 
it. Consequently Mrs Ds son wanted to cancel his contract with F and Mrs D wanted to 
cancel her contract with Omni Capital. Mrs Ds son is not a party to this complaint, and 
neither is F. 
Mrs D complained to Omni Capital. Mrs D does not ask for the return of the repayments she 
has made so far, but she does ask that the agreement be cancelled with nothing further 
owed by her. Mrs D has cancelled her direct debits in relation to this agreement. Therefore, 
she also asks that Omni Capital ask the credit reference agencies to remove any adverse 
information it has asked them to register on her credit file about her payments towards this 
agreement. 
Mrs D believes she is entitled to ask Omni Capital to take responsibility for what has gone 
wrong because of the type of finance she took out with it. This type of finance potentially 
gives Mrs D rights against Omni Capital under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(Section 75). This is because the general effect of Section 75 is that if Mrs D has a claim 
for misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier, here F, she can also bring a 
like claim against Omni Capital, provided certain conditions are met. One of these conditions 
is that there must be a certain agreement in place known as a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement. Ill explain the ins and outs of a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement below. But 
Omni Capital thought there was no such agreement in place here, so it declined to uphold 
Mrs Ds complaint.
Dissatisfied with Omni Capitals response Mrs D complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. Our investigator explained why Mrs 
Ds son could not bring his complaint to us but why we could look at Mrs Ds complaint. 
However, our investigator did not recommend that Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld.
As far as I am aware our service received no response from Omni Capital to our 
investigators recommendation. However, Mrs D did respond, and she rejected it. In 
summary, she was dissatisfied that she finds herself with no redress against Omni Capital 
under Section 75 because she did not enter into the training contract with F. She also made 
some points about her sons situation and why she thought he had been left in an 
unfortunate position. Mrs D also indicated that the investigators recommendation is 
unbalanced in that it favours a large company with deep financial resources and institutional 
power against an individual who has neither.
Mrs D asked that an ombudsman take a fresh look at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Relevant law here includes Section 75 and Section 56 (Section 56) of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 so I will look at this complaint taking account of both.
I think it is fair and reasonable that I look at whether the arrangement under this complaint 
met the conditions for a valid claim under Section 75 before I look at the wider merits of the 
complaint. Because if Mrs D has no entitlement to bring a claim under Section 75 then the 
wider merits (about misrepresentation and breach of contract) fall away, in relation to this 
part of her complaint.
Section 75 requires that there must be a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier agreement in place 
as defined under Section 12 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. In short, under such an 
agreement Mrs D has to be the debtor, Omni Capital the creditor and F the supplier. 
To establish whether such an agreement is in place I need to look at the arrangements 
between the parties and how they are structured. In particular, in this instance I need to look 
at what contractual agreement (if any) existed between Mrs D as a debtor and F as the 
supplier. 
It is clear that no contractual agreement did exist between Mrs D and F. Rather Mrs Ds son 
contracted with F. And all Mrs D did in this scenario was stepped in and paid for her sons 
course (I dont say this to minimise her contribution I acknowledge that she borrowed a 
substantial amount of money to help her son). But the fact of the matter is Mrs Ds son not 
Mrs D was contractually liable to make this payment. So all Mrs D did was discharge her 
sons liability to pay F. If follows that Ive no proper basis to say Omni Capital has any 
responsibility to her under Section 75, so I cant fairly or reasonably say it must take any 
further action in relation to this part of her complaint.
For completeness I mention there was one further avenue open to Mrs D to allow her to 
cancel her agreement with Omni Capital. F had two roles here it was the retailer, but it was 
also the credit broker in relation to the finance with Omni Capital. 
Under Section 56 Omni could be held to account for a material misrepresentation made by F 
that induced her to enter into the contract with Omni Capital. But based on the information 
Ive seen F made no representations to Mrs D false or otherwise. It follows it is not fair or 
reasonable to say Omni Capital has to take responsibility here taking Section 56 into 
account. 
For all of these reasons, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.I recognise that Mrs D (and her son) feel that Mrs Ds son has been left more or less high 
and dry here. But weve already explained why I cant and have not looked at any complaint 
Mrs Ds son has against F. But to be clear, Im not saying Mrs Ds son has no recourse 
against F because that is not my role and I have no power to make any finding about this. 
Rather, I am merely saying he cant bring that complaint to this service. I mention this only 
because it appears that Mrs D thinks we made a finding about this too.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman