DRN-2618499
The complaint
Ms S says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD, as the insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only 
refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Ms S took out in 1997. It was added to her 
account when she applied in the store.
I sent AXA and Ms S a provisional decision on 25 January 2021, to explain why I thought 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think this policy was mis-sold, and Ill explain why.
Ms S had three part-time jobs at the time of the sale. From what shes told us, in each of 
these jobs she was contracted for fewer than 16 hours a week and she usually worked 
around 12 hours a week at each job.
In order to be eligible for this policy, the customers work had to be 16 hours a week or more. 
Its not clear whether this counted each jobs hours individually, or whether it counted them 
cumulatively as the total number of hours worked across all jobs. Ive considered each 
scenario.
If the policy counted Ms Ss jobs individually, then since none of them were 16 hours a week 
or more she would not have been eligible for the PPI, and so it would not have been of any 
use to her.
If the policy counted her hours cumulatively, then she would be eligible for the PPI. But then 
in order to claim for unemployment, Ms S would need to have lost at least two of her jobs at 
the same time. And that was excessively unlikely to have happened. Alternatively, she would 
be forced to actively give up her other job or jobs in order to claim  which would have been 
severely onerous for her. So it would have been much more difficult for Ms S to claim than 
she wouldve reasonably expected. And I cant see that AXA gave Ms S clear enough 
information about how unemployment claims worked at the point of sale.
I also cant see that AXA gave Ms S clear enough information about the policys costs and 
benefits. And I think this wouldve also mattered to her, as in her situation if shed lost one of 
her jobs then theres a good chance she couldve just increased her hours at her remaining 
jobs. So she wouldnt have realistically had much of a need for PPI. And so had she been 
given clear information about the policys benefits relative to its costs, then I dont think she 
wouldve thought it was good value for money for her.
With all of that in mind, it seems most likely that Ms S lost out because of the flaws in this 
sale.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it before 
22 February 2021. Ms S explained she thought the provisional decision was fair. She 
reiterated that she was young at the time and thought she had to take PPI to get the card 
approved. AXA didnt add anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments, and Ive not seen anything that 
would now make me think the PPI was not mis-sold. So having reconsidered the case, Ive 
come to the same conclusion as before.
Putting things right
AXA must put Ms S in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.) AXA should find out how much Ms S would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Ms S owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.) AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms S would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% simple a year.
C.) If  when AXA works out what Ms S would have owed each month without PPI  she 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms S paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms S wouldve 
owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should again be 8% simple a 
year.
D.) AXA should tell Ms S what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Ms S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decisionI uphold Ms Ss complaint, and direct AXA France IARD to put things right in the way I set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman