DRN-1964012
The complaint
Ms K is unhappy about the amount of compensation AXA Insurance UK Plc has offered her 
as a result of how it handled a claim under her home insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2017, Ms K contacted AXA to make a claim under her home insurance policy 
because of a fire in an external garage at a property she planned to rent out.
The claim took until December 2018 to finalise. During the period of the claim, Ms K 
complained to AXA and this service about how long the claim was taking to finalise. This 
covered the period until August 2018. This service didnt uphold the complaint and said that 
the £400 compensation AXA offered was appropriate.
When the claim was settled, AXA offered Ms K another £700 compensation because of the 
further delays in bringing the claim to a conclusion.
Ms K complained to this service. She was unhappy with the total amount offered by AXA - 
£1100 in total. She said she had lost a lot of rental income while the work was being carried 
out and also had to cover the cost of council tax and utility bills for the property. Our 
investigator decided that the compensation offered was reasonable in the circumstances. 
However, as the property was empty while AXA dealt with the claim, he thought AXA should 
cover the cost of the gas, electricity and water bills during the period of the works. These 
were calculated to be £1018.19 for the relevant period.
AXA didnt agree that it was reasonable to cover the cost of the utility bills, so the complaint 
has been referred to me.
I issued my provisional decision on 27 May 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning not to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms K has already been given £1100 compensation by AXA for the amount of time that it took 
to deal with the claim. This service has already issued a decision about the period up to 
August 2018 and I have no reason to revisit that. However, Ive thought about the period 
from August 2018 to December 2018 and the impact of this period of time.
From August 2018 onwards work started on installing a new garage. This required creating a 
new base for the garage and ordering and then installing the garage itself. Looking at the 
details of what happened, there were clearly delays in this process. The contractor also 
missed some scheduled appointments and needed to be contacted a number of times to 
provide updates on the work. 
The garage that was installed also needed to be altered because the doors were not wide 
enough for a car to fit through them and the fascia boards werent correctly fitted, so this 
stopped the doors opening properly. The main works were completed by late November. There was then a small amount of work left to complete, which was finished when Ms K 
returned from a holiday.
I can understand that Ms K was unhappy about how long it took to complete the works. She 
was offered £700 compensation by AXA, which was in addition to the £400 it had already 
offered her. Ive thought about this and think that the amount of compensation offered was 
appropriate in the circumstances, given the number of issues with progressing the claim and 
the amount of time it took to complete the works as a whole.
Ms K also wanted to be compensated for the loss of rental income as she planned to rent 
out the property. She says she also had to pay the council tax and utility bills for the property 
for a significant period of time because of the amount of time it took to complete the work.
Thinking about the rental income first, Ms K told this service that she didnt approach a 
letting agent prior to the work being completed because she didnt consider the property to 
be in a rentable condition. She also said that, once the work was completed, someone she 
knew expressed an interest in renting the property and moved in shortly after, which shows 
that it was then easy to find tenants.
I can understand that Ms K might not have thought she could rent out the property before the 
work was complete. However, I dont think that is the same as it not being possible to do so. 
Ms K said that she didnt approach a letting agent during this time. A letting agent may or 
may not have said that the property could have been rented out while the works continued, 
but I simply dont know what their view would have been. Although I accept that Ms K 
decided that because of the ongoing works she couldnt rent out the property and that she, 
quite reasonably, didnt expect the work to take as long as it did, she made a choice on how 
best to approach the situation.. I can understand that she thought she made the right 
decision in the circumstances, but I dont think that then means that AXA is responsible for 
the loss of rental income.
I have also considered whether AXA should contribute towards the utility bills and council 
tax. For the council tax, most councils charge full council tax where a property is empty. I 
dont think that AXA can be held responsible for the property not being rented out, I therefore 
also dont think it is responsible for covering the council tax. Ms K was required to pay 
council tax while the property remained empty.
Ive also thought about the utility bills. As I dont think AXA can be held responsible for the 
property being empty, I also dont think it should pay the utility bills. Im also mindful that the 
work was on a garage and that I wouldnt necessarily expect this to have much of an impact 
on utility bills for the property as a whole. This service does sometimes say that a business 
should contribute towards utility bills where the works have led to an increase in gas or 
electricity use. However, Im not currently minded to do so, as I havent seen evidence that 
demonstrates that the works carried out by AXA led to an increase in the bills.
For the water bill, Im also not currently minded to say that AXA should cover this cost. It isnt 
clear to me that AXA was responsible for any cost in addition to what Ms K would have had 
to pay anyway. It was an unmetered property and so the charge was a fixed amount and not 
based on usage. I am also mindful that the water company for this property would have 
considered not charging for water while the property was empty if it has been asked to do 
so. This may then have meant that there were no charges at all for this period.
Ive thought about all of the above. AXA clearly took much longer to deal with this claim than 
it should have. However, I dont think that there is sufficient evidence to show that AXA was 
responsible for the property not being rented out.I also think that the amount of compensation AXA offered was appropriate in the 
circumstances and in line with what I would expect to see. Im also currently of the view that 
the AXA shouldnt contribute towards the bills while the property was empty. The costs seem 
to be ones that Ms K had to pay anyway, and I havent seen evidence that the works led to 
an increase in the utility bills.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 26 June 2020.
Ms K said that the claim suffered continual delays and other issues, the professionalism 
shown by AXA wasnt of a commercial standard and as the garden resembled a building 
site, she couldnt approach a letting agent. 
AXA didnt provide a response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, my view on this case remains the same as 
in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman