DRN-4459924
The complaint
Mr A complains about U K Insurance Limited trading as Green Flag (UKI) and the service 
he received when he made a claim on his Breakdown Cover insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr A held a Breakdown Cover insurance policy, underwritten by UKI. On 27 March 2023, Mr 
A was travelling to his holiday destination when his car broke down. So, Mr A pulled over at 
the roadside and he contacted UKI to make a claim.
UKI accepted Mr As claim and they instructed a local technician, who Ill refer to as T, to 
attend Mr As car. But T was unable to diagnose a fault that they were able to repair at the 
roadside. So, they gave Mr A the option of recovering him to a local garage or recovering 
him to his home address at an additional cost, due to the terms of the policy he held.
Mr A chose to have his car recovered to his home address, and he paid an additional £240 
for this to be done. He then continued with his holiday and arranged for a mobile mechanic 
to inspect his car when he returned. This mechanic identified an issue with the spark plug, 
which he replaced, fixing the fault the same day. Mr A was unhappy T hadnt done this on 
the day of the breakdown and so, he raised a complaint.
Mr A thought the diagnostic equipment T used when identifying the fault was faulty. And 
because of this, he wasnt made aware the spark plug was the issue. Mr A explained that, 
had he been made aware of this, he wouldve chosen to have his car taken to a garage as it 
was a simple issue he felt couldve been fixed the same day. And Mr A explained his belief 
that T should carry spark plugs due to how often these fail, and if T had his car couldve 
been repaired on the roadside. So, Mr A wanted UKI to refund him the £240 he paid for the 
recovery to his home address, and compensation for the inconvenience he was caused, 
included time lost on his holiday.
UKI responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought T had acted fairly, based 
on the information available to them at the time they ran the diagnostics. And they explained 
a repair wouldnt have been possible at the roadside, as a compression test wouldve been 
needed alongside the replacement spark plug. So, they didnt think they had done anything 
wrong and because of this, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr A 
remained unhappy and so, he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They recognised the 
inconvenience of the situation, and the financial impact this had on Mr A. But they didnt 
think they had evidence that showed T, acting on behalf of UKI, had acted unreasonably or 
unfairly. And they didnt think there was a possibility of a roadside repair, considering the 
work that was completed by Mr As own mechanic. They also didnt think it could be 
guaranteed that, had UKI recovered Mr A to a local garage, a repair couldve been 
completed that day. So, because of the above, they didnt think UKI needed to do anything 
more.
Mr A didnt agree, and he provided several points explaining why. These included, and are 
not limited to, his continued belief that, had T diagnosed the error correctly, he wouldve 
chosen to be recovered to garage. And he felt his car wouldve been repaired on that day, 
meaning he was able to continue with his holiday without being recovered home. So, he 
maintained his belief he should be refunded the £240 he paid, and to be compensated for 
the inconvenience he suffered. Our investigator considered these points, but their outcome 
remained the same. Mr A continued to disagree and so, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr A. I dont doubt the 
inconvenience Mr A wouldve been caused by the breakdown, and how this wouldve been 
made worse by the fact it happened while he was travelling to his holiday destination. And I 
appreciate Mr A purchased the Breakdown Cover insurance policy with UKI to help assist 
him both practically and financially in situations such as the one he found himself in. So, as 
Mr A doesnt think UKI did this, I can understand why hed feel unfairly treated and want to 
be reimbursed for the costs he paid, as well as compensated for the inconvenience he 
suffered. 
But for me to say UKI should refund Mr A, or compensate him additionally, I first need to be 
satisfied theyve done something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied they failed to act within 
the terms and conditions of the policy Mr A held when processing the claim as they did. Or, if 
I think they did act within these, Id need to be satisfied they acted unfairly in some other 
way. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive carefully read through the terms and conditions of the policy Mr A held, thinking about 
the level of cover hed paid for. And these explain that if Mr A broke down, they would come 
out to you if your vehicles broken down a quarter of a mile or more from your home. Its not 
dispute Mr A was broken down more than a quarter of a mile away, and I can see UKI 
instructed T to attend Mr As car, and T did so within an hour of them receiving notification.
The terms go onto explain that If we come out to your vehicle but cant get it going, well 
take you, your vehicle and your passengers to one of our repairers, no matter how far away 
that is. If you prefer we can take you to a single destination somewhere else, as long as its 
10 miles or less from where the breakdown happened.
In this situation, T was unable to repair Mr As car at the breakdown location. While I note Mr 
A states T shouldve been able to do so, and hes questioned the validity of the diagnostic 
results T obtained, UKI have confirmed that even if T had been able to identify the fault could 
be repaired solely with a replacement spark plug, this wouldnt have been a possibility at the 
roadside as T didnt carry a replacement spark plug, and they would be unable to complete 
all the tests required to confirm a full repair. So, I think its reasonable for me to assume that 
T would never have been able to get Mr As car going at the roadside.
So, in this situation, Mr A had two options available to him which was to have his car 
recovered to a garage, or to be recovered to another location which Mr A chose to be his 
home address. And from UKIs system notes, Im satisfied Mr A was presented with both these options. And I think he was made reasonably aware recovery to his home address, 
would incur an additional cost due its distance. And he chose this option knowing this.
But I recognise Mr A thinks that, had T diagnosed his car correctly, he wouldve chosen to 
take his car to a garage, rather than be recovered home. First, I want to state clearly that, 
while I do recognise Ts diagnostics differed from the one of Mr As local mechanic a few 
weeks later, Ive seen nothing to suggest Ts diagnostics were incorrect at the time they 
were undertaken. And Ive seen nothing to suggest the equipment T used was in any way 
faulty. So, I dont think UKI were unfair to rely on the information these tests provided to T, 
and I dont think there was anything to suggest UKI shouldve instructed a separate 
mechanic to rerun them.
But even if this was the case, and I follow Mr As train of thought that T shouldve been able 
to tell him a replacement spark plug was needed, I dont think I can be sure that this 
wouldve changed the decision Mr A made at the time, or that it wouldve mitigated the 
inconvenience caused to him.
This is because by this time, it was already mid-afternoon on the day in question. So, I dont 
think I can be satisfied beyond reasonable doubt that Mr A wouldve been recovered to a 
garage that had the part, and labour, availability to complete the repair on that day. And Mr A 
was already aware he wasnt entitled to a courtesy car on his policy, nor was he able to hire 
a car himself and continue with his holiday which was, from what Ive seen, his main priority. 
Because of this, I dont think I can be satisfied Mr A wouldve chosen this option at that time, 
considering he was still able to be recovered home and this option allowed him to continue 
with his holiday as he wanted.
 So, because of the above, Im satisfied UKI acted within the terms of the policy when 
processing Mr As claim. And I think they acted fairly when doing so. And for these reasons, I 
dont think UKI need to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr A was hoping for. And I want to reassure Mr A I dont 
dispute the situation wouldve been inconvenient for him and I do appreciate hes been 
impacted financially. But crucially, when a car breaks down, it is to be expected that there 
will be a level of inconvenience caused, and this isnt the fault of UKI. And, while I dont 
doubt looking back retrospectively Mr A now feels he wouldve chosen a different option, my 
decision focuses solely on the actions UKI took at the time, based on the information they 
had available to them in the moment. And this is the same for the decisions Mr A made 
himself. So, while I understand Mr As holistic view after the event, Im not satisfied that UKI 
did something wrong that prevented Mr A from making an informed decision at the point his 
car had broken down.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint about U K Insurance Limited 
trading as Green Flag.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman