DRN-2485826
The complaint
Mr F, Mr I and Mrs W complain that Lloyds Bank PLC is refusing to allow them to withdraw 
items from a safety deposit box, and about related issues.
What happened
At some time in the 1950s or 1960s, Mrs Ws father deposited some jewellery in a safety 
deposit box with a branch of Lloyds Bank. (In 2012 the jewellery was valued at nearly one 
million pounds.) Since then, that branch has closed, and Lloyds says that the jewellery was 
moved securely to another branch, a claim which has been challenged by the complainants.
Following the deaths of Mrs Ws father and her uncles, the title to the jewellery was 
contested by various family members for around thirty years or more. This eventually led to a 
deed of settlement being agreed (and ratified by a consent order) in 2014, between the two 
other complainants in this case: Mrs Ws cousin, Mr I, and the executor of their late aunts 
estate, Mr F. Mrs W was not a party to the settlement deed, but I am not aware of any 
dispute between the three complainants. (The settlement deed does not appear to extend to 
Mrs Ws jewellery.)
The essence of this complaint is that the complainants would like to have their jewellery 
back, and Lloyds wont let them; nor has it allowed them to even inspect the jewellery since 
the 2012 valuation. For a few years, Mr B has been writing to Lloyds and to Lloyds solicitors 
to ask for the jewellery to be returned, and Mr I complains that Lloyds did not even reply to 
this correspondence, thereby causing him considerable inconvenience. (I have not gone into 
more detail here, as to do so might compromise the identity of the complainants when this 
decision is published, but I have noted that the need to recover the jewellery became urgent, 
and an important deadline was missed.) As time went on, the complainants began to 
suspect that Lloyds had lost the safety deposit box, an allegation which Lloyds denied. Mr I 
also complains about the jewellery being moved to another branch without his consent when 
the original branch was closed. He is also concerned about whether this was done in a safe 
and secure manner.
Lloyds position is that the ownership of the jewellery is still uncertain, and that if it released 
the jewellery to the complainants, there would remain a risk to the bank that third parties 
might seek to claim the jewellery in the future. The complainants and Mr B are adamant that 
this is not the case, arguing that the settlement deed and the consent order have resolved 
the issue of ownership once and for all, and that there are no other people with a potential 
claim to the jewellery. Lloyds disagrees, pointing out that the only parties to the settlement 
are Mr I and Mr F, so anyone else would not be bound by it. Lloyds also denies that it failed 
to reply to Mr Bs letters, and maintains that the jewellery was moved to a new branch in a 
secure manner and that it remains there today.
Having reached an impasse, the complainants brought this complaint to our Service. Mr I 
and Mr F are represented in this complaint by a solicitor, who I will call Mr B. Mrs W has 
asked Mr I to represent her (although that does not mean that Mr B also represents her, and 
I have not inferred that he does). Mr I has also made his own submissions in support of this 
complaint.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said it was outside his remit to determine 
who owned the jewellery, and that his only role was to decide whether the bank had acted 
reasonably. He found merit in the banks concerns, since it had a duty not to release assets 
to the wrong people, and he thought Lloyds had acted reasonably after taking advice from its 
lawyers. He didnt agree that Lloyds had needed Mr Is permission to move the safety 
deposit box to another branch when the first branch closed, and he said hed seen no 
evidence that the box had not been moved securely.
Mr B did not accept that opinion. He insisted that the consent order was sufficient evidence 
of ownership, and that any other possible beneficiaries were irrelevant to that agreement. He 
wrote: The complete title is vested in [Mr I] and [Mr F], who can give a complete and 
unconditional discharge to the bank. He went on to say that the question of other claimants 
was never explained by the bank. He submitted that any other possible claimants (without 
conceding that there were any) could only claim through the estate of Mr Is grandmother. 
He alleged that only Mr F, and not the bank, would be liable if any claimants came to light 
after the jewellery was released to his clients. He said the issue of his ignored 
correspondence had not been addressed. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is important to note that Mr F only represents the estate of the other complainants 
aunt, not the estate of their grandmother. I have seen the grant of probate making Mr F the 
personal representative of the aunts estate, but I have not been shown any similar 
document for the grandmothers estate. So Mr F cannot speak for any potential claimants 
who may have a claim through the grandmothers estate.
I have read the settlement deed, and while it divides most of the jewellery between Mr I and 
Mr F, clause 1.3 refers to a brooch which is to be sold, and the proceeds of the sale are to 
be divided equally between the surviving heirs of the descendants of [the grandmother] in 
accordance with their respective legal entitlements. Their respective legal entitlements is 
not explained or elaborated upon. But in two letters Mr B wrote to Lloyds on 15 July 2015 
and 19 September 2017, he said that the brooch belongs to the six surviving families of the 
grandmother, and that the proceeds of the sale will be divided between various members of 
the estates of [the grandmothers husbands] six children. So the risk of other family 
members with claims on the jewellery, not being members of the late aunts estate and not 
represented by Mr F, or by Mr I or Mrs W, is not merely speculative or technical, and I do not 
find fault with Lloyds for being concerned about it. The complainants in this case only 
represent half of the family at most.
It is also important to keep in mind that the settlement deed and consent order are only 
binding on Mr I and Mr F. They do not bind anyone else, and cannot prejudice or determine 
any claims brought by third parties. I consider Mr Bs reliance on these documents to be 
misconceived. They are certainly not the conclusive evidence of ownership they have been 
represented as being, and I think that Lloyds was right to be circumspect about its probative 
value.
Mr B has advanced some legal arguments about the rules of probate and intestacy, but 
these appear to have been based on the assumption that Mr F is entitled to speak for 
everyone who might have a right to inherit the jewellery, other than Mr I and Mrs W. I do not think that is right. I also think that the situation might be more complicated than Mr B says it 
is, because there is evidence (in a will executed in 1971) that the lack of clarity over who 
owns what actually pre-dates the deaths of Mr Is uncles and aunt. So it cannot be assumed 
that the wills of the family members, or the rules of intestacy, will necessarily hold the 
complete answer to the problem. One cannot bequeath what one did not own in his or her 
lifetime.
It is not my role to decide who owns the jewellery. That is not Lloyds role either. Rather, the 
banks duty is not to release property to someone whose claim on that property is in doubt. 
I recognise that these complainants have no doubt about who the jewellery belongs to, but 
I am satisfied that Lloyds and Lloyds lawyers were entitled to take a different view.
Lloyds did not simply refuse to hand over the jewellery. In a letter to Mr B dated 4 September 
2018, Lloyds solicitors proposed three possible solutions to the problem, which may have 
enabled Lloyds to release the jewellery to the complainants. These were:
To obtain (at Mr Is and Mr Fs expense) a court order on which Lloyds could rely (i.e. 
not the consent order, but an order based on findings made by a court);
The complainants could pay for a missing beneficiary insurance policy in favour of 
Lloyds; or
The complainants could provide personal indemnities to Lloyds, promising to 
reimburse the bank for any damages obtained against it by any future claimants in 
respect of the jewellery.
None of those offers were taken up. But they still remain available as potential ways of 
resolving this dispute. I encourage the complainants to consider them.
Turning to the other complaint points, I dont agree that a bank needs its customers 
permission to move a safety deposit box from a branch which is closing to another branch.  
Both branches were in the same city. There is no evidence that the box was not moved in a 
secure and proper manner, or that it is missing.
I have seen the letters written to Lloyds in 2016 and 2017. I have seen no evidence that 
Lloyds replied to any of these letters earlier than February 2018. I have asked Lloyds for any 
evidence it might have to show that it did, but ironically I have received no reply. So I am 
minded to uphold the complaint about this issue. I cannot punish Lloyds by fining it, I can 
only award compensation for the inconvenience. Even if Lloyds had responded to all of the 
letters, I still dont think the jewellery would have been released in time to meet the important 
deadline to which I have referred, because it is now three years since Lloyds did finally begin 
to correspond and the matter of the safety deposit box has still not been resolved. So I wont 
award compensation for the missed deadline. For failing to reply to letters, I provisionally 
think £250 is in line with what this Service would typically award.
Responses to my provisional decision
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision. It investigated the issue of the letters which had 
not been replied to, and concluded that they had probably been overlooked. It agreed to pay 
£250. None of the complainants responded to my provisional decision. So there is no need 
for me to depart from or reconsider my provisional findings, and I confirm them here.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr I £250.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F, Mr I and Mrs 
W to accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2021. (Mr F and Mrs W may authorise Mr I 
or Mr B to reply on their behalf.)
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman