DRN-4250435
The complaint
Mr F complains that Volvo Car UK Limited trading as Care by Volvo UK (CVUK) unfairly 
charged him an excess mileage charge when his new car was delayed.
What happened
Mr F entered into a hire agreement with CVUK in May 2021. In February 2022, he told 
CVUK that he wanted to end his 2021 agreement and take out a new agreement for a 
different car. The new car was ordered but Mr F say the delivery was delayed which meant 
he went over the agreed mileage on his existing car. He says that had he received the new 
car within the timeframe he had been told he wouldnt have exceeded the mileage and 
incurred the charge. Mr F also said that when he collected the new car, he had wanted it to 
have the 23 registration plates and not his private registration plates. 
CVUK said that when Mr F ordered his car in May 2021, he selected an annual mileage of 
12,000 miles per year. In February 2022, he placed an order for a new car. CVUK says that 
it emailed Mr F twice to advise him of price changes should he wish to increase his mileage 
allowance, but it didnt receive a response. Mr F then contacted it to say he wanted his 
excess mileage charged reduced due to the delay in receiving his new car. CVUK said that 
its terms and conditions set out that delivery time frames are an estimate and subject to 
change and that the terms clearly set out the charges for excess mileage. Therefore, it didnt 
uphold this part of his complaint. 
Mr F also raised a complaint about the transfer of his private plates. CVUK said that Mr F 
was sent an email in March 2023 to confirm he could have his private plates added to his 
new car on 11 March 2023. It said the information provided was clear and confirmed that the 
private plates could be transferred to Mr Fs new car to coincide with the handover date. 
Therefore, it didnt uphold this part of his complaint. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that although Mr F had wanted the 
new car in June 2022, it wasnt available due to factors outside of CVUKs control. She noted 
the terms set out that CVUK wouldnt be in breach in these circumstances and that there 
was no guarantee of a set delivery date. She said that CVUK had told Mr F that his existing 
agreement could be amended to include a higher mileage allowance, but Mr F didnt take up 
this option. She found the excess mileage had been applied correctly and so didnt require 
CVUK to do anything in regard to this part of Mr Fs complaint.  
Regarding Mr Fs complaint about his private registration plates, our investigator noted that 
while there may have been some confusion over whether Mr F wanted to transfer his private 
plates, or for the new car to have the 23 registration plates, it was Mr Fs responsibility to 
arrange with the DVLA for the private plates to be removed from the car he was handing 
back. She noted the costs charged being a £30 administration cost and £80 to the DVLA to 
place the private plates on retention and said that the £80 cost was set by the DVLA and that 
the £30 fee was set out in CVUKs terms and so she didnt require CVUK to do anything 
further in regard to these costs.
Mr F didnt agree with our investigators view. He said his hire agreement didnt mention 
anything about delays in the delivery of a car.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two parts to Mr Fs complaint. The first that he was charged excess mileage which 
he doesnt think he should pay as he says he only incurred this cost because of the delay in 
his new car being delivered. Second that his private registration plates were transferred to 
his new car rather than the car being provided with the new 23 registration plate as he had 
requested. 
I have considered both of the complaint points separately.
Excess mileage
Mr F entered into a hire agreement with CVUK in May 2021. This agreement sets out the 
excess mileage charge as £0.20 (20p) per mile if the annual base mileage is exceeded. The 
terms and conditions set out further details about the mileage allowance, how this is 
amended depending on how long the car is kept and how to request a change to the 
allowance if needed. The handover document from June 2021 includes Mr Fs mileage 
allowance as 24,000 miles which CVUK has explained is for a 24-month period. Mr F was 
aware of his mileage allowance being 12,000 miles a year and based on the information 
provided to him in the hire agreement and terms I find he was made aware of the costs 
involved in exceeding this.
CVUK said that Mr F contacted it in February 2022 to discuss his mileage allowance as well 
as upgrading his car. At that time CVUK said Mr F was exceeding his mileage allowance by 
5,139 miles. CVUK then emailed Mr F on two separate occasions providing him details of 
the costs involved with increasing his mileage allowance. While I note Mr Fs comment that 
he had no specified timeframe for the delivery of his new car and he thought he could keep 
within the mileage limit, I find that CVUK did try to support him and provide him with options 
to avoid or reduce his excess mileage.
Mr F ordered a new car in February 2022, which he expected to be delivered in June 2022. 
Mr F said that he was taking a long trip in September 2022 which increased his mileage, and 
as the new car wasnt delivered until March 2023 his mileage increased further. Mr F said 
that had the new car been delivered in June 2022 he would have been able to keep within 
his allowance. 
I understand the point Mr F has raised and can see in the terms and conditions of the hire 
agreement that it says he can switch his car at any point so long as he has had the current 
car for at least three months. It then says that depending on the availability of the car the 
customer wishes to switch to the switch may take three months or more to achieve. So, 
while I appreciate that Mr F made his request in February 2022 and was expecting to get the 
new car in June 2022, this wasnt guaranteed. CVUK has explained the circumstances the 
motor industry was facing at the time and the disruption that was being caused to supply 
chains which were causing delays. So, while I understand that Mr F had wanted to receive 
the new car sooner than March 2023, as I have nothing to show he was guaranteed a 
delivery before then - and based on his comments he was made aware of the timing for the 
delivery - I do not find I can say that the delay in delivery means that CVUK should not be 
able to charge for the excess mileage.Mr F benefitted from the additional mileage he drove and was aware of the cost this would 
incur and so I do not find I can uphold this part of his complaint.
Registration plates
I have listened to the call provided by CVUK from March 2023, when the issue of the private 
registration plates is discussed. It appears from the call that CVUK had become aware that 
Mr F may not wish to switch his private plates from the existing car to the new car and they 
were checking this. I can understand why Mr F was frustrated by the outcome of the call as 
he was told if he didnt want to transfer his private plates, he would need to have these 
removed from his existing car and placed on retention before the car was returned and that 
this could take up to six weeks. As Mr F was taking delivery of the car a few days later this 
didnt allow him the time to do this without delaying getting the new car. 
Mr F mentions on the call that he had discussed the registration plates a couple of months 
prior and wasnt told about this issue. I havent any details of this call but clearly it would 
have been helpful if Mr F had been provided with the information about his private plates 
earlier. That said, it was Mr Fs responsibility to return the car without the private plates and 
he could have contacted CVUK or the DVLA to understand the steps he needed to take to 
do this. Mr F said on the call that he would take the new car with his private plates being 
transferred. As this was agreed, I find it reasonable that he was charged the £80 DVLA fee 
as well as the £30 administration fee which is set out in the hire agreement terms and 
conditions.
In conclusion, while I understand why Mr F is upset by the issues he experienced; in this 
case I do not find I can say that CVUK was wrong to take the action it did. Therefore, I do not 
uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman