DRN-3059916
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in November 
2001. Ms G says AXA France IARD mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Ms Gs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Ms Gs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Gs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Ms Gs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think AXA made it clear that Ms G didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take 
it out. Ill explain why. 
AXA has provided a copy of the application form Ms G completed at the time of sale. 
Within this application form, I can see there is a separate section called: Protecting Your 
Account. The form goes on to give a brief description of the cover and the applicant the 
option of adding PPI to their account. The applicant then needed to indicate if they 
wanted the cover by placing a cross next to the statement and signing next to this 
statement. On Ms Gs form she has placed a cross in the relevant section, indicating that 
she wanted the cover.  
If Ms G didnt want the cover, she couldve left this section blank, like she had for other 
sections on the form for additional products. I dont know what was discussed at the time 
Ms G took out the card, but I would have expected Ms G to have had an opportunity to 
read over the form and raise any questions she had at the time before signing it. Taking 
everything into account, I think its more likely that Ms G knew the policy was optional 
and she agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Ms G - so it didnt have to check that the PPI was right 
or suitable for her. But it did have to give Ms G enough clear and timely information so 
she could decide for herself if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information AXA gave Ms G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Ms G  for example she wasnt affected 
by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. It also wasnt too dissimilar to what 
she reasonably thought she was buying from the information she was given. It also looks 
like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for her if something 
went wrong. Ms G has referred to her employee benefits and says they wouldve 
covered her if she was made redundant or unwell. The PPI wouldve paid out alongside 
these employee benefits, and for longer. Ms G has also referred to the savings she had 
at the time, but the PPI wouldve allowed her to preserve these. So overall I dont think 
Ms G would have declined the cover had AXA done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Ms Gs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations, 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I think she would have 
still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Ms G would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Ms Gs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Ms Gs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Ms Gs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Ms Gs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Ms Gs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman