DRN-2243088
The complaint
Mr K complains that U K Insurance Limited mishandled his claim on a motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
For the year from 5 February 2016, Mr K had a comprehensive insurance policy for his car. 
UKI was the insurance company responsible for dealing with claims.
In June 2016, Mr K had a daughter and a grand-daughter who were aunt and niece to each 
other and aged 15 or 16. 
Mr K reported that, while he was driving his daughter and grand-daughters as passengers.  
an untraced driver had caused an accident and injured them on 24 June 2016.
MIB (Motor Insurers Bureau) stood in the position of the insurer of the untraced driver. 
In June 2018, MIB turned down the claims of Mr K, his daughter and grand-daughter. They 
appealed but on 29 October 2018 an arbitrator dismissed their appeals.
On 8 November 2019, UKI wrote to legal representatives of the daughter and grand-
daughter to turn down their claims.
On 15 January 2020 Mr K complained to UKI that it hadnt repaired his vehicle or dealt with 
the injury claims. Also on 15 January 2020, UKI wrote to Mr K setting out the reasons for its 
decision not to settle the claims for vehicle damage and personal injury.
Mr K contacted us on 27 January 2020. UKI wrote a final response letter dated 26 February 
2020.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that it 
was reasonable for UKI to be guided by the MIB and the understandable concerns which 
had been expressed.
Mr K disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He and the children were victims of a criminal hit and run.
He called UKI on 15 July 2016 to report details.
If the uninsured driver can't pay the compensation, then the law says MIB or UKI is 
liable to pay his car damage claim and all passengers claims.
The MIB engineers report dated 17 July 2017 said his car was damaged by another 
car and written off.
He has suffered financial loss.
He replied to UKIs letter dated 26 February 2020 on 4 March 2020.
The children still suffer symptoms of stress.
MIB said UKI is liable to pay their compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI was responsible for repair of any accident damage to Mr Ks car, subject to the terms of 
the policy. 
I havent seen any evidence that UKI insured Mr K for any injury he might suffer. For that 
reason, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint that UKI should pay his injury claim.
UKI insured Mr K against any liability he had towards third parties including his passengers. 
But Mr K maintains that the untraced driver was wholly responsible for causing the accident 
and injuries. So Mr K doesnt accept liability for the injury claims of his daughter and grand-
daughter. For that reason I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint that UKI shouldve paid their 
claims.
I accept that Mr Ks vehicle suffered damage. 
However, a Queens Counsel conducted formal arbitrations of the appeals of Mr K, his 
daughter and grand-daughter against the MIB. The QC concluded in October 2018 as 
follows:
In sum, there are just too many inconsistencies and omissions in Mr [K]s various 
accounts of the incident location, the nature of the impact and the direction of travel 
of the other vehicle; too many difficulties with his credibility; and too little support from 
the other available sources. Altogether I am not persuaded on the balance of 
probabilities that a collision occurred, whether on C Avenue or R.Avenue, for 
which an untraced driver would have been held liable. I am thus in overall agreement 
with the MIBs rejection of the claim.
It is therefore strictly unnecessary for me to consider the question of injury. However, 
it appears to me that the evidence here too is less than convincing
So the QC didnt believe Mr Ks version of events. Having read the QCs decisions in full, I 
respectfully agree with his conclusion.
So I dont consider that UKI treated Mr K unfairly by turning down his claims. And I dont find 
it fair and reasonable to direct UKI to pay the claims or to do any more in response to this 
complaint.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct U K Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman