DRN-4464849
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Stonehaven UK Ltd trading as Canada Life delayed the redemption of 
her lifetime mortgage until it was satisfied with the source of the funds she intended to use to 
repay. Shes represented in this complaint by her friend Mr P.
What happened
Mrs H had a lifetime mortgage  a form of equity release  with Canada Life. Mrs H decided 
to repay her mortgage using funds given to her by a friend, who I will call Mr P. 
Mrs H contacted Canada Life to inform it of her intention to repay her mortgage and paid the 
redemption sum on 28 October 2022. Canada Life asked her to provide evidence of the 
source of the funds used to repay the mortgage. Mrs H said that she had been given the 
money by a friend, Mr P, so Canada Life asked Mrs H to provide evidence from Mr P of the 
source of the funds used. 
Mrs H said that Mr P wasnt comfortable giving his personal financial information to Canada 
Life, a company he wasnt a customer of and with which he had no relationship. 
Canada Life explained that without satisfactory evidence of the source of the funds used to 
redeem, it wouldnt be able to accept the redemption payment and would return it to Mrs H. 
But it said that if she was able to provide acceptable evidence it would backdate the 
redemption payment to 28 October, ensuring Mrs H wasnt charged additional interest 
because of any delay. Canada Life said it had an obligation to satisfy itself that funds it 
received were from a legitimate source, and it simply required bank statements or similar 
from Mr P. 
Mr P, on Mrs Hs behalf, complained. He said Canada Life was unreasonably delaying the 
redemption of her mortgage. The information it had asked for wasnt necessary and 
amounted to an invasion of Mr Ps privacy and a breach of data protection regulations. 
Canada Life said that as the money used to redeem the mortgage had been transferred to 
Mrs H on the same day as she used it to pay Canada Life, it had an obligation to satisfy itself 
of the ultimate source of the funds. It offered various options, including Mr P providing the 
evidence directly rather than via Mrs H. And it said he could do so by sending in the 
evidence, by showing it to a member of Canada Life staff in person or on a video call, or by 
showing it to a third party such as a solicitor who could attest to the information provided. 
Mr P said that the regulations Canada Life relied on related to a firms relationship with, and 
funds received from, its customer. He was not its customer and therefore he was not obliged 
to provide, and Canada Life had no right to insist on the provision of, his personal financial 
information. He said that if Canada Life had any concerns about the source of the funds it 
should report those concerns to the relevant authorities not simply return the funds  that it 
had not done so showed that it had no reasonable concerns and should accept the payment 
without further delay. But Canada Life wouldnt progress the redemption without evidence.
Mr P provided satisfactory evidence by showing it to a member of Canada Life staff on a 
video call in early February 2023. The mortgage was redeemed as a result, with the 
redemption being backdated to 28 October. 
Mrs H and Mr P werent happy that Canada Life had insisted on seeing Mr Ps personal 
financial information, and continued with this complaint. 
Our investigator thought Canada Life had acted reasonably, so Mrs H asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I see this was originally a joint mortgage between Mrs H and her late husband, but that he 
passed away in 2021. I hope Mrs H will accept my condolences on her loss.
Following the bereavement, the mortgage continued in Mrs Hs sole name. In 2022, Mrs H 
decided to repay the mortgage in full, doing so using funds given to her by a third party  
Mr P.
Mrs H asked for a redemption statement from Canada Life, and it told her how much she 
would need to repay. It asked Mrs H for evidence of the source of the funds she was using to 
repay  Mrs H provided a bank statement showing that she had received the money from 
Mr P on the same day she transferred the funds to Canada Life.
Canada Life asked Mrs H to provide evidence of Mr Ps funds. But, as Ive set out above, 
Mr P was unwilling to share his personal financial information with Canada Life on the basis 
that he was not a customer of Canada Life and had no relationship with it. After lengthy 
correspondence and this complaint, Mr P did eventually agree to show Canada Life his bank 
statement showing that the funds transferred to Mrs H were his and the redemption 
progressed. 
I understand Mrs H and Mr P were unhappy about this. They didnt think it was necessary or 
reasonable for Canada Life to request evidence from Mr P; they think Canada Life delayed 
the redemption unnecessarily and didnt communicate its requirements properly; and theyre 
concerned it now holds Mr Ps financial information without proper justification.
Ive taken into account everything theyve said about this. But ultimately I dont think it would 
be fair to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not unreasonable for Canada Life to ask Mrs H to show where she obtained the funds to 
repay her lifetime mortgage. It takes the view that it was required to do so under relevant 
money laundering and other regulations. A lifetime mortgage isnt designed to be repaid 
during the lifetime of the borrower, and while permitted under the terms and conditions doing 
so is relatively unusual. So it wasnt unreasonable for Canada Life to ask Mrs H to 
demonstrate that the funds to repay it were hers  Im satisfied it would have asked the 
same questions of any other borrower in her position.
In fact, of course the funds werent Mrs Hs  or rather they were, but only because they had 
been gifted to her on the same day she paid Canada Life  and so enquiring into the source 
of the funds Mrs H used to repay her loan meant enquiring not just of Mrs H but also of Mr P. 
Canada Life wanted to understand that the funds he had chosen to give Mrs H were his and 
not from some other source. Financial services firms engaged in large transactions like this one have an obligation to 
satisfy themselves that the money they are receiving is from a legitimate source. Making 
checks on that in this case doesnt mean Canada Life had particular suspicions about Mrs H 
and Mr P, it just means that it carries out checks in every case, including this one, to satisfy 
itself that the funds are legitimate and that it has no cause for further concern. If it had simply 
stopped its checks at Mrs H, all it would have seen were that she had received funds from a 
third party on the same day as she repaid her mortgage and which she used for that 
purpose. It wouldnt have told it anything about the ultimate source of the funds.
Im therefore satisfied it was reasonable for Canada Life to request further information from 
or about Mr P and the source of the funds he had gifted to Mrs H  to satisfy itself of the 
ultimate source of the funds Mrs H used to repay the mortgage. Mr P wasnt obliged to 
respond, and Canada Life couldnt insist on him providing the information. But it was 
reasonable for Canada Life to make clear it wouldnt accept the funds from Mrs H and would 
return them to her unless it received the information it asked for.
It seems that it was only after Mrs H paid the funds to Canada Life that it made these 
enquiries of her. I do think it ought to have told Mrs H when she first asked for a redemption 
figure that it would also need her to explain where the funds came from. But ultimately I dont 
think it would have made any difference  Canada Life would still have needed the same 
information, Mrs H and Mr P would still have contested the need to provide it, and so the 
redemption of the mortgage wouldnt have happened any quicker.
In any case, I think Canada Life has done enough to put things right in this respect. When it 
received the funds, it held them rather than applying them to Mrs Hs mortgage in case it 
needed to return them if it didnt receive satisfactory evidence. When Mr P did provide 
Canada Life with proof of funds in February 2023, Canada Life then applied the funds to 
Mrs Hs mortgage and removed all interest charged since she first made payment on 
28 October. So to the extent that  in not making it clear sooner what it needed  Canada 
Life is responsible for any delay in the mortgage being redeemed, it has put that right by 
ensuring that Mrs H was only required to pay the sum due on 28 October 2022, even though 
her mortgage wasnt redeemed until over three months later. 
In conclusion, Im satisfied that Canada Lifes requests for further information were 
reasonable and Im satisfied that it has ensured Mrs H wasnt charged additional interest 
because it didnt make those requests clear when she first asked it about redemption. I dont 
therefore uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman