DRN-2518970
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with his home insurer, AXA Insurance UK Plc because it recorded an 
incident he notified to it against him, even though he did not pursue the matter as a claim. 
What happened
In July 2019 Mr A noticed water damage to some wallpaper at his home. He contacted AXA 
and was told there hadnt been a storm so no claim could be progressed. 
In July 2020 Mr A received his renewal documents. He noted his premium had gone up and 
the incident from the year before was detailed in the documents as a previous claim. Mr A 
was unhappy, he felt this was unfair given he hadnt pursued the incident and AXA had 
declined to progress a claim because there had not been a storm. 
AXA issued a final response to Mr A. In it AXA sought to explain that it is bound, via an 
agreement it has with an industry database provider, to log all incidents of loss  whether or 
not they result in a claim settlement. AXA felt there was nothing wrong in this particularly as 
many future insurers would likely want to know about losses, not just claims. 
Mr A felt AXA was missing the point  how could it say there had been a claim, when all he 
had done was ask it about a loss. He said recording this was a scam and the record should 
be taken down.
Our investigator felt AXA hadnt done anything wrong. He didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A 
didnt agree with the findings and asked for an ombudsmans consideration. Our investigator 
then made some further enquiries and, having seen the detail he obtained, I issued the 
following comments to both parties:  
Mr As complaint has been passed to me for decision. Prior to my completing my review, 
I need to update Mr A on some evidence that has been received since our investigator 
issued his view, and let both parties know my view on that data.
I note that in its final response AXA said it will be updating the industry database with Mr As 
claim. In short, Mr A doesnt believe there was a claim and he thinks that AXA shouldnt 
keep or make a record of it.
AXA has recently presented to us Mr As renewal document from July 2020 (attached). I can 
see this shows it recorded yes to the following question:
Had any claims or losses in the last 5 years (including whether you considered making a 
claim but did not follow this through).
Our investigator has also completed some enquiries with the industry database. The answer 
we received shows that, as yet, AXA has not recorded the damage Mr A reported to it in 
2019 on the database.
 
Mr A doesnt deny that damage occurred to his property in 2019. The renewal documents 
reflect that a claim or loss occurred. That seems accurate to me. AXA said it will record the 
fact on the database. Whilst it hasnt done that yet, it is allowed to do so. The record made 
should be accurate. At this stage Ive no reason to think it wont be.
Neither Mr A nor AXA objected to anything Id said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate it was frustrating for Mr A to see this loss recorded alongside an increase in his 
premium, when he hadnt benefitted from the policy in respect of that loss. I also see that 
Mr A became frustrated with AXA when he perceived it wasnt really answering his concerns. 
But I think its fair to say most insurers will view any notification of loss as being a potential 
claim on the policy. And its not fair to say, as Mr A has sought to suggest, that where an 
insurer denies liability for a loss, there cant have been a claim. 
Here, whilst Mr A at one point said he withdrew the claim after he found there was no 
damage to his roof, AXAs record show it declined liability for the loss when Mr A notified it of 
it because there hadnt been a storm. Whilst an enquiry in respect of home emergency cover 
was also made, Mr A was advised the policy didnt offer cover in respect of flat roofs. So 
I dont think any claims under the policy were progressed beyond the stage of a loss being 
notified.
However, insurers do want to know about losses as well as claims. Claims and/or losses can 
impact the insurers decision on cover and will sometimes affect what premium it chooses to 
offer in exchange for providing the cover. Policyholders have a duty to take reasonable care 
when arranging cover and at renewal to answer questions accurately. In the case of Mr As 
July 2020 renewal, AXA updated the policy with the information it had and answered the 
question about claims and/or losses on Mr As behalf. I think the answer it gave to that 
question was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
AXA has indicated that it will be recording this incident on the industry database. Its allowed 
to do that. AXA should ensure it does that accurately.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman