DRN-3154642
The complaint
Mr P, a named driver under Miss Es car insurance policy has complained about repairs 
carried out when they made a claim to Aviva Insurance Limited. 
What happened
In February 2021 Mr P made a claim following a minor incident. The insurer, Aviva arranged 
for an approved repairer (AR) to carry out cosmetic repairs to the front right tyre and wheel. 
Mr Ps car was returned to him following repairs. When Mr P attempted to reverse his car, it 
wouldnt work. Mr P called Aviva. It said the failing must have been coincidental. It said the 
repairs carried out by the AR were in relation to the bodywork and not related to any 
mechanical part of the car. This meant there was no need for the AR to look at the gearbox. 
Mr P complained to Aviva, But it said its decision was correct. It said the AR had carried out 
a geometry test and had test driven the car before arranging its return and found no faults. 
Aviva said Mr P was free to take the car to his preferred garage for assessment. If it reported 
damage attributed to the incident or the repair, Aviva would reopen his complaint. 
Mr P asked us to look at his complaint. 
Our investigator considered the likely possible outcomes as to the cause of damage: that the 
gearbox was damaged in the incident, that the AR caused damage to the gearbox, or that 
the damage occurred due to wear and tear as Aviva concluded. 
The investigator found no evidence to show that the first two outcomes were likely. So he 
thought on balance it was more likely that the cars failure to reverse was most likely as a 
result of wear and tear. 
Mr P didnt agree. He says the car was working before it went to the AR, the damage was to 
the front of the car and so its possible the gearbox was damaged. Hes unhappy that Aviva 
refused to instruct an independent engineer to inspect his car. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ps upset  as he says the car was working mechanically fine before the 
incident and before repairs were carried out by the AR. 
In March 2021 Aviva spoke to the AR about Mr Ps complaint. The AR told Aviva that they 
carried out a geometry check on the vehicle which showed the right front corner, where they 
replaced the tyre and refurbished the wheel, was already within tolerance. The AR said this 
would suggest that there was only a very light impact to this wheel, and that it wouldn't have 
been sufficient to have passed this impact through the driveshaft into the gearbox causing a 
fault.
The AR said they had road-tested the car when repairs had been completed and drove it 
around the yard and in out of their workshop and found no faults. 
I understand Mr P doesnt think it fair that Aviva didnt arrange an independent inspection. 
However I think it acted reasonably and the information provided doesnt indicate that the 
repairs carried out  or the incident  would have had any impact on the failing of the 
gearbox. Aviva told Mr P in response to his complaint:
As discussed today, I have suggested that you take your vehicle to a repairer of your 
choice and if they find that the fault can be attributed to the incident or the repair, to 
come back to us, we will reopen the complaint, and we will review again.
I havent seen anything to suggest Mr P did this. And while I understand he disagrees; I think 
this was a fair and reasonable approach for Aviva to take. 
So taking everything into account, I think Aviva dealt with the complaint in a reasonable way. 
This means I dont think it needs to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 December 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman