DRN-2762532
The complaint
 Mr S complains about the time it took for Citibank UK Limited (Citibank) to process a 
payment. He would like more compensation than the £25 Citibank has offered.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on the reasons for my decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I agree with our investigator for the following reasons: -
The delay in the payment Mr S made being deposited into his account was, I believe, 
down to a third party. The funds were credited to Mr Ss account by Citibank the day 
it received them.
I appreciate that, as Mr S deposited the money on 29 May 2020 and it didnt appear 
into his account until 15 June 2020, this would have caused him some concern. And 
some inconvenience in chasing up the payment.
Citibank has offered £25 compensation which I understand Mr S has declined. I think 
its appropriate for it to make some payment as I do think it has some responsibility 
for the actions of third parties it chooses to use.
Mr S hasnt given us any evidence of any significant loss as a result of the delay in 
the payment being made to his account. I appreciate he went into the bank to chase 
up the deposit which would have caused him some inconvenience. But in the 
circumstances, I think the £25 Citibank has offered is reasonable to cover his costs 
and the small delay in the payment being credited to his account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Citibank UK Limited should , if it has not done so already, pay Mr 
S £25 for the distress and inconvenience for the delay in crediting funds to his account.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman
