DRN-3690825
The complaint
Miss F has complained about the way J D Williams & Company Limited trading as Simply Be 
(JD Williams) is administering a catalogue account. 
What happened
Miss F wanted to buy some goods from JD Williams in October 2021. She says she 
contacted a third-party creditor, that Ill call K, and arranged a one-time card with it to use to 
purchase the goods on JD Williams website. Miss F says JD Williams cancelled the 
payment but fulfilled the order using an old catalogue account she had set up with it. She 
received the goods. But Miss F says JD Williams did this without her permission. She says 
shes spent time trying to sort this out.
JD Williams responded to Miss Fs complaint. It said when customers place orders online, 
they have the option to pay for goods in full at the time of purchase. Alternatively, they have 
the option to purchase using a catalogue credit account. It said Miss F opened an account 
with it in 2010, and that she was presented with the terms and conditions at the time. It said 
it checked the order shed made in October 2021 and said there was no record of any 
attempt to order and pay by card. It said when a card payment is attempted it is normally 
captured on its internal system. But there was no record of that. However, it said that as a 
gesture of goodwill it removed a credit charge of £8.54 and administration charges totalling 
£24. It said Miss Fs account balance was therefore £104.82 which was for goods only. 
Miss F brought her complaint to our service. She provided a screenshot from K showing 
details of a one-time card. This was for £152 and it had JD Williams trading name on it. It 
said it was created on 28 October 2021 and the status said it was cancelled.
Our investigator looked into things and contacted JD Williams for information. JD Williams 
reiterated Miss F would have been presented with two options at checkout. The first would 
have been to place the order on her credit account and the second would be to pay for the 
order in full. The way this would be presented is determined by which platform Miss F used 
to access its site. JD Williams says the amount of credit to spend is shown in the box 
offering the option to place the order onto the account. And it supplied an example 
screenshot of this. 
JD Williams acknowledged Miss F had supplied a screenshot of her one-time card, but it 
noted this said it was cancelled. JD Williams looked at Ks website and noted the one-time 
card would be cancelled if not used within 24 hours. JD Williams said it didnt think Miss F 
could have used the option to pay by card. It said if a card payment had been declined it 
would have asked for card details to be updated. It wouldnt automatically place the order on 
the credit account. It had no record of Miss F having attempted the payment by card.
JD Williams explained the order confirmation screen confirms the method of payment used 
once the order is processed. It also said it sent statements through the post advising the 
balance was due. 
Our investigator didnt make any recommendations. On balance, he didnt think the order 
would automatically have been put on Miss Fs JD Williams account. He said Miss F wanted 
the goods and so the balance should be payable. He said she could have returned the 
goods, and he also said JD Williams offered to remove the charges and interest, so Miss F 
was only required to pay the cash amount of the goods. He thought this was fair. Finally, he 
also highlighted JD Williams had defaulted the account and passed it on to a debt collector 
in August 2022. But as Miss F hadnt paid anything for around a year, he didnt think this was 
unfair. 
Miss F didnt agree. She said shed provided evidence of how the order was made. And she 
highlighted JD Williams hadnt provided evidence she made the order using her catalogue 
account with it. She reiterated she made the purchase using a card, but this was cancelled 
by JD Williams or K and that JD Williams had added the goods to her catalogue account 
without her permission. 
I issued a provisional decision that said:
JD Williams asked Miss F to pay for the goods under a catalogue account. This is a 
regulated running account credit agreement, and our service is able to consider complaints 
relating to these sorts of agreements. 
I should first point out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory 
(as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.
On the one hand, the evidence shows Miss F did apply to K for a one-time card to use to 
purchase goods from JD Williams. So I dont doubt this is what she intended to do. But on 
the other hand, JD Williams has said it would not automatically place the goods on the 
catalogue account if a card payment fails. It says its systems dont work this way. So whats 
the most likely thing to have happened?
It seems that there are only two possibilities here. First is that Miss F has accidentally 
selected to pay for the goods using her catalogue account. From looking at the example 
screenshots of the checkout pages, I can see how that could happen. The catalogue and 
card payment options are next to each other. It also looks like Miss F had previously bought 
goods from JD Williams using her catalogue account. I can see goods were bought in May 
2021, a few months prior to the disputed order. So she could easily have simply made a 
mistake and selected the wrong option.
The second possibility is that there was some sort of system issue and that either 
JD Williams or K has declined the one-time card payment (that Miss F says was valid at the 
time of purchase) and that it has then incorrectly automatically applied the purchase to her 
catalogue account. Given it seems like theres two things going wrong in that scenario, while 
of course, its possible, I dont think I can say its the most likely thing to have happened. 
The evidence doesnt prove beyond doubt what happened. But as I said above, I have to 
decide things on the balance of probabilities. I think its more likely than not that Miss F did 
incorrectly select to use her JD Williams catalogue account. But even if that werent the 
case, I think its really important to note that JD Williams offered to remove the interest and 
charges from the purchase when it sent Miss F its final response. Its not in dispute that 
Miss F wanted the goods. She received them, so its only fair that she pays for them. I think 
JD Williams could have responded to her complaint sooner. But when it did, it offered to put 
her in a fair position. So, at the time of the final response at least, I dont find there are 
grounds to say JD Williams should have offered something more. In all the circumstances, I find its offer to remove the charges and interest in the final response was fair and 
reasonable. 
Our investigator also commented on what happened more recently, in that JD Williams has 
defaulted the account and passed the debt to a debt collector. This didnt form part of 
Miss Fs complaint she brought to our service. It wasnt referred to in the final response 
because it hadnt happened. And weve not been supplied the evidence to fully investigate 
this part of the complaint. So Im not intending to include findings on that as part of this 
decision. 
Therefore, while I know itll disappoint Miss F, Im not intending to direct JD Williams to take 
any action in relation to the complaint she referred to us. 
JD Williams hasnt submitted anything further. A representative for Miss F responded to say 
Miss F never disputed she needed to pay for the goods. They said Miss F supplied evidence 
of the failed payment for the goods, and that JD Williams should be able to provide sufficient 
evidence the goods were ordered using a credit agreement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not been provided any new evidence, so I see no reason to depart from the conclusions 
I reached in my provisional decision. I want to thank Miss F for the response. I appreciate 
she thinks JD Williams should have been able to provide better evidence. But I can only 
base my decision on whats available. 
Miss F has said she didnt dispute she needed to pay for the goods. But the final response 
from JD Williams gave her that opportunity to pay a cash amount for the goods. And 
presumably she couldve sent the goods back as well shortly after receiving them if shed 
changed her mind. So even if JD Williams had made a mistake in adding the order to the 
credit agreement, she had a way to resolve the situation without financial loss or significant 
detriment caused. 
Therefore, Im not intending to direct JD Williams to take any further action in relation to the 
complaint Miss F brought to us. For the avoidance of doubt, Ive made no finding on 
JD Williams decision to register a default. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I think J D Williams & Company Limited trading as Simply Bes offer 
in its final response to remove charges and interest is fair. Im not intending to direct it to 
take any further action.                                                                   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman