DRN-2962884
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E say Lloyds Bank PLC (trading at the time as Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-
sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1995. Mr and Mrs E paid for the PPI 
with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered them in case either 
one or both of them were off work sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs E disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Es case. 
I have not found this policy to have been mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was over two and a half decades ago, and the accounts involved have long since 
closed. So its understandable that neither side have been able to produce all the original 
documents from the sale. Indeed, under data protection rules Lloyds was required to dispose 
of Mr and Mrs Es data rather than hold onto it for too long. Ive thought carefully about 
whats most likely to have happened based on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for Lloyds to have misled Mr and Mrs E into having 
PPI. And I have no evidence which shows thats what Lloyds did here. Nor have I seen any 
wider problems with its sales process from the time. And this particular sale was much too 
long ago for me to reasonably require Lloyds to be able to produce evidence from the time to 
defend itself now. So I dont have a fair basis on which to conclude that Lloyds misled Mr 
and Mrs E  theres nothing which substantiates that. I think its more likely that it followed a 
relatively normal sales process, where it offered Mr and Mrs E a choice and they chose PPI 
 though I can understand if they no longer recall doing so after so many years.
Its not clear whether Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs E, or not. The 
requirements were stricter on Lloyds if it did recommend it  so to be as fair to Mr and Mrs E 
as possible, Ill assess things as if it did. That would mean Lloyds had to check whether the 
PPI was right for Mr and Mrs E  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time, I think it was.
For example, it looks like Mr and Mrs E were eligible for the cover and werent affected by 
any of its main exclusions or limitations. The policy would have paid out on top of Mr and 
Mrs Es work benefits and offered them more comprehensive cover, such as for when their 
benefits ran out or reduced to just a fraction of their normal pay. I understand Mrs E recalls 
being entitled to a very large amount of sick pay, but the amount shes given us is 
exceptional and does not fit with what we know about sick pay entitlements for her employer 
at the time. And understandably, Mrs E hasnt been able to provide any evidence of her 
entitlement because it was so long ago. I think its most likely that she had a more normal 
entitlement, and that the PPI would have provided useful additional cover.
I understand Mr and Mrs E had other cover, such as life and critical illness insurance. But 
those were for different things than the PPI and were not alternatives to PPI, so Im afraid 
theyre not relevant here. I also understand their family may have been happy to help, but 
there was always the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. And this mortgage was 
Mr and Mrs Es responsibility, not anyone elses, so I dont think it wouldve been suitable if 
Lloyds had recommended they rely on other individuals to pay it. Its worth bearing in mind 
that if Mr and Mrs E fell behind on their mortgage, they couldve lost their home. So the PPI 
could have been useful for them in protecting their home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs E about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above, Mr and Mrs E werent affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve been useful for them in case something 
went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. 
And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs E could cancel it at any time 
without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put them off 
taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman