DRN-3462834
The complaint
Mr G complains that he made a wasted journey to a Lloyds Bank PLC branch.
What happened
Mr G says Lloyds website said his local branch was open and so travelled by taxi to deposit 
money there. He says when he arrived the branch was closed. Mr G says he would like his 
taxi cost of £24 refunded.
Lloyds says the branch should have been open on 30 December 2021 but due to staff 
shortages caused by illness it couldnt open. It says it nearest branch was just over a mile 
away which Mr G could have used. 
Mr G brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought there was another branch just over a mile away and didnt think Mr G had provided 
any evidence of the taxi cost such as a receipt.
Mr G doesnt accept that view and says he wasnt in the wrong.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Lloyds has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I appreciate Mr G will be disappointed by my decision and make clear that I am 
not suggesting he was in the wrong as he says.
I have no doubt Mr G was caused frustration when he attended the Lloyds branch when he 
expected it to be open. But Im also satisfied that Lloyds has fairly explained to Mr G that the 
branch ought to have been open but could not due to staff illness. I can see that Lloyds has 
expressed its regret about what took place. And I cant fairly conclude Lloyds made a 
mistake or acted unfairly by issues which it had no real control over taking into account the 
pandemic issues at that time.
I appreciate Mr G would like his taxi costs refunded. But I cant fairly order Lloyds to refund 
those costs in these circumstances. I also think Mr G could have used the branch just over a 
mile away from the closed branch and in any event am satisfied that he hasnt provided a 
receipt for the costs. I would have expected him to have asked for a receipt for at least the 
return journey if he used sperate taxis for each journey and a full receipt if it was the same 
taxi.
Overall, Im satisfied that Lloyds has fairly explained what took place and that it would be 
unfair for it to reimburse any of Mr Gs taxi costs for the reasons I have explained.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman