DRN-4087617
The complaint
Ms L is unhappy that despite Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) knowing about her financial 
difficulties and vulnerabilities it failed to take any action or support her regarding the 
repayment of her overdraft for two years. Ms L is also unhappy with the default recorded on 
her credit file. 
What happened
Ms L had an account with an overdraft facility with Lloyds. In October 2019 Ms Ls 
circumstances changed for the worse both financially and physically. Ms L contacted Lloyds 
about this in October and December 2019. To assist Ms L Lloyds but a hold on all fees and 
charges for her overdraft and refunded her £100. Lloyds also recommended Ms L get in 
touch with a debt management charity to obtain advice or assistance.
Following this despite Lloyds being informed of her circumstances it allowed Ms L to 
continue to spend on her overdraft  albeit interest free - and failed to have any contact with 
her for two years or offer her a repayment plan for her overdraft. 
Lloyds sent Ms L a formal demand for the repayment of her overdraft in September 2022 
giving her 30 days to settle the balance. Within the letter it asks Ms L to call it if she requires 
a repayment plan. Ms Ls account was then defaulted in October 2022.
Ms L complained to Lloyds about this. Lloyds says during the period in question it had not 
been in touch with Ms L because it had been managing accounts differently during the 
pandemic and it was up to Ms L to contact it if she required help repaying her overdraft. But 
Lloyds having previously upheld Ms Ls complaint regarding the overdraft lending agreed to 
backdate the default to when the overdraft was agreed in July 2019.
As Ms L was dis-satisfied with this she brought her complaint to this service  she wants the 
default removed. One of our adjudicators looked into Ms Ls concerns and reached the 
conclusion that even if a repayment plan had been put in place this still wouldve affected Ms 
Ls credit file and that it was unlikely given Ms Ls financial circumstances that she would 
have been able to pay off the debt within a reasonable period of time. So on that basis 
defaulting the account would be in-line with what wed expect. 
But they felt that Lloyds shouldnt have left Ms L for so long without contacting her to assess 
her financial situation and discuss repayment plans in order to reduce the overdraft limit or 
default the account earlier than it did. Failure to do this resulted in Ms Ls account remaining 
overdrawn for an extended period of time and her financial situation didnt improve. They 
thought Lloyds should compensate Miss L £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by Lloyds inaction.
Lloyds accepted our adjudicators recommendations, but Ms L didnt. Ms L wants to be 
compensated further and the default removed from her credit file. 
So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Ms L wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint in the way 
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our rules allow me to do that. 
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ls complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Ms L has experienced and see if Lloyds has done anything 
wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Ms L back in the position she wouldve 
been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation that I think 
is fair and reasonable.
Ms Ls main complaint point is regarding the time it took Lloyds to take action on her account 
following her informing it of her financial difficulties. Ms L is also unhappy at the default 
recorded on her credit file. So starting with the second part of her complaint the question I 
have to ask is whether Lloyds did anything wrong in reporting a default on her account? 
Lloyds has a duty to make sure the information it reports on its customers affairs to the credit 
reference agencies it subscribes to is factually accurate. Lloyds defaulted Ms Ls account in 
October 2022 but following Lloyds upholding Ms Ls complaint from when it approved an 
overdraft for her in July 2019, it agreed to backdate the default to this point.  
While technically Ms Ls account wasnt in trouble or defaulted at this point. Ms Ls complaint 
was that the overdraft lending was unaffordable for her and should never have been 
approved and was upheld by Lloyds. I havent seen any evidence Ms L wouldve been in a 
position to pay her overdraft back within a reasonable period of time. Indeed, in Ms Ls own 
words her circumstances were so bad she could not realistically be able to maintain 
payments of any kind following 2019 events  and since then her circumstances have only 
gotten worse. 
So I think backdating the default to when the lending was agreed is a fair reflection of what 
would have happened had Lloyds taken action on the account sooner and not agreed the 
overdraft lending. And I dont agree that Lloyds should have the default removed. The whole 
point of reporting on how customers manage their financial affairs to ensure information is 
available to lenders so they can make informed lending decisions and avoid lending 
irresponsibly. In any case by having the default backdated Ms L will benefit from the default 
falling off her credit file earlier than it originally would have. So Im not going to ask Lloyds to 
remove the default from Ms Ls credit file.
Coming back to Ms L first complaint point regarding the length of time Lloyds took before 
taking action on her overdraft - Im in agreement with our adjudicator here, that £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused is a fair way to settle this 
complaint. 
I agree Lloyds shouldve acted sooner especially considering Ms L had informed it of her 
circumstances. But sometimes mistakes do happen, and as we all know 2020 was a 
challenging time for both customers and banks during the pandemic. I also note that during 
this period Ms L benefitted from interest free credit. Ultimately Ms L has to take some 
responsibility for her actions  she chose to continue spending on the account and she herself couldve contacted Lloyds about setting up a repayment plan or having the overdraft 
removed. 
So in these circumstances I think the £200 Lloyds has agreed to pay Ms L is a fair way to 
settle her complaint and Im not persuaded any further compensation is going to make a 
material difference to what happened or to Ms Ls circumstances so Im not going to ask 
Lloyds do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I think that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already agreed to do 
for Ms L is a fair way to settle her complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman