DRN-3236326
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the way One Call Insurance Services sold his accident policy. 
What happened
Mr R sourced a home insurance policy online in March 2020. He added accident insurance 
to that policy and this complaint is focussed on that particular element. Mr R said that the 
policy was mis-sold to him because One Call didnt tell him itd pass his bank details to the 
policy administrator so it could begin charging him for the policy. Mr R said the policy was 
sold on the basis that hed receive three months free accident cover. He said he was aware 
that there was a cost for the policy thereafter, however, not that hed automatically be 
charged once the initial incentive period had ended. Mr R was charged from June  
December 2020 and so seven payments were taken from his bank account before he 
realised what had happened.  
One Call said that its role within the sales process was as an introducer and that therefore 
this complaint doesnt fall within its realm of responsibilities. It said that the administrator of 
the policy shouldve told Mr R about the cost moving forward and confirmed that a direct 
debit would be in place to take future payments. One Call said all necessary information was 
in the policy terms and highlighted that it was Mr Rs responsibility to read them. 
Our investigator wasnt persuaded by One Calls position on this complaint. She said that 
she didnt consider One Calls role within the sales process to be just that of an introducer. 
She remarked that One Call appeared to have a more involved role which saw it source and 
provide Mr Rs bank details to the administrator, as well as take other important personal 
information. She also said the information it provided at the point of sale was unclear and 
difficult to find and follow. Our investigator upheld Mr Rs complaint and said that One Call 
should return the premiums hed paid.
One Call disagreed. It said the information, specifically, the policy terms and the insurance 
produce information document (IPID) was readily available at the time of sale and that 
everything Mr R needed to know about the on-going administration of the policy, once the 
incentive had expired, was contained within it. And so, its for me to make a final decision.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. My reasons for doing so are similar to those already 
explained by our investigator. Im not persuaded by One Calls testimony that its simply an 
introducer to insurers. Its role appears to emulate that of a broker and so Im satisfied the 
Insurance Code of Business Sourcebook applies in these particular circumstances (ICOBS).
The reasons Ive highlighted this is because ICOBS says that an insurance broker, if 
involved in the sale of a policy, provides appropriate information about a policy in good time 
and in a comprehensible form so that the customer can make an informed decision about 
the arrangements proposed. I find that this was a non-advised online sale so One Call 
shouldve provided appropriate information and drew attention to the key limitations of the 
policy. Im not persuaded One Call has fulfilled its obligations under ICOBS here. Ill explain 
why.
Ive reviewed the information that was available to Mr R at the time the policy was sold. The 
main sales screen, where Mr R had the choice to accept the offer of three months free 
accidental cover doesnt mention anything about what happens after the incentive period is 
over. It mentioned the cost of the policy thereafter, which isnt in dispute, but it doesnt say 
anything about the amount automatically being taken from Mr Rs bank account. Theres 
also no mention that One Call would pass his bank details to the third party, or that there 
would be any continuation of cover once the incentive period had concluded. And so, I can 
understand why Mr R said this had come as a surprise, because it wasnt made clear from 
the information Ive seen.
One Call said the insurance administrator wouldve written to Mr R to explain all this, but Mr 
R said that there was no communication between them. In any event, I dont think its 
relevant to this complaint as Im investigating One Calls role here within the sales process. 
And so, whether the third party sent this information shouldnt be relied upon by One Call as 
it doesnt negate One Calls obligations under ICOBS to give clear, and appropriate 
information to its prospective customers, prior to selling or introducing products to its 
consumers. 
One Call said that Mr R shouldve read the policy terms which explains everything he 
needed to know about this situation. I understand its argument here. But its unreasonable to 
expect that Mr R have read the full policy terms and conditions prior to accepting the offer. I 
say that because there was no obvious link to the terms. Id have expected to see perhaps 
an asterix or an exclamation mark  something to make them stand out so that a consumer 
would notice. But put simply, I wouldnt have expected Mr R have to read the policy terms to 
find this information out, it shouldve been made clearer from the outset. 
Ive also considered One Calls argument about the IPID which explained its a monthly 
product and will need to be paid for by monthly direct debit on page two. But my response to 
this is the same as before with the policy terms, theres nothing that draws attention to that 
part of the screen and therefore its not given the due prominence it deserves. 
It's for these reasons Im upholding Mr Rs complaint, because I dont think this necessary 
and relevant information about the on-going cost of the policy and the method by which itd 
be paid was made clear enough. I think it was One Calls responsibility to ensure that was 
the case and so it must now return the seven payments made by Mr R.
My final decision
One Call Insurance Services Limited must now return the seven months worth of payments 
made by Mr R which was £3.99 per month. It must also pay 8% simple interest on that 
amount until the date its settled.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman