DRN-3938475
The complaint
Mr and Ms F have complained that, because Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
wouldnt agree to a further advance on their mortgage, they moved their mortgage to another 
lender, incurring an early repayment charge (ERC). To settle the complaint, Mr and Ms F 
want Halifax to refund the ERC and pay compensation for distress and inconvenience.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr and Ms F being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
In March 2018 Mr and Ms F took out a residential mortgage with Halifax. The loan was on a 
fixed rate of interest, and if it was repaid either in part or in full before 31 May 2023, an ERC 
would apply.
In December 2021 Mr and Ms F applied for a further advance on their mortgage to enable 
them to purchase an additional buy-to-let (BTL) property for their portfolio. The BTL property  
was to be purchased in the name of a limited company. At the time, even though the 
application for the further advance was on Mr and Ms Fs personal mortgage, this was 
outside Halifaxs lending criteria and the application was declined.
After the application was declined in December 2021, the next activity recorded on the 
account (other than the regular monthly mortgage repayments) was the request for a 
redemption statement in June 2022. This was because, in order to raise the funds they 
needed, in June 2022 Mr and Ms F had decided to re-mortgage to a new lender.
In July 2022 Mr and Ms F were told by Halifax that its lending policy had changed in 
April 2022. From that date, Halifax was able to grant further advances on residential 
mortgages for the purpose of capital raising to purchase BTL properties through a limited 
company.
Mr and Ms F complained. They say that in April 2022 they were still customers of Halifax and 
so the bank should have told them about this change in policy. If it had, they wouldnt have 
needed to remortgage and so would not have had to pay the ERC.
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint. In its first final response letter Halifax said thered been 
no change in policy, but later corrected this in a second final response letter (and paid £40 
for that error). The bank said that at the time of the application in December 2021, the 
lending criteria was correctly applied. Halifax also said that the bank doesnt contact 
customers each time a policy change is made. Halifax declined to refund the ERC.
Dissatisfied with Halifaxs response, Mr and Ms F complained to our service. An investigator 
looked at what had happened but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She was 
satisfied that the application had been correctly declined in December 2021. The investigator 
was satisfied the ERC had been correctly charged.
Mr and Ms F asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint isnt really about the decline of the application in December 2021; 
Mr and Ms F dont appear to dispute that the application didnt meet Halifaxs lending criteria 
that was in place at the time.
Their main concern is that, in April 2022, before theyd redeemed their mortgage, Halifax 
changed its policy so that if theyd applied after that, the application would have been 
agreed. Mr and Ms F say that Halifax should have told them about this change in policy.
However, Im not persuaded that Halifax was under any obligation to tell Mr and Ms F  or 
indeed any other customers  about policy changes that had later been implemented after 
an application had been declined. If the bank was required to do this, the logistics would be 
immense; staff would have to monitor every declined application on a daily basis, check if 
thered been any changes in policy that might now possibly result in the application 
succeeding, and contact each individual customer inviting them to re-apply. Thats simply not 
feasible or realistic, and isnt something that I would reasonably expect Halifax to do.
From the banks perspective, after December 2021 the application was closed. Halifax 
wasnt to know (and, to be clear, wasnt expected to know) that Mr and Ms F had decided to 
re-mortgage. A request for a redemption statement wouldnt have triggered someone 
reconsidering the application that had been denied six months earlier and contacting 
Mr and Ms F to let them know they could re-apply due to a policy change.
In all the circumstances, therefore, whilst I appreciate Mr and Ms F are unhappy about 
having to pay the ERC, Im satisfied that theres no basis on which I could fairly order Halifax 
to reimburse it to Mr and Ms F. I see that Halifax paid Mr and Ms F £40 compensation for an 
error in its final response letter, which I think is fair in all the circumstances. Im not ordering 
the bank to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman