DRN-4142996
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain that Covea Insurance Plc has unfairly declined a claim made 
under their building insurance policy.
For ease of reading I will only refer to Mr M in my decision.
What happened
In September 2015, Mr M said hed installed an electric charging point (ECP) at his home. In 
2022 the ECP was damaged and Mr M said he looked to get a replacement part only to be 
told this wasnt an option and he needed to replace the ECP. He was advised by the 
manufacturers to claim against his buildings insurance. In August 2022 Mr M did this but 
Covea declined the claim as they didnt consider the ECP a permanent fixture.  Mr M 
complained to Covea.
Covea said they considered the ECP to be a motor accessory as its sole purpose is to 
charge a motor vehicle and it wasnt a permanent fixture to Mr Ms property. So, they said 
the ECP wouldnt be covered under Mr Ms building insurance policy.
Mr M wasnt happy with Coveas response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said the ECP was installed into Mr Ms property so he said it should be 
considered a permanent fixture. He asked that Covea review Mr Ms claim in line with his 
buildings insurance terms and conditions.
Covea didnt agree they said the ECP could be removed and relocated similar to kitchen 
appliances and so they maintained the ECP wouldnt be considered as a permanent fixture. 
They asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint for broadly the same reasons as our
Investigator, Ill explain why.
With the increase in technology over recent years there are more issues about what should 
and shouldnt be considered as an item with regard to buildings and contents insurance.
Its ultimately the insurers responsibility to define the nature and scope of their cover, and 
not us. And its for the insurer to adapt their policies to current technological and consumer 
trends, to clearly define what risks theyre willing to take. One such trend is the expanded 
use of electric cars and the need to charge them with the move away from petrol and diesel 
fuelled cars. And it would be for the insurer to reflect the risk impact of this in their policy 
terms and conditions at inception and renewal.
If the terms of a policy fails to make it clear what items are and arent covered, then we apply 
the interpretation which is favourable to the party who didnt draft the contract.  In this case 
Mr M.
So, in reaching my decision Ive considered whether Covea has decided Mr Ms claim, fairly 
and reasonably in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.  
Mr M had a home insurance policy with Covea that was incepted in May 2021 and renewed 
annually. Mr M claimed for the damaged ECP against his buildings insurance cover with 
them. Covea declined Mr Ms claim as they said the ECP wasnt a permanent fixture. So, the 
issue I need to decide here is whether its reasonable to consider Mr Ms ECP as a static 
fixture. 
Ive considered the policy terms which define buildings as:
Your home or your new home, and its permanent fixtures and fittings.
The policy goes on to define fixture and fittings as items fixed to the home:
Built-in furniture, built-in kitchen appliances, fixed glass and sanitary ware, solar panels, 
pipes, ducts, wires, cables, switches, fires, boilers, radiators, storage heaters, fixed wall, 
floor and ceiling coverings other than carpets.
Covea said they didnt consider the ECP as a permanent fixture as the ECP could be 
removed and relocated, giving kitchen appliances as a similar example. But the above 
definition refers to specific items that would be considered permanent fixtures and fittings  
items that could still be removed and relocated though the probability is unlikely.
While an ECP isnt specifically mentioned I think an ECP is comparable with the defined 
items. Id generally say fixtures are attached or fixed to the property, and fittings are items 
that arent attached to the property, excluding items such as a mirror attached by a nail or 
screw.
From the photographic evidence provided by Mr M I can see the ECP is attached to the side 
of his property with cabling leading to an interior electricity supply. And from what I can see I 
dont think the ECP, in totality, could be easily dismantled. While it may be possible to 
remove the ECP unit itself, the cabling would be left in situ and so there would be a need to 
safeguard the existing cabling. There would also be a need for new cabling to instal the ECP 
unit on relocation. So, on balance I consider the likelihood would be that once installed the 
ECP would be permanently sited. 
Covea has also said the ECP would be excluded under a contents insurance policy as it 
would be considered a motor accessory similar to a trailer. But Mr M hasnt claimed for the 
ECP against a contents insurance policy. And as I think the ECP should be considered as a 
permanent fixture Covea should consider Mr Ms claim under the terms of his buildings 
insurance. 
My final decision
For these reasons, Im upholding this complaint and directing Covea Insurance Plc to
reconsider Mr M and Mrs Ms claim under their buildings insurance cover (subject to the 
terms, limits and conditions).Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman