DRN-1502361
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that TSB Bank plc failed to change the direct debit date on his loan and 
failed to send him new direct debit mandate forms.
What happened
Mr B says he tried to change the direct debit date on his loan ,TSB said it couldn't do that 
over the phone but later changed the date over the phone. He says TSB said it would send 
him new direct debit mandate forms, but he didn't receive them. Mr B says TSB's mistakes 
cost him about £150.
TSB says Mr B cancelled the direct debit and called it on 17 May 2019. It says it agreed to 
send a new direct debit form which it did, but could not change the direct debit date over the 
phone as Mr B's account was in collections. TSB says it changed the loan repayment date in 
July 2019 and again sent another direct debit mandate to Mr B. It says it then changed the 
direct debit date when it received that mandate. It says it's not responsible for the safe 
delivery of mail.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and initially our investigator upheld the complaint and 
thought TSB could have changed the date over the phone. TSB provided further evidence to 
explain why it could not and the investigator accepted that evidence. And so didn't uphold Mr 
B's complaint. The investigator thought TSB had sent Mr B the new direct debit mandates 
and wasn't responsible for the safe delivery of mail. The investigator also thought 
TSB changed the date of the repayment in July 2019 and not the date of the direct debit.
Mr B doesn't accept that view and questions why the repayment date could be changed over 
the phone. He says he was told the mandate forms were not sent to him and says TSB has 
acted unfairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for similar reasons. I realise Mr B will be disappointed by 
my decision.
I'm satisfied that Mr B cancelled the direct debit that was in place to repay his loan. And I'm 
also satisfied that TSB has fairly explained that it couldn't simply change the direct debit date 
over the phone as Mr B's account was in arrears at that point. I can see from TSB's records 
that it sent Mr B a new direct debit mandate and I have seen a copy of that letter. So I'm 
satisfied it was sent to Mr B. I appreciate Mr B says he didn't receive it but I can't fairly hold 
TSB responsible for that as its not responsible for the delivery of mail. I also think that Mr B 
was able to make the loan payments if he wished but by a different method.
I appreciate that Mr B says TSB did in July 2019 change the direct debit date and questions why it could do it on that date but not in May 2019. I'm satisfied that having looked at 
TSB's records that is not what took place. And it was the loan repayment date that was 
changed, and not the date of the direct debit. I'm satisfied that at that stage, the loan was still 
in arrears and the direct debit date change took place in August 2019 when TSB received 
the completed direct debit mandate form.
I accept Mr B will have unanswered questions about why he was told the mandate hadn't 
been sent. I don't think it matters what he was told as I have explained that I'm satisfied the 
mandates were sent in May and July 2019. And I also think that Mr B could have attended a 
branch and obtained a new direct debit mandate if he didn't receive any of them.
Overall I'm satisfied that TSB has fairly explained why it couldn't change the direct debit date 
over the phone and that it sent the mandate forms to Mr B. I also think Mr B was able to 
make payments on the same date as he intended the direct debit to be taken until it was set 
up, but by a different method.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman