DRN-3448576
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Oplo PL Ltd was irresponsible in lending to him.
What happened
In February 2019 Oplo provided Mr C with a loan of £6,000 repayable over 48 months. The 
monthly repayments were £192.20. Mr C said the purpose of the loan was debt 
consolidation. He repaid the loan in October 2019 with the proceeds of another loan of 
£8,000 from Oplo.
The second loan was for a term of 60 months with monthly repayments of £243.74. Again 
Mr C said he was taking out the loan to consolidate his debts.
Later Mr C complained that Oplo hadnt carried out proper checks before lending to him.
Oplo looked into his complaint. It said it had carried out proper checks and it thought the 
loans were affordable. 
Mr C referred his complaint to us. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. He didnt think the 
loans were affordable. 
As Oplo didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Cs complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Oplo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr C would be able to repay the loans without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr C wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Oplo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Oplo to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Mr Cs ability to make the repayments under the agreements. This 
assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Oplo had to think about whether repaying the 
loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to ensure that 
making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mr C undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Oplo to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr C. Checks also had 
to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan applications.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Loan 1
With regard to the first question, Oplo asked Mr C about his income and expenditure. Mr C 
told Oplo his net monthly income was £2,112 and that he lived in a house owned by his 
partner. He said he paid half the household bills and his monthly expenditure was £571.74. 
Oplo verified his income using industry standard checks and also did a credit check on him. 
Im satisfied that this would have shown Oplo: 
Mr C had six historic defaults from 2013 to 2015.
He owed £20,096 over 18 active accounts.
Hed missed payments on six accounts in the last year.
Hed opened four credit accounts in the last six months.
He was spending £725.29, being about 34% of his monthly income on credit 
repayments (excluding his share of the mortgage).
Hed used a large amount of his available credit in recent months (£1,870 on a credit 
card account from April 2018, an unsecured loan of £2,656 in August 2018, £951 on a credit card account from September 2018 and £1,479 on his overdraft in December 
2018).
Oplo calculated Mr C was spending £725.29 a month on his existing credit commitments. It 
said its affordability calculation showed that Mr C would have a monthly disposable income 
of £571.82 after taking into account his existing credit commitments (excluding the ones to 
be paid off by this new loan) and the new monthly repayments to Oplo. 
Oplos notes show that it spoke to Mr C before making the loan to discuss various queries 
arising from the credit search. Ive seen the notes of that call. They show:
Mr C said some of the credit had been taken out for household accessories, car 
repairs and a holiday.
Hed taken out the loan of £2,656 a month to pay off other loans.
I can see why Oplo would think that Mr C could afford Loan 1. But I dont think it carried out 
proportionate checks when it carried out its assessment. I say this when I consider the 
amount Mr C would be repaying and the term of the loan. And also due to the information it 
had gathered and in particular what it found on its credit search. It appeared Mr C would be 
paying about a quarter of his income on servicing his outstanding debt (excluding his share 
of the mortgage). In my opinion this was a clear warning sign that Mr C was over-stretched 
financially. He also had three outstanding defaults. Although they were incurred a few years 
before this loan application, they still had balances that Mr C needed to repay. So, although 
Oplo asked Mr C about these entries on its credit search, I think it ought to have gone further 
with its checks here and carried out a complete review of Mr Cs finances. This is so that it 
could assure itself that Mr C could repay this loan over the four-year term in a sustainable 
way.
Mr C has provided our service with bank statements from the period of time before the loans 
were granted. Ive carefully considered the information provided within these statements. 
Having done so, I think its clear Mr C was in financial difficulty at the time the loan granted. I 
will explain why. Mr C was in fact paying about £456 more a month on credit commitments 
than Oplo had calculated from its credit search. Also I cant see a salary being paid in 
between December 2018 and April 2019. Whether this is because it was being paid into a 
different account or Mr C wasnt working, I cant say.
I think Oplo should have been concerned that with the new monthly loan repayment Mr C 
would be committed to paying almost half his usual monthly income on servicing his debts 
and it should have seen that as an indication that he was unlikely to be able to maintain 
such a high level of debt sustainably over the four year term of the loan.
So I think Oplo ought to have been concerned the loan wouldnt be sustainably affordable 
for Mr C. It follows that I think Oplo was wrong to give Mr C Loan 1. 
Loan 2
Oplo carried out the same checks as for Loan 1. The credit search showed Oplo:
The total amount Mr C owed had risen to £26,358 over 19 active accounts.
Mr C was near to the limit on eight credit card accounts.
He hadnt made any payments towards his three outstanding defaults from 2013 to 
2015.
Since February 2019 hed spent £1,957 on a credit card hed previously paid off with 
some of the proceeds on Loan 1. Since March 2019 hed spent £900 on another credit card account.
Oplo thought Mr C could comfortably afford Loan 2. But again I dont think it carried out 
proportionate checks when it carried out its assessment in view of the amount Mr C would 
be repaying and the even longer term of the loan. And also due to the information it had 
gathered and in particular what it found on its credit search. I think it should have been 
concerned that Mr C needed further credit within a relatively short time after the first loan. I 
think Oplo ought to have gone further with its checks here and carried out a complete review 
of Mr Cs finances. This is so that it could assure itself that Mr C could repay this loan over 
the five-year term in a sustainable way.
Looking at bank statements provided by Mr C from the period of time before the loans were 
granted, I can see that far from having a disposable income of £612.08 a month as 
calculated by Oplo, Mr C was in fact struggling financially and would be unlikely to be able to 
maintain such a high level of debt sustainably over the next five years. In fact within a very 
short time of having taken out Loan 2 he was having to resort to payday loans.
Ive also thought about whether Oplo acted unfairly in some other way and I havent seen 
any evidence that it did.
Putting things right
Mr C has had the benefit of the loans. But as the loans should not have been given to 
him, he should not have to pay interest or charges on what he borrowed. So, I direct Oplo 
to:
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loans and treat all the payments Mr C 
has made as payments towards the capital amount.
if reworking Mr Cs loan account results in him having effectively made payments above 
the original capital borrowed, then Oplo should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would 
have arisen, to the date of settlement.
but if theres still an outstanding balance, Oplo should come to a reasonable repayment 
plan with Mr C.
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Oplo to deduct tax from this interest. Oplo should give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint and require Oplo PL Ltd to put 
things right for Mr C as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman