The complaint
Mr L says Western Circle Ltd, trading as Cashfloat (Cashfloat), irresponsibly lent to him. Mr 
L says Cashfloat didnt carry out sufficient checks to make sure the lending was affordable 
for him. He had problems with gambling and had other short-term loans as well as borrowing 
from Cashfloat.     
What happened
This complaint is about five short-term loans Cashfloat provided to Mr L between September 
2018 and February 2019. Mr Ls borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 25.09.2018 25.09.2018 2 £500.00
2 01.10.2018 11.10.2018 3 £500.00
3 21.11.2018 07.12.2018 2 £200.00
4 28.12.2018 24.01.2019 3 £600.00
5 07.02.2019 16.02.2019 2 £250.00
The second of our adjudicators who assessed the case upheld Mr Ls complaint in full and 
didnt think any of the lending should have been given because Cashfloats own checks 
showed Mr L was in financial difficulty.  
As Cashfloat didnt respond to the second adjudicator, the complaint remains unresolved 
and it has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L 
DRN-1606688could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint. After doing so, Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Cashfloat has given us copies of its own credit checks that it carried out before agreeing to 
each loan. The check for loan one shows that Mr L had 11 active accounts and had opened 
40 new accounts in the previous six months. There were also a considerable number of 
searches for Mr L totalling 50 in the 12 months prior to the lending. Those checks also 
showed Mr L had borrowed around £1,400 with other short-term credit providers in the 
previous three days. Mr L had a history of taking short-term loans, repaying them and 
returning for more borrowing within a short timeframe. 
The information gathered by Cashfloat didnt tally with the information Mr L had given to 
Cashfloat about his monthly income and expenditure. So, I think Cashfloat should have 
sought more information and evidence from Mr L about his financial circumstances. It could have asked for  but not limited to, copies of his pay slips and evidence of his outgoings by 
requesting copies of bills or bank statements  as examples. 
If it had done so, I think Cashfloat would have seen that Mr L was making a regular number 
of transactions on on-line gambling websites. I think from the information it had and which it 
could have cross-referenced with Mr L, Cashfloat would have concluded Mr L was having 
problems managing his money and there was a very real risk that he wouldnt be in the 
position to sustainably make the loan repayments for this loan and any subsequent loans. 
And this is one of Mr Ls complaint point so I think its likely. 
So, like the second adjudicator, I dont think the borrowing should have been given and Im 
upholding the complaint about all of the loans and Cashfloat should put things right.
Putting things right  what Cashfloat needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr L paid on loans one to five;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans one to five from Mr Ls credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint. Western Circle Ltd should put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman