DRN-3338448
The complaint
Mr J has complained that DTW Associates Limited trading as Auto Advance lent to him
irresponsibly.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint in January 2022 that I summarise below.
Mr J was given five logbook loans by DTW between October 2016 and October 2018. The
loans were secured against a vehicle that Mr J owned. I understand the loans were in outline
as follows:
DATE AMOUNTTOTAL 
REPAYABLEMONTHLY 
REPAYMENT DURATION
Oct-16 1500 3390 188 18 MTHS
Jun-17 2050 4879 203 24 MTHS
Dec-17 2150 5117 213 24 MTHS
Jun-18 2300 5474 228 24 MTHS
Oct-18 2500 5959 247 24 MTHS
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks that 
DTW needed to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income and 
expenditure. With this in mind, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate in the early stages of the lending relationship.
I said that DTW needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr J
irresponsibly. And that DTW should have carried out proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that he could repay the loans in a sustainable way. 
I carefully considered all the evidence, arguments and information Id seen about this
matter in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
DTW asked Mr J for information about his income and expenditure and it says it acquired a 
credit report and also requested bank statements. DTW says it used ONS and transactional 
data to assess the affordability of Mr Js loans each time.
Loans 1 and 2
I considered the information that DTW gathered before it lent the first and second loans
to Mr J. DTWs credit checks before the first loan notes that Mr J had 2 active credit lines 
and that both were in arrears. But I hadnt seen enough information for me to fairly say that I
thought DTW acted irresponsibly when it provided the first two loans to Mr J.
Loan 3 to 5
Mr J returned to borrow again for a third time around six months after taking his second loan.
It seems that Mr J used loan 3 to settle his second loan early and took the remainder in
cash. DTW carried out its checks and concluded that the third loan was affordable for Mr J.
I thought DTWs own checks highlighted some issues that ought reasonably to have been of 
some concern to the lender. DTWs report suggests that Mr J had increased the number of 
credit accounts and that 3 of these accounts were in arrears. DTWs checks also highlighted 
2 defaults  one of which DTW could reasonably have considered to be historic but one 
which appears was dated around three months prior to Mr Js application for a third loan. I 
thought it would have been reasonable in the circumstances for DTW to look further into Mr 
Js financial position - to satisfy itself he could sustainably repay the third loan.
So I considered, if DTW had carried out more in-depth checks before it provided loan 3,
would it have fairly and reasonably concluded that it would be irresponsible to provide the
third loan?
Mr J provided bank statements from a second bank account he held at the time and his
own credit reports. Mr Js own credit reports show adverse information about his credit 
history. But given the type of lending, I thought a lender would expect to see some adverse 
information on the credit report. And generally, the information a consumer might see, when 
they request a copy of their credit file, might be very different to that seen by a lender. A 
lender might only see a portion of the credit file, or some data might be missing or 
anonymised, or the data might not be up to date. New credit commitments can take some 
time to appear on a credit report and so dont always appear in any reasonable and 
proportionate checks that are carried out at the time. So, this may explain any differences 
between the information provided by DTWs credit check and the information Mr J says it 
should have seen.
The third loan slightly increased Mr Js monthly payments (by around £10.00). I considered 
whether information Mr J provided about his second bank account should reasonably have 
led DTW to decline the third loan. I thought DTW would have seen that Mr J was spending 
more than he had estimated in his application. But he seems to have been transferring sums 
in and out of various accounts which could have suggested to a lender that he was 
managing his money quite carefully. I didnt think DTW would reasonably have thought that 
Mr Js first or second bank accounts showed signs of significant financial distress, such as 
regular gambling, a very large overdraft or high levels of bank charges or frequently returned 
requests for payment - all of which might have signalled severe financial difficulties to a 
lender.
On balance, I couldnt fairly say that even if DTW had looked further into Mr Js financial 
position, it ought reasonably to have concluded that he was suffering such severe financial 
difficulties that it would be irresponsible to lend to him again. And I didnt think that the third 
loan established a pattern of lending that reasonably ought to have led DTW to decline the 
loan.
But I didnt think that DTW ought to have provided loans 4 and 5 to Mr J.
DTW says that the loans were affordable for Mr J and that he managed to meet his monthly
loan repayments. But as I explained, the lender was required to establish whether
the borrower could sustainably meet his loan repayments  not just whether the loan
payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The loan
payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is the case. This
is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulty  inparticular without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness. The customer should be
able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as
without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise,
or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without
borrowing further.
Mr J was returning to borrow for a fourth and then fifth consecutive time  each time only
months after taking previous long-term loans. The amounts borrowed and the monthly
repayments increased for a fourth and then a fifth time. I thought by the fourth loan DTW 
ought reasonably to have realised that Mr J was most likely continuing to borrow in order to
maintain his financial commitments; that a pattern of reliance on high cost lending was
being established, and that further lending would also prolong Mr Js indebtedness to it. I
thought DTW ought reasonably to have realised that repeated refinancing by Mr J was an
indication that his borrowing was becoming, or risked becoming, unsustainable.
Taking the circumstances as a whole, I thought DTW ought reasonably to have declined the
fourth and the fifth loans.
Mr J thinks that DTW rolled over interest on each loan and that the rate of interest
increased. Having reviewed all the evidence available, I didnt think DTW treated Mr J
unfairly in any other way. But I didnt think DTW should have agreed to provide
loans 4 or 5 to Mr J. I said I was intending to uphold Mr Js complaint about loans 4 and 5
and directing DTW to put things right.
I asked both parties to comment on my provisional decision. Ive not seen any new 
information from either Mr J or DTW and the deadline to provide new evidence has now 
passed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter.
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. 
I am not upholding Mr Js complaint about loans 1-3 but I am upholding his complaint about 
loans 4 and 5 and DTW needs to put things right.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr J to repay the principal amount that he borrowed for
loans 4 and 5, because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid interest and
charges on lending that shouldnt have been provided to him.
DTW should:
Remove all interest, fees, and charges from loans 4 and 5, including any charges or 
fees and treat all the payments Mr J made as payments towards the capital.If reworking Mr Js loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed for these two loans, then DTW should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
If it has not already done so, DTW should cancel the Bill of Sale in relation to loans 4 
and 5 and return the V5 logbook to Mr J.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Js credit file in relation to loans 4 
and 5.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires DTW to deduct tax from this interest. DTW should give
Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partly uphold this complaint and direct DTW Associates 
Limited trading as Auto Advance to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2022.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman