DRN-3826359
The complaint
Ms V complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC added a marker at CIFAS, the national fraud 
database, when it closed her account.
What happened
Ms V says she wasnt involved in any fraudulent activity on her account and that the marker 
is affecting her ability to access financial products.
Barclays said it wouldnt be removing the marker. It provided evidence that money paid to 
Ms V on 9 August 2019 had been reported as fraudulent. This money had been withdrawn in 
cash from her account that day. Its complaint notes make reference to Ms V stating that she 
believed her ex-partner was involved as he knew her PIN and online banking details. She 
had referred to her card being lost or stolen but this hadnt been reported. Barclays 
concluded that Ms V was complicit in what happened.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He set out that there is a 
high bar for a CIFAS marker. He discussed Ms Vs complaint with her representative. Her 
explanation was that she had seen an advert on social media for investment in 
cryptocurrency. And shed been persuaded to provide her bank details. Although shed 
initially indicated she didnt know who was involved she also disclosed that shed provided 
her card and PIN to a third party too. Ms V insisted that she didnt know about the money 
paid into her account and didnt withdraw it.
Our adjudicator said that he thought it would be unusual for Ms V to hand over her account, 
card details and PIN to make an investment. And Ms V didnt appear to have any funds of 
her own to invest. None of the payments involved appeared to relate to crypto currency. And 
Ms V continued to use her account for genuine everyday spending after these payments with 
no record of her reporting her card missing. He thought she was reasonably aware of what 
was happening, and that Barclays had a basis to add the marker and close her account.
Ms V didnt agree. Her representative said that wed failed to address the complaint. It wasnt 
for this service to carry out an investigation, but we should have assessed the approach of 
Barclays to see if it was fair and proportionate. The complaint is that Barclays hasnt 
responded to the complaint and weve ignored this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service provides informal dispute resolution. Its a matter for Barclays and Ms V to 
decide what submissions and evidence to provide. Complaint handling in itself isnt a 
separate regulated activity. And while I know that the final response to Ms V from Barclays 
appeared incomplete, that doesnt prevent this service looking into things. And then me 
making a decision about Barclays actions  not any explanation it may or may not have 
given Ms V. Having listened to a call our adjudicator had with Ms Vs representative and 
read his opinion Im satisfied that Ms V has had sufficient explanation of the key payments 
involved here and whats been assessed. And that she was clear she had the opportunity to 
provide any more evidence.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Barclays 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
I referred above to what Barclays had recorded about what Ms V told it. Thats not her 
explanation to this service and I assess here what her representative has said on her behalf. 
Its not impossible that Ms V was taken in herself by a scam having believed she was 
involved with cryptocurrency trading. The issue here is that there is nothing to support that 
explanation. Ms V didnt appear in addition to have funds available. So beyond allowing 
someone else free access to her account Im not persuaded she reasonably thought she 
could benefit. Im struggling to see how she could think that this was legitimate and on her 
version of events, having given that free access to her account, I think she is fairly 
responsible for the entries that happened. As our adjudicator says she continued using her 
account normally.
Im satisfied that fraudulent money was received and that this was quickly paid out. I think it 
most likely that Ms V was complicit in what happened.
Barclays says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Ms V received fraudulent funds into 
her account. So, Ive looked at whether Barclays was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that Barclays needs to have enough information to make a formal report 
to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Ms Vs account of events and the evidence she has provided, Im satisfied 
that Barclays had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming to this 
view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Ms V received fraudulent funds into her account and didnt report this to Barclays at 
the time.
- She authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Barclays had grounds to believe that Ms V had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
In light of this it also decided under its terms and conditions to close the accounts. I appreciate whats been said about the impact of the marker for Ms V. But Im afraid I dont 
have a reasonable basis to require Barclays to do anything further. If Ms V doesnt accept 
my decision she remains free to pursue this in court subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman