DRN-1442654
The complaint
Mr As complaint is about the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
Black Horse Limited. He says that various repairs should have taken place before the car 
was supplied but these didnt happen meaning he had to have the repairs carried out under 
his warranty.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, I have made my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities - that is what I consider is most likely to have 
happened considering the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Having considered the evidence, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for 
these reasons:
Mr A entered a HPA with Black Horse to acquire a used car. Given the cars age and 
mileage at acquisition it wouldnt be unreasonable to expect some damage to be 
present. However, this complaint is about what was agreed as part of the 
negotiations for the car. Mr A says that while discussing the acquisition of the car the 
dealership agreed to repair several cosmetic issues. However, when he collected the 
car the repairs hadnt taken place. The dealer said that it only agreed to repair the 
passenger door, and this took place and that Mr A accepted the condition of the car.
There is no recording of the negotiations that took place before Mr A acquired the car 
and so I cannot say for certain what was discussed. However, given Mr As testimony 
and his actions, I find it more likely than not that he was expecting certain actions to 
be taken before he collected the car. I say this because Mr A collected the car and 
raised his concerns soon after with the dealer and then within a short timeframe with 
Black Horse. I think these actions support his testimony that the car wasnt delivered 
in the condition that he believed had been agreed.
I note the comments from the dealer about not being able to see certain scratches 
based on Mr As photographs but as repairs were undertaken through Mr As 
warranty, I accept that there was some damage present. 
The repairs were important to Mr A as when he didnt get the response he wanted he 
booked the car in for the work to be undertaken under his warranty. Given this, I think 
it reasonable to accept that Mr A would have discussed any issues he had noted 
when he viewed the car. 
As I find it more likely than not that Mr A discussed the issues with the car and that 
an agreement was made for repairs to take place before collection, I find that this 
forms part of the contract Mr A entered into. He did then accept the car even though 
the repairs hadnt taken place, but he raised his concerns shortly after this. 
Therefore, on balance, I find it reasonable that Mr A should be put in the position he 
would have been had the actions he had expected taken place.
Mr A has explained that he had the repairs carried out under his warranty. Given this, 
I cannot say that this issue has caused Mr A any financial loss. However, the issue 
has caused Mr A distress and inconvenience. This is because, rather than the work 
taking place before Mr A collected the car, he had to arrange for the work to be 
carried out. He also had the distress caused by the car he acquired not being in the 
condition he had expected.
Our investigator recommended that Mr A be paid £300 to compensate him for the 
distress and inconvenience caused and Black Horse agreed with this 
recommendation. Mr A thinks that the compensation offered isnt enough given the 
state the car was delivered in and has said his protection and warranty payment 
should be refunded. 
I agree with our investigators recommendation of compensation of £300. This is 
because Mr A chose to buy the warranty and other protection when he acquired the 
car and I have nothing to say these were either mis-sold or not fit for purpose. 
Therefore, I do not require these to be refunded. I understand how upsetting this 
issue has been for Mr A but as the repairs were undertaken at no cost to him, I am 
only considering the distress and inconvenience he was caused. Based on the 
evidence provided, I find that the recommendation of £300 is reasonable. 
For the reasons set out above, I agree with our investigators recommendation that Black 
Horse pay Mr A £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience he was caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that Black Horse Limited should pay Mr A £300, as it has agreed, for the 
distress and inconvenience Mr A was caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman