DRN-3081365
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt fully settled a claim under their 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had a travel insurance policy which covered them from 7 January 2020 until 
7 May 2020. The insurer was Great Lakes.
There are two travel agents involved here. For simplicity, any reference to a travel agent in 
this decision covers the actions of both.
Mr and Mrs B booked a package holiday in Australia through a travel agent between 5 and 
28 March 2020. While on their holiday, the travel agent advised Mr and Mrs B on 18 March 
2020 to return home due to the situation caused by the Covid-19 global pandemic. The 
travel agent said some parts of Mr and Mrs Bs itinerary had already been cancelled, and it 
was concerned that the return flight back to the UK would be cancelled too. 
Mr and Mrs B bought a flight independently from Brisbane to Sydney and looked for flights 
back to the UK. They bought a return flight for 24 March 2020 but this was cancelled  
Mr and Mrs B paid an additional £500 for this flight to their travel agent. Mr and Mrs B 
eventually flew home on 1 April 2020 with a flight arranged by their travel agent  so, after 
their intended return date. Mr and Mrs B paid over £3,000 for this flight to their travel agent.
The travel agent issued refunds for the cancelled flights and the unused proportion of Mr and 
Mrs Bs holiday, but they dont think the amount fairly reflects the cost. So, Mr and Mrs B 
made a claim to Great Lakes for some of the costs they dont think were refunded. Mr and 
Mrs B want Great Lakes to pay for their additional flights and some accommodation and taxi 
costs.
Great Lakes has settled the claim under the enforced stay section of the policy, which has 
a policy limit of £1,000 per person. So, Great Lakes settled the claim for a total of £2,000. 
Mr and Mrs B dont think this is enough, as it doesnt cover all the additional costs they paid 
for and werent refunded by the travel agent. They say Great Lakes should settle the claim 
under the abandonment section of the policy which has a higher policy limit.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought Great Lakes should consider the 
claim under the abandonment section of the policy, but she thought it had already paid 
Mr and Mrs B more than it needed to. Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with our investigators 
findings, and the refund amounts shed arrived at.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued my 
provisional decision on the complaint in September 2021. Heres what I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Firstly, in common with most, if not all, travel insurance policies on the market, Mr and 
Mrs Bs policy doesnt cover costs recoverable elsewhere. This is outlined in the general 
exclusions section of the policy terms and conditions.
Mr and Mrs B bought a package holiday. In the circumstances of this complaint, Mr and 
Mrs Bs travel agent said parts of their itinerary had been cancelled, and its my 
understanding that at least a part of the original return flight to the UK was eventually 
cancelled too. In situations where a significant proportion of the package cant be performed, 
the Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangement Regulations 2018 (the PTR) says that, 
in addition to its other obligations, a travel provider should offer alternatives or repatriate the 
traveller  at no extra cost.
So, before I could reasonably ask Great Lakes to pay Mr and Mrs Bs claim, Id expect them 
to pursue the matter with their travel provider (there are two travel agents involved here)  
and with any other relevant industry complaint schemes  first.
That said, Great Lakes has already settled the claim under the enforced stay section of the 
policy  up to the maximum policy limit. So, Ive thought if Great Lakes needs to do anything 
else if Mr and Mrs B are unsuccessful in obtaining further refunds from the travel provider(s) 
or through the relevant complaint scheme, and theyve made reasonable attempts to do so.
The abandonment section of the policy provides cover for any additional travel expenses 
incurred if you are forced to cut short your trip. Abandonment is defined as Returning to 
your home before the scheduled return date or becoming an in-patient in hospital (providing 
you were an in-patient for more than 24 hours). 
The enforced stay section of the policy says Great Lakes will pay up to £1,000 for any 
necessary travel expenses where after 24 hours or more, you unavoidably have to make 
alternative arrangements to reach your destination/return to your pre-booked 
accommodation/return home and your travel provider cannot provide alternative travel 
arrangements.
Having considered the above terms, I dont think Mr and Mrs Bs situation is covered under 
the abandonment section of the policy. This is because while they couldnt continue their 
holiday as planned, they didnt return home early. They also werent hospitalised or confined 
in their hotel room in a similar way.
I think Mr and Mrs Bs potential claim to Great Lakes would come under the enforced stay 
section of the policy. As Great Lakes has already settled the claim up to the maximum policy 
limit, I dont think theres anything else it needs to do, even if Mr and Mrs B are unsuccessful 
in obtaining further refunds elsewhere.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with my findings. In summary, they said that:
All return flights were cancelled, rather than only part.
They wouldve happily left early, but there was no opportunity to do so due to the 
lockdown.
Great Lakes had already confirmed theyd be covered under abandonment if they 
had to curtail their trip due to Covid-19.Theyve pursued the travel agent and airline for a refund for the original return flights 
but havent been successful.
There was no refund for taxi fares, even though airport transfers were included in the 
package cost.
They werent confined in their hotel room, but they also werent able to continue their 
holiday as all attractions, restaurants and bars were closed.
Mr and Mrs B maintain that they had to abandon their holiday, and Great Lakes should cover 
their claim under that section of the policy as they cant recover it elsewhere.
Great Lakes didnt respond to my provisional decision, and the deadline to do so has now 
passed. So, Im issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered everything Mr and Mrs B have said in response to my provisional decision. 
But their comments and arguments dont change my overall findings.
Firstly, Mr and Mrs B have said they have diligently pursued the travel agent and the airline 
for a refund. But as I explained in my provisional decision, there were two travel agents 
involved here. I also said that before I could reasonably ask Great Lakes to pay Mr and 
Mrs Bs claim, Id expect them to pursue the matter with any relevant industry complaint 
schemes first. I cant see that theyve done that.
I know Mr and Mrs B say they abandoned their holiday. But I outlined in my provisional 
decision how the policy defines abandonment, and this specifically refers to the policyholder 
returning home early. This didnt happen here. Mr and Mrs B also werent hospitalised or 
confined in their hotel room in a similar way. I still think that any potential claim to Great 
Lakes would come under the enforced stay section of the policy. 
I can see that Great Lakes did inform Mr and Mrs B that if they had to come home early due 
to a change in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office advice, theyd be covered under the 
abandonment section of the policy. But again, this didnt happen here, as Mr and Mrs B 
didnt return home early. In fact, Great Lakes also said that if Mr and Mrs B couldnt come 
home as a result of circumstances beyond their control, they could claim under the enforced 
stay section of the policy. So, I dont think Great Lakes gave any incorrect information here.
It might also be helpful if I explained that Mr and Mrs B wouldnt be able to claim both for the 
original flights home, as well as the additional flights home. Thats because they always had 
to return home, so they always had to pay for a return flight home. If Mr and Mrs B did get a 
refund for the original flights home, this should be deducted from any refund for the 
additional flights.
Taking everything into account, I dont think theres anything else Great Lakes needs to do in 
the circumstances of this complaint. This is because I dont think Mr and Mrs B have yet 
shown the costs theyre claiming for are irrecoverable elsewhere. And even if they do, Great 
Lakes has already settled the claim up to the maximum policy limit under the relevant 
section.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr and 
Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman