DRN-1845210
The complaint
Mr H and Miss L have complained about the compensation they've been offered for 
a payment protection insurance ("PPI") policy mis-sold by Barclays Bank UK PLC 
("Barclays"). 
What happened
Mr H and Miss L held a joint overdraft account which had PPI. In February 2017, Miss L 
complained to Barclays that the policy was mis-sold. 
Barclays upheld the complaint about the mis-sale of the PPI policy. It offered to refund the 
total premiums paid under the policy which came to £556, the associated interest caused by 
the PPI which came to £3,115.94 and it also offered additional compensation for being out-
of-pocket of that money set at 8% simple interest per year, which came to £5,099.22 (after 
tax).
So in total, the full compensation for the mis-sold PPI policy came to £8,771.16. This was 
paid directly to Miss L.
Later on, Mr H complained about the PPI policy. Despite Barclays having already paid out 
the full compensation to Miss L, in order to ensure Mr H hadn't lost out, it wrote to Mr H in 
December 2018 and offered him 50% of the compensation, £4,385.58.
Miss L when she complained to Barclays about the PPI and received her amount, has said 
she thought Barclays would do the same for Mr H. 
As Miss L received the full amount of £8,771.16 - both Mr H and Miss L consider 
Barclays should pay Mr H that amount as well.
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. She thought Barclays, paying Mr H 50% 
of the compensation, was fair and it didn't need to do anything further.
As Mr H and Miss L disagreed, and as the matter hasn't been resolved, it's been passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 As Barclays has offered to settle the complaint and pay compensation for the mis-sale of 
the PPI policy, Im not going to look at how the PPI policy came to be sold.  
Within this decision I'm only looking at whether Barclays has offered fair compensation to  
 Mr H and Miss L.
Having looked at the available evidence and what's happened, I agree with our adjudicator 
and for the same reasons, Barclays has offered fair compensation. I'll explain why.Over the lifetime of the policy Mr H and Miss L paid £556 in premiums towards the PPI. 
Barclays has worked out the total compensation owed to both Mr H and Miss L for that 
PPI policy being mis-sold comes to £8,771.16.
It would have been fair for Barclays to split that compensation equally between Mr H and 
Miss L meaning both Mr H and Miss L received £4,385.58.
It ended up with Barclays paying Miss L £8,771.16. And then £4,385.58 to Mr H.
So Barclays, because of its error, has paid more in compensation than it should have done. 
It should have paid £8,771.16 in total. But in the end, it paid £13,156.74. Barclays isn't 
seeking to reclaim any overpayment made to Miss L because it was its error and that seems 
fair.
But, and importantly, Mr H has received fair compensation. He has received 50%. Just 
because Barclays, in error paid more to Miss L, doesn't mean it has to compound its error 
and pay 100% to Mr H as well.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve disputes between businesses 
and consumers, taking into account what is fair and reasonable. In this case, Barclays has 
offered fair compensation. So if Mr H and Miss L think the compensation should be divided 
differently, then they need to agree this separately amongst themselves. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC has 
offered fair compensation and it doesn't need to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Miss L to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman