DRN-3341278
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc unfairly applied a late payment marker to his 
credit card account, which it reported to credit reference agencies.
What happened
Mr M held a credit card account with Barclays. 
In June 2018, Mr Ms monthly statement confirmed that a minimum payment of £60.57 was 
due by 2 July 2018. This payment was made by direct debit on 2 July 2018, but it was 
returned unpaid on 4 July 2018. This is reflected on the July 2018 monthly statement, which 
confirmed a minimum payment of £121.48 was now due by 6 August 2018.
On 27 July 2018, Mr M made a payment of £121.48 which brought his account back up to 
date. But a late payment marker was recorded on his credit file. Mr M is unhappy as he says 
Barclays told him that if he made the payment within a certain time frame, it wouldnt be 
reported to credit reference agencies. 
Barclays say it does have an automatic buffer for late payments. It says when a payment is 
late but made within 14 days after the payment due date, the customers credit file is not 
affected. After 14 days, Barclays is obligated to report the late payment.
Mr M brought his complaint to our service, but our investigator didnt uphold it. She listened 
to the calls Mr M had with Barclays at the time and she didnt think hed been misadvised of 
the process. She was satisfied the late payment marker had been applied correctly and she 
didnt think Barclays needed to do anything further to resolve the complaint.
Mr M didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My understanding of this complaint is that Mr M feels he was given incorrect information by 
Barclays about whether this late payment would be recorded on his credit file. In an email to 
our service in September 2021, he says Barclays told him there would be no credit impact if 
the payment was made within the month. However, in a call with our investigator in October 
2021, he tells us that Barclays said the payment must be made within 10 days. 
Because of this, its not entirely clear to me what time frame Mr M believes he was given. 
And I can appreciate, given the amount of time thats passed, that he may not be able to 
recall the exact conversation. Weve asked for the call recordings from Barclays, which 
theyve sent to us  but these conversations dont reflect Mr Ms recollection of what was 
said. And Barclays have been unable to locate any further phone calls. 
From the evidence I have available, I cant fairly say that Barclays provided Mr M with 
incorrect information. But if I accept his testimony that he was told his credit file wouldnt be 
affected if he made the payment within 10 days, then this information isnt necessarily 
incorrect. I say this because Barclays automatic buffer allows Mr M 14 days to make the 
payment after the due date. 
Unfortunately, Mr M made his payment 25 days after it was due. As such, he was outside of 
the automatic buffer period and the time frame he says he was given. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest he was told he could make it within a month.
Barclays is under an obligation to report true and accurate information to credit reference 
agencies. So once the due date had passed and no payment had been received, it reported 
the payment as late. I cant say this was incorrect or unfair. So it follows that I cant fairly ask 
Barclays to remove the marker from his credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman