DRN-1851752
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that First Response Finance Ltd (First Response) wont agree to repairs 
needed on a car he acquired through a Hire Purchase Agreement with First Response. He 
would like the rear offside passenger door and electric mirrors fixing and a suitable CD 
player installing. He would also like a minimum of £200 compensation for the inconvenience
What happened
Mr M said he took out a Hire Purchase Agreement with First Response on 3 August 2019 for 
an 11-year-old car with 79,000 miles on the clock. He says the car didnt come as 
advertised, for example the electric windows and mirrors didnt work, neither did the CD 
player. He is also not happy the car was advertised with one previous owner. He has since 
discovered it had two previous owners.
He says the dealership told him it would replace the battery and repair the electric mirrors 
and windows. He doesnt believe these repairs were carried out since the car broke down 
twice within the first month of having it resulting in a replacement battery and O2 sensor. He 
says the rear offside passenger window originally worked then failed. So, he doesnt believe 
the correct parts were used. And the mirrors were never fixed.
First Response said Mr M complained to them about the car breaking down twice and of a 
problem with the back door and the radio. First Response said the dealership replaced the 
battery and O2 sensor but found no other faults. The dealership sad it would arrange for a 
radio specialist to repair the radio/CD player. However, as the dealership was no longer 
trading First Response said although the radio was cosmetic item it would offer a 
contribution towards repair or a /replacement. But said as yet Mr M had not provided a 
quote.
First Response didnt feel the fact Mr M was the third not second owner of the car affected 
the cars value. Finally, it said it offered Mr M £50 as a gesture of goodwill to cover the time 
he had been without the cars whilst repairs were being completed.  Mr M accepted this offer.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint. He found that Mr M raised several issues with the 
car within the first month so having it. The dealership had agreed to repair the radio so he 
felt First Response should honour this. He found the problems with the electrical mirrors and 
the window on the rear passenger door were not wear and tear issues and should be 
repaired. He also felt the £50 compensation First Response wasnt enough and should be 
increased to £100.
Mr M accepted this view, but First Response didnt. It said Mr M hadnt previously raised the 
problem of the electric mirrors but had said in his complaint form he tested these and knew 
they were faulty when he got the car. So, it didnt feel it was liable for this repair. It said Mr M 
accepted its £50 offer of compensation which it felt was fair for the three days he had been 
without the car. Finally, it referred to another case with our service in which a conclusion was 
drawn that electric switches for door mirrors and windows were considered as wear and tear 
items for which a business would not be liable.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change his view. He accepted Mr M 
bought the car knowing the mirrors didnt work but they were advertised as working and he 
was told they would be fixed. So, he did feel it was reasonable for First Response to cover 
the cost of this repair. He felt given the number of issues that arose within a month of Mr M 
having the car that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale and that the radio 
and rear passenger window should also be fixed along with the mirrors and the radio. He 
was still of the view the that £50 wasnt enough compensation for the inconvenience to Mr 
M. Finally, he noted the reference to another case with our service but explained that an 
Ombudsmans decision doesnt set a precedent for other cases.
First Response didnt accept this second view. It said that Mr M hadnt raised a problem with 
the electric mirrors when he complained. It felt if repair to the wing mirrors had been agreed 
as part of the sale that Mr M would have raised this issue sooner. And said there was no 
proof there was an issue with the wing mirrors.
Regarding the radio it said it had been unable to make an offer to Mr M as he had failed to 
provide a quote for repair/replacement. It felt it was unfair to expect it to pay for costs that 
had not yet been ascertained.
It remained of the view that £50 compensation was enough.
Our investigator considered these further points but didnt change his view. He felt Mr M was 
under the impression that the dealership would repair the mirrors so when it ceased trading it 
was reasonable for Mr M to add that issue to his complaint. He felt the mechanical faults with 
the car, the fact the problems with the car occurred so soon after purchase meant the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am conscious Mr M bought an 11-year-old car with significant mileage  as such he could 
expect it to have more wear, tear and repair issues than if for example he bought a new car. 
However, we do expect cars to be fit for purpose at the point of sale. And if issues arise 
within the first six months, we would expect the business to investigate to see if any issues 
were present or developing at the point of sale. And if there are, we would expect the 
business to resolve them.
Mr M got his car 3 August 2019.  Within the first month of having it the car broke down twice 
requiring a new battery and O2 sensor fitting. I dont think I need to go into these issues in 
any more detail as I understand they have been resolved.
I can see from the customer notes that on 3 September 2019, a month after getting the car 
Mr M complained of problems with rear passenger side window and radio not working. 
Mr M has also told us the electric mirrors dont work. If I have understood him correctly, he 
raised a problem with the mirrors and window when he got the car and was told these would 
be fixed. He doesnt believe the mirrors were. He has told us the window worked for a while 
but then failed again so he does believe the correct parts were used.
I am going to consider each of these issues in turn. Regarding the radio I accept First 
Responses point that the radio doesnt affect the functionality of the car. Its unfortunate that 
the dealership is no longer operating. But given it did commit to repairing the radio I think 
that should be honoured. I appreciate First Response doesnt feel its fair to be asked to do 
something not knowing the cost.  I can see from the customer notes Mr M said he could find 
a suitable replacement for either £180 or £400. Given the age of the car I think £180 is more reasonable sum for First Response to cover. But I would expect Mr M to evidence the cost of 
purchase/fitting.
I can see from the customer notes that Mr M raised the problem with the rear window within 
the first month of having the car. In its final response letter First Response says the only 
faults found were with the battery, O2 sensor (both of which have been addressed) and the 
radio. They also note the lambda sensor was replaced. So, it doesnt appear any work was 
done to the window or if it was it isnt logged in the customer notes. Given Mr M raised this 
issue within a month of having the car and says there is still a problem with the window not 
working I think its reasonable for First Response to cover the cost of this repair on proof of 
the work being done or by organising for the work to be done itself.
In terms of the problem with the electric mirrors I cant see any evidence from the customer 
notes of Mr M raising that. Or of any agreement with the dealership for this work to be done. 
I have gone back to Mr M to see if he could provide me with any other information for me to 
consider. He has told us he has no record to show he raised this with the dealership. But he 
has sent in a receipt for the purchase of an electric mirror with his address as the delivery 
address. Unfortunately, I dont feel that proves that the dealership agreed to or carried out 
any repair or replacement on the electric mirrors. On that basis I dont think its reasonable to 
expect First Response to cover the cost of this repair.
In terms of compensation. I think it would be reasonable for First Response to pay Mr M a 
further £50 compensation. Even allowing for the age and mileage of his car the fact he had 
two breakdowns within the first month is more inconvenience than I think he could 
reasonably have expected to have.
My final decision
In full and final settlement First Response Finance Limited should: -
-Arrange or pay, on proof of cost, for the cost of the repair to the rear passenger 
window
-On proof of cost pay Mr M up to a maximum of £180 to install or repair the CD player 
-Pay Mr M an additional £50 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman