DRN-3575943
The complaint
Miss G complains that JN Bank UK Ltd recorded a Credit Industry Fraud Awareness System 
(CIFAS) marker against her. She feels the marker should be removed.
What happened
Miss G applied for a loan with JN Bank UK Ltd in July 2020. She says her earnings had 
dropped due to the pandemic, so shed applied for a number of loans that day, with a 
number of different lenders. When assessing her application, JN Bank carried out a credit 
search using the details Miss G had provided and discovered that shed given it a different 
name to that used on most of her other credit facilities. And so it decided to record a CIFAS 
marker against her.
Miss G complained after learning about the CIFAS marker. But JN Bank investigated and 
said it was satisfied the marker was applied correctly and so it didnt agree to remove it. 
Miss G wasnt satisfied with JN Bank response, so referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They felt JN Bank had provided sufficient 
evidence that Miss G had made the application using false information, and so they felt it 
was reasonable that the CIFAS marker remained against her name. Miss G didnt agree with 
our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think JN Bank has enough evidence to record the CIFAS marker against 
Miss G. Ill explain why below.
The marker JN Bank has filed with CIFAS is intended to record that theres been application 
fraud  meaning material falsehoods were made during the application for an account. In 
order to record a marker like this, JN Bank isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt 
that Miss G is guilty of fraud or a financial crime. But it must show that there are grounds for 
more than mere suspicion or concern.
CIFAS itself says:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
So Ive thought about whether JN Bank had enough evidence to show that Miss G provided 
materially false information during her application, and whether it had enough evidence that 
she was deliberately dishonest when doing so.
JN Bank has sent us a copy of the loan application Miss G made to it, as well as a copy of 
the results from the credit search it carried out when assessing the application. The name 
Miss G gave when making the application was an incorrect spelling of her first name, and 
then her middle name in place of her surname. The credit search shows a number of other 
credit facilities Miss G has taken out, and a number of other applications shes made, using 
a number of different variations and combinations of her first name, middle name and 
surname.
Miss G has said the incorrect spelling of her first name on the application to JN Bank was 
likely caused by her phone auto-correcting her name. And I accept that this is plausible.
Shes also told us she hardly uses her surname and usually uses her first name and middle 
name. But all of the other credit facilities that show up on the results of the credit search use 
her surname. All of the other applications that show on the credit search use her surname as 
well, including one application made on the same day she made the application to JN Bank. 
And none of the credit facilities or other applications that show on the credit search use just 
her first name and middle name. So the evidence Ive seen suggests Miss G does use her 
surname, and doesnt usually use her middle name instead, at least on credit applications.
The results of the credit search also show adverse information in relation to a number of the 
credit facilities Miss G already had open. And attempting to hide previous adverse 
information is often a reason customers will use names they dont usually use when making 
credit applications. So as the evidence here suggests Miss G didnt usually use her first 
name and middle name for applications, and in the absence of any other plausible 
explanation from her, I think its likely the reason she did so here was to try to hide the 
adverse information previously recorded on her credit file.
I cant say for certain why Miss G used a different name for this application, and I accept that 
its possible that she does usually use her middle name instead of her surname in her day-
to-day life. But, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think JN Bank did have enough evidence 
here to show that Miss G provided materially false information during her application. And I 
think it had enough evidence that she was deliberately dishonest when doing so.
So I think JN Bank has enough evidence to record the CIFAS marker against Miss G, and I 
wont be asking it to remove the marker.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October 2022. 
Alan MillwardOmbudsman