DRN-2922476
The complaint
 Mrs D is unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined a claim she made on
her travel insurance policy.
All references to URV include its agents and claims handlers. And although Mrs D is being
representative in this complaint, Ive referred to Mrs D throughout as she is the policyholder.
What happened
Mrs D took out a single trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by URV, to cover a trip
abroad between January to March 2020 to visit family (the policy).
Whilst away, and a few days before she was due to return to the UK, Mrs D injured her knee.
She was admitted to hospital and was advised that she wasnt fit to fly home.
She contacted URV to make a claim on the policy for the costs shed incurred. However,
that claim was ultimately declined because URV said that Mrs D failed to disclose all her 
pre-existing medical conditions when taking out the policy. And if shed done so, it said the 
policy wouldnt have been offered to her.
Mrs D doesnt think thats fair. She also says URVs decision to decline the claim resulted in 
her having to pay for her return flight to the UK, in seating conditions that were not conducive 
to her ongoing discomfort and potential risk to her health. She also says she had the 
additional concern of flying back to the UK with the knowledge that her insurance had been 
voided.
Unhappy, she complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint; he
concluded that URV hadnt done anything wrong. Mrs D disagreed so her complaint was 
passed to me to look at everything afresh and decide.
I issued my provisional decision in June 2021 explaining why I was intending to partially 
uphold Mrs Ds complaint. An extract of which appears below:
Ive taken into account the law in the area  which sets out an insurers remedies where a 
consumer has deliberately, recklessly or carelessly misrepresented the situation about 
things like their pre-existing medical conditions when taking out the policy.
When a consumer takes out insurance, theyll typically be asked questions about themselves
(and anyone else who is to be insured under the policy) as well as the risks they want to
insure. The insurer then uses that information to weigh up whether it wishes to cover those
risks and how much it will charge for doing so.
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) places a duty
on consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when entering an
insurance contract. They must provide the insurer with accurate information to allow it to
assess the risk. If they dont, there are some circumstances in which an insurer may be able
to avoid the insurance contact  but thats only if theres been a qualifying misrepresentation.
In the absence of this, and where the consumer has taken reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation then the insurer cant take any action at all, even if they were provided
with the wrong information.
Under CIDRA, deciding whether Mrs D took reasonable care is to be done in light of all the
relevant circumstances. That can involve several considerations including whether the
questions she was asked at the time of taking out the policy were sufficiently clear.
URV has provided us with screen shots of the questions Mrs D wouldve been asked when
applying for the policy online via a comparison website.
Amongst other questions, she was asked:
Do any of the travellers have, or have any of the travellers had, any pre-existing
medical conditions?
I refer to this as the medical question.
It goes on to say:
A pre-existing medical condition is any personal illnesses or conditions that was
known and existed prior to buying an insurance policy.
You must tell your insurer about the health history of each traveller. If you declare
medical conditions your insurer will be able to confirm whether or not any claims
relating to them can be covered. Cover may be free of charge or require payment of
an additional premium. If you dont tell your insurer about a medical condition, this
could cause serious problems. Your insurer may not pay for medical treatment or the
costs to get home. It could even invalidate your whole policy.
Im satisfied that the medical question was clear, and I think its likely that Mrs D answered
yes to this question as she did declare some pre-existing medical conditions.
But URVs position is that Mrs D made a qualifying misrepresentation when answering the
medical question as she didnt disclose all pre-existing medical conditions. And Im
persuaded by that. Ill explain why.
URV asked Mrs Ds GP to complete a medical certificate which Ive seen dated 23 March
2020. The GP is asked to detail all medical conditions being treated by medication or
monitored, investigated or under the care of any specialist or medical professional (including
those which are stable and under control).
The GP lists the medical conditions Mrs D disclosed. However, they also list the following
which werent disclosed:
- Hypertension
- Cholesterol
- Emphysema / COPD
- Bipolar psychosis
- Haemorrhoids
Mrs D says that she never received a diagnosis of bipolar. But no evidence has been
produced that the GP was wrong to include bipolar when providing the information on the
medical certificate  for example, the GP hasnt sent a correction statement to URV saying
that the certificate was wrong in this respect. And further, although our investigator has givenMrs D the opportunity to provide her full medical history, this hasnt been provided to our
Service or URV to consider.
So, I dont think URV has acted unreasonably by relying on the information set out in the
medical certificate to carry out a retro-screening of the medical conditions detailed on the
medical certificate.
Theres also reference to Mrs D being prescribed medication typically prescribed to manage
the symptoms of osteoarthritis. This was originally considered by URV when concluding that
had Mrs D declared all medical conditions as she shouldve, the policy wouldnt have been
offered to her.
However, as osteoarthritis wasnt a medical condition listed by the GP in the medical
certificate, our investigator asked URV not to include this in the retro screening that he asked
URV to carry out again. So, a retro-screening was carried out on the basis that Mrs D had
declared the other medical conditions listed on the medical certificate.
Ive checked the retro-screening against the way in which URV answered the questions for
each medical condition. Im satisfied theyve been answered fairly, and in a way that is most
beneficial to Mrs D. I think thats reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, given
that URV dont have access to Mrs Ds full medical history.
URV says that had the questions been answered in this way at the time of taking out the
policy, it wouldve generated a score of around 13.64 (compared with a score of around 4.9
which Mrs D received when applying for the policy based on the medical conditions she
disclosed at the time).
Its also said that a score of 10 or more using the comparison website Mrs D bought the
policy through, wouldve resulted in the policy not showing as one that was available to 
Mrs D to take out. As such, she wouldnt have been able to take it out through that 
comparison site. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that had the policy not been offered, she 
wouldve left the comparison website to apply for the policy directly through another website.
So, Im satisfied URV has reasonably declined the claim made on the policy on the basis
that the policy wouldnt have been in place had Mrs D answered the medical question with
reasonable care.
When making this finding Ive taken into account what Mrs D says about applying for travel
insurance with the same insurance provider, via the website of the company whose branding
appears on the policy. Shes provided documents showing that she wouldve been offered
the policy, albeit for a slightly higher premium. Shes also provided documents showing that
had she disclosed all her pre-existing medical conditions when applying for travel insurance
via a different comparison website to the one she used, she wouldve been presented with
the option to take out the policy  but again, for a higher premium.
URV says underwriting criteria does change and it doesnt automatically follow that the 
policy wouldve been offered via the other comparison website  or directly  when Mrs D 
applied for the policy in September 2019. It also says that:
The retro information provided was done through their insurance company with the
limits and allowances of the system at the time of purchase, which is what retros are
all about.
Im persuaded by the latter point in particular.So, Im not persuaded that the evidence Mrs D has provided does support that had she
declared all medical conditions when applying for travel insurance via the comparison
website she used in 2019, wouldve resulted in the policy being offered  albeit for a higher
premium.
Ive also taken into account what Mrs D says about our Service upholding other complaints
against URV. However, Ive considered the circumstances of this complaint. And having
done so, I dont think URV has unfairly declined the claim.
I also need to consider whether, by not declaring all her pre-existing medical conditions,
Mrs D acted recklessly or carelessly. Im conscious that she did declare many of her
pre-existing condition and based on everything Ive seen, Im currently satisfied she
answered the medical question carelessly. So, I think it would be fair and reasonable for
URV to reimburse Mrs D for the premium she paid for the policy.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision, and to provide any further 
information they felt was relevant. 
Response to my provisional decision:
URV said it agreed with my provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
Mrs D didnt agree with my proposed findings. She raised a number of points in reply which 
Ive considered in detail. In summary she said:
She is vulnerable.  She lives alone in the UK and has limited experience in incepting 
policies of insurance.  At all times she took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. And although Ive considered the clarity of questions asked by 
URV when she took out the policy, I havent given sufficient weight to her personal 
circumstances when answering her questions. 
URV offers policies of insurance across a number of price comparison sites and their 
own website.  She queried whether the questions are identical across each website.
Shes been able to demonstrate that a policy of insurance wouldve been offered by 
URV regardless of whether the full alleged conditions were disclosed. As such she 
can see no value in providing her full medical history.
Mrs D has also provided a letter dated 6 July 2021, from her GP, reflecting the following:
I am told you have refused her claim on account of her not fully disclosing 
information about the health.
I believe she disclosed the health problems she believed she had.  Her chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease is mild and well controlled and does not limit her 
activities significantly.  Her mood disorder is similarly mild, stable and has not caused 
her distress for some time.  
Her GP also that neither condition was relevant to the injury Mrs D suffered on holiday.
This is something Mrs D has reiterated. She also says that her pre-existing medical 
conditions didnt result in her being hospitalised whilst abroad.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes the further information Ive received from both parties since I issued my 
provisional decision. Having done so, Im going to partially uphold Mrs Ds complaint by 
asking URV to reimburse her the premium she paid for the policy, but I dont think its acted 
unfairly by declining her claim. 
Many of the points Mrs D has raised in reply to my provisional decision Id considered when 
issuing my provisional decision. And whilst I appreciate that she is vulnerable, I dont think 
she declared all her pre-existing medical conditions as she shouldve when answering the 
medical question. I appreciate that she might not be used to taking out insurance policies  
and she may not have tried to deliberately mislead URV by not declaring certain conditions  
but that doesnt mean that she answered the medical question with reasonable care. 
I havent been provided with her full medical records  only a recent letter from her GP. But 
that doesnt reflect that theyd mistakenly recorded on the medical certificate conditions she 
didnt have  including bipolar, psychosis and Emphysema / COPD. Her GP has only said: 
her chronic obstructive pulmonary disease is mild and well controlled and does not 
limit her activities significantly.  Her mood disorder is similarly mild, stable and has 
not caused her distress for some time. 
That seems to support that what was written on the medical certificate was accurate.
And although those conditions may not have been the cause of the injury she sustained 
abroad or the reason she was hospitalised, for reasons set out in my provisional decision, I 
remain satisfied that had she declared all her medical conditions, the policy wouldnt have 
been offered to her via the comparison website shed bought the policy through. 
Even if the medical question is asked differently when consumers are searching for travel 
insurance online, through other comparison websites or when looking to buy insurance 
directly through URVs website, Ive placed less weight on that. Whats more relevant, I think, 
is how the medical question was asked in this particular case when Mrs D bought the policy. 
And Ive explained in my provisional decision that Im satisfied this was a clear question. 
So, for the reasons set out above  and in my provisional decision  I dont think URV 
unfairly declined Mrs Ds claim. Based on everything Ive seen, Im persuaded that URV 
wouldnt have offered Mrs D the policy she bought (via the particular comparison site she 
used) if shed declared all her medical conditions. 
However, Im satisfied  and URV doesnt disagree  that Mrs D answered the medical 
question carelessly, and not recklessly. So, I think it would be fair and reasonable for URV to 
reimburse Mrs D for the premium she paid for the policy.
My final decision
I partially uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
I direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to put things right by reimbursing to Mrs D the
amount she paid for the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
David Curtis-JohnsonOmbudsman