DRN-3813814
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund payments she didnt make. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons: 
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Miss T isnt liable for 
payments she didnt authorise, unless she failed with gross negligence or intent to 
comply with the terms of the account or keep her personalised security details safe.
Ive firstly considered whether Miss T authorised the payments. The PSRs explain a 
payment is to be regarded as authorised if she consented to it  and that consent 
must have been given in the form, and in accordance with the procedure, agreed 
between Monzo and Miss T.
Monzo submit that because she went through some steps to set up Google Pay, she 
consented to all the payments from the fraudsters device. But looking at the relevant 
terms and conditions, they suggest that Miss T consents to making card payments in 
person (which I understand these were) by tapping her device. Here its clear she 
didnt do this  they were made on a different device in a different country. It follows 
that Im not persuaded Miss T consented to these payments in accordance with the 
agreed form or procedure, meaning theyre unauthorised. 
Monzo also submit that Miss T didnt have a reasonable basis of belief for acting the 
way she did. But thats language connected with the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) Code, something that wouldnt be relevant for card payments or for 
unauthorised payments. As Ive set out, Miss T could be held liable for unauthorised 
payments if she failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account 
or keep her personalised security details safe. 
I dont think Monzo have shown thats the case here. Miss T was using the Vinted 
app and received a message saying shed sold an item and to follow a link to receive 
payment. Miss T hadnt regularly used Vinted, so I can see why she was convinced 
by the message in the moment. And I dont think the URL looked so unusual that it 
ought to have rung alarm bells. 
On the website, Miss T shared her card details thinking it was to receive payment. I 
can understand why she was taken in by this  the website used Vinteds branding 
and referenced the item shed sold and how she should post it. I think lots of people 
wouldve acted the same way she did. 
Miss T said she didnt complete any steps in her Monzo app to set up Google Pay. 
But given theres no other persuasive way this couldve happened, I think its likely 
she did. Ive noted from the screenshot she shared of the fraudulent website that it 
told her that she should allow the operation in the app or from the notification she 
received. So I think its likely she completed these steps without taking in what she 
was doing. And given my understanding that theres only one screen that references 
Google Pay and how quick the overall steps are to go through, I can see how this 
happened  particularly when Miss T had been primed to expect something to 
approve. I dont think it means she seriously disregarded an obvious risk. 
Monzo say that as Miss T read Vinteds terms and conditions, she shouldve known 
not to do anything outside the app. But I disagree that forgetting this in the moment 
means she acted with a very significant degree of carelessness.  
Taking this all into account, I dont think Miss Ts actions fell so far below what a 
reasonable person wouldve done that she failed with gross negligence. So I 
conclude that she isnt liable for the transactions and Monzo needs to put things right 
 by refunding her losses from these unauthorised transactions alongside interest to 
compensate her for the time shes been out of pocket.
Monzo shouldve have refunded this much sooner. Its clear Miss T was very 
distressed when Monzo told her the news that it wouldnt refund her, as it was money 
she saved for her children. So I agree with our investigators award of £100 to reflect 
her non-financial losses. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ts complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd must:
Pay Miss T the total of the unauthorised transactions, less any amount recovered or 
already refunded  I understand this to be £555.15.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Pay £100 for Miss Ts distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman