DRN-2006706
The complaint
Mr G has complained that BISL Limited (BISL) increased his premiums due to the 
information in the Claims Underwriting Exchange database (CUE database) after he took out 
the policy.
What happened
Mr G used a price comparison website to obtain quotes for his car insurance on 15 April 
2019 and chose a policy provided by BISL. The annual cost of the policy quoted was 
£452.70 at the time of sale. On 21 April BISL wrote to Mr G informing him that an undeclared 
fault claim in May 2019 had been discovered on CUE database. This resulted in a review of 
the premium charged and it said the premium needed to be increased to £845.74.
Mr G contacted BISL and explained that the claim in question was a non-fault claim and that 
he had declared this when he completed the forms on the price comparison website. BISL 
explained that he would need to contact his previous insurers to rectify the information on 
the CUE database and provide proof of the status of the claim.
Mr G was able to provide sufficient confirmation that the claim was indeed a non-fault claim. 
In response, BISL recalculated the premiums which dropped to £534.19.
Mr G is not happy with the chain of events, he felt he declared this claim on the price 
comparison website from the start and it was unfair this had now changed. He feels hes 
being charged an excessive premium unfairly and would like this to be rectified. BISL 
investigated the issue and didnt think they had done anything wrong as the recalculated 
premium of £534.19 was based on accurate information. 
Mr G remained unhappy and referred the complaint to this service. Our investigator reviewed 
the complaint and didnt recommend it should be upheld. She didnt think BISL had done 
anything wrong. It had shown the initial quote was based on a zero claims history but this 
was not correct. She felt BISL had been reasonable in recalculating the premiums payable to 
reflect the most accurate information it had. Furthermore, given that BISL offered Mr G the 
option to cancel the policy or pay the additional amount, she felt Mr G had not been 
prejudiced. 
Mr G didnt agree so, the matter has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I 
know this will be disappointing for Mr G, but Ill explain why.
BISL has provided a screenshot of the details it received from the comparison website which 
it used to calculate the initial quote. This screen shot shows that the initial quote was 
calculated based on a zero claim.  I appreciate Mr G believes he did declare the claim but it 
is clear this isnt what was provided on the application. It maybe he used multiple 
comparison sites for different quotes and this could have been input on one and not another 
in error. But Im satisfied from what Ive seen that BISL wasnt provided with this information 
for the quote it provided.  And that the information provided by Mr G was not correct and 
mispresented his actual circumstances.
The 2019 claim was omitted from the initial calculation and this generated an incorrect 
quote. To rectify this, BISL used the information on CUE database to recalculate the cost of 
the policy and it is reasonable to do so. I say this because this is consistent with generally 
acceptable industry practice. 
It is unfortunate that in this instance the information on CUE database was incorrect at that 
time  indicating the claim as a fault claim instead of a non-fault claim. So the initial 
recalculation was based on incorrect details too. This needed rectifying by Mr Gs previous 
insurer and he was able to provide proof to BISL that the claim was recorded as a non-fault 
claim.
Once BISL received the written confirmation that the claim was non-fault, it promptly 
recalculated the cost of cover to reflect the true cost of the policy to be £534.19. I appreciate 
that this is still more than the initial quote. However, bearing in mind that a previous claim -
whether its a fault or non-fault  influences an insurer, it is reasonable to expect that the 
recalculation would have an impact on the initial quote. 
Im satisfied that BISL has calculated Mr Gs premium for his insurance correctly and treated 
him fairly with the options offered if he isnt happy to accept this.
The price offered when originally quoted was based on misrepresented information. BISL is 
entitled to reassess the risk based on the correct information and ask that Mr G pays the 
difference for the cover to be provided. It has asked Mr G to now pay this difference or 
offered to allow the policy to be cancelled with no cancellations fees. Mr G would only need 
to pay for the time hes had cover provided. I think this is a fair resolution as Mr G is free to 
move if he is unhappy with the price now offered and he is not prejudiced in anyway.  
I understand why Mr G feels strongly about all that has happened but BISL Limited has 
acted reasonably and fairly. Therefore, I wont be asking it to do anything else with this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman