DRN-2380884
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Yorkshire Bank (YB) 
charged them an early redemption charge (ERC) when they moved to a new fixed rate on 
their mortgage. 
For ease, Ill refer to all actions and comments as those of Mr G. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs G had a joint mortgage with YB that was on a two-year fixed rate until 
30 June 2020. The balance of the mortgage was around £280,000 and the remaining term 
was around thirteen years. It was a condition of the fixed term mortgage that an ERC would 
need to be paid if the mortgage was repaid in full or in part or if Mr G switched to another YB 
product within the fixed rate period.
Mr and Mrs G decided to move home and wanted to port their existing mortgage to the new 
property. They also wanted to borrow additional funds, around £45,000, to help with the 
purchase and to clear other debts. 
Mr G contacted YB and it agreed a mortgage in principle for £400,000 in August 2019. 
The first property Mr and Mrs G hoped to buy had an expected completion date in May 2020. 
The purchase fell through, but Mr and Mrs G found another property to buy and expected to 
complete in January 2020. 
Mr G spoke to an advisor at YB in November 2019 and initially looked at porting the existing 
mortgage to the new property and taking out the additional borrowing in Mr Gs name only. 
But YB said this was unaffordable and Mr G was offered a new five-year fixed rate on the 
mortgage. This meant the ERC, which was around £5,700, would need to be paid. 
Mr G complained to YB in December 2019 about having to pay the ERC. He said he was a 
loyal customer and he would understand the charge being applied if he had taken out a 
mortgage with a competitor, but this was not the case and he had taken out a five-year fixed 
rate mortgage with YB. 
YB didnt uphold the complaint. It said porting the existing fixed rate could only happen if 
Mr G was borrowing the same amount or less over the same term and he fulfilled its lending 
criteria. YB said it wasnt able to port the mortgage because it wasnt affordable, based on 
Mr Gs budget of £2,000 per month and on the existing term. YB said its mortgage advisor 
then recommended a five-year fixed rate which suited Mr Gs budget and the requirement to 
have the mortgage repaid by his expected retirement age. 
YB said Mr G knew the ERC was payable but was unable to delay the purchase of the new 
property. And he was also under no obligation to proceed with the mortgage. YB said it 
appreciated Mr G took out a new product with it, but it wasnt able to refund the ERC. YB 
offered Mr G £50 compensation for the amount of time it took to look at his complaint.
Mr G complained to this service about being charged the ERC. He also said he was 
unhappy that he had to take out a five-year fixed rate mortgage instead of a two-year fixed 
rate. Mr G said if the terms and conditions are strictly interpreted, then YB was within its 
rights to have asked for the charge to be paid. But he doesnt think it should have asked for it 
to be paid, so he said this complaint is about what is fair and morally justifiable. Mr G said he 
could have used a different lender, but he would have lost his buyers and the property he 
wanted to buy. Mr G asked YB to justify how it could say he couldnt afford a two-year fixed 
rate mortgage but could afford the £5,700 ERC.  
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Gs complaint. She said the option to port the mortgage 
was not possible because this application, including borrowing additional funds, failed the 
required mortgage stress test meaning it was not affordable. So the ERC became payable 
because Mr and Mrs G were repaying the two-year fixed rate deal they took out in 2018. Our 
investigator said if Mr and Mrs G had completed on the new mortgage within three months of 
the two-year fixed term ending, then YB would not have charged the ERC. But as they 
completed in January 2020, the ERC was correctly applied. Our investigator said Mr and Mrs 
G then accepted the five-year fixed rate deal that was recommended. 
Mr G respond to what our investigator said. He said he understood YB was acting in line with 
the agreed contract, but he didnt think it was morally and ethically right to be charged the 
fee to swap from one mortgage product to another, given that he thought the main purpose 
of an ERC was to deter consumers changing to another lender mid-term to obtain a more 
competitive rate. 
As Mr G did not agree with what our investigator said, this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint
The ERC in this case was around £5,700 and this was a significant amount of money for 
Mr G to have to pay when moving from one mortgage product to another and so, 
understandably, Mr G wanted to see what steps he could take to ensure he didnt incur this 
cost. 
The first option was porting the current two-year fixed rate mortgage and taking out the 
additional borrowing as a separate mortgage over a longer 18-year term. YB considered this 
option but decided not to offer this to Mr G because it didnt pass the affordability checks. 
From what I can see, Mr G completed a fact find with the YB mortgage advisor prior to 
agreeing to a new mortgage product. The fact find said Mr G set a monthly budget for 
repaying his mortgage of £2,000. But the cost of porting the existing mortgage, which had 
cost Mr G just over £2,000 per month, and taking out the additional borrowing was just over 
£2,300. So I think that YB acted fairly when it told Mr G this option was not affordable 
because it was outside of the monthly budget Mr G had set himself when he met with the 
mortgage advisor in November 2019. 
I can see that Mr G said he intended to review his borrowing once he was within the three-
month window of the fixed term expiring  so from 1 April 2020. And this was so that he 
could take out a single mortgage over a term of 18 years, which would make the monthly 
payments more affordable. But YB said it could only consider what the current situation was, 
rather than what it might be as and when it gets reviewed. And Im satisfied this is a fair way 
to approach the question of what was affordable for Mr G. Once the porting option was declined, the only other alternative for avoiding the ERC was for 
Mr G to wait until he was within three months of the fixed rate ending, as YB would have 
waived the ERC if a new product was taken out with it during the last three months of the 
fixed rate. But Mr G wasnt able to wait until 1 April 2020. He already had a buyer for his 
home, as well as a house he wanted to purchase and completion of both was due to happen 
in January 2020. So Mr G, understandably, didnt want to jeopardise the house move by 
asking all parties to wait. 
So because these options were either unavailable to or unsuitable for Mr G, the ERC 
became payable. 
Mr G said hes aware of the circumstances under which the ERC becomes due. But the crux 
of his complaint is that he thinks it was unfair of YB to apply the ERC in his particular 
circumstance. He said he has been a loyal customer of YB for many years and also took out 
another mortgage product with it, rather than moving to another lender that was offering a 
more competitive rate. So Mr G would like this service to look beyond the terms and 
conditions of his mortgage and to take a stance on whether we think it was morally and 
ethically right for YB to charge the ERC. 
However, I dont intend to put aside the agreement Mr G entered into with YB. Its my role to 
look at what is fair to both parties. And this means I cant ignore the fact that Mr G entered 
into a contract with YB and one of the terms of that contract allowed YB to apply the ERC in 
the way it has. Im satisfied Mr G understood the circumstances under which the ERC would 
become payable, and that he was made aware of the term, as it was clearly outlined in the 
mortgage offer paperwork.  
I dont think it would be fair for me to say that YB shouldnt charge the ERC when it was part 
of the fixed rate mortgage agreement with Mr G. And while I realise that Mr G didnt want to 
jeopardise the purchase of his new home, it was possible for the charge to be avoided if the 
existing mortgage had remained in place until 1 April 2020.  
Mr G also thought it was unfair that YB said he couldnt afford to port the mortgage for 
around a five-month period, when the additional cost to him was less than the cost of the 
ERC. But YB didnt need to take the ERC into consideration when calculating whether 
monthly mortgage repayments were within the £2,000 budget set by Mr G. 
In the end, Mr G took out a five-year fixed rate mortgage with YB but complained that he 
should have been allowed to take out a two-year fixed rate mortgage, as this had a lower 
interest rate. 
YB said that the two-year fixed term was unaffordable but that the five-year fixed term was 
within his budget and so this is what was offered to him.  
YB provided information that showed how it considered the affordability of both the two-year 
and five-year fixed rate options. And this included looking at how payments are likely to be 
affected over a specific period of time if interest rates increased. Having looked at what it 
provided, Im satisfied that YB acted fairly when it said the two-year fixed rate mortgage was 
not affordable, given Mr Gs budget and given the stress test it applied to the monthly 
repayments once the two-year term ended. Looking at the five-year fixed rate mortgage, the 
length of the term meant the repayments didnt need to be stress tested in the same way as 
with the two-year fixed rate mortgage and so were affordable throughout the term of the 
mortgage. Mr G also complained about some of the other fees he had to pay in order to take out the 
new mortgage product. However, I dont intend to comment on the amount of the fees. Its 
enough that these are clearly listed on the mortgage documentation and so Mr G would have 
been aware of any charges before deciding to go ahead with the mortgage. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman