DRN-3605910
The complaint
Mr G complains about the advice given by JLT Wealth Management Limited (JLT) to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal 
pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial 
loss.
What happened
Mr G approached JLT in 2010 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. The information 
from the time of sale shows that this was prompted by Mr Gs DB scheme offering an 
enhanced transfer value. I understand JLTs fees were being paid by Mr Gs employer. 
The suitability letter said that the DB scheme was paying 92.5% of the cash equivalent 
transfer value (CETV) due to a deficit in its funding. But in order to facilitate transfers away it 
would pay 106.5% of the CETV. The enhancement could be taken as cash immediately. 
JLT completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Gs circumstances and objectives. 
This said that he was: 
Aged 35, married, with two dependent children.
In good health and he was expecting this to continue. 
Employed and earning £29,000.  
He had a planned retirement age of 65, but he was unsure of his preferred retirement 
date or what his retirement income needs would be.
Had no savings or investments
JLT also carried out an assessment of Mr Gs attitude to risk, the fact find said that Mr Gs 
attitude to risk was adventurous. This was described as being willing to accept a high 
investment risk which could lead to large gains or losses. 
In June 2010, JLT advised Mr G to transfer his pension benefits into a personal pension and 
invest the proceeds with a well-known provider. The transfer value was £25,019. And an 
enhancement of £3,356.43 was paid to Mr G directly. 
The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were:
Mr G wanted a lump sum straight away and he was prepared to sacrifice his future 
pension benefits to obtain this. It was noted that he hadnt said why he wanted this 
money. 
The DB scheme represented an insignificant part of his overall retirement funds. 
He wanted the control, and greater death benefits, a personal pension arrangement 
could offer. This was because he had very little life assurance. 
He wanted to move to an individual plan under his control.
He wanted the greater tax-free lump sum a personal pension could offer. 
Mr G complained in 2021 to JLT about the suitability of the transfer advice because he 
thought the transfer was mis-sold. He said that a number of work colleagues had received 
compensation in similar situations. 
JLT didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. It said that the transfer was reasonable given Mr Gs 
high tolerance to risk and the expected returns of the fund it invested in. It also said that 
Mr G wanted control over his pension fund, and he wanted a greater ability to take tax free 
cash at retirement. 
Mr G referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and said 
that JLT should pay compensation. He said the advice to transfer wasnt suitable as Mr G 
was now likely to receive lower retirement benefits than he would have done in the DB 
scheme. And even though Mr G did want the cash enhancement there was little insight into 
his circumstances, or reasons given for the transfer. 
JLT disagreed, saying that Mr G required a return of 7.6% to match his scheme benefits. But 
the hurdle rate was 8.5%. It said this hurdle rate was the highest return it could currently 
accept as being reasonable for Mr Gs risk profile and term to retirement. JLT said it wasnt 
required to refer to the discount rate and using its own hurdle rate as a comparison was 
reasonable.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of JLT's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.16 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, JLT should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Gs 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The investment return (critical yield) required to match the occupational pension at 
retirement was quoted was 7.7% if Mr G took a full pension and 7.3% if he took tax free cash 
and a reduced pension. These are based on him taking the enhancement as a cash sum 
rather than leaving it in the pension, which he did do.
This compares with the discount rate of 6.9% per year for 29 years to retirement in this case. 
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle 
projection rate 7%, and the lower projection rate 5%. I've taken this into account, along with 
the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr G's attitude to risk and also the term to 
retirement. 
JLT has said that Mr Gs tolerance to risk was adventurous, or very high, at the time of sale. 
I understand this was done solely on the basis that he (or JLT on his behalf) selected this 
from a number of options. There is no qualification of this at any point, or explanation of why 
this was. 
And the other information from the point of sale is contradictory about this. It was recorded 
that Mr G didnt have any savings or investments and he was unsure of what investment 
types or sectors he wanted to invest in. Its not clear to me that Mr G had an understanding 
or experience of investment risk at this point. So, Im not persuaded that his attitude to risk 
was as high as JLT said it was, I think it was likely to be much lower than adventurous. 
And JLT has also said that the DB scheme was an insignificant part of Mr Gs pension 
planning. Mr G ticked a box on the fact find to say this was the case. But there were no other 
pension arrangements recorded for Mr G on the fact find. And Mr Gs age and 
circumstances make it likely that this was his only non-state pension benefits. So, I dont see 
how the DB scheme could be an insignificant part of his retirement provision.   
It follows from that I dont think the rate that JLT assessed this transfer on was appropriate. 
The 8.5% return that it used is very high and near the top end of the regulators illustrated 
growth rates. I think the discount rate is better comparator. 
So, I think Mr G was likely to receive benefits of a materially lower overall value than his 
occupational scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with his correct tolerance 
to risk.For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Gs best interests. Of 
course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There 
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall 
lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
I dont think Mr G required flexibility in retirement. This is because, based on the evidence 
Ive seen, I dont think he had a genuine need to access his tax-free cash earlier than the 
normal scheme retirement age and leave his funds invested until a later date. I say this 
because this doesnt seem to have been discussed.
I also cant see evidence that Mr G had a strong need for variable income throughout his 
retirement. This also wasnt identified. 
In fact the only need identified was Mr Gs statement on the fact find that he needed cash. 
But there was no recorded evidence of financial difficulty and the transfer provided Mr G with 
a relatively modest immediate cash sum. So, I dont think this was enough in itself to advise 
Mr G to transfer. 
Furthermore, Mr G was only 35 at the time of the advice and based on what Ive seen he 
didnt have concrete retirement plans. As Mr G had 29 years before he said he wanted to 
retire and access his pension, I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about 
transferring out of the DB scheme. 
So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr G to give up his guaranteed 
benefits, particularly as it was documented that he didnt know what his needs in retirement 
would be. If Mr G later had reason to transfer out of their DB scheme he could have done so 
closer to retirement.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension were likely an attractive feature to Mr G. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr G might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr G about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think JLT explored to what extent Mr G 
was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits. 
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr G 
was married and had dependent children and so the spouses and dependents pensions 
provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful if Mr G predeceased them. I dont think 
JLT made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr G. This was guaranteed and it 
escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining 
on death in a personal pension was. In any event, JLT should not have encouraged Mr G to 
prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security 
in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr G genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse or children, which 
didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, 
I think JLT shouldve instead explored life insurance. Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr G. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I think Mr Gs desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Im not persuaded 
that Mr G was an experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the 
knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on this own. So, I dont think that this 
was a genuine objective for Mr G  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from 
his DB scheme.
As far as I can see the funding of his employers DB scheme was not in a position such that 
Mr G should have genuinely been concerned about the security of his pension. 
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr G. But JLT 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr G might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr G needed and recommend what was in his best interests. 
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr G was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr G was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this.  Mr G shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just to gain a modest amount of cash, and the potential for higher death benefits 
and tax-free cash werent worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme.
So, I think JLT shouldve advised Mr G to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr G would've gone ahead anyway, against JLT's 
advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr G wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against JLTs advice. I say this because I dont think Mr G 
was an experienced investor and, as far as I can see, this pension accounted for the majority 
of Mr Gs retirement provision. So, if JLT had provided him with clear advice against 
transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he 
wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Gs need for cash and any concerns he may have had about his 
employer, or the scheme, were so great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing 
that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out, didnt think it was suitable 
for him or in his best interests. If JLT had explained that Mr G could meet all of his objectives 
without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I 
dont think Mr G would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think JLT should compensate Mr G for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/19 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr G whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance or rules to be published. 
He has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr G. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr G, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for JLTs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr G would have 
most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
JLT must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr G has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age, which I understand to be 65, 
as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Gs acceptance of the decision.
JLT may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Gs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Gs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Gs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr G within 90 days of the date JLT receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes JLT to pay Mr G.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect JLT to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require JLT Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr G the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
JLT Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr G any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require JLT 
Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr G any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
JLT Wealth Management Limited pays Mr G the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr G.
If Mr G accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on JLT Wealth 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding if Mr G accepts this decision. Further, its unlikely 
that Mr G can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr G may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman