DRN-2605341
The complaint
Mr S complains that he couldnt complete a balance transfer with his Lloyds Bank PLC 
(Lloyds) credit card.
What happened
Mr S obtained his Lloyds credit card in March 2020. The limit was £10,000. He completed 
several balance transfers onto the card. In June 2020, Lloyds declined a further balance 
transfer. His balance was £7,727 debit.
Mr S complained that the transfer had been declined  when there was a large enough limit 
in place. He said he hadnt been advised of any change in the credit limit  and so Lloyds 
were in breach of their terms and conditions. Hes spent a long time trying to get through to 
Lloyds at the time to try to resolve the transfer, which was frustrating.
Lloyds said balance transfers are subject to checks and arent guaranteed. These checks 
take place each time a transfer is asked for. Mr S didnt pass those checks and so the 
transfer was declined. They agreed Mr S had spent a long time on the phone trying to 
resolve what had happened and paid £75 compensation for that.
Mr S brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Lloyds did security checks each time 
a balance transfer is requested  to agree each one. They included this in their terms and 
conditions. And that makes sense  to ensure theyre lending responsibly. In Mr S case, he 
hadnt passed those checks and the transfer was declined. So  she felt Lloyds had acted 
fairly.
Mr S asked that an ombudsman looks at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see where Mr S is coming from. He had a limit of £10,000. The balance was under that 
- £7,727 debit  and Lloyds wouldnt allow him to make a further transfer of debt to the card. 
He also says he wasnt advised by Lloyds that his limit had changed from £10,000  so if it 
had, Lloyds were in breach of their terms and conditions  as these said they would advise 
cardholders if they changed their limit. And  he said he hadnt agreed that Lloyds could 
make credit checks on him each time.
The key issue here is whether Lloyds can make a check each time on a balance transfer  
and why. We asked Lloyds questions about this.
Mr S limit didnt change  it remained at £10,000. But Lloyds wouldnt agree a further 
balance transfer. Their terms and conditions do entitle them to do this. They say ..you 
cannot use more than 93% of your credit limit for balance transfers and money transfers. 
But  that would still have enabled Mr S to make a transfer as his balance was £7,727 debit 
 and 93% of the limit was £9,300. 
The terms and conditions go onto say We may cancel or suspend use of the card, refuse to 
replace or reissue a card, or refuse to authorise a transaction or type of transaction (even if 
your balance is under your credit limit) if:
a) the transaction would result in you going over or going further over your credit limit or any 
limit on the transaction type;
b) we consider it necessary because as a responsible lender there is or is likely to be an 
unacceptable or increased risk of you not repaying what you owe us. This could be because 
of how you manage this account or other accounts you have with us, information we get 
from credit reference agencies or us finding that you are bankrupt or have made an 
arrangement with your creditors 
They also say If you ask us to process a balance transfer or money transfer, we will transfer 
the agreed amount once we have completed our security checks
So  Lloyds terms and conditions say they can make credit checks when balance transfers 
are requested and make a decision each time. And they can make a credit check whenever 
they want to. 
Mr S has said to us that he wasnt advised of a change in credit limit  and thats correct  
because Lloyds didnt change his limit  it remained at £10,000. But  I can see that Lloyds 
did let him know about the declined balance transfer by text message on 29 June 2020.
We asked Lloyds about the reasons for doing credit checks on each balance transfer  and 
its that the risk of such lending is different to a normal retailer purchase. Ultimately, whether 
they choose to lend to a customer or not is their commercial decision  but their business 
logic for what they do seems reasonable.
Mr S has also said to us that security checks are not the same as credit checks  we 
discussed this with Lloyds, and they confirmed they are one and the same.
I can see that Mr S feels strongly about his complaint, and so he will be disappointed by my 
decision, but I wont be asking them to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman