DRN-3758819
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Santander Consumer 
Finance (Santander) misrepresented her car finance agreement to her. She told their 
broker that she wanted a PCP agreement but has been given a conditional sale agreement. 
What happened
Mrs M was looking to acquire a car on finance in 2018. She discussed several options with a 
car dealership by email and was given several quotes. She eventually signed for a 
conditional sale agreement to purchase a four year old vehicle in August 2018. This required 
her to make 42 monthly payments of £345.71 followed by one payment of £11,933 in the 
43rd month. 
On 28 February 2022, as the end of the finance agreement approached, Mrs M called 
Santander to complain. She said that shed been told this was a PCP finance agreement but 
had now discovered it was a conditional sale agreement. This meant she didnt have the 
same options at the end of the agreement. 
Santander issued their final response letter (FRL) on 28 March 2022, rejecting the complaint. 
They said that they had contacted the broker (car dealership) who said that her initial 
application had been for a PCP agreement but this had been declined, and she had then 
been accepted for a conditional sale agreement on this vehicle (which was a different car).
The notes from Santanders systems show that Mrs M contacted them on 4 April 2022 and 
said that her daughter had in fact been to the dealership and given all of her details to them. 
Santander said they could pursue the daughter for impersonating Mrs M, but Mrs M said she 
didnt want to do this, and that she hadnt applied for any other finance on any other vehicle, 
this was untrue. Santander said they werent changing their decision on her complaint and 
she could bring it to our service if she was unhappy with the outcome. 
Mrs M called us on 8 June 2022 to bring the complaint to our service. She said she wanted 
all her payments returning as she had been mis sold the agreement. 
An investigator here investigated her complaint and didnt uphold it. They said that they had 
found no evidence that the agreement was misrepresented to Mrs M, and that she had 
signed the conditional sale agreement. They agreed that it was a similar style of agreement 
in many ways to a PCP, with a final balloon payment. But they explained that as there was 
no evidence of any false statement of fact which had induced Mrs M to take out the 
agreement, they couldnt uphold the complaint. 
Mrs M didnt agree with this and asked for an Ombudsman to make a final decision on her 
case. She provided some emails showing she had discussed various PCP and other hire 
purchase deals with the broker, and a link to their website which shows they offer PCP and 
hire purchase finance agreements. She also said that with a PCP deal she would have 
positive equity in the car, not be in a situation where she had a lump sum to pay.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mrs M was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it.
Firstly, Mrs M has more recently said that she also complained about the warranty sold on 
finance along with the car. However, there is no warranty sold as part of this agreement. I 
can see that Santander have also said this previously to Mrs M and suggested she complain 
to the dealer if she has concerns about this. My position is the same here; we have no 
evidence of a warranty forming part of this conditional sale agreement, so I wont be 
commenting on it further, and would refer Mrs M back to the dealership for any complaint 
about this. If she isnt happy with their response, she should be able to escalate that 
complaint to the Motor Ombudsman. 
The complaint Mrs M raised with our service is about misrepresentation.  I would consider a 
misrepresentation to have taken place if Mrs M was told a false statement of fact about the 
agreement, and that statement induced her into entering the contract to acquire the car 
when she otherwise wouldnt have. 
Mrs M has said she specifically wanted a PCP agreement, that the individuals at the 
dealership talked to her about the agreement as being a PCP agreement, but that she then 
discovered towards the end that it was in fact a conditional sale agreement. Shes provided 
evidence that she was receiving quotes for PCP agreements, but it also shows evidence of 
her receiving quotes for other hire purchase agreements. Shes highlighted on the website 
that it says the dealership offer finance via PCP or hire purchase agreements but doesnt 
mention conditional sale agreements. 
A PCP agreement (Personal Contract Purchase) is a type of hire purchase agreement. The 
car is sold to the finance company in the background, who then collect payments from the 
consumer. In a PCP agreement, a consumer usually has smaller monthly payments and a 
larger balloon payment at the end. The balloon payment is usually linked to the predicted 
future value of the car and is known as the guaranteed minimum future value. At the end of 
the agreement, the consumer can pay the balloon payment and keep the car, or they can 
hand the car back. If it turns out the car is worth more than the guaranteed minimum future 
value, the additional equity can be put towards a new agreement. 
A conditional sale agreement is very similar to a hire purchase agreement. The car is sold in 
the background to the finance provider, who then agrees monthly payments with the 
consumer. In this instance, the agreement also had a larger balloon payment at the end to 
allow Mrs M to own the car if she made that last payment. There is no guaranteed minimum 
future value though.  
While its clear to me that Mrs M certainly discussed PCP agreements with the dealership, 
and there has been some confusion here, I dont agree that the level of a misrepresentation 
has been reached. For it to be a misrepresentation, Mrs M would need show that a false statement of fact happened; in this case, that she was told she was signing up for a PCP 
agreement. Mrs M says this is what happened, but the paperwork she signed states at the 
top of page one, and in several other places, that this is a conditional sale agreement. 
Ive examined the paperwork and considered the impact this might have had for her. With a 
PCP agreement, she would have had a guaranteed future value figure, not just a final 
balloon payment to make. In the system notes provided by the complaints team at 
Santander, it says that she told them that shed been told the car had a guaranteed future 
value of £15,000. But shes signed an agreement that shows a final payment due of 
£11,933. 
Mrs Ms evidence is her testimony about the conversations held with the dealership. When 
Santander asked the dealership for their comments or recollections, the dealership said that 
Mrs M had been declined the finance on a PCP for a previous car and had then been offered 
this vehicle on a conditional sale. No proof has been provided of this, so this leaves both 
parties with conflicting testimony about what has happened.  
In a situation like this, I am weighing up what is most likely to have happened. To do this, I 
give more weight to the paperwork which has been supplied and signed by Mrs M. It has no 
mention of a PCP and clearly states it is a conditional sale. As such, I cant say that the 
agreement has been misrepresented to her, as there is only conflicting verbal evidence 
about what was actually discussed, and the paper trail clearly states this is a conditional 
sale.  
If I had felt that Mrs M might have been told the wrong information here, I would consider the 
second part of a misrepresentation; whether a false statement of fact induced Mrs M to 
acquire the car when she otherwise wouldnt have. 
Ive looked at the conditional sale agreement provided and thought about how it might differ 
from a PCP agreement. In effect, these agreements are very similar. 
If the car was worth less than the final balloon payment, in both situations, it can be returned 
to the finance company. The guaranteed future value on a PCP confirms this, but on this 
conditional sale agreement, Mrs M is able to terminate the agreement once shes made 
payments totalling £15,476.41. By the time she complained, she had made payments 
totalling more than this, so she could still choose to terminate the agreement and just hand 
the car back. 
When asked about what impact this issue has had, Mrs M has mentioned having equity in 
the car at the end if this was a PCP agreement. This would only occur if the value of the car 
at the end was more than the guaranteed minimum future value. But, provided the part 
exchange value of the car is more than the £11,933 final payment, she would also have 
equity in the car under the conditional sale agreement to part exchange it for another 
vehicle. So, I cant agree that a PCP agreement would have put Mrs M in a better position.
 Even though the agreement was not the PCP that she says she expected, Im not 
persuaded that shes suffered any loss or detriment as a result of this. And Im not 
persuaded that she wouldnt have taken the agreement out anyway, as the differences are 
so small. 
Its clear that theres been some confusion here, but I cant agree that the agreement has 
been misrepresented to Mrs M. Further to this, I cant see any financial downside to her from 
it having been a conditional sale agreement. Im sorry for any confusion she has felt around 
this, but Im not persuaded Santander have done anything wrong. I wont be asking them to 
do anymore here.  My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman