DRN-3499739
The complaint
Ms A complained about Barclays Bank UK PLC. She said:
- Barclays branch staff lost or stole £50 when she was paying in cash; and 
- she thought Barclays had changed its rules about what happened when she handed 
over a bag of 5p coins, and she didnt think that was right.
What happened
On 15 March 2022, Ms A went to a Barclays branch. She wanted to pay her Barclaycard bill. 
She said she gave the cashier £970.15 in cash, which she had counted several times before 
going to the branch.
But the Barclays cashier said there was only £920.15, so it was £50 short. She put the 
money on the counting machine, and also counted out the money in front of Ms A. Ms A then 
gave her debit card for the missing £50, in order to pay the total of £970.15 to her 
Barclaycard.
Ms A then gave the cashier a bag of 5p coins. She hadnt counted these in advance. Ms A 
said she asked the cashier Can you change this for me? and the cashier gave her back 
the money in larger denomination coins. Ms A took the bag, but said shed previously been 
told that coins had to be paid into her account. Ms A didnt ask the cashier to pay the money 
in, but she said the cashier had acted wrongly.
Ms A said she went home to look for the missing £50 but couldnt find it. She went back to 
the branch, but the counter was closed and the manager said someone would phone her the 
next morning. No-one did, so Ms A rang, but there were missed calls. When Ms A spoke to 
someone, Barclays told her that theyd checked CCTV, and nothing had gone wrong.
Ms A complained, but Barclays didnt uphold her complaint. In its final response letter on 21 
March, Barclays said that it had carried out a full and thorough investigation.  Only £920.15 
had been handed in, and there was no evidence that cash had been lost or stolen by the 
branch. Barclays also said that one of its managers had tried to ring Ms A but hadnt got 
through.  And in relation to the coins, Barclayss final response letter said that if Ms A wanted 
to use the branch to exchange or pay in coins, she should ask to deposit them into her bank 
account.
Ms A wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms As complaint. He said there was no evidence to disprove 
that £920.15 was what was counted at the branch. He said money counters were generally 
accurate, and the money was also hand counted for confirmation. And Barclays had 
checked CCTV too. So he said Barclays couldnt be held liable for the disputed £50. And in 
relation to the coins, he said that if Ms A wanted these paid in, this would have been done if 
shed asked.
Ms A wasnt satisfied. She said that when she went to pay her Barclaycard bill at the 
counter, the cashier should have counted it first, before putting it on the machine. Instead, 
the cashier had put it on the machine, then asked Ms A how much was there. And when Ms 
A had said £970.15, the cashier had said that the machine said it was less than that, and 
had then counted out the money in front of her. Ms A said this was wrong and when shed 
previously paid a bill, the cashier had counted it first and then put it on the machine.
In relation to the coins, Ms A said that shed previously been told that whenever she brought 
in coins, the money would be paid into her account.
Ms A said Barclays changed the rules when it felt like it, and stress affected her health. Ms A 
said that wasnt how Barclays should treat a customer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The disputed cash which Ms A paid in
I recognise that Ms A feels very strongly about the fact that she thinks she lost £50. She said 
shed counted it at home, and is quite sure that the total was £970.15 and not £920.15. I 
understand that thinking shed lost money would have been upsetting.  
In her complaint, Ms A has focused on the fact that the cashier put the money on the 
machine first, and only counted it when Ms A disputed the amount. Ms A feels that the 
cashier was wrong not to count the money first. But I dont think it would have made any 
difference to the outcome whether the cashier counted it first, or put it on the machine first. 
Both were ways of establishing how much money there was  and both came to the same 
answer. So I dont think it matters which way round it was done.
The most important point here is whether there was any error or fraud, because Ms A thinks 
the branch lost or stole £50. But I cant see any way this might have happened. Its agreed 
that the money was counted in front of Ms A, so shed have seen if the cashier had tried to 
hide or pocket any of the notes. And counting machines are carefully and independently 
calibrated, so its unlikely that the machine total was wrong. Ms A didnt at that point call for a 
manager or claim that shed seen the cashier stealing any of her money  instead she paid 
the rest of her bill using her debit card. 
Taking all these factors into account, I think its more likely than not that the total she handed 
over to the cashier was £920.15. Ms A told our investigator that she was telling the truth, and 
I dont doubt that she genuinely thought shed handed over the higher amount. But its easy 
to make a mistake when counting notes oneself, and I think thats most likely to be what 
happened here.
Ms As bag of 5p coins
Ms As complaint here is that she was previously told, by someone else in the branch, that 
all bags of coins have to be paid into an account. But she said that what she asked the 
cashier was Can you change this for me? So I dont think Barclays acted unreasonably 
when it changed the coins for other money  because that was what Ms A had asked for. 
Ms A didnt then ask the cashier to put the money into her account, so theres no suggestion 
that she asked and the cashier refused.When our investigator asked Ms A what the impact of this was, she said that changing the 
rules isnt right. But Barclays is entitled to change its procedures, and here, the cashier did 
exactly what Ms A had asked for. So I dont think Barclays did anything wrong here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman