DRN-1716961
The complaint
Mr F complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) rejected a claim 
he made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr F, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
section 75
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr F made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Here I would agree that there has been a breach of contract as I think any reasonable 
person would expect to have access to hot water in their room.
Mr F says that he wasnt told thered be no hot water and that he wasnt given the 
opportunity to cancel his room. But the hotel dispute that and I think it would be 
unreasonable to ask them to refund the whole accommodation cost when there are 
conflicting and unsupported claims on both sides.
I think its fair for the hotel to make a deduction for the accommodation and facilities that 
Mr F did benefit from. Having considered how much that should be I think Mr F has been 
able to benefit from most of the facilities included within the price of the room and I think the 
discount of £40 the hotel provided was fair. I therefore dont think AESELs actions were 
unreasonable when they rejected Mr Fs claim.
chargeback
I also note that AESEL raised a chargeback. A chargeback is the process by which payment 
settlement disputes are resolved between card issuers and merchants, under the relevant 
card scheme rules. 
What this means here is that AESEL can in some circumstances ask for a transaction to be 
reversed if theres a problem with the goods or services supplied by the merchant. But the 
chargeback process doesnt give consumers legal rights and it isnt guaranteed to result in a 
refund. It all depends on what the merchant says in response to the chargeback request. 
Its important to note that chargebacks are decided based on the card scheme's rules, not 
the relative merits of a cardholder/merchant dispute. So, its not for AESEL  or me  to 
decide whether Mr F should be allowed to have his money back through the chargeback 
process. AESELs role is to raise the appropriate chargeback and consider whether any filed 
defence complies with the relevant chargeback rules. From what Ive seen, thats what 
AESEL did here and the chargeback was defended and ultimately rejected. I cant say 
AESEL did anything wrong and overall I dont think they need to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman