DRN-2538172
The complaint
Miss O complains Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited (Mutual) lent to her 
irresponsibly.  
What happened
Miss O took 14 home collected loans between November 2011 and August 2019. Ive 
included some of the information weve received about the loans in the table below. 
Loan 
NumberLoan Amount Date Received Actual Repayment Date
1 £300 26/11/2011 30/01/2013
2 £250 18/08/2012 30/10/2013
3 £200 27/10/2012 24/12/2013
4 £700 15/06/2013 08/07/2015
5 £500 04/10/2014 10/08/2016
6 £630 11/07/2015 12/04/2017
7 £500 30/01/2016 12/07/2017
8 £1,000 13/08/2016 09/05/2018
9 £1,000 15/04/2017 03/04/2019
10 £1,000 15/07/2017 21/08/2019
11 £1,400 12/05/2018 *
12 £500 11/08/2018 *
13 £1,000 27/03/2019 *
14 £1,500 24/08/2019 *
 
*When Mutual provided us its file, there was an outstanding balance for loans 11 to 14. 
Miss O says the balance that Mutual provided us didnt take into account her four 
repayments she made in the middle of last year. 
Mutual has told us that Miss O first became a customer in mid-2010, so its possible there 
may be further lending  but without a reference for any loan agreements it says it isnt able 
to clarify if there were more loans. Miss O is unable to recall if she did have any further home 
collected loans prior to November 2011. So, the adjudicator considered the 14 loans in the 
above table in reviewing the complaint.  
Following a review, the adjudicator didnt think there was enough evidence to say Mutual 
was wrong to have granted the first two home collected loans. But he thought the remaining 
home collected loans (loans 3 to 14) shouldnt have been given. 
Miss O appears to agree with the adjudicators view although she was unclear if Mutual 
would include recent repayments when calculating the adjudicators proposals.  
Mutual disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. In its response Mutual provided a 10-
page document which coved a number of different areas and themes. Ive read Mutuals 
response in full and in summary, it has said:
the checks it completed were proportionate and it gathered more information as the 
lending relationship went on, verifying information provided by Miss O through credit 
checks;
the loans are not high interest and are half the cost of other home credit providers; 
it is not in Mutuals interest to issue unaffordable or unsustainable credit agreements;  
repeat lending, and long-term use of home credit isnt necessarily harmful to 
consumers. And the industry regulator has confirmed this;
a robust assessment took place to prevent unsustainable lending, including 
consideration of the borrowing record, the level and the frequency of applications; 
a key indicator of when a loan is affordable is whether past loans have been repaid in
a reasonable way. Mutual used a low and grow approach to make sure this
happened  allowing for larger credit and not restricting further lending to the level of 
the first loan;
most of the loans were over 102 weeks and this allowed for Miss O to be able to 
spread the cost of the borrowing  it is highly unlikely that a customer would be 
borrowing again to fill a gap in their income. And the loans are flexible without 
pressure to pay each week;  
there is no evidence in this case to support the adjudicators conclusion Miss O was 
borrowing unsustainably  and the checks completed indicated the loans would be 
affordable;
in a recent court case, the judge said it might be fair to lend up to 3 or 4 loans per
year (but more may indicate financial difficulty). Mutual approved a lower amount of
loans than this (a little over two loans per year), so the lending was not likely to be 
unsustainable;
Miss O saved money by not borrowing through a main national provider  and it isnt 
fair to prohibit a customer from further loans based on an arbitrary number of loans 
provided and which would force them to go to another provider and pay twice as 
much. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
To be clear Im only considering the 14 loans in the above table as theres no persuasive 
evidence to show further loans were taken out. And as Miss O doesnt appear to disagree 
with our adjudicators findings that Mutual wasnt wrong to lend the first two of these 14 
loans, it seems that lending is no longer in dispute so I dont need to make a finding about it. 
So instead, this decision will focus on whether Mutual did anything wrong when it lent loans 
3 to 14. 
Mutual has had other decisions from us which detail our approach to complaints of this 
nature and what we think about the rules and regulations that surround the sale of this type of credit. So Mutual should be aware of our approach to these issues. I dont intend to go 
into detail about that here. But a brief summary of this is below.
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss O could
repay loans 3 to 14 in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. With this
in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might suggest Mutual should have done more to establish that any 
lending was sustainable for Miss O. These factors include: 
Miss O having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Miss O having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period 
of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing 
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss O coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss O. The loan payments being 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case.
At the time loans 3 and 4 were lent, Mutual was regulated by the Office of Fair Trading 
(OFT). The OFT required businesses to lend responsibly, this meant Mutual needed to 
check that Miss O could afford to repay her loans sustainably. The guidance states that 
creditors should take reasonable steps to assess borrowers likely ability to be able to meet 
repayments under the credit agreement in a sustainable manner. And it states that this is 
likely to involve more than solely assessing the likelihood of the borrower being able to repay 
the credit in question. 
And by the point loans 5 to 14 were lent, Mutual was regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority, who had set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are 
sustainable if they are made without undue difficulties and in particular, made on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to make them. If a 
lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those 
repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Miss Os complaint.
Mutuals response concerns how it defines the cost of the credit and the risk of it to Miss O.    
It also concerns our approach to repeat lending. We have responded to Mutual on these issues in detail through other final decisions it has received, and the published decisions on 
our website. So, Im not going deal with these points at length here.
I will say briefly that I consider it reasonable to describe this lending as high cost credit, as
does the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which includes home collected credit within its 
high cost credit portfolio. And while I note it has a longer term than, for example, a
payday loan, that does not make it a low risk, or inexpensive, option for a consumer. And,
as such, long-term use of these products can be harmful to a consumer. The FCA has not
said anything to the contrary on this point. I have considered these issues alongside
everything else in making my decision.
loan 3
I agree with our adjudicator that when loan 3 was lent Mutual should reasonably have known 
its most likely Miss O wouldnt be able to repay the loan, or any later loans, without undue 
difficulty. 
As the adjudicator has pointed out, loans 1 and 2 remained outstanding and Miss O from 
what I can see also had three other outstanding loans with another home credit provider. 
And I agree with the adjudicator that Mutual ought reasonably to have known about these 
loans had proportionate checks been completed at this time. 
Loan 3 was the third loan in around 11 months, the two previous loans were outstanding, 
and the term of loan 3 potentially extended Miss Os indebtedness considerably (over 51 
weeks). So, I dont think it was reasonable of Mutual to have simply relied on what Miss O 
told it when assessing the loan application. Instead Mutual needed to gain a full 
understanding of Miss Os actual financial position to ensure the loan was affordable and 
able to be repaid sustainably. This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for 
evidence of outgoings or reviewing bank statements. This mightve helped verify information 
provided and revealed whether there was any other information that Mutual mightve needed 
to consider about Miss Os general financial position. 
Im unclear what Mutuals own credit check revealed for this loan or what information it 
collected about Miss Os income and expenditure. But from what I can see, Miss O had three 
other loans outstanding with another home credit provider. I think its most likely a full review 
of Miss Os circumstances would have revealed these outstanding loans. 
So, in my view she was unlikely to be able to repay loan 3 in an affordable and sustainable 
way  the number of loans she had suggested she was having problems managing her 
money.   
I dont think therefore loan 3 shouldve been lent. 
loans 4 to 14
I havent looked in any detail as to whether the checks for loans 4 to 14 were proportionate 
and Ill explain why below. But I will say that Ive not found Mutuals suggestion that it 
gathered more and more information about Miss Os expenditure to be persuasive in 
showing the loans were affordable and sustainable. Theres no real evidence of this 
apparent increasing volume of information. So, Im not clear how this argument supports that 
the loans were properly lent. Furthermore, at this stage in the lending relationship I dont 
think it was reasonable of Mutual to have relied on what Miss O declared. Having looked at the overall pattern of Mutuals lending history with Miss O, I agree with our 
adjudicator that Mutual should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, 
or otherwise harmful, at the time it provided loan 4. I say this because:
By loan 4 it was just over 18 months into the lending relationship with no breaks 
between loans, and loans 2 and 3 were still outstanding. Loan 4 had the highest 
weekly repayment by that point, despite being over twice the term of previous 
lending, with the term of around two years potentially extending Miss Os 
indebtedness considerably. In my view, Miss Os loan history up until this point was a 
clear indication that her underlying financial situation wasnt improving; 
Miss O took out several loans shortly after previous ones were repaid, for example, 
loans 6, 8, 10, 11 and 14. Mutual ought to have realised it was more likely than not 
Miss O on these occasions was probably having to borrow further to cover a shortfall 
in her finances and that this was indicative of her indebtedness not being 
sustainable;
The level of the loans granted shows a broadly increasing and consistent pattern 
particularly in later years, when most of the loans ranged between £1,000 and £1,500 
(four of the last seven loans being £1,000). I think its most likely this pattern of 
borrowing over the period showed that Miss O didnt just have a short-term cash-flow 
problem but was probably supporting regular living expenses or other financial 
commitments.
In this period Miss O was making a commitment to make repayments for around 
another two years, its likely that her problems would continue, and she would need 
to borrow again in the future (and this did happen consistently and over several 
years);
Miss Os lending history was prolonged with most of the later loans showing a higher 
level of indebtedness, suggesting her underlying financial situation may even have 
deteriorated or that she was becoming increasingly reliant on the loans. And the 
credit report Mutual obtained for the final loan revealed Miss O had experienced 
historic repayment issues and had outstanding debt. The amount of time that Miss O 
spent indebted to Mutual meant that she was servicing a debt to Mutual over an 
extended period.
I think that Miss O lost out when Mutual provided loans 4 to 14 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Os indebtedness by allowing 
her to take credit over an extended period and;
the sheer number of loans and the time spent in debt was likely to have had negative 
implications on Miss Os ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im also upholding the complaint about loans 4 to 14 and Ill go on to set out what Mutual 
should do to put things right.
Mutual has referred to the 2020 High Court judgement in the case of Kerrigan vs Elevate
Credit International Limited. It has said the judge in this case said that the relationship could 
be fair if there are a lower number of loans per year. For example, under four loans a year. It 
said, as it lent a lower amount than this, then this would indicate, on the same basis as the 
court case, that it hadnt lent unsustainably.
Firstly, looking at the courts findings at this point in the judgement, the judge was talking
about whether an unfair relationship had developed. This is a different question, with some
different considerations, than whether a loan or series of loans, has been lent irresponsibly.I accept that there can be some overlap between whether a pattern of lending itself shows
that the lending is unsustainable, and whether a relationship is unfair. But the court in this 
judgement was considering issues related to short term high cost credit rather than home 
collected credit. I can see Mutual has acknowledged they are different products with different
considerations. And, indeed, has repeatedly been keen to distance its products from those of
short term high cost credit providers. So, this means that the judges conclusions about a
differently structured product shouldnt and cant be directly applied here.
And in any event the number of loans is just one aspect in deciding whether a lending 
pattern is harmful. The loan size, duration of loans, the repayments and other factors need to 
be also looked at, as Ive done here.
So, whilst I have noted Mutuals submissions on this point, it hasnt introduced any
arguments which persuade me to change my opinion about Miss Os complaint.
Finally, to be clear to Miss O, Mutual will be expected to consider all the payments it has 
received for the upheld loans when putting things right as set out below. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mutual should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it stopped lending to Miss O from loan 3. Clearly there are several 
possibilities, and all hypothetical answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Miss O may have simply left matters there 
and not tried to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between her and Mutual which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed, a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Miss O in a compliant 
way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Miss O would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mutuals liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Mutual shouldnt have given Miss O loans 3 to 14.
If Mutual has sold the outstanding debts, it should buy these back if it is able to do so and
then take the following steps. If Mutual is not able to buy the debts back, then it should liaise
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Mutual should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss O towards interest,
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance (loans 3  10), not 
including anything it has already refunded.B) Mutual should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss O
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss O originally made the
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mutual should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld
outstanding loans (loans 11  14), and treat any repayments made by Miss O as though they 
had been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Miss O 
having made overpayments then Mutual should refund these overpayments with 8% simple 
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have 
arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Mutual should then refund the amounts 
calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) if there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus
then the surplus should be paid to Miss O. However, if there is still an outstanding balance
then Mutual should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss O. Mutual shouldnt
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal it has already written-off.
E) remove any adverse information about loan 3 from Miss Os credit file. The overall pattern 
of Miss Os borrowing for loans 4 to 14 means any information recorded about them is 
adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Miss Os credit file. Mutual does not 
have to remove loans from Miss Os credit file until they have been repaid, but Mutual should 
still remove any adverse information recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mutual to deduct tax from this interest. Mutual should
give Miss O a certificate showing how much tax Mutual has deducted, if they ask for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Miss Os complaint.
Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman