DRN-3949097
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with mistakes made by Santander UK Plc in relation to his application for a 
further advance on his mortgage.
What happened
Mr S applied to Santander for a further advance of £50,000 in July 2022. 
In September 2022, he told Santander that he only required an additional £15,000. 
Santander continued with the £50,000 application in error and it notified Mr S that the 
£50,000 further borrowing had been arranged. Mr S was naturally concerned about this and 
he visited a branch to try to sort things out. This turned out to be not straightforward and it 
took multiple trips to branch and telephone calls before matters were resolved. 
Before the issue was resolved, Santander compounded matters by treating the £50,000 as 
an overpayment to Mr Ss mortgage. Mr S complained to Santander about what had 
happened and the undue stress and worry it had caused.
Santander upheld Mr Ss complaint on the basis that it had made errors and that these 
errors had caused him undue stress and worry. It said that the issues with the mortgage had 
been resolved and that an offer had been issued for the updated amount of £15,000. 
Santander apologised for the poor service Mr S had received and paid him £350 to reflect 
what had happened. 
The £15,000 advance was subsequently agreed and added to Mr Ss mortgage.
Mr S referred his concerns to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He said he had initially 
agreed to the £350, but upon reflection didnt think it was enough given what had happened. 
He said he thought the figure should be at least 100% more than what had been offered.
An investigator here issued an opinion saying they thought the £350 Santander had offered 
was reasonable and in line with our approach to compensation awards.
Mr S disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have arrived at the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly 
the same reasons.
Santander has admitted making errors, apologised for this and paid Mr S £350 in 
compensation. The errors relating to his mortgage have been rectified and Mr S hasnt 
suffered any financial loss. This means that the only issue I need to decide is whether the 
amount of compensation offered by Santander is fair and reasonable. I appreciate that Mr S 
feels strongly that it isnt, however I find that it is. 
Information about our approach to compensation awards can be found on our website. The 
£350 offered by Santander falls within the banding described as where the impact of a 
mistake has caused considerable distress, upset and worry and/or significant inconvenience 
and disruption that needs a lot of extra effort to sort out. 
Mr S has said that Santanders errors caused him a lot of worry, stress and anxiety. I accept 
this to be the case. Mr S ended up making numerous trips to branch and spent time on the 
phone, which he wouldnt have needed to do but for the errors Santander made. 
I also need to take account of the fact that the issue was resolved within a matter of weeks 
and that Mr S hasnt indicated that the errors had any kind of knock-on impact. 
Taking everything into account, I find that the £350 paid by Santander is in line with our 
approach to compensation awards and does represent a fair resolution to the complaint. I 
dont require Santander to do anything else to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman