DRN-3027312
The complaint
Mrs M complains about mortgage advice she was given by The Right Mortgage Limited
(TRM), a mortgage broker.
What happened
Mrs M wanted to move abroad with her mother and started looking for a property in early 
2020. In August 2020 Mrs M viewed a property and paid a deposit to secure it. Mrs M says 
she initially planned to sell her current home to help fund this purchase. However, upon 
finding out that her property was worth more than she thought, she decided to get a buy to 
let (BTL) mortgage on this to fund her new property purchase. This meant she would have 
a rental income coming in from her UK property.
Mrs M wanted to move before 31 December 2020. This was because this is the date the 
UK was leaving the European Union. And not moving before this date wouldve caused 
Mrs M a number of potential issues including an impact to her mothers pension and 
healthcare rights and her cats passports becoming invalid.
Mrs M spoke with TRM on 18 September 2020 to discuss the possibility of raising a BTL 
mortgage on her existing property to fund her move abroad. TRM explained that Mrs M 
would still need an income from a paid salary to have the BTL agreed. And it told her that if 
she wanted a consumer BTL (which offered her regulatory protection) shed need to 
move out of the property and update her correspondence address. During this call Mrs M 
told TRM that shed spoken with other brokers who had told her this was either too difficult 
or couldnt be done.
Mrs M was planning to move in early November and explained to TRM in an email on 7 
October 2020 that shed need to hand in her notice to her employer in early October.
On 12 October 2020 TRM told Mrs M it had sourced a suitable mortgage product and 
Mrs M moved in with family on 20 October so that this could proceed. A mortgage 
application was submitted on 26 October 2020 and a mortgage offer followed soon after. 
Mrs M started shipping her belongings abroad and Mrs Ms employment came to an end 
on 20 November 2020.
The mortgage was due to complete on 30 November and Mrs M was packed and had 
booked tickets to travel to her new home abroad. However, shortly before this, the lender 
withdrew the offer. Mrs M tried to appeal, but the appeal was declined. This was on the 
basis that Mrs M was no longer employed and wouldnt be a resident in the UK, so didnt 
meet the lenders criteria.
Mrs M says this had an immense impact on her physical and mental health and she was 
desperately trying to still move before 31 December 2020. Mrs M agreed to rent the 
property she was planning to buy for a six-month period and was able to purchase it using 
a mortgage on her UK property that she managed to obtain with a different lender some 
months later.
Mrs M complained to TRM. TRM agreed that its advisor had submitted information to the 
lender which wasnt accurate. But it said it thought Mrs M was aware of this and didnt 
object to it as she wanted to obtain a mortgage. And it suggested Mrs M was determined 
to move abroad before 31 December 2020 and this wouldve happened regardless of her 
dealings with TRM. It didnt think Mrs M had lost out financially so offered no 
compensation.
Unhappy with this response, Mrs M referred the complaint to our service. She wanted 
compensation for:
The difference in fees and monthly payments between the mortgage TRM 
arranged and the mortgage she ultimately secured some months later
Six months of renting the property she eventually bought
Interest on money she had to borrow from her family
Removal fees for her and the sellers which she had agreed to pay for
The stress this had caused her
One of our investigators looked into this complaint. He thought that by committing to the 
house purchase before having a mortgage in place meant Mrs B was always at risk of 
having to make other arrangements if she was unable to sell the property or raise a 
mortgage in time for the deadline of 31 December 2020. So, he didnt think TRM should be 
responsible for the additional costs she incurred.
However, he noted that TRM did provide incorrect information when submitting the 
mortgage application on behalf of Mrs M. And that she moved in with family to ensure the 
application went through which she wouldnt have had to do had the application not been 
submitted. He also noted that this left her much less time to make alternative 
arrangements for moving abroad as it wasnt until the mortgage offer was withdrawn in late 
November that Mrs M was aware that shed need to change her plans. He also noted that 
by submitting the application, it gave Mrs M false hope of what she may be able to 
achieve. He recommended TRM pay £1,250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter had caused.
TRM accepted the investigators findings. But Mrs M didnt. She said she couldve found a 
mortgage with another broker which couldve completed in time. So, she should be paid 
the additional expenses shed incurred. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint, so it was passed to me.
I spoke with Mrs M at length and explained that we couldnt compensate her for the 
difference between the mortgage shed applied for via TRM and the mortgage she 
ultimately got. This was due to the fact that this was a mortgage she was never entitled to. 
Mrs M agreed to provide further evidence of her losses and evidence that she could have 
obtained a different mortgage via another broker back in September. Mrs M provided 
further evidence of her losses, but says the broker she spoke with no longer has any 
records of the mortgage it thought it could obtain.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 August 2021. In this decision, I said:
Obviously, Mrs M has been through a very stressful time. She thought everything was 
going to plan only to find out a few days before moving that the mortgage offer was 
withdrawn.However, it seems to me that Mrs M was committed to her plan to move abroad from a very 
early stage. She viewed the property and paid a deposit on the same day, before shed 
even spoken with a broker about securing a mortgage. At this point she didnt know what 
her options were or whether getting a mortgage was even possible. And due to the impact 
that the UKs departure from the EU would have on her and her mother, I also think she 
was determined to leave the country prior to 31 December 2020, regardless of what 
happened. And, as our investigator noted, there was always a risk that something may go 
wrong with the mortgage application prior to completion.
Its clear that TRM knew of Mrs Ms plans to move abroad and he plans to leave her job. 
Based on this, Im satisfied that TRM submitted an application for a BTL mortgage on 
behalf of Mrs M with incomplete information which was always likely to be declined once 
the lender became aware of the full nature of Mrs Ms plans as it didnt meet its lending 
criteria.
That said, I think Mrs M was aware, at the minimum, that the application she was 
submitting didnt paint a complete picture of her current circumstances. And she was doing 
what she could to satisfy the lender, such as moving in with family for a short time knowing 
shed soon be leaving the country.
I do think that TRM was genuinely trying to help Mrs M. But, as Mrs M had been told by a 
number of other brokers, this was always going to be a very difficult transaction, if not 
impossible.
Mrs M has said she had another broker who told her she could source a mortgage for her, 
but TRM had already started to do the work so she went with them. Ive asked Mrs M for 
evidence of this, but she says this is no longer available. This also conflicts with what she 
told TRM when she first complained and said shed been told it was very difficult to obtain a 
mortgage in her circumstances. So, it seems to me her only other option wouldve been to 
sell her property. Clearly this isnt something she wanted to do. But, even if she had done, 
Im not persuaded that it wouldve been able to complete in time for her to move prior to 31 
December 2020. I say this as she hadnt started looking into mortgages until late 
September, which is likely the earliest she wouldve put her house up for sale. And whilst 
its possible it mayve sold and completed within three months, it seems unlikely to me 
based on my knowledge of how long these things can take. And bearing in mind we were 
in the middle of the coronavirus pandemic with restrictions still in place and a nationwide 
lockdown coming during this time.
For these reasons, and by committing to a number of things prior to the mortgage 
completing, I think Mrs M was always likely to find herself in the situation she ended up in.
That is having to take alternative steps to ensure she moved prior to 31 December 2020. Im 
pleased to see she was able to and has since been able to purchase the property. But, for 
the reasons above, I think this was always likely to be the situation she found herself in.
Because of this, I dont think TRM should be responsible for any costs shes incurred as I 
dont think she had any other option if she wanted to meet the deadline of 31 December 
2020.
I note Mrs M has said that shes since been able to find a mortgage on her UK property. But 
she is in a very different situation now. And she also has six months of rental income history 
on her house. So, its likely the mortgage she now has wouldnt have been available at the 
time. And, in any event, Ive seen no evidence there were alternative mortgages available to 
her at the time and had there been TRM wouldve approached those lenders in the first 
place.
Ive thought about Mrs M saying that TRM should pay her the difference between themortgage she ended up with and the mortgage it tried to arrange for her. But, as Ive already
explained to her, this isnt a fair comparison, as she was never entitled to the mortgage with
the original lender. As Ive said, Ive seen no evidence that an alternative mortgage with
similar rates and fees wouldve been available to her. Had it been, its likely that one of the
other brokers she spoke with wouldve recommended it.
Overall, I dont think TRM has provided Mrs M with the best advice it could have. As Ive
said, this was always going to be a very difficult mortgage to arrange, if not impossible. TRM
shouldve known that Mrs M wouldnt meet the lending criteria of the lender it submitted an
application to. And, regardless of whether Mrs M was aware or not that incomplete
information was being provided to the lender, the application never shouldve been
submitted. Whilst I dont think this wouldve affected the costs Mrs M incurred for the reasons
Ive explained, I think this has caused upset and inconvenience to Mrs M. I say this as TRM
led Mrs M to believe that everything would be fine, and she would be able to raise the funds
on her existing property. And this all fell apart a matter of days before Mrs M was due to
move. So TRMs actions gave Mrs M false hope and raised her expectations of what was
realistically possible.
Our investigator recommended compensation of £1,250 for the distress and inconvenience
this matter had caused. Ive thought carefully about this.
Mrs M has referred to an example of compensation from our website which is significantly
higher than this amount. She feels it reflects her situation. But I dont agree. The example
shes quoted is of a lender withdrawing a mortgage offer and not telling the borrower, and
the borrower making decisions based on this. However, in Mrs Ms situation, she was aware
that the mortgage offer had been withdrawn, and all the decisions shed made and dates
shed committed to had been in place well before the mortgage was applied for. So, I dont
think this is a true comparison, and this is why Im not recommending an award of that level.
I also need to take into account the fact that Mrs M had been told how difficult it would be to
obtain this mortgage. And that I think she was aware that the application was being
submitted with some of the information about her situation being withheld. Furthermore, I
need to be mindful of the fact that Mrs M wholly committed herself to this move prior to even
having a mortgage offer and the mortgage completing. Because of this, I think she shouldve
known there was always a risk that the mortgage wouldnt be successful. But she was
committed to her plan, and wouldve taken whatever steps were necessary to move prior to
31 December 2020. Moving aboard was also always likely to be a stressful time, and its
always possible there would be bumps during that journey. Thats not to belittle the impact
this has had. But for the reasons above, I think £1,250 compensation is a fair and
reasonable reflection of the distress and inconvenience she was caused in the
circumstances. 
Ive thought about what Mrs M has said with regards to wanting compensation for what her
family and the sellers have gone through. However, her family and the sellers arent a party
to the mortgage. This means they arent eligible complainants under our rules, which means
I cant consider the impact this matter has had on them.
Mrs M has raised some issued about how TRM initially responded to her complaint.
Unfortunately, the remit of our service means we arent able to look into complaint handling.
Mrs K has also said that she wants TRM to be held accountable for its actions. Again, this
isnt something our service was set up to achieve. We can look to put things right when a
mistake has been made, but it is the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority who
is responsible for monitoring firms and enforcing the rules.
Whilst I recognise this will be a huge disappointment to Mrs M, and I know how strongly shefeels about this, I do think this is a fair resolution in the circumstances.
I invited both parties to provide further information and evidence before I looked to issue a 
final decision.
TRM agreed with the outcome in full. But Mrs M didnt and responded in detail to my 
provisional decision. The case has now been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mrs M feels very strongly about this matter. And Ive carefully considered all of 
the points that she has raised in response to my provisional decision. I wont address each 
and every point shes raised. That simply reflects the informal nature of our service, and the 
fact that a number of these points were already addressed in my provisional decision which 
is copied above. But I will set out further, why I still believe the outcome reached in that 
provisional decision is the right one.
Mrs M has said that my opinion that she wouldve always likely ended up in the situation she 
found herself in was pure speculation. She is right in that we dont know what would have 
happened. So in situations like this, Im required to make my decision based on what I think 
is most likely. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, I think Mrs M was wholly committed to this move 
and keeping her existing property. And the deadline due to Brexit had no flexibility. Its clear 
had she delayed beyond this, she wouldve incurred different, but still significant costs. Mrs 
M has provided evidence that she did put her property on the market but removed it after just 
nine days. This further suggests to me that she was determined to keep her property in the 
UK as well. Mrs M has said that her original plan was to sell the property. However, she 
removed this from the market well before ever speaking with TRM. So I dont think that this 
decision was based on advice it gave. 
Mrs M has continually stressed how important it was for her to have left the country before 
31 December 2020. Whilst I completely understand her reasons, this deadline meant that 
she had to make some tough decisions once the mortgage offer was withdrawn. And her 
decision was to proceed with the move abroad and incur the additional costs. 
Im satisfied Mrs M agreed to the mortgage application being submitted on the basis that the 
application submitted didnt wholly set out her current circumstances. Because of this, there 
was always a risk of the mortgage either being declined or the offer being withdrawn. 
However, the key point in my mind is that, regardless of the mortgage offer being withdrawn, 
Mrs M made a number of commitments before the mortgage offer was issued. So, I dont 
think I can hold TRM responsible for decisions she made without having any funds in place. 
Whilst TRM mayve led her to believe the process would be simple, I cant see it ever 
provided a guarantee it would be successful. 
Mrs M didnt start looking into mortgages until late September. So, whilst having an offer 
issued and then withdrawn did leave her with less time to make other arrangements, even if 
TRM had told her that it couldnt help her, Im not persuaded that she wouldve been in a 
position to arrange alternative lending in time to move abroad by the deadline imposed. I say 
this due to the fact that other brokers had told her how difficult it would be, and if other 
lenders were available, its likely TRM wouldve tried them as well.Ive thought about what Mrs M has said about the fact that she wouldnt have moved in with 
family, or put all of her belongings in storage. However, she did this, knowing it was to satisfy 
the lenders criteria, and in the knowledge that a mortgage still hadnt been agreed and may 
not be.   
As I explained in my provisional decision, I dont think TRM has provided Mrs M with the best 
advice it could have. But this was always going to be a very difficult mortgage to arrange, if 
not impossible. TRM shouldve known that Mrs M wouldnt meet the lending criteria of the 
lender it submitted an application to. And, regardless of whether Mrs M was aware or not 
that incomplete information was being provided to the lender, the application shouldve never 
been submitted. But for the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think this wouldve affected 
the costs Mrs M incurred.
For completeness, Ill address the individual costs Mrs M is claiming. These are:
The difference in fees and monthly payments between the mortgage TRM 
arranged and the mortgage she ultimately secured some months later
Six months of renting the property she eventually bought
Interest on money she had to borrow from her family
Removal fees for her and the sellers which she had agreed to pay for
The stress this had caused her
Ive already explained, and Mrs M has accepted why she isnt entitled the difference 
between the mortgage she was first offered and the mortgage she now has. And shes said 
she accepts this.
Whilst Mrs M says she had to rent abroad for a number of months, this was a decision she 
made to make sure she moved prior to the Brexit deadline. She also, by this point, had 
tenants in her property in the UK paying her a rental income offsetting this cost. Ultimately, 
she would always have needed to pay to live somewhere. And she hasnt said she had to 
pay any rent whilst living with family, again, saving some money.
Whilst her family mayve charged her interest on the money shes borrowed, I think it was 
her decision to borrow this and move forward with the move. And interest of 10% for just a 
few months seems a high amount to me. I dont think TRM should be responsible for this. 
Again, it was Mrs Ms decision to pay the removal costs for the people she was buying from. 
I dont think she was obliged to, certainly not because of any mistake TRM had made. So I 
cant see why TRM should be responsible for this. 
However, TRM did lead her to believe shed be able to get a mortgage, and the upset of 
having the mortgage offer withdrawn on the day of completion mustve been incredibly 
stressful for her. Ive thought about this again, but, for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision, I still believe that £1,250 compensation is a fair amount in the circumstances.  
Putting things right
Whilst I recognise this will be very disappointing to Mrs M, I think the amount of £1,250 is fair 
and reasonable in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and direct The Right Mortgage Limited to pay Mrs M £1,250. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman