DRN-2931596
The complaint
Mr H complains that First Central Insurance Management Limited shouldnt have charged 
him additional premiums after validating his policy.
 
What happened
In October 2020 Mr H searched online for quotes on his car insurance. Mr H then went on to 
purchase a policy through a comparison website to start on 1 November 2020. 
In December 2020 First Central called Mr H to validate his policy. It asked Mr H to clarify his 
employment status, but he was puzzled as to why it was asking these details and after a 
lengthy conversation Mr H was sent an email with his statement of facts and asked to 
contact First Central to confirm if his details were correct. 
Later Mr H was sent a further email notifying him of an increase in his premiums, so he 
called First Central to question this. He was told it had requested information on his mileage 
but as he hadnt responded it needed to increase the premiums based on the information it 
held. Mr H says he hadnt been contacted about the mileage issues.  
Mr H felt hed declared a mileage of 15,000 and wasnt sure why the statement of fact said 
1,500. He feels this was a mistake made by First Central and not him. Mr H says hes looked 
back at the quote hed done with a comparison site and it shows he put in 15,000 miles. 
First Central acknowledged that it should have checked the mileage when it initially called 
him but say the quote it received was for 1,500 miles not 15,000 so there needed to be an 
additional premium. Mr H was reluctant to pay the additional premium as he felt hed been 
quoted on a premium of 15,000 and the mistake was made by First Central or the 
comparison site when setting up the policy.
As Mr H didnt agree to pay the additional premium during a call, First Central wrote to him 
advising him that if he didnt pay an additional premium of £65.47 he would need to cancel 
the policy. Mr H paid the additional premium as he didnt want the policy cancelled. But he 
remained unhappy so he complained to First Central about the issues. 
First Central didnt uphold his complaint. It said it hadnt done anything wrong and had 
quoted Mr H on the details provided by him via a comparison site. First Central said it 
needed to validate the details as Mr H entered different information on comparison sites 
when obtaining the quotes. And as the initial policy was set up with a mileage of 1,500, when 
it was increased to 15,000, it needed to incur an additional premium. Mr H wasnt happy with 
the response so referred the complaint to us.   
 
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. She felt First Central hadnt 
done anything wrong in the policy it arranged as the details were the same as those 
provided by Mr H from the comparison sites. She also felt the premium increase was 
reasonable due to the mileage increase. Mr H disagreed, he didnt feel hed made the error 
and the price differential between 1,500 and 15,000 miles was too high in comparison to the 
quotes hed had at the time. So, the complaint was referred to an ombudsman to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must be clear that the complaint Im looking at here is the complaint Mr H brought to us, 
and which First Central responded to in January 2021. That is, his complaint about the 
additional premiums charged by First Central after validating his policy. Mr H has raised 
other complaints in relation to First Central and the insurer which will need to be taken up 
separately. 
Having considered the above, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator for 
largely the same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Mr H says the error on the policy mileage was made by either First Central or the 
comparison site as he says he entered all the correct details. First Central have sent us a 
copy of the logs which show the quotes Mr H obtained via two comparison sites on 7 and 8 
October 2020. First Central has said it used the details Mr H provided in one of these quotes 
which set a mileage of 1,500 and an excess of £250. 
Ive considered the logs and can see Mr H had a number of quotes between 7 and 8 October 
2020. The mileage on these ranged from 1,500 miles to 17,000 miles. Mr H had 2 quotes for 
15,000 miles from one comparison site and 8 quotes for 1,500 miles from a different 
comparison site. The 1,500 miles quotes had an excess of £250 but both the 15,000 miles 
quotes had an excess of £500. 
First Centrals logs also show the policy incepted was one with 1,500 miles and an excess of 
£250. Considering the logs and information provided, I think it unlikely there could have been 
a mix up between the comparison site and the information logged by First Central. I think its 
more likely the quote taken forward by Mr H was for 1,500 miles and an excess of £250 
because this matches an exact quote from one of the comparison sites. Im not persuaded 
this was a one-off error by First Central, I say this because there were 8 different quotes for 
the 1,500 mileage obtained by Mr H so I can only assume this was a mileage entry made by 
him on that comparison site.
Whilst I can appreciate it would have been frustrating for Mr H to have to pay the additional 
premium, I cant say First Central did anything wrong in requesting it. The mileage needed to 
be increased to reflect the use Mr H would have had of the car so naturally there was to be 
an increase in risk for the insurer and so the increased premium. This is also reflected in the 
insurers underwriting criteria. 
I do think there was a delay in getting the validation completed and had Mr H been asked 
these details in the initial validation call some time could have been saved. I can see First 
Central have waved the administration fee of £50 it would normally charge, and I think that is 
the right thing to do in the circumstances.  
Mr H has also said he was unhappy at the level the premiums increased and he felt First 
Central were charging to much for the increase in mileage. Like the investigator explained 
the increase in premiums was down to what the insurer charges for the premiums according 
to its underwriting criteria. First Central arent the insurer here, the insurers are another firm 
so any complaint about the increase in premiums need to be answered by them. As I have said First Central waived the administration cost of £50 for making the change to the policy 
so I dont think it needs to do anything further. 
So, whilst I realise Mr H will find my decision disappointing, I dont find that First Central has 
done anything wrong here. So I not going to ask them to do anything.   
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about First Central 
Insurance Management Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman