DRN-3953302
The complaint
Miss M complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(MoneyBoat) didnt carry out proportionate affordability checks before it granted her loans. 
Had it done so, MoneyBoat wouldve likely discovered she was having financial difficulties. 
Miss M also says she doesnt think she has been treated fairly when she agreed a 
repayment plan for loan 2. 
What happened
Miss M was advanced two instalment loans by MoneyBoat, and a summary of her borrowing 
follows in the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentsinstalment 
amount
1 £400.00 17/12/2021 13/03/2022 4 £159.45
2 £300.00 14/03/2022 15/08/2022 3 £145.66
Following Miss Ms complaint MoneyBoat wrote to her explaining why it wasnt going to 
uphold her complaint. Miss M didnt agree, and instead referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was reviewed by an adjudicator, and he didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint 
about loan 1. But he thought, loan 2 shouldnt have been granted because MoneyBoats 
account notes showed that Miss M was having problems repaying her first loan due to a 
reduction in her working hours and as a result a repayment plan had been agreed to repay 
the balance in February 2022.
Therefore, when she returned for a new loan the day after repaying loan 1, MoneyBoat 
ought to not have approved this loan because it was likely she was still experiencing 
financial difficulties and therefore she couldnt repay the loan. 
Finally, the adjudicator said that as the balance had been repaid on loan 2, there was no 
need for MoneyBoat to freeze the interest, fees or charges. He also noted, that since the 
complaint was raised MoneyBoat had informed us that Miss M had tried to obtain further 
credit from it. 
Miss M appears to have accepted the assessment. 
MoneyBoat didnt respond to or acknowledge the adjudicators most recent assessment.
As such, in order to bring this matter to a close, the case has been referred to me in order to 
make a final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Miss M could afford to pay back the 
amounts shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks couldve taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Miss Ms income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss M. These factors include:
Miss M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss M. The adjudicator didnt think this 
applied to Miss M complaint. 
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Miss M could sustainably repay the loans  
not just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having 
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss M was 
able to repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ms complaint.
Loan 1
For this loan, Miss M declared she had a monthly income of £1,400. MoneyBoat says this 
figure was checked with a credit reference agency for its accuracy, but it hasnt provided the 
results of this check. 
Miss M declared her expenditure to be around £150 per month. However, as part of the 
affordability check MoneyBoat said it did the following.
On your loan applications we increased the monthly expenditure that you input, on 
the basis that your credit report highlighted different expenditure than you had disclosed, and/or to bring you in line with the average expenditure listed on the 
Common Financial Statement.
As a result of these additional checks, MoneyBoat increased Miss Ms monthly expenditure 
by £650. Giving her total monthly outgoings of £800. This left £600 per month of disposable 
income to meet the repayments Miss M was committed to making. Based solely on the 
income and expenditure information the loan looked affordable.  
In addition, the monthly rent/mortgage cost was low, but Miss M had told MoneyBoat that 
she lived at home with parents. So, there was a reason why this amount was so low, and in 
the early stages of the lending relationship it was reasonable for MoneyBoat to have relied 
on what Miss M declared. 
MoneyBoat says a credit check was carried out before this loan was granted, and a copy of 
the results have been provided. Ive reviewed the results and while there is some adverse 
information recorded such as MoneyBoat being aware of two accounts being marked as 
being in default between 13 and 36 months before the loan being approved, I dont think this 
wouldve been enough for MoneyBoat to have either carried out further checks or declined 
her application. 
Overall, given the information MoneyBoat received from Miss M and as a result of its own 
checks Im satisfied the checks it carried out were proportionate and these checks showed 
the loan to be affordable to Miss M. 
I do not uphold her complaint about this loan. 
Loan 2
Ill firstly deal with the checks that MoneyBoat carried out. As far as I can see the checks for 
this loan were identical to the checks that were carried out before loan 1. So, MoneyBoat 
asked Miss M for details of her income and expenditure. 
For this loan, Miss M declared her income had reduced to £1,200 per month with declared 
outgoings of £100 covering Miss Ms credit commitments and food costs. However, as 
before, following further checks by MoneyBoat it increased her monthly expenditure by a 
further £700. Leaving her with £400 a month disposable income, which was enough to make 
her commitments of around £146 per month. 
Ive also reviewed the credit check results provided by MoneyBoat and these are broadly 
similar to loan 1. Miss Ms overall indebtedness had increased slightly, but it was still aware 
of the same defaults. This adverse data, in my view, wouldnt have been enough for 
MoneyBoat to have either prompted it to carry out further checks or decline Miss Ms 
application. 
Nevertheless, while the loan looked affordable, I dont think it ought to have been provided. I 
say this because MoneyBoat has provided details of its contact with Miss M which show a 
matter of weeks before loan 2 was advanced that she was having financial difficulties. 
On 15 February 2022, Miss M told MoneyBoat about a change in her circumstances  this 
was caused by her employer reducing her hours. What followed were a series of emails 
whereby Miss M provided detailed of the reduction as well as an income and expenditure 
form  where she confirmed her salary was £600 per month. On 16 February 2022 it was 
agreed that Miss M would enter a repayment plan for £30 each month for six months (before 
being reviewed). Although, loan 1 was repaid but only because she appears to have 
borrowed money from family. So, MoneyBoat was on notice that Miss M was struggling with her finances and as far as I 
can tell was given evidence that her contract at work had been reduced. Therefore, knowing 
this information, as it did, I dont think it made a fair lending decision when loan 2 was 
advanced because there was a real risk Miss M was having ongoing financial difficulties. 
And this did appear to be the case as shortly after loan 2 was advanced  in April 2022 she 
asked for a repayment plan. 
I am therefore upholding Miss Ms complaint about this loan. 
Other considerations 
Miss M was on a repayment plan for loan two and missed a payment due to her 
circumstances, as a result she was unhappy that MoneyBoat refused to suspend the interest 
on the balance. 
Ive thought about what Miss M says about MoneyBoat not freezing the interest fees or 
charges. This is one option available to it at the time once it found out about her financial 
difficulties. However, as Ive concluded loan 2 ought to not have been provided, the redress 
below will in effect make loan 2 interest free. So, I dont think any further compensation 
needs to be paid. 
I can also see that at times MoneyBoat was calling Miss M (for example on 8 and 
12 August 2022) but these werent excessive in nature or made at unreasonable times and it 
seems, based on the notes Ive been provided that after Miss M asked not to be called on 
her work number MoneyBoat did stop calling. Although, it does seem the majority of the calls 
were made to Miss Ms mobile number. 
Overall, I dont think any further compensation is due. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not lent loan 2 to Miss M at all, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss M may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss M would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
MoneyBoat shouldnt have given Miss M loan 2. A. MoneyBoat should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss M towards 
interest, fees and charges on loan 2, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything you have already refunded. 
B. MoneyBoat should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Miss M which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss M 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C. MoneyBoat should pay Miss M the total of A plus B.  
D. MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ms credit file 
in relation to loan 2. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
should give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Miss Ms complaint in part.
Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk should put things right for 
Miss M as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman