The complaint
Mr T complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc ("BOI")
wouldn't send him a written copy of the terms and conditions of his credit card
agreement, and details of the interest rates on his account, when he asked for this;
and
failed to respond to his complaint about this.
What happened
Mr T entered into a credit card agreement with BOI in September 2008. In June 2016 he 
agreed with BOI that it should be conducted through BOI's online service.
In April 2019 Mr T made an online request for a copy of the current terms and conditions of 
his agreement. He spoke to one of BOI's representatives by phone who told him that the 
terms and conditions were available on line, and he should access them there. So it wouldn't 
send them to Mr T by post.
Mr T wasn't happy with this response and complained to BOI. When his complaint wasn't 
answered, he complained to us.
Our investigator didn't recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said Mr T had 
acknowledged that he had had BOI's online service for some time, and was capable of using 
it. So the investigator thought BOI acted reasonably when it told Mr T he could access the 
terms and conditions online, and wouldn't require BOI to send Mr T a paper copy.
Mr T said he couldn't find the terms and conditions online, and thought on;y a short version 
would be available. The investigator said he was able to locate the terms and conditions 
online without difficulty. And he thought the BOI representative that Mr T spoke to by phone 
would also have assisted him if he had asked.
The investigator said BOI had responded to Mr T's complaint by letter in May 2019, within 8 
weeks of receiving his complaint, and had offered to pay him £10 as a gesture of goodwill 
and to compensate Mr T for having to BOI. So he thought BOI had dealt fairly with Mr T's 
complaint. 
Mr T responded to say, in summary, that he hadn't received BOI's May letter in response to 
his complaint. He thought it was only prepared by BOI after we became involved, and not 
within the 8 weeks timescale.
What Ive decided  and why
DRN-1089673Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked BOI to provide evidence to show that its letter responding to Mr T's complaint was 
sent to him in May 2019
For the reasons the investigator explained, I think BOI acted reasonably when it said Mr T 
should access its terms and conditions online, and wouldn't post a written copy to him. When 
Mr T complained about this, I think BOI acted fairly by considering his complaint and 
responding to him. So I don't think BOI needs to do anything more.
If Mr T now wishes to accept the £10 BOI has offered it should contact BOI direct.
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint, and make no order against Bank of Ireland 
(UK) Plc.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before       December 2019.
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman