DRN-3066280
The complaint
Mrs D complains about the process of opening a Fixed Rate Bond account with Hargreaves 
Lansdown Savings Limited.
Mrs D is being represented in the complaint by her husband, Mr D. For ease I will refer to all 
actions as being those of Mrs D. 
What happened
In mid December 2020 Mrs D applied for a Fixed Rate Bond on the Hargreaves Lansdown 
website with the intention of investing £49,000. After transferring the money Mrs D found out 
that the product she wanted had a maximum deposit of £10. Feeling misled Mrs D 
complained asking for compensation for the inconvenience of transferring the funds and a 
payment for any loss of interest. 
Hargreaves Lansdown, whilst realising Mrs Ds frustration, didnt uphold the complaint. They 
said the information about the £10 limit was available to view before needing to transfer any 
money. They also explained the product would remain visible on the website until less than 
£1 was available for deposit, the expiry date came around, or until it reached maximum 
capacity. 
Remaining unhappy Mrs D brought her complaint to our service where one of our 
Investigators looked into what happened. They thought the website made the product 
information clear before needing to complete an application. Mrs D disagreed and provided 
more information in support of the complaint, and our Investigator also obtained more 
information from Hargreaves Lansdown about the customer journey on the website. After 
considering everything that had been provided our Investigator still thought that the product 
information, including the £10 limit, was shown before applying for the product. Mrs D 
disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D has provided a lot of information about the complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
she feels about what happened. I want to assure Mrs D that Ive read and considered 
everything thats been provided. Ive summarised some of the circumstances which reflects 
the informal nature of our service. 
There has also been quite a lot of correspondence between Mrs D and our Investigator 
including providing screen shots of the customer journey on the website when applying for a 
product. So since Mrs D is aware of what happened, and has been given the chance to 
comment on the information, I wont go into any detail repeating them here. Im satisfied I 
understand the crux of the complaint which is about the way in which the product information 
was displayed when making the application.
Having looked at everything provided I think the product information, including the £10 
deposit limit, was shown before Mrs D made an application for the account, and before a 
transfer of money was required. 
There are several stages to the customer journey when applying for an account on the 
website. The product information is shown at stage four which is before an application is 
made for a particular product. The previous stages talk about funding a feeder account in 
order to move money into a product, but theres no requirement for that to happen before 
you get to stage four.
I understand that Mrs D did move her money to Hargreaves Lansdown before getting to 
stage four of the customer journey, but Im satisfied this was done by choice rather than 
because the website said it was a requirement. 
In some of the most recent correspondence Mrs D said she didnt think it reasonable that 
someone had to get to stage four before funding the feeder account. This is because she 
says the previous stages emphasises funds were required, and she feels its implied that it 
wouldnt be worth proceeding without moving money to the feeder account first.
Having looked at the everything I can see why Mrs D might feel this way however I think its 
made clear that funding the feeder account isnt necessary to move forward in the process. 
Mrs D chose to move money to the feeder account at the time she did. I think this did involve 
some inconvenience, and perhaps a loss of interest elsewhere, but Im not persuaded the 
process said the money had to be moved at that time. So Im not holding Hargreaves 
Lansdown responsible for any possible financial loss.  
Part of the complaint was about information about the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS) which Mrs D found misleading. The wording on the website is similar to that 
used by all businesses who belong to the scheme. This is to let customers know about the 
type of protection the scheme provides rather than anything about a specific product. 
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied Hargreaves Lansdown 
acted fairly and reasonably when showing the product information on their website.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman