DRN-3128948
The complaint
Mr C complains that Highway Insurance Company Limited unfairly increased the premium of 
his telematics car insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr C bought a telematics car insurance policy online, that was 
underwritten by Highways. As part of the application, he said he had a one year No Claims 
Bonus (NCB). 
In December 2019 the broker of the policy (W) contacted Mr C as it hadnt received proof of 
his NCB. In January 2020 Mr C provided a letter from his previous insurer as proof. However 
W said that this was for a policy that was still active when he took out the policy with it, so 
the NCB wouldnt apply. It therefore advised the price of his policy would increase as the 
discount for the NCB would be removed.
In March 2020 W contacted Mr C to say that his driving score had reduced and this meant 
his premium would increase further. Mr C wasnt happy with this and said he wished to 
cancel his policy with highways as it was now significantly more expensive than when he 
took it out.
W cancelled the policy but confirmed there was still a balance of around £111 left to pay for 
the time on cover. Mr C didnt think this was fair and made a complaint.
Highways didnt uphold his complaint about the cost of his policy. It said it doesnt accept a 
NCB where there is an overlap with another policy. And it said the premium is linked to a 
driving score recorded on the telematics box, as Mr Cs score dropped, it acted fairly by 
increasing his premiums. However it agreed it had taken too long to address Mr Cs 
concerns and offered £50 compensation for this poor service. It used this to reduce the 
outstanding amount Mr C owed.
Mr C wasnt happy with the response and asked this service to investigate. 
Our investigator considered all the issues and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
He said he was satisfied Highways had acted fairly by not accepting Mr Cs NCB as it was 
being used on another active policy when the new policy incepted. He also said Highways 
had shared the data from the telematics box and could see Mr Cs driving score had reduced 
at the start of 2020. So he thought it fair that it had increased his premiums. 
Mr C didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NCB
When Mr C took out the policy online, he said he had one years NCB. So the price 
generated in the quote included a discount to reflect this. Shortly after the policy began W 
wrote to Mr C to let him know it hadnt received proof of the NCB. This was provided around 
two months later.
Ive looked at the document Mr C provided to prove his NCB. This was a letter from his 
previous insurer, however it showed the policy (for a different vehicle) ended on 15 January 
2020. As Mr C took out the policy with Highways in November 2019, I agree that when he 
took the policy out the NCB was already being used for a different policy. 
On the website Mr C used to buy the policy, it displayed the following information alongside 
the question about the NCB:
NCB is earned for each year you hold car insurance in your own name without making a 
claim, but it cannot be used on more than one car at a time.
So I think its clear that Highways doesnt accept a NCB if it is being used for another policy 
at the same time.
Highways has shows that the price it offered Mr C when he took out the policy included a 
discount because of his NCB. As it has now been shown that this wouldnt apply, its 
reasonable that the discount is removed. So I dont think its acted unfairly by removing the 
NCB discount once further evidence was received. 
Price increase due to driving score
Mr Cs insurance policy is a telematics policy. This means a black box is fitted in his car that 
monitors his driving, based on a number of factors. 
The terms and conditions of the policy state as follows:
We may adjust your premium on a monthly basis during the policy term to reflect how you 
are driving. This may result in either a reduction; or an additional charge. We will keep you 
informed of how you are driving by displaying your driving score on your customer 
dashboard or app if you have a windscreen mounted device. This will be updated daily and 
you will receive alerts if your premium is due to change.
So I am satisfied the policy allows Highways to make changes to the cost of the policy during 
its term, based on Mr Cs driving score. So I need to consider if it has acted fairly by doing so 
here. 
Highways has provided the data from the telematics box in Mr Cs car. From this, I can see that 
Mr Cs score reduced in February 2020 and remained low. This was largely due to speeding 
instances. While Mr C has disputed this, he has provided no evidence to show that the data is 
incorrect. And from reviewing the speeds and locations of the instances recorded myself, Ive not 
seen anything to suggest the data recorded is inaccurate.
Highways has provided copies of the emails it sent to Mr C about his driving score.  I can see 
that at the end of February it wrote to him to explain that his score had decreased, and this could 
mean his premiums will increase. It also offered advice about how to ensure the score improved, 
to avoid extra premiums. In March Mr Cs score didnt improve and Highways wrote to him again 
to confirm that the score hadnt improved and an additional amount of around £106 would be 
due. Having considered everything, Im satisfied that Highways has acted fairly by increasing Mr Cs 
premiums due to his driving score. Its provided evidence that his score reduced and Ive seen 
nothing to suggest this is incorrect. Further, it gave him advanced warning of the increase, which 
Id expect it to do. So I wont ask it to do anything differently.
Service
Mr C has also complained about the service he received. I agree there was a delay in Highways 
and its agents handling Mr Cs requests and responding to his complaint. Highways has agreed 
to pay him £50 compensation to make up for this which it has used against the balance he owes 
it. And I think this is fair in the circumstances, so I wont require Highways to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman