DRN-2348871
The complaint
Mrs G complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (the AA) caused delays 
in repairing her car after she made a claim under a motor insurance policy. Mrs G also says 
she experienced further problems with her car, either as a result of the accident or because 
it had been left standing on her drive for several weeks before the repairs were completed.  
What happened
Mrs G was involved in an accident on 16 August 2019 when another car ran into the back of 
her stationary car. She reported the accident the same day, and the following day Mrs G was 
provided with a car under a hire car agreement with a claims management company 
(CMC). The damaged car was collected for repair on 25 September.
Mrs Gs car was repaired and then returned to her on 15 October. Ten days later, Mrs G 
contacted the AA to tell them she was having problems with the car. She thought the 
problems related to the accident or were caused by the car being left on her drive before it 
was taken for repair. The car was inspected by an engineer from the repairing garage. The 
engineer thought the problems Mrs G was having werent related to the accident, nor had 
they been caused by the car sitting unused for a long period.
After discussions with Mrs G, the AA agreed to arrange a further inspection by a local 
independent main dealer. The AA provided Mrs G with a courtesy car while investigations 
were completed.
The car was taken to an independent main dealer and they produced a report dated 19 
November. The AA called Mrs G on 10 December and told her they didnt consider the 
problems were accident related or related to the car being left on her drive before it was 
collected. Mrs G said she would arrange to have her own investigations carried out and 
would send the report to the AA.
The car was delivered to Mrs Gs preferred garage on 8 January 2020 and the courtesy car 
cancelled. Mrs Gs preferred garage reported on Mrs Gs car and thought the issues with the 
brakes and the battery couldve been caused by long periods of the car not being used or 
started.
Mrs G complained to the administrators of her policy in October 2019. She received a 
response to say the initial car hire was the responsibility of the CMC and she had a separate 
agreement with them. However, the issues relating to the delay in repairing the car, the 
subsequent issues with the brakes and the battery, the unsuitability of the courtesy car the 
AA provided, and the delay in returning the car after further investigations were matters for 
the AA to look into. 
The AA provided a final response to the complaints in February 2020. They didnt uphold the 
complaints and said they considered there wasnt enough evidence to say the brake and 
battery issues were the result of the car being left on Mrs Gs drive before the repairs were 
completed.
Mrs G wasnt happy with the final response from the AA and brought her complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs G and thought the AAs view that post-repair 
issues with the car werent accident related was reasonable. And that it was reasonable the 
AA provided Mrs G with a suitable courtesy car while these issues were being investigated. 
However, our investigator thought the AA couldve better managed the delays in getting the 
car re-assessed and arranging the return of her car after the re-assessment had been 
completed.
Both Mrs G and the AA didnt accept the investigators thoughts on the matter and asked for 
an ombudsman to decide the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before dealing with the complaints I can consider, I should make it clear I cant look at the 
hire car issues Mrs G says she experienced with the CMC. Issues such as the overall cost of 
the hire, the car being changed mid-hire and the CMC attempting to pick up the car before 
Mrs G received her repaired car back, will all be matters for the CMC and not the AA. These 
matters relate to the hire agreement Mrs G had with the CMC.
Initial delays in repairing the car
I have looked at why there was a delay here and whether the AA could have managed this 
better than they did. 
I have seen the AA provided instructions to the repairer on 16 August 2019. Unfortunately, it 
became clear the repairer hadnt received the instruction letter by 11 September when Mrs G 
told the AA she hadnt heard from them. The AA sent a further instruction and the repairs 
were authorised on 16 September. The AA received an update from the repairer to tell them 
they were awaiting parts. The car was delivered to the repairers on 1 October.
It will have been frustrating for Mrs G that the initial instructions the AA sent werent 
received, but I think the AA acted reasonably when they became aware they hadnt arrived.
It seems to me there were then further delays while the repairer waited for parts to arrive, 
and it doesnt seem unreasonable for the car to be left on Mrs Gs drive during the waiting 
time. 
So, I am satisfied the AA wasnt responsible for the initial instructions not being received by 
the repairers, and they acted reasonably when they became aware the instructions hadnt 
arrived. I also dont find the delay in the repairs is something that the AA is responsible for as 
the repairers were waiting for parts to be delivered.
Failure to provide a road worthiness certificate
Mrs G says that when she spoke with the CMC, she was promised a road worthiness 
certificate after the initial repairs were completed. She says this was never provided.
I have looked at Mrs Gs insurance policy and there is no mention that the AA would provide 
a specific road worthiness certificate when the initial repairs were completed. Whilst I would 
expect the repairers to ensure the car is roadworthy before its released to Mrs G, the comment that a certificate would be produced appears to have been made by the CMC and 
not the AA, and there is no call recording that I can refer to in this regard. 
Although Mrs G says the CMC told her in the call that they would ensure the whole of the car 
would be looked at, the policy with the AA makes it clear that it is only the damage to the car 
as a result of the accident that will be repaired. As the damage caused by the accident was 
to the rear of the car, it seems reasonable for the AA to have authorised repairs to the 
damage to the rear of the car. I would only expect a new MOT or roadworthiness certificate 
to be provided if the car had been written-off and then repaired, so I dont find the AA did 
anything wrong here.
Post-repair issues
In late October, Mrs G told the AA the car had broken down and the battery was flat and 
wouldnt re-charge, there were problems with the brakes binding and there was a knocking 
at the rear of the car at low speed. 
When they were made aware of this, the AA arranged for the car to be inspected by an 
engineer from the repairers. The engineer said the battery was old and was not keeping its 
charge, and that the brakes werent damaged as a result of the handbrake being left on or 
the car being left on Mrs Gs drive. Mrs G didnt agree.
The AA agreed to send the car for an independent assessment at a local main dealer. The 
report from the main dealer suggested the battery was faulty and needed replacement and 
that the rear brake binding wasnt due to the accident. The main dealer noted the body kit 
fitted after the accident had been fitted poorly and made the appropriate adjustment. Theres 
no evidence to suggest this had made the car dangerous to drive.
Im satisfied the AA acted reasonably when they decided the post-accident issues werent 
caused by the accident or the car having been left standing. The AA is entitled to rely on two 
expert reports, and it seems to me that they paid for, and carried out the repairs to the 
damage they considered was caused by the accident. This is what the policy said it would do 
and the AA fulfilled this.
Its clear from the subsequent report from Mrs Gs preferred garage that their view was that 
the damage to the brakes and the faulty battery could well have been caused by long 
periods of not being used or started.  However, I dont consider the comments from the 
preferred garage are enough to persuade me the AA was wrong to rely on their own expert 
report and that of an independent main dealer. And, I note that the car had been driven for 
several days after the repairs before the battery became flat. So, I dont think the AA did 
anything wrong here.
Delay in assessing the post-repair concerns
After Mrs G reported problems with the brakes and the battery, the AA quickly arranged for 
the repairing engineer to provide an opinion on the issues. The repairer reported the issues 
werent accident related or caused by the car being left on Mrs Gs drive. The AA then asked 
the repairing garage to arrange for the car to be sent to a local main dealer for an 
independent report on the issues Mrs G reported. 
It took longer than it shouldve for the car to be sent to the main dealer. Then, when the 
report was completed, it was Mrs G who provided a copy to the AA.
During the period between when Mrs G raised the post-repair concerns and the independent 
report being received by the AA, Ive seen Mrs G had to chase the AA several times for an update. There was also at least one occasion when the AA didnt return a call when they 
said they would. I appreciate there may have been some delays finding a local main dealer, 
and in obtaining further comments after the report had been received. However, I do think 
the AA werent as proactive as they shouldve been in keeping Mrs G updated about where 
the car was and when the report was going to be completed, and this caused Mrs G 
inconvenience.
Conversation with repairing engineer
Mrs G says that when she discussed the main dealers report with the engineer from the 
repairers on 10 December, he was aggressive, intimidating and insinuated she was lying 
about the post-repair issues she experienced.
Neither Mrs G nor the AA can provide a copy of this call as it was made from a mobile. I 
acknowledge it must have been a challenging call for Mrs G as she and the engineer held 
opposite views, and I havent disregarded her comments. But as I cant determine what was 
said I dont have enough evidence here to say the engineer acting for the AA did anything 
wrong.
Delay in returning Mrs Gs car after re-assessment
Once the AA decided the brake and battery issues werent caused as a result of the accident 
or the car being left on Mrs Gs drive, Mrs G asked for the car to be sent to a garage of her 
choice for a further assessment. 
Ive seen that on 16 December, the AA requested the repairers deliver Mrs Gs car to her 
preferred garage and they chased the repairers several times for an update. The repairers 
did invoice the AA for the delivery on 3 January 2020, but the car wasnt delivered to the 
garage until 8 January. In the meantime, Mrs G had to contact the AA several times for an 
update. Again, I do accept that this would have been frustrating for her.
I think the AA couldve dealt with this matter better than they did. Whilst there was some 
confusion between the AA and the repairer they appointed, it took too long for the car to be 
returned to Mrs Gs preferred garage. 
Unsuitability of the courtesy car during assessment
While Mrs Gs car was being reassessed, the AA provided her with a courtesy car. Mrs G 
says that this was initially a small three door car and wasnt suitable but acknowledges that 
she was provided a more suitable car from 5 December.
The insurance policy Mrs G had with the AA explains that a courtesy car would be provided 
while her car is undergoing repair. At this time the car had been repaired and returned, and 
the reasons it was being reassessed was because Mrs G raised concerns with the car post-
repair.
It seems reasonable to me that the AA provided a courtesy car while these issues were 
being investigated. The car they provided was in line with the policy terms, a small three 
door, 1 litre hatchback car, and when Mrs G explained this wasnt suitable, they upgraded it. 
Im satisfied the AA acted reasonably here.
Additional hire car rental
I can see the AA called Mrs G early on 30 October. The AA recorded they told Mrs G they 
would discuss with the engineer when her car would be inspected. Mrs G said she would need a replacement car and would hire one and bill the AA. The AA records they told Mrs G 
they would update her after they had spoken to the engineer. 
Mrs G arranged an alternative hire car on the morning of 30 October, and she paid £165.00 
for the seven-day hire. She then ordered a further hire car on 14 January 2020 at a cost of 
£105.00 for four-days.
Mrs G says she thinks the AA should pay the cost of these hire cars, but I dont find the AA 
acted unreasonably here. On 30 October they explained to Mrs G they would consider the 
post-repair issues and would provide her with an update. The AA then called Mrs G back 
within an hour and a half to tell her they had agreed to provide a hire car. Its unfortunate that 
by this time Mrs G had arranged an alternative hire car, but I dont think the AA is 
responsible for this cost as they had told Mrs G it was considering their position.
In respect of the car hire from 14 January 2020, by this time the AA had returned Mrs Gs car 
and decided the issues she had raised werent accident related or caused by the car being 
left on the drive. So, I dont think it is reasonable for the AA to pay for this additional car hire 
when they had completed the re-assessment of Mrs Gs car and decided there was no 
further grounds for a claim. 
Putting things right
I have seen that the AA is unhappy that our investigator thought they should pay Mrs G £100 
and provide a written apology for the delay to the assessment of her car, the delay in 
returning her car and the lack of updates they provided to her. The AA feels that they were 
proactive in reassessing the damage to the car, but as I have stated above I think they 
couldve done better. 
Mrs G says that the AA should pay her more than the £100 for the inconvenience she 
suffered, and that she considers the damage to the brakes and battery happened because 
the car wasnt collected from her drive for several weeks. She also says that it was five 
months before she finally got her car back and that the AA took no responsibility for their 
contractors allowing the matters to bumble along.
However, for much the same reasons as the investigator, I have decided the AA should pay 
Mrs G £100 to reflect the delays they caused in assessing the post-repair matters and in 
ensuring her car was returned in a timely manner after they had re-assessed the same 
matters. I think it would also be appropriate for the AA to provide a written apology for the 
delays and lack of updates it provided to Mrs G during the time the car was being re-
assessed. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and AA Underwriting Insurance Company 
Limited should pay Mrs G the sum of £100 and provide her with a written apology for the 
delays in returning her car and the lack of updates they provided to her during their re-
assessment of the damage to her car. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman