DRN-2148507
The complaint
X complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) unfairly 
applied a cash transaction fee to a purchase he made on his credit card.
What happened
Earlier this year, X bought some commemorative coins online and paid using his Tesco 
credit card. Tesco applied a cash transaction fee of 3.99% and interest to the transaction. X 
wasnt happy about this and complained to Tesco. He says hes used different cards to 
make this type of purchase before and has never been charged a fee. He thinks the fee is 
unfair and that Tesco should have warned him that it would apply before completing the 
transaction.
Tesco said it changed its definition of cash transactions in April 2018 to include this type of 
transaction. It said a Notice of Variation (NoV) detailing this change was sent to X with his 
statement in April 2018. It said that Xs transaction was an investment and so falls within the 
definition of cash transactions, as set out in the NoV. So it didnt think it had made a mistake 
by applying the fee and related interest.
X wasnt happy with Tescos response and brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt think Tesco had done anything wrong. But X didnt agree and asked for 
his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He doesnt think his purchase should be 
treated as an investment and says that the fee is unfair. He wants Tesco to refund it together 
with the interest applied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Xs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of the NoV. It summarises the key changes to Xs credit card agreement 
and says that Tesco is changing the types of transactions that it classifies as cash. It goes 
on to set out the specific changes being made and, in the section about fees and charges it 
says a handling fee of 3.99% (no minimum charge) of the amount for cash transactions. 
Cash transactions are gambling transactions, wire or international money transfers, repaying 
borrowing (e.g. loans and mortgages), purchasing non-sterling currency outside of Tesco, 
payments to prepaid or virtual cards, investments, share trading and spread betting. Below 
this, it says The types of transactions classified as cash are listed above.
X cant recall receiving this document, although hes not saying he didnt receive it. Tesco 
says it was sent electronically with his statement in April 2018. Tesco has provided a 
screenshot confirming that X was receiving his statements online and that none of its emails 
to him bounced back. I think on balance that Tesco did send the statement and NoV to X in 
April 2018. So Im satisfied it told him what it classed as cash transactions.
X says that, even if he received the NoV, its not fair for him to be expected to remember the 
terms and conditions and how they will apply to particular transactions. He says he wouldnt 
have used his Tesco card for this purchase if hed known the fee would be applied. I 
understand his point of view and that he didnt realise the fee was going to be applied when 
he made this purchase. But I cant fairly say thats Tescos fault because it had told him what 
it classed as cash transactions. And Xs statements contain a summary of fees. So I think 
Tesco made it clear that it would charge a 3.99% handling fee for cash transactions.
X is also unhappy about the interest which Tesco applied. I note that Xs credit card 
statements contain the following information about interest charging: You will not pay 
interest on new purchases if you pay the full balance on your last statement by your payment 
due date. Otherwise, the period over which interest is charged is as follows: Purchases, 
Cash withdrawals, Cash transactions, Balance transfers and Money transfers  from date 
debited to your account until repaid in full. So, while purchases might not attract interest if 
the full balance was paid on time, interest would be charged on a cash transaction as soon 
as it was debited from Xs account. As X had been informed of this on his statements, I dont 
think Tesco acted unfairly here.
X says that Tesco should have warned him that the fee would apply before processing the 
transaction, giving him chance to change his mind. He says he was sent a message with a 
passcode for the transaction, and that Tesco could have used this opportunity to warn him 
about the fee. But I wouldnt expect Tesco to do this, and its not something they were 
obliged to do.
X says he doesnt think his purchase should be treated as a cash transaction. He says the 
commemorative coins cant be used as currency, so shouldnt be treated as cash. But its 
clear from the NoV that the term cash transaction encompasses numerous types of 
transaction. Tesco has confirmed that it treated the transaction as an investment. 
Investments are included in the definition of cash transactions, as set out in the NoV. 
X has challenged this. He says the term investments is not defined in the terms and 
conditions and is open to interpretation. He doesnt think it should include the coins he 
bought. But the merchant here applied the code securities to the transaction. I think it was 
reasonable for Tesco to treat the purchase in the way the merchant described it. Tesco says 
its system is set up to identify transaction types using the merchant codes. It identified Xs 
purchase as an investment, based on the code supplied by the merchant and I think that 
was reasonable. I also note that the merchants website makes multiple references to its 
coins as investments. So I dont think Tesco acted unreasonably by treating the payment as 
a cash transaction.
X says that other card providers havent charged him a fee for transactions of this type. I 
understand Xs frustration here, but the fact that other businesses havent charged in this 
situation doesnt necessarily make it wrong that Tesco has.
I realise my decision will be disappointing to X. But, on balance, I dont think Tesco acted 
unfairly or made a mistake by classing the transaction as an investment and applying the 
cash transaction fee and interest. So I cant fairly tell it to refund the fee or the interest, as X 
would like.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman