DRN-1741209
The complaint
Mr O complains that CIS General Insurance Limited didnt update him about the progress of 
his claim on his motor insurance policy after his car was stolen.
What happened
Mr O reported that his car was stolen. CIS instructed a loss adjuster to investigate the claim. 
An appointment was eventually made to interview Mr O and his family who were thought to 
be present in his home at the time of the theft. Mr O didnt hear back from CIS and he had to 
chase it for updates. CIS offered Mr O £50 compensation for this. But it said Mr O needed to 
provide documentation to progress the claim. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought CIS 
had acted fairly and in keeping with its procedures. She thought its offer of £50 was fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr O replied that his family hadnt been present at the time of the theft. He said the loss 
adjuster wasnt able to interview him until a month after their first contact. And it took another 
month for him to speak with his brother. He said CIS didnt provide any updates or explain 
what was happening during this time. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr O feels frustrated with the time its taking to deal with his claim. And 
I can understand that this must be upsetting after losing his car. Hes explained that hes lost 
the enjoyment of his car in the meantime, though it isnt need for work. And hes unhappy 
that he cant get updates from CIS. 
So Ive considered Mr Os complaint about delays in the claim and CIS communication with 
him up until the time of its response to his complaint. If Mr O has had further issues since 
that date, he should firstly raise these with CIS to give it a chance to respond.   
Our investigator has explained to Mr O that there arent exact timeframes for dealing with 
claims. This is often set by a business processes, and we cant tell a business to change 
these. The investigator has explained that this is for the regulator, the FCA. But I can 
consider if CIS has caused any avoidable delays in the claim and also look at their impact on 
Mr O. 
CIS agreed that its agent, the loss adjuster, hadnt met its timescales and also hadnt 
managed Mr Os expectations about when the claim would likely be validated. 
I can see that, after his interview with the loss adjuster, Mr O called CIS for an update. He 
was told that the report hadnt been completed and when CIS received it an engineer would 
be instructed, and Mr O would be contacted within five working days. Mr O was then told that 
the report was expected by the end of the week. 
I can see that CIS chased this, but the advisor then wanted to put questions to Mr Os 
brother as part of the claim validation process. I can see that texts were sent to him and 
voice mail messages were left, but this took a few days. Mr O was unhappy that his brother 
had been contacted late in the evening and he asked for his other sibling not to be disturbed. 
So the agent was unable to complete the validation process.
Mr O later told us that his siblings may not have been present when his car was stolen. But I 
think its reasonable for CIS to decide what is needed to validate a claim. Mr O said hed not 
had any updates. But, from what I can see, hed blocked CIS and its agents numbers so it 
couldnt contact him. In any case, I would expect CIS to contact Mr O when it had news for 
him. And it hadnt completed its investigation. 
CIS said the claim was still open, and it offered to review the claim when Mr O co-operated 
with it. I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I can see that Mr O has agreed 
to provide some requested documents. 
So I can see that Mr O was led to believe that his claim was close to being settled, but this 
wasnt the case. Also, the agent missed timescales agreed with CIS. But, while I can see 
that this caused Mr O frustration, I cant say that CIS was responsible for all the delays as 
some of these were due to Mr Os lack of co-operation. So I think CIS offer of £50 
compensation for the impact of its errors was fair and reasonable. This is in keeping with the 
level Id award in similar circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman