DRN-1619353
 
The complaint
Mrs K complains that MBNA failed to authorise a transaction when she missed a payment. 
She says this is not stated on the terms and conditions. Mrs K also complains that MBNA 
hasn't investigated her complaint properly.
What happened
Mrs K has a credit card account with MBNA. On 19 February 2019 she tried to use the 
card and the purchase was declined. She phoned MBNA and discovered the transaction had 
been declined because she had missed a payment. Mrs K made the full payment due which 
was over £300. She said she normally makes the full payment on time but had missed it due 
to having surgery.
She complained to MBNA. She said the minimum payment was only £25 and only eight days 
late. She wanted to know why the bank had cancelled her account for such a small amount. 
She wanted MBNA to explain why it hadn't informed her that she had missed a payment. 
She also asked for a closing statement and said once her account was paid up and closed 
she wanted her details removed from MBNA's mailing list.
In its final response MBNA understood Mrs K's complaint to be that she was unhappy with 
the restriction placed on her account. It said a strategy driven restriction had been placed on 
the account from 15 November 2018 to 24 January 2019, but that she had had full access. It 
said it was unable to provide further information regarding this issue due to the confidential 
nature of strategies. MBNA went on to say that it would issue a closing statement and 
remove Mrs K's information when the account balance was at zero and it had closed the 
account formally.
Mrs K complained further. She said the reason for complaining in the first place was to 
complain about the cancellation of her card in February. She said her account hadn't been 
restricted as she has used it over and after Christmas. She reiterated the card had been 
declined on 19 February 2019.
She said there was nothing in the terms and conditions stating the card would be cancelled if 
no payment was made. So she brought her complaint to this service. She said MBNA hadn't 
investigated her complaint properly and had referred to the wrong dates. She said she had 
been inconvenienced and it could've been more serious if she had been paying a hotel bill.
Our investigator did not agree that MBNA had done anything wrong. He said it had adhered 
to the terms and conditions of Mrs K's credit card. Mrs K asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman. She said the investigator had missed the point of her complaint. She said 
MBNA would not discuss the terms and conditions with her and have only done so after 
intervention from this service.
I issued a provisional decision on 31 December 2019. I said: 
TransactionMrs K has complained that MBNA declined a transaction. I've read a copy of the terms 
and conditions. I agree that it doesn't explicitly say transactions would be refused if a 
payment is late but I do consider that MBNA is within its right to do so on the basis it 
says:
"We may cancel or suspend use of the card, refuse to replace or reissue the card, or 
refuse to authorise a transaction or type of transaction (even if your balance is under 
your credit limit) if we consider it necessary because as a responsible lender there is 
or is likely to be an unacceptable or increased risk of you not repaying what you owe 
us. This could be because of the way you manage this account or other accounts you 
have with us, information we get from credit reference agencies or us finding that you 
are bankrupt or have made an arrangement with your creditors."
I'm satisfied that MBNA acted within these terms when it declined Mrs K's transaction 
in February. Unfortunately how a bank or financial business assesses risk is not 
something I can investigate, so I'm unable to tell Mrs K why the bank may consider 
there is a risk attached to her transaction. But I do understand this must be frustrating 
for her.
Complaint handling
Mrs K has also complained about the way MBNA has handled her complaint. Our 
service operates under a set of rules, known as DISP, laid down by Parliament under 
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. These are published by and are 
available from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). DISP sets out the scope of our 
powers and  of particular relevance here  the type of complaints we are able to 
consider. Complaint handling is not a regulated activity and as such in most cases I 
am unable to consider this kind of complaint.
Its possible, in some circumstances, I may be able to investigate complaint handling if 
it is ancillary to a complaint about a regulated activity. In Mrs K's complaint I'm 
satisfied this is the case, that it does fall within our jurisdiction, and Im able to look at 
the merits of it. This is because I don't believe the final response letter answered Mrs 
K's actual complaint. 
The transaction at the heart of this complaint happened in February. In her complaint 
to MBNA Mrs K asked it to explain which of the terms and conditions related to the 
refused transaction and missed payment. And why she hadn't received any notice that 
something might be wrong. She asked what was going on that MBNA would cancel 
her account for such small amounts.
In its final response MBNA said a restriction had been put on Mrs K's account between 
15 November 2018 and 24 January 2019. It said this was a strategy driven act and 
was unable to provide her with any further information regarding this issue due to the 
confidential nature of the strategies. 
This response does not refer to or explain why Mrs K was unable to make transactions 
in February and does not explain if this is related to the account restriction that was 
lifted in January. So I can understand why this caused Mrs K some confusion. Indeed, 
the final response does not mention February at all.
In addition, MBNA hasn't explained to Mrs K the terms and conditions which allows it 
to refuse transactions as she requested. This information was provided to this service 
on request, so I consider it reasonable that MBNA could have explained the terms and 
conditions to Mrs K in its final response. So subject to any further evidence I might receive I'm minded to instruct MBNA to give Mrs K £50 for the inconvenience and 
distress this has caused.
MBNA also stated in its final response that the account would be closed as per Mrs 
K's request once the account is paid off in full. I understand this has now occurred. 
Both parties accepted my provisional decision although Mrs K said the bank account wasn't 
yet closed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MBNA have confirmed with evidence that the balance of Mrs K's account is now clear and 
the account is closed. As both parties accepted my provisional decision I see no reason to 
change it.  
Putting things right
For the reasons stated above MBNA Limited must pay Mrs K £50 for her distress and 
inconvenience.  
My final decision
My final decision is that MBNA Limited must pay Mrs K £50 for her distress and 
inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman