DRN-4355720
The complaint
The complaint is brought by a third party A on behalf of the late Mr T, and is about the way 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services dealt with the 
settlement of a car hire-purchase agreement taken out by Mr T.
A holds Letters of Administration enabling her to represent the late Mr T. A is assisted in 
bringing the complaint by the late Mr Ts brother, also Mr T. To aid clarity, Ill refer throughout 
my decision to any correspondence or submissions from Mr Ts brother as being made by A.
What happened
Mr T had a car, supplied by Alphera under a hire-purchase agreement taken out in 2019 
over a 5-year term. Sadly, two years into the agreement Mr T died. He left no will. His family 
notified Alphera, and it set out a number of options to enable the estate to deal with the 
finance arrangements. They were:
1. to take over the agreement and retain the vehicle;
2. to settle the outstanding balance (at the time, around £28,000) and take ownership of 
the car; or
3. to return the car and voluntarily terminate the hire-purchase agreement, subject to 
meeting 50% of the total amount payable under the agreement (around £7,600)
A says options 1. and 2. werent viable, as at the time there wasnt enough money in the 
estate to maintain the monthly payments or pay off the debt, and the absence of a will or 
Grant of Representation meant the car couldnt be sold at that point. A further says that she 
found option 3. unacceptable, as the car was worth more than the amount that would have 
been payable under the agreement.
Alphera said that it couldnt take instructions from A until she obtained Grant of 
Representation. This took almost a year. During that time, the hire-purchase payments 
continued to fall due and arrears developed on the account. A advises that the car also 
depreciated in value. As a result, when A did obtain Grant of Representation and sold the 
car, the amount required to settle the hire-purchase agreement still resulted in a shortfall.
A was unhappy that Alphera wouldnt simply allow her to hand back the car with nothing 
further to pay, and with the fact that interest and arrears were allowed to accrue while 
awaiting Grant of Representation. She believes that the account should have been frozen 
until this was obtained, and then interest only charged if there was a delay in clearing the 
balance.
Alphera has declined As request that it revert to the original settlement figure. It says that it 
followed the appropriate legal process and that it was unable to proceed with any of the 
options until A could demonstrate it had the appropriate power to deal with Mr Ts estate. 
Alphera acknowledged that the time taken to obtain Grant of Representation had resulted in 
additional costs. However, it didnt consider this was its responsibility, and so it didnt uphold 
the complaint.
Our investigator was sympathetic to As situation, but didnt think Alphera had acted 
unreasonably in the options it had provided for dealing with the finance arrangements. He 
shared Alpheras view that it wasnt liable for costs incurred due to the delay experienced in 
obtaining Grant of Representation.
A hasnt accepted the investigators conclusions and has asked for this review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully appreciate As strength of feeling and the emotional impact of having to deal with such 
a difficult situation. It cant have been easy for the family and those feelings would 
undoubtedly be made worse by the thought that Alphera wasnt treating them fairly.
However, when determining whats fair and reasonable, I cant just decide a complaint based 
on what feels fair. That would potentially be arbitrary and possibly unfair and open to 
challenge. Instead, under our rules Im required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and  where 
appropriate  what I consider to have been good industry practice.
Theres no regulatory rules that set out how a finance provider must respond to the situation 
in which A was placed. The Financial Conduct Authority has general principles about treating 
customers fairly, paying due regard to its customers interests and managing conflicts of 
interest fairly. All of these have some bearing on this complaint, but I dont believe the 
circumstances here are sufficient for me to conclude that Alphera failed to meet these 
principles. In particular, they wouldnt enable me to disregard the legal position between the 
parties.
The hire-purchase agreement between Mr T and Alphera is subject to the relevant 
provisions of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) and the terms and conditions agreed 
between the parties. Neither the CCA nor the agreement makes any particular provision for 
termination in the event of the death of the borrower. The general legal position is that 
liabilities that accrued under the agreement  for example, the obligation to repay the debt, 
the right to receive interest  continue and fall to be settled by any asset value in the estate.
Alphera gave A three options when it was notified of Mr Ts death. Those options are 
consistent with what Id expect to see; theres nothing unusual or inherently unfair in what 
Alphera offered. I appreciate A might have preferred Alphera to offer a fourth option of 
waiving interest and allowing her to hand back the car with nothing further to pay (subject to 
any remaining balance being less than the value of the car at that time). But Alphera wasnt 
obliged to offer this option. It was entitled to receive at least the amounts set out in the 
options it did offer.
At the time of As enquiry, the payments made under the hire-purchase agreement were less 
than 50% of the total amount payable. Alpheras proposal was in line with the CCA 
provisions on voluntary termination. As A wasnt at that point in a position to take on the 
agreement or to settle it in full, this was the only option that might have been open to A to 
take.
I appreciate A felt  and continues to feel  that this was unacceptable, as it would have 
meant losing out on the potential value of the car at that time. But Im afraid that doesnt 
enable me to rewrite the agreement that Mr T entered into, or to disregard that what Alphera offered was in line with the CCA.
Its most unfortunate that the delay in obtaining Grant of Representation  through no fault of 
A  meant that by the time A was in a position to act, the figures had changed in terms of the 
amount to settle the debt and the market value of the car. But I cant reasonably say that any 
of this delay was down to Alphera, or that it was obliged to freeze the debt, which was 
properly due, until Grant of Representation was obtained.
I know A feels aggrieved that when they did present Letters of Administration to Alphera, it 
said that it didnt need the document and merely needed the settlement payment. I also 
acknowledge that A feels Alphera ought to have made it clear that interest would continue to 
accrue until the debt was paid. I can see how Alphera could have been a little more helpful. 
But given that A didnt want to take on the hire-purchase agreement, wasnt legally in a 
position to sell the car to discharge the debt until she obtained Letters of Administration, and 
in any event rejected the option to crystallize the amount due by exercising option 3., Im 
satisfied that these factors made no real difference to the overall outcome.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here, my final decision is that I cant uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A, on behalf of the 
late Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman