DRN-4401418
The complaint
Mr W has complained about National House-Building Councils (NHBCs) decision to decline 
a claim he made under his NHBC Buildmark warranty.
What happened
The subject of this complaint is a building comprised of multiple apartments. Mr W is the 
leaseholder of one of the apartments, and the holder of a Buildmark Warranty covering his 
apartment and his share of any common parts. 
Mr W has complained about a defect with the installation of a shared drainage system 
serving his building. As the drainage system is shared, other leaseholders, in addition to 
Mr W, will likely have been affected. But this complaint has been brought solely by Mr W, so 
Ill only be considering what he is entitled to, under his individual warranty as part of this 
complaint. But the conclusions I reach here would likely apply to the other leaseholders too, 
were they to bring the same complaint to our service.
Mr W says the drainage system was installed incorrectly, with several runs not being 
connected to the main sewer, resulting in sewage water running into the foundations of the 
building for a period of five years. The issue has since been resolved by the water authority, 
but Mr W raised a claim for damage to the building as a result of this issue and has 
complained about the efficacy of NHBCs building control function.
Our investigator considered Mr Ws complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She said 
our service wasnt able to consider NHBCs building control function as this activity wasnt 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and so fell outside of our remit.
Our investigator agreed that there was a valid claim under section 3 of the warranty, as 
Mr W had evidenced damage caused by a defect with one of the specified parts of the home 
or common parts. However, she said the cost of repairs did not meet the minimum claim 
value (MCV) set out in the policy, so NHBC was correct in its decision not to provide cover.
Our investigator also considered whether there was a valid claim under section 4. But this 
required that there be a present or imminent danger to the health or safety of the occupants, 
as a result of the issue, in order for a claim to succeed  and she didnt agree there was 
such a danger present.
Mr W didnt accept our investigators opinion. As no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and while it will likely come as a disappointment to Mr W, I agree with our 
investigators conclusions. Ill explain why.
Building control issues
One of Mr Ws initial concerns was about the adequacy of NHBCs building control function. 
Our investigator explained that this isnt one of the regulated activities our service has the 
power to consider.
Mr W appears to have accepted our investigators findings on this point, as he subsequently 
referred his concerns about NHBCs building control function to the appropriate body. So, as 
this is no longer in dispute there is no need for me to make a finding on this element of 
Mr Ws complaint.
 
What the warranty covers under section 3
NHBCs Buildmark policy provides cover for specific major problems with newly built or 
converted properties where there has been a breach of its technical requirements. The 
policy is bought by the builder and passed on to the consumer when they purchase the 
property. The cover provided by the policy is split into several sections. 
Section 3 of the policy is one of the relevant sections in this complaint. This section states 
that NHBC will pay for:
We will pay you the full Cost, if it is more than £1,200 Indexed, of putting right any 
physical damage to your Home which is caused by a Defect in respect of any of the 
following parts of your house, bungalow, maisonette or flat, or its garage or other 
permanent outbuildings:
It then goes on to list the various specified parts of the home, or common parts, which are 
covered. This includes below ground drainage systems which Mr W is responsible, or shares 
responsibility, for.
Within the policy booklet there is also specific emphasis on the words Damage and 
Defect and individual definitions for each:
Damage
Physical damage to a Home caused by a Defect
Defect
The breach of any mandatory NHBC Requirement by the Builder or anyone 
employed by or acting for the Builder. Failure to follow the guidance supporting an 
NHBC Requirement does not amount to a Defect if the performance required by the 
NHBC Requirement is achieved by other means.
The policy also provides a definition for Common parts, Indexed, and explains how the 
minimum claim value is applied for claims involving common parts:Common parts
In relation to a Home, any of the following for which the Owner is legally obliged to 
share responsibility for cost and upkeep with the Owners of other Homes covered by 
Buildmark (or similar cover that we may issue): 
a. the parts of a building containing or providing support to a flat or maisonette; 
b. any garage, permanent outbuilding, retaining wall, boundary wall, external handrail 
or balustrade, path, drive, garden area or paved area newly built by the Builder at the 
date of Completion; 
c. any drainage system serving your Home; 
d. any existing garage, permanent outbuilding, retaining wall or boundary wall that 
was sold to the first Owner under the original Contract.

Indexed
Increased to allow for the effects of inflation. Any amount referred to as Indexed was 
set on 1 April 2011 and the increase is applied on 1 April each year in line with the 
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors House Re-building Cost Index. The figure 
that applies to a claim is the one that is in force when the claim is first notified to 
NHBC.

When your Home includes Common Parts, our liability for all claims relating to them 
(subject to the limits referred to in 1) and 2) above) will be limited to that portion of 
the total cost of doing all the work that has to be done in connection with those 
Common Parts that we decide it is reasonable to attribute to your Home. However, 
for claims under items 1(a) to (m) in the yellow panel on the next page:
 
a) if that portion is less than £1,200 Indexed, NHBC will have no liability; 
b) if that portion is more than £1,200 Indexed or the total Cost of the repairs to the 
Common Parts is more than £12,000 Indexed, we will pay you your portion of the 
cost of the necessary work or, at our option, arrange to get the necessary work done 
at our expense, subject to the overall limits referred to in 1) and 2) above.
What all of this means is that Mr Ws warranty doesnt guarantee that his property will be 
free from defects. Rather, it covers repairing any damage which has been caused by a 
defect (as defined) to one, or more, of the specified parts of the home or common parts. But 
only where the cost of repairing said damage exceeds the minimum claim value (MCV). 
And as this claim relates to common parts, the minimum claim value is the higher figure, 
quoted above, indexed.
Claim under section 3
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that there would be a valid claim, on the basis that there is 
damage to the home caused by a defect in the common parts. The issue is that NHBC says 
the cost of repairing the damage is £8,383.66 and the combined MCV, indexed, is £17,170. 
So, on that basis, NHBC says there is no cover under section 3, in line with the policy terms.
NHBC has provided a copy of its schedule of works, which supports the cost of repair does 
amount to £8,383.66. I note that NHBC invited Mr W to obtain and provide two alternative 
quotes for consideration if he believed its schedule to be incorrect. But I cant see that any 
alternative quotes or repair schedules have been provided. Based on the above, I find NHBCs repair schedule to be the most persuasive evidence as to 
the likely cost of repairing the damage. And as this falls significantly short of the applicable 
MCV, I agree that NHBCs decision not to cover the claim under this section is in line with 
the terms of the policy, and is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I understand Mr W feels its unfair that NHBC can avoid liability for dealing with a claim on 
the basis that the cost of repairs is too expensive. But minimum claim values and/or 
excesses are commonplace in the market for these types of policies. And their presence is 
factored into the risk assessment and cost of the policy. Given this, and as the MCV is 
clearly stated within the policy literature, I dont consider it to be unfair for NHBC to apply it to 
Mr Ws claim. 
Should Mr W decide to take NHBC up on its offer of providing alternative quotes for the 
required repairs, he should send these directly to NHBC in the first instance. And if a further 
dispute arises after this, he may be able to submit a new complaint about that to our service, 
subject to our normal rules and timescales. But based on the evidence currently available, I 
think NHBCs position on this claim is fair.
What the warranty covers under section 4
Section 4 of the warranty provides additional cover where NHBC has performed the building 
control function. The policy booklet explains the cover provided:
If there is a present or imminent danger to the physical health and safety of the 
occupants of your Home because it does not comply with the Building Regulations 
that applied to its construction, conversion or renovation in relation to the following 
specified Building Regulations, we will pay you the Cost of the necessary repairs:
Part A Structure; 
Part B Fire safety; 
Part C Site preparation and resistance to contaminants and moisture; 
Part G Sanitation, hot water safety and water efficiency;
Part H Drainage and waste disposal; 
Part J Combustion appliances and fuel storage systems; 
Part K Protection from falling, collision and impact; 
Part N Glazing  safety in relation to impact, opening and cleaning.
What this means is for cover under section 4 there needs to be a failure to comply with one 
of the relevant sections of Building Regulations, which is causing a present or imminent 
danger to the health or safety of the occupants.
Claim under section 4
Ive considered all of the evidence provided in relation to the installation of the drainage 
system, and the subsequent damage it appears to have caused. And while Im satisfied 
there was a defect with the drainage run, which resulted in damage, I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest that there is a present or imminent danger to the health and safety of 
the occupants as a result. Particularly because the drainage defect has already been 
remedied by the water authority.I appreciate Mr Ws concern that just because there is no imminent danger, doesnt mean 
there wont be trouble in future. But his policy doesnt cover potential future issues. It covers 
either damage, caused by a defect, where the cost of repair exceeds the MCV or if there is a 
breach of relevant building regulations, which is causing a present or imminent danger. So, 
although I sympathise with Mr Ws position, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to direct 
NHBC to cover his claim in these circumstances, for the reasons Ive already explained.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint against 
National House-Building Council.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman