DRN-2930283
The complaint
Mr P complains about the service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC.
What happened
Mr P wanted to add his wife to the sole account he held with Barclays making it a joint 
account. But Mr P is unhappy that Barclays said this transaction had to be done face to face.
Mr P has explained that he suffers from health issues that are made worse when he has to 
leave home. He also said he was shielding due to the Covid-19 pandemic. So, he 
complained to Barclays. He wanted Barclays to allow him to complete the account 
amendment either on-line or via the post.
But Barclays didnt agree to this. It explained that it requires this process to be completed 
face to face. It said that in normal circumstances it would have offered Mr P a home visit, but 
such visits had been suspended due to the Covid-19 pandemic and associated lockdown. It 
suggested that Mr P may wish to arrange for either a Power of Attorney (POA) or a home 
visit when restrictions had been lifted.
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr P referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigations looked into it. But he didnt think it should be upheld. While he acknowledged 
that suggesting a POA was unreasonable, he thought a home visit was a reasonable 
alternative. But he didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong by suspending this service 
given the restrictions bought in as a result of the pandemic. 
Mr P didnt accept this outcome. He said, despite the time that had elapsed since this 
happened, Barclays had made no attempt to resolve the situation. And that other businesses 
had accommodated his requests. So, his complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator. I know Mr P 
will feel disappointed with this. I can see how strongly he feels that Barclays should have 
acted differently given his individual circumstances. 
But I can only uphold Mr Ps complaint if I thought Barclays had done something significantly 
wrong that had caused Mr P a financial loss or material distress and inconvenience. But I 
dont think it did. Ill explain why.
Barclays has provided a copy of its procedures for adding a new party to an existing 
account. Im persuaded this indicates that such procedures need to be carried out in the 
presence of both parties in branch. And its not the role of this service to tell Barclays to 
change its laid down procedures 
I think it would be helpful to explain that Barclays has procedures like this in place to ensure 
its genuine customer is making the request and that they are in agreement to another person 
 who would have full access to the account, being added. So, I dont think Barclays is 
acting unreasonably when its usual procedures set out that both parties have to be present 
in branch.   
I would however expect Barclays to offer alternative arrangements when a customer would 
find it difficult to comply with Barclays normal approach  such as in Mr Ps case. And 
Barclays has said that it would have normally offered Mr P a home visit. And had wider 
circumstances not been at play here, I think this would be a reasonable alternative. 
Unfortunately, Barclays couldnt offer this alternative - at the time of Mr Ps request, due to 
the Covid-19 pandemic and the restrictions in place on social contact. But I dont think it was 
unreasonable that Barclays suspended its home visit service given the wider circumstances 
at the time. Indeed, Mr P has told us that both he and his wife were shielding due to his 
health problems and his wife being his carer, so a home visit wouldnt have been appropriate 
in the circumstances.
I note Barclays suggested that Mr P may wish to arrange for a POA. Like the investigator, I 
dont think this was appropriate in the circumstances. But I can see that Barclays also said it 
would be willing to make a home visit when restrictions were lifted. So, Ive thought about 
whether this was fair given all the circumstances at the time.
Ive looked at the activity on Mr Ps account and this shows that it wasnt heavily used  
potentially indicating this wasnt his main bank account. But even if it was Mr Ps only/main 
account, the statements show that Mr P was able to use the account without his wife being a 
joint account holder. So, I dont think Mr P has been materially inconvenienced or lost out 
financially as a result of Barclays not being able to add his wife onto his account at the time 
of his request.
I note Mr P has said he hasnt faced the same problem with other businesses. But its for 
each business to decide its own procedures and I cant comment on what other businesses 
have done. My review is limited to deciding whether Barclays has treated Mr P fairly in all the 
circumstances of his complaint about it. 
While I accept that Mr P may have incurred some inconvenience by a delay in adding his 
wife to his account, I dont think hes lost out as a result. Barclays has apologised for the 
inconvenience caused and suggested that Mr P could make arrangements for a home visit 
when the restrictions were lifted. Overall, for the reasons above, I think this is fair.
I note Mr P has said Barclays hasnt been in touch to resolve this issue. But Covid 
restrictions have only been lifted more recently. So, I think its for Mr P to contact Barclays to 
arrange a home visit if he still wishes to make his account a joint account with his wife.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman