DRN-4056102
The complaint
Miss N complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited amended her motor insurance 
policy from a telematics policy to a standard policy.
Admiral is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agent. As Admiral has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agent, in 
my decision, any reference to Admiral includes the actions of the agent. 
What happened
In September 2022, Miss N took out a telematics motor insurance policy with Admiral. The 
terms of the policy required Miss N to install a telematics device to monitor her driving. 
Shortly after taking out the policy, Miss N went away on holiday. She says the telematics 
device hadnt arrived prior to her leaving home. She says she received an email to say the 
device hadnt been fitted, but she assumed this was an error or was sent before the device 
had been sent. 
After she returned home, Miss N phoned Admiral who told her it had tracking information 
showing that the telematics device had been delivered a few weeks before. Admiral said her 
policy had been converted to a non-telematics policy and her premium had increased by 
over £1,100. 
Miss N complained to Admiral, who paid her £30 for some customer service issues. 
However, it wouldnt agree to change Miss Ns policy back to a telematics one. It said she 
would need to take out a new policy if she wanted to have the telematics option. It wouldnt 
charge Miss N a cancellation fee if she cancelled her current policy, but she would pay for 
the time she was on cover. Admiral also said it wouldnt charge Miss N a device fee of £50 
as she hadnt received it. 
Miss N remained unhappy and asked our service to consider her concerns. Our investigator 
didnt think Miss Ns complaint should be upheld. She thought Admiral had acted fairly and in 
line with the policys terms and conditions.
Miss N disagreed with our investigators outcome. She said she hadnt fitted the device in 
time because she hadnt received it. She said the device should have been returned to the 
depot by the courier, so she could have collected it. She felt it was Admirals responsibility to 
make sure she received the device. She also commented that she went on holiday for less 
than a week and Admiral hadnt informed her the device had been sent. So, the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ns complaint. Ill explain why.
The terms of the policy say:
Following the purchase of your policy you agree to install the Plug & Drive unit within 15 
days of the policy start date. We will send your Plug & Drive unit to you by recorded delivery 
which needs to be signed for on delivery. If delivery is unsuccessful, you will need to 
rearrange delivery or collect from the delivery depot.
You are insured to drive your vehicle from the start date of your insurance policy. You do not 
need to wait until the Plug & Drive unit is fitted in your vehicle to drive.
When she brought her complaint to our service, Miss N told us she went on a short break for 
a few days. However, this conflicts with what she and her partner told Admiral over the 
phone, in the calls Ive listened to. 
In a call in early November Miss N said: Ive been away on holiday for the last three weeks. 
So, thats probably why I havent received your messages. And a few days later, her partner 
said theyd returned from holiday the previous Saturday. So, it seems that they returned on 
29 October 2022.
According to the tracking information, the telematics box was delivered three weeks before 
this, on 8 October 2022. Admiral has sent us screenshots of text messages sent to the 
contact number provided when the policy was taken out, which I understand to be Miss Ns 
partners number. And in his conversation with Admiral, Miss Ns partner mentioned hed 
seen a couple of text messages saying the device hadnt been plugged in, when they 
returned from their holiday.
The information from Admiral shows that on 6 October a text message was sent saying that 
the plug & drive unit was on the way and provided a tracking number. Further text messages 
were sent on 13 and 19 October to warn Miss N that the device needed to be installed or 
she would be charged an additional premium and the telematics service would be removed. 
Admiral has also provided screenshots to show a reminder email and letter were sent.  
Admiral says the reason the policy reverted to a non-telematics one was because the period 
Miss N had in which to install the device came and went without her contacting Admiral. It 
says that if Miss N had returned to the UK prior to 25 October and contacted it, Admiral 
would have issued a replacement device.
If Miss N and her partner didnt have access to emails or text messages while they were 
away, they might not have been aware that the device had been sent. However, I havent 
seen anything to suggest that Miss N made Admiral aware that she was going on holiday for 
three weeks and wouldnt be around to receive the device or plug it in.
Keeping in mind, that Miss N agreed to the terms of the policy which said she needed to 
install the device within 15 days of the start date, I cant say Admiral has acted unfairly here. 
The policy didnt revert to a non-telematics policy until around four weeks after the policy 
start date. And Admiral sent several reminders in this time. So, I think it was reasonable for 
Admiral to have amended the policy when it did.
Miss N has commented that she would have been able to collect the device from the 
couriers depot if theyd returned it and left a card.
I understand that the tracking information on the couriers website included a picture showing 
the device had been left on top of a letter box rather than being signed for as it says in 
Admirals terms. Admiral says the couriers policy of either obtaining a signature or leaving a card changed 
during the Covid-19 pandemic. It seems to have continued the practice of uploading 
photographs of the delivery as opposed to requiring signatures. 
Even if the courier had left a card for Miss N, it wouldnt have made a difference to the policy 
being amended. I say this because, according to what Miss N and her partner told Admiral, 
they hadnt returned from their holiday when the policy was amended. So, Miss N wouldnt 
have been able to collect the device from the depot and install it in time.
Admiral has accepted that Miss N never received the telematics device, so it didnt charge 
her the £50 fee for it. It also said it wouldnt charge a cancellation fee if she decided to 
cancel the policy. However, it said she would still be charged for the time she was on cover.  
I think this was reasonable under the circumstances.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Miss N. But overall, I think Admiral has acted 
fairly and reasonably, in line with the terms of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman