DRN-2880702
The complaint
Mr P complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) provided poor customer service at a time 
of the Covid pandemic.  
What happened
Mr P says he was told by Barclays to visit a local branch with identification to resolve a 
problem he had faced when trying to make a telephone banking payment. Mr P says despite 
the fact he was later informed there was no need for him to visit the branch during the Covid 
pandemic, when he did visit the branch, a member of staff was rude and no social distancing 
was enforced during his visit. In addition, Mr P says the branch opening hours werent made 
clear and changed without notice and he also believes there may have been a breach of 
data given a member of staff openly used their mobile device whilst serving him. Mr P says 
when he did try to contact Barclays over his telephone banking issues, he was kept waiting 
for several hours and despite the difficulties he faced, Barclays havent taken his complaint 
seriously.   
Barclays says they have apologised for the service shortfalls Mr P experienced and says 
feedback has been given to the branch involved. Barclays says the amended branch 
opening times, due to Covid were displayed in the branch and on their website. Barclays 
says they had experienced very high call volumes during this time but dealt with these the 
best they could in the circumstances. Barclays says they have offered Mr P £100 by way of 
an apology for the level of service he experienced. 
Mr P wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. He 
felt Barclays couldnt be held responsible for how other customers acted when Mr P visited 
the branch. The investigator felt Barclays were reasonable in changing some of their working 
practices due to the Covid pandemic which unfortunately led to some inconvenience for its 
customers, like Mr P. While the investigator accepted Mr P had experienced some service 
shortfalls, Barclays had offered a fair sum of compensation to reflect this. 
Mr P wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would have been stressful and worrying for Mr P to unnecessarily visit his 
local branch during the Covid pandemic given he previously had to self-isolate. When 
looking at this complaint I will consider if Barclays could have done more to prevent the long 
telephone waiting times Mr P experienced, and the other problems he faced when visiting 
his local branch, during this difficult time. 
As our investigator has explained, its not the role of this service to scrutinise Barclays 
complaints process or to tell Barclays how it should deal with complaints more widely. I know 
Mr P is unhappy with the way Barclays have prioritised his complaint  but my role is to look 
at whats fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of a complaint. And so, Ill be 
looking at Mr Ps complaint about the service issues he experienced during this time.  
The first thing to say is when making a full and impartial decision here, I have to take into 
account the fact this happened during the Covid pandemic which affected both businesses 
and customers alike.
Mr P has provided this service with comprehensive details of the course of events here and 
while that has proved helpful, I wont be commenting on every point he has made as I dont 
feel its necessary in order to come to a full and impartial decision here. Thats not to say I 
havent considered everything hes said  I have. But its just that I dont need to comment 
on each individual point here in order to reach a decision on whats fair and reasonable.
What happened here was Mr P was unable to make a telephone banking payment and was 
asked to visit his local branch with identification to enable the payment to be made. Mr P 
was unhappy having to do that because he had recently been self-isolating due to the Covid 
pandemic. That said, Mr Ps main issue here was when he arrived at the branch, he was told 
he needed his debit card in order to authorise this payment. I can understand this would 
have been inconvenient for Mr P, but I cant say that Barclays were wrong in asking for this, 
as it is part of their process to facilitate the payment. I understand, fortunately, Mr P was able 
to make alternative arrangements to avoid the need to return to the branch. 
When in the branch, Mr P says the member of staff serving him was unhelpful and was 
checking her mobile device whilst serving him, raising concerns about his data being 
adequately protected. Its difficult for me to know what was actually said to him by the 
member of staff and if she was accessing her mobile device while serving him. That said, in 
any event, I cant say that in itself is a breach of data, but more a case of poor customer 
service if this happened in the way Mr P describes. From the information provided to this 
service I can see that Barclays have provided feedback to the member of staff concerned 
and I am satisfied this was the right course of action for Barclays to take here. 
Mr P was also unhappy that the security staff at the branch didnt apply appropriate social 
distancing rules to the customers queuing in the branch. I can fully understand this would 
have been worrying for Mr P given he had previously had to self-isolate, but the backdrop of 
the pandemic here meant that many businesses faced problems in balancing government 
advice with continuing to run their business to provide services to customers. So, while Mr P 
says that Barclays werent applying sufficient social distancing measures, Barclays have 
advised this service that posters were displayed around the branch and its entrance. In 
addition, Barclays provided me with details from their website on this issue and it states : 
In line with government guidelines, if youre visiting us in branch you must wear a face 
covering unless you have a valid exemption. Please also maintain safe social distancing. 
This is to help protect you and others. We appreciate its a difficult time, so thanks for your 
ongoing support.
Its not possible for me to say with any certainty what happened while Mr P was queuing at 
the branch that day and whether those customers at the branch had exemptions or not, if they werent wearing face coverings, as Mr P suggests. But on balance, I am satisfied 
Barclays have set out social distancing guidelines to protect its customers and staff. But any 
business can only do so much to try to ensure customers stick to rules like these and its fair 
to say even if there had been some issues with Barclays enforcing this on that particular day, 
they would also have to rely on their customers observing the guidelines displayed. 
Mr P says Barclays havent been clear about the opening hours his local branch was 
operating to, making it difficult for him to conduct his banking affairs. From the information 
provided to this service, the changes in opening hours were displayed in the branch and on 
Barclays website. While I can understand any changes would have been inconvenient for Mr 
P, given the daily challenges the pandemic created, I am satisfied it wouldnt be 
unreasonable for Barclays to alter those arrangements at short notice, from time to time, if it 
needed to.
I also understand that Mr P experienced some long telephone waiting times when trying to 
deal with his telephone payment request, and Barclays have acknowledged this was a result 
of extremely high call volumes. Again, without trying to minimise the frustration this would 
have undoubtedly caused Mr P here, I am satisfied this was in all likelihood, unavoidable 
due to the problems caused by the pandemic. 
Barclays have apologised for the inconvenience Mr P experienced and have offered him 
£100 to recognise this. Mr P doesnt think this goes far enough, nor will it change the way 
Barclays protects or adequately serves its customers in the future. While Mr P may not 
agree, I cant say that Barclays havent taken his complaint and comments seriously, as he 
says. I say this because feedback was given to Mr Ps local branch manager and Barclays 
have acknowledged his comments and apologised to him for any inconvenience caused. 
Its not my role to penalise businesses like Barclays, when service issues like this arise. 
Instead I, have to impartially consider whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
a complaint. Having done so here, while I have seen how strongly Mr P feels about the 
situation, I think Barclays has taken fair steps to act on Mr Ps concerns and its offer of £100 
is a fair one to reflect the impact on Mr P. Mr P should contact Barclays directly if he now 
wishes to accept this.
It follows, while Mr P will be disappointed with my decision I wont be asking anymore of 
Barclays.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman