DRN-3789858
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy Starling Bank Limited (Starling) has refused to refund money he lost to an 
investment scam. 
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail but, in brief, between May and June 2021, Mr H was duped into sending 
money to an account in his name with a cryptocurrency exchange, for what he believed was 
to receive money from a previous investment hed made in 2019. Unfortunately, this turned 
out to be a scam. 
Mr H was told by the scammer that his previous investment had increased to £25,000 and 
that while the company hed invested with previously had lost its licence, it was authorised to 
release the money to Mr H. I understand the scammers helped Mr H open an account with a 
genuine cryptocurrency exchange (Ill refer to as CB). He provided the scammers with 
access to his computer by using remote access software and he provided a copy of his 
identify documents for the scammers to do so. He was told hed need an account with CB so 
that he could receive his funds. Mr H adds that it was explained to him by the scammers that 
hed need to mirror the money in the CB account before hed be able to withdraw the 
investment funds. Believing he was in contact with a legitimate person and that they wanted 
to assist him with obtaining his money, Mr H agreed to this. Mr H also said that the money 
he was putting in was being traded with good results. He was later informed that he was due 
returns of £128,000 on his investments. 
Mr H made numerous payments from another account held in his name with a different 
bank. The scammers also applied for a loan in Mr Hs name with the other bank.  
While I may refer to the previous payments Mr H made from his account with another bank, I 
will not be specifically commenting or making a finding on these payments in this decision, 
as these have been addressed under a separate complaint brought to our service. 
On 3 June 2021, Mr H made a payment of £15,000 from his account with another bank 
(funded by the loan applied for in his name), into his Starling account. Following this, he 
proceeded to make the following payments to CB:
4 June 2021              £1,000
4 June 2021              £13,000
9 June 2021              £5,000 
When Mr H was unable to withdraw the funds, he became concerned. Mr H raised the 
matter with his other bank on 14 June 2021. Following this, he contacted Starling via its chat 
function on 21 June 2021. Starling looked into things and said it was unable to dispute the 
payments as theyd been transferred to Mr Hs own cryptocurrency account. It directed Mr H 
to attempt to recover his funds through the cryptocurrency exchange  CB.  
For completeness, in setting out what has happened here, the £15,000 loan taken out in 
Mr Hs name with his other bank has been unwound. As such, I consider the remaining loss 
Mr H has incurred under this complaint to be £4,000. 
Unhappy, Mr H brought his complaint to our service. Our Investigator looked into things and 
having considered everything, he didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He concluded 
the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) didnt apply to the payments Mr H had 
made, as the payments were sent to an account in his own name with CB. He thought 
Starling ought to have intervened more than asking the questions it did within its app, but 
given that the other bank Mr H held an account with, had spoken to Mr H on 3 June 2021 
and told him this was a scam, he wasnt convinced any intervention from Starling wouldve 
prevented Mr H from proceeding to make the payments. 
Mr H disagreed with our Investigator and asked for an ombudsmans review. So, the 
complaint has now been passed to me to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been provided, 
and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Id like to assure Mr H that I do believe hes been the victim of a cruel scam. Since bringing 
his complaint to us, Im aware Mr H has very sadly suffered the bereavement of his wife. Id 
like to offer my condolences, along with my sympathy, for what I can imagine is a very 
difficult time. This will have had a great impact on Mr H and his family, on top of the 
emotional and financial impact the scam has had on him.
Ive thought very carefully about everything Ive seen and been told. Having done so, I have 
reached the same conclusions as those of the Investigator. I dont uphold this complaint. 
I can understand entirely why Mr H feels so strongly that his money should be returned to 
him, and why he doesnt accept that Starling shouldnt be responsible for refunding him. Our 
Investigator explained that the CRM Code didnt apply to the payments Mr H made here. 
This was because under the provisions of the CRM Code, only payments made to another 
person are potentially eligible for reimbursement. In this case, Mr H made payments from 
his Starling account to an account in his name with CB.  
Mr H told us the scammer helped him with setting up an account with CB and he confirms he 
provided identity documents to do so. Mr H also explained that he granted the scammer 
access to his computer via remote access software. I do note within the information Ive 
seen, there has been reference at times to Mr H not having access to his CB account. But 
on balance, Im persuaded that an account was set up in his name, which he was aware of. 
In his submission to us, Mr H has said that due to changing his contact information and 
email address, he had difficulty signing into his CB account after the scam took place. So, 
overall, though the scammer clearly had a significant role in setting up and using the 
account, I think I can fairly say that it was set up on Mr Hs behalf, with his consent and that 
he appears to have had some access to it. It follows that I think it would be reasonable to say that the payments from his Starling account didnt go to another person and therefore 
are not covered under the CRM Code.
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably 
to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for the losses 
incurred by its customer as a result.
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that Mr H was duped, and nor does it seem to be 
disputed that he requested these payments. This means that the payments were authorised, 
and so the starting position is that hes liable for the resultant loss. But there are some 
situations where we believe that banks, taking into account relevant rules, codes and best 
practice ought to have identified a fraud risk, so should have looked at the wider 
circumstances surrounding the transaction before deciding whether to make the payment(s). 
If Starling failed to do so adequately, causing a fraudulent loss, it might be fair to hold it 
liable.
Starling has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual 
activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. There is a 
delicate balance to be struck. There are many millions of payments made each day and it 
would not be possible or reasonable to expect a bank to check each one. 
Mr H made three payments from his Starling account. Having thought carefully about the first 
payment Mr H made for £1,000 after setting up a new payee to CB, I dont think this ought to 
have caused the bank concern when taking into account his previous activity. This said, 
Starling have said when Mr H initially set up the new payee on 3 June 2021, he went through 
the banks payment review  meaning that some payments were deemed unusual or 
potentially high risk and a request for more information on the payment was made. Our 
Investigator in their view, explained that he thought Starling ought to have intervened more 
than asking the questions it presented within its app. When considering the payments Mr H 
made from his account, Im persuaded the bank ought to have intervened further  
specifically when Mr H attempted a payment for £13,000. 
While I think the bank ought to fairly and reasonably have had some concerns about the 
payments Mr H was asking to make, I dont find intervention wouldve prevented Mr H for 
proceeding to make the payments. 
Prior to the payments made from Mr Hs Starling account, Mr H has already had a 
conversation with this other bank. In this call, Mr H was told by that banks agent that a 
payment he was attempting to make to CB was a scam. At this point, the other bank also 
spoke with Mr H about the loan funds of £15,000 and spoke with him about scammers telling 
people to take out loans to send onto CB or somewhere else. I think what Mr H had been 
told in the call with the other bank ought fairly and reasonably to have caused him sufficient 
concerns about what he was being asked to do. I also have to keep in mind that shortly after 
the call with the other bank on 3 June 2021, Mr H did make a further payment to CB. 
All in all, taking everything into account, I dont find it would be fair and reasonable for me to 
hold Starling liable for the money Mr H has lost. Im not persuaded intervention by Starling 
wouldve stopped Mr H from making these payments. I say this because, despite Mr H being 
told this was a scam by his other bank he appears to have been determined to continue to 
make the payments. 
Ive gone on to think about whether Starling did what it shouldve done once it was aware 
this was a scam. Here, I can see Starling contacted the receiving bank but unfortunately it wasnt able to recover the money. Sadly, I dont think this is surprising considering that Mr H 
in his communication with Starling said that as soon as the money was received in the CB 
account, it was supposedly invested and so the account would show as zero after the 
transaction. I also note the receiving bank in its response to Starling informed it that the 
funds were sent out of the account soon after it was received. So I dont think Starling 
couldve done more to recover Mr Hs funds. 
Its very unfortunate that Mr H has lost this money in this way, and I understand the whole 
experience has been deeply upsetting for him and I dont underestimate his strength of 
feeling. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say Starling should 
have done more to prevent Mr H from losing this money. So I dont think it would be fair for 
me to ask Starling to refund the loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman