DRN-3408877
The complaint
B, a limited company, complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as 
Cashplus withheld an inbound payment without telling B, and also didnt tell B it required 
additional information as part of its due diligence checks. 
B is represented by a director, but to keep things simple Ill just refer to B in this decision.
What happened
B had an account with Cashplus.
On 17 March 2020, Cashplus asked B to provide information as part of its due diligence 
checks. A few days later, on 25 March 2020, one of Bs clients paid B £20,000. But the 
payment didnt show up in Bs account. B chased its client about this and was told it had 
been paid. So on 8 April 2020, B sent Cashplus a message through Cashpluss missing 
payment service.
B sent Cashplus further messages on 9 and 10 April 2020  and called Cashplus on 
14 April. At this point, B says Cashplus said it had received the funds, but wanted more 
information  in particular, a copy of the remittance. Cashplus also couldnt see that it had 
received the information it had requested on 17 March. After further calls between B and 
Cashplus, the funds were released on 20 April.
B is dissatisfied that Cashplus didnt tell it about the issue with the payment sooner. B 
doesnt think there was justification for Cashplus holding onto the funds, even after B had 
explained there was no need to do so. It says that the information Cashplus asked for wasnt 
necessary for due diligence purposes, and that Cashpluss actions werent in line the terms 
and conditions of the account.
B says that as a result of the delay to the payment it had to chase its client to find out 
whether the payment was made. B says one of its directors lost the chance to use the 
money to make an investment. To put things right, B wants Cashplus to apologise, to stop 
doing this to its customers, an explanation of why Cashplus did this, and compensation.
Cashplus says that it needed to make checks in line with its legal and regulatory obligations. 
It says it contacted B by text message on 25 March asking it to contact customer services. It 
had now released the funds. And so it didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Dissatisfied, B referred the complaint to us.
Our investigator looked at this. The investigator felt that Cashplus could have sorted things 
out slightly sooner  but that there were also delays caused by B. Thinking about all this, the 
investigator thought the issue could have been resolved two days sooner  and 
recommended Cashplus pay simple interest at 8% a year for the period from 17 April 2020 
to 20 April 2020.
Cashplus has agreed with the investigator. 
B doesnt agree for a number of reasons. B feels the text message on 25 March was 
meaningless and that it couldnt be expected to work out its significance. B also feels its 
unreasonable for Cashplus to impose sanctions before the expiry date of its original request. 
B thinks that Cashpluss communication was inadequate, compounded by the people B 
called not having the correct information. B says the terms and conditions of the account 
doesnt allow B to do what it did. And B says that Cashplus were pretty unpleasant in their 
handling of the complaint.
As the investigator could not resolve the matter informally, the complaint has been referred 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Financial businesses, like Cashplus, are subject to a number of legal and regulatory 
obligations. This means they  need to monitor their customers accounts and may need to 
review them at any time. When they do this they dont need to give reasons. And when they 
review a customers account, they may also need to impose restrictions on the account.
This is reflected in the terms and conditions that applied to Bs account. These allowed 
Cashplus to request information from B about the identity and address of the directors of the 
business. Clause 12.6 of the terms and conditions also allowed Cashplus to suspend, 
restrict or block the account at any time and without notice where required to do so to 
comply with any applicable regulations or legislation, or if B hadnt complied with the terms 
and conditions. Where Cashplus took such action, it needed to notify B as soon as We can. 
Separately, Clause 12.5 allowed Cashplus to decline paid-in funds or transactions under 
certain circumstances, again, without notice.
Looking at what Cashplus did, I see it contacted B on 17 March 2020 to ask for proof of the 
directors address and identity. The heading of the email stated We need some additional 
information from you, while the body explained that B needed to complete these actions by 
16 April 2020  and if B didnt, your account will be blocked. The email went on to explain 
that B needed to access Cashpluss online servicing and complete a customer questionnaire 
 and provide an identity document and two proofs of address via a link in the email. B has 
sent us a screenshot of the servicing portal. This had the heading Important: Additional 
information required to avoid your account being blocked  and included a link to the 
customer questionnaire.
Im satisfied that Cashplus was allowed to ask for this information in line with the terms and 
conditions. I find that the emails were clear that Cashplus wanted this information and that 
the account would be blocked if B didnt provide it.
On 25 March 2020, Cashplus received the £20,000 payment from Bs client. Cashplus 
wanted more information about the payment before it could credit it to Bs account. Im 
satisfied it was acting in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it did so. The 
terms and conditions required Cashplus to notify B of what had happened as soon as it can. 
And I see that Cashplus sent B a text message the same day. This says: Please call 
Customer Services regarding your account  the number is on your card.
B didnt do this. Weve asked B about this: B says that the message looked like junk. B 
says it had no expectation of receiving any message from Cashplus  it had only invoiced 
the client a few days earlier. And it says other messages from Cashplus appeared more urgent. For example, B has sent us a screenshot of another text message it received 
following a large payment earlier in March, which said CASHPLUS: A high value payment 
has been set up to leave your account. Call us immediately if you didnt request this. B 
doesnt accept that Cashplus could send meaningless messages and expect customers to 
know that theyre significant.
Ive thought about this, but dont find what B says persuasive. I dont doubt that B ignored 
the message because the director didnt think it was significant. But thats not Cashpluss 
fault. Im satisfied that Cashplus notified B that B needed to contact it about the account  
and I find its likely that had B done so, it could have discovered the true position and sorted 
the issues with the payment within a few working days. 
Instead, B didnt discover what happened until it contacted its client to chase up the invoice. 
The client got back to B on 8 April, confirming that it had paid the invoice on 25 March. It was 
only at this point that B contacted Cashplus to find out what had happened to the money. 
B contacted Cashplus through its missing payments service on 8 April, and again on 9 April. 
Not having received a response, B then tried to call Cashplus on 10 April, but  presumably 
because it was Good Friday  wasnt able to speak to someone. B sent an email to Bs 
complaints department  and then called Cashplus again the next working day, on Tuesday 
14 April. At this point Cashplus confirmed that it had received the payment  and needed 
additional information from B.
Having considered all of this, I cant fairly hold Cashplus responsible for the delay between 
the 25 March and 9 April. I find that if B had contacted Cashplus when it had originally asked 
B to, B would have discovered the true position sooner. As it was, B didnt contact its client 
until 7 April  and didnt get confirmation that the invoice had been paid until 8 April. Given B 
ignored Cashpluss text message, I cant see how Cashplus could have resolved things 
earlier than this.
That said, Cashplus admits it didnt respond to Bs requests through its missing payments 
service. Cashplus says that these requests were generally processed twice a day, and so if 
things had happened as they should have, it would have sent B a further text message 
asking it to contact customer services. With this in mind, I can see that B might have 
discovered the true position on 9 April 2020, rather than 14 April 2020.
I see that after B contacted Cashplus, it took a few more days to sort things out. In particular, 
B called Cashplus twice on 14 April, and during these calls expressed dissatisfaction that 
Cashplus hadnt informed him of its requirements sooner, and asked to speak to a manager. 
B was also unhappy that Cashplus wanted proof of remittance, which B said would be 
difficult to obtain from the client. I note that during the second of these calls, however, B did 
email Cashplus with a document showing proof of payment.
Cashplus then contacted B on 16 April to say it hadnt received the due diligence 
questionnaire or proof of identity or address. B said he thought hed added this information to 
an online form  though Cashplus said its online form didnt include a facility to attach these 
documents, which B would need to send separately. I note that during the call B said hed 
also recently been asked to provide documents by a different business, which may explain 
his recollections. In any case, B contacted Cashplus later that day to say its online form 
wasnt working, and was advised to use a different web browser. Having received the 
relevant documents, Cashplus contacted B to say the utility bills B had provided were 
unclear. B sent Cashplus further copies by email on 18 April. Then on 20 April, Cashplus 
released the funds to Bs account.
With all this in mind, I can see that Cashplus might have helped B sort things out slightly 
sooner. In particular, I accept B might have discovered what had gone wrong a few days sooner had Cashplus responded to the directors request through the missing payment 
service. However, the rest of the delays seem to have been unavoidable. B didnt respond to 
the initial text message, and I dont find that Cashplus reasonably needed to do more before 
B reported that the payment had gone missing. Im not persuaded the delays between B 
contacting Cashplus on 14 April and the release of the funds on 20 April were unreasonable 
 Cashplus was entitled to ask for additional information if it wasnt satisfied with the original 
information, and that would necessarily introduce delays. So even if B had discovered the 
true position on 9 April, I cant fairly say it wouldnt have taken as long as it in fact did  four 
working days  to sort things out. Four working days from 9 April was Friday, 17 April (the 
intervening weekend was Easter). The funds were returned on Monday 20 April. 
The investigator recommended  and Cashplus has agreed  to pay simple interest (the rate 
is 8%) on the missing £20,000 for the three days between 17 April and 20 April when the 
payment was made. Ive thought about this. As Ive said, I can see that Cashplus might have 
sorted things out a few days sooner. And so our normal approach would be to award simple 
interest for the period B was deprived of funds. 
I appreciate that given the short period for which Ive found things were delayed, this interest 
is likely to be very modest. Ive thought about whether I should award more. But B is a 
limited company. B cannot suffer distress, pain or suffering because of what Cashplus did. 
Nor can I award compensation for the losses on Bs potential investments  B says this 
would have been in the name of one of Bs directors. And while I appreciate that this may 
have been inconvenient for Bs directors, nothing Ive seen shows that what Cashplus did 
had a significant impact on B itself, as a limited company.
So in the circumstances, I find thats a fair resolution to Bs complaint  it reflects the delay 
caused by the delay between B reporting the missing payment and being told Cashplus 
needed the additional information.
Ive considered the further points B has raised. B says, first of all, that the terms and 
conditions didnt allow Cashplus to withhold payments from the account, and that Cashplus 
ought to have told him what was happening sooner. But as Ive already explained, Cashplus 
did send B the text message, and so it was up to B whether it wanted to respond to that 
message at that time. For the reasons Ive already explained, Im also satisfied that the 
terms and conditions meant Cashplus could restrict accounts and reject payments without 
notice. So this doesnt change my conclusions.
Putting things right
Cashplus should pay simple interest (the rate is 8%) on the £20,000 for the period from 17 
April 2020 (when I find B should have received it) and 20 April 2020 (when B in fact received 
it).
If HMRC requires Cashplus to pay tax on this interest, Cashplus should provide B with a 
certificate showing how this is calculated if it asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold Bs complaint in part. My final decision is that Advanced 
Payment Solutions Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above. I make no 
further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman