DRN-3265894
The complaint
Mr M complains that Revolut Ltd didnt refund nine transactions he says were made without 
his authorisation, and that it also used one of his payment cards to top up a negative 
balance on his account.
What happened
In 2019, Mr M went on a trip overseas. He says that one evening he returned to his hotel 
late, and, after being dropped off by a taxi, realised hed lost his phone. The next morning he 
says he discovered his Revolut card was missing.
After Mr M returned to the United Kingdom and replaced his phone, he says he discovered 
someone had withdrawn £2,814.67 in cash using his Revolut card  and used the Revolut 
app on his phone to top up his account with £2,800 from his bank account which was now 
overdrawn.
Mr M reported this to both Revolut and his bank.
Revolut initially told Mr M it wasnt able to look into this unless he provided a police report. 
Mr M said the police in the UK wouldnt let him make a report because everything happened 
overseas. And he said that the police where hed been staying wouldnt issue police reports 
by phone  hed have to go there in person.
Meanwhile, Mr Ms bank initiated a chargeback for the top-ups through the relevant card 
scheme. These chargebacks were successful, so Revolut refunded these top-ups to the card 
issuer. Mr M doesnt appear to have pursued matters further with Revolut at that time.
But this meant Mr Ms account had a negative balance of £2,800. So a few weeks later 
Revolut topped up Mr Ms account using another payment card attached to Mr Ms account. 
Mr M attempted a further chargeback through the issuer of that card, but this was 
unsuccessful. Mr M now owes £2,800 to the issuer of that card.
Dissatisfied, Mr M referred matters to us.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 10 December 2021.
In my provisional decision, I said that the relevant regulations were the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017. This set out requirements before a payment transaction can be regarded 
as having been authorised by the payer and sets out circumstances in which payment 
service providers are liable for unauthorised transactions.
In particular, the regulations say that where an executed transaction was not authorised by 
the payer, the payment service provider must refund the amount of the authorised payment 
to the payer and, where applicable, restore the debited payment account to the state it would 
have been in, had the unauthorised payment transaction not taken place.
However, the payer could be held liable for all losses where the payer, with intent or gross 
negligence, failed to use the card in accordance with its terms and conditions or failed to 
comply with their obligations in relation to reporting the loss or theft of their card or in 
keeping their security credentials safe.
With this in mind, I thought the key questions I needed to consider were:
Whether Mr M authorised the transactions hed complained about, and
if Mr M didnt authorise them, should he nevertheless be held liable for them?
I also needed to consider whether Revolut acted fairly in topping up the account to remove 
the negative balance.
I first thought about what Mr M had said happened. Mr M had told us that during the evening 
leading up to these transactions he attended a wedding reception. He said that on the way 
back to his hotel he fell asleep in a taxi, and was dropped a city block away from his hotel at 
around 2am. He says that after he left the taxi he realised hed lost his phone. But he still 
had his wallet. He says it wasnt until the next morning that he realised his Revolut card was 
missing. And it was only when he returned to the UK and replaced his phone a couple of 
days later that he realised thered been transactions on the account. He believes he lost his 
phone and card while he was in the taxi.
Wed asked Mr M about the security on his phone. He says it was locked by his thumbprint. 
However, he thinks its possible someone took his phone and card while he was asleep, and 
so they might have used his thumb to give them access to his device while he was sleeping. 
Once someone had access to the device, I can see that they might be able to access the 
Revolut app  which could also give them access to his PIN. In any case, Mr M says he 
stored details of his payment cards and PINs as notes on his device.
Ive also considered the information Revolut had provided about what happened. Revolut 
had sent us the transaction history for the account. It also sent us a security log showing 
transactions that were declined as fraudulent or suspicious. Based on this, between around 
3.30am and 9.40am local time on the day in question there were a number of both 
successful and declined cash withdrawals from the account. There were also top ups to the 
account from Mr Ms other payment cards. These appear to have taken place at four 
locations. The logs also show that Revolut blocked Mr Ms card 13 times because it 
suspected fraud or suspicious transactions  but each time the block was reversed using the 
Revolut app on Mr Ms phone.
Revolut also provided Mr Ms chat history. This showed that on the morning in question, 
Revolut received messages from someone using Mr Ms phone asking it how to unfreeze the 
card.
I then summarised what appeared to have happened:
Mr Ms card had already been blocked at the time he said he lost it. It looked as 
though this happened after an earlier taxi journey was flagged as possibly fraudulent 
by Revoluts systems.
At around 3.30am, this block was removed using the app on Mr Ms phone  and the 
equivalent of £118.19 was withdrawn at an ATM.
This was followed by two attempts to withdraw £167.78 and £19.01 at the same 
ATM. But these transactions were declined.
Mr Ms app was used to top up the account with £400.This was followed by an attempt to withdraw £167.78  which was flagged as 
potentially fraudulent and declined.
After this block was reversed through the app, there were three successful 
withdrawals of £101.66, £167.78, and £118.19, followed by a further top up of £800.
This was followed by six declined attempts to withdraw £167.78, £85.13, £101.66, 
£52.07, US$202.99 and US$22.99 respectively. One of these led to the card 
becoming blocked due to a suspicious transaction, but this block was removed again 
in the app.
Mr Ms card was next used at a second ATM, a few miles away from the first. Four 
successful withdrawals of £100.84 were made. This was followed by five declined 
transactions for the same amount plus one for £67.78. All six of these declined 
transactions were logged as suspicious card transactions, which meant Mr Ms card 
was blocked each time. Again, the block was removed using the app. These took 
place between around 5:03am and 5:33am.
Mr Ms card was then used at a third location  which appears to have been in the 
same county as the second location. First there were two declined withdrawals for 
£166.96 and £18.19. Both were flagged as suspicious, and led to the card being 
blocked. But after these blocks were removed, this was followed by two successful 
transactions of £167.78 and a third of £51.88. There was then a top-up of £800, 
followed by a further withdrawal of £167.61.
Two declined transactions of £167.61 were made which were flagged as suspicious. 
This was followed by a further top up of £800. There were then two further 
withdrawals of £167.61 followed by declined transactions of £167.61 and £84.94. 
There were then two successful transactions of £18.81 and £167.61, followed by two 
declined transactions of £167.61 and £166.98, which again were flagged as 
suspicious.
This was followed by five failed attempts to top up the Revolut card by amounts 
ranging from £200 to £3,000.
The final cash withdrawal, of £829.14, took place outside a bank around 10 miles 
south of the second location at around 8:54am. This was followed by seven further 
attempts to top up the card by amounts ranging from £100 to £800. This final 
attempted top-up took place at around 9:40am.
Revolut said that each of the cash withdrawals were authenticated using the chip in Mr Ms 
card and his PIN  and had sent me evidence of this. And in order to access the app, it says 
someone would need to either enter a passcode or use fingerprint authentication. To top up 
the Revolut card theyd need the three digit code from the back of the relevant payment card 
and to complete whatever further authentication was required by the other card provider.
I said this didnt on its own prove that Mr M made these transactions. I went on to consider 
what was most likely to have happened given the information Id seen.
I first considered the possibility that Mr M made these transactions. I saw that whoever made 
them needed access to Mr Ms device, which he said was secured, together with the PIN for 
the card, the three digits from the back of at least one of his other payment cards (I saw that 
the attempts to top up the account using the second payment card failed) and the Revolut 
app on Mr Ms device. In this light, I accept that it was possible Mr M authorised these 
transactions.But I didnt think this was most likely in the full circumstances of what happened, bearing in 
mind the time over which they took place and Mr Ms normal spending on the card. The 
transactions took place more than eight hours after the previous transaction on the card, in 
the early hours of the morning (from 3:30 am onwards) and at locations increasingly distant 
from the place where Mr M was staying. Whoever had the card attempted to make repeated 
cash withdrawals, often just seconds apart, of around £100 to £167. The attempts to use the 
app and account continued until 9:40 the next morning, when, after 12 failed attempts to top 
up the account using two different payment cards, the transactions ended.
I accepted that this decision is finely balanced, and that we wont know for certain what 
happened that evening. But given what Id said above, I thought it was most likely that 
someone else got access to Mr Ms card, phone and PIN. I didnt think Mr M authorised 
these transactions.
Revolut said it didnt challenge the fact that a third party may have made the transactions in 
question. But it said it couldnt have reasonably been concerned about the successful 
withdrawal attempts or have reasonably prevented the transactions from being made. And 
Revolut suggested that, in allowing the PIN to become compromised, Mr M may have been 
grossly negligent  the relevant rules say that Mr M will be liable for unauthorised 
transactions if he either intentionally or with gross negligence failed to take reasonable steps 
to keep his personal security credentials safe.
I said Id thought about that. I recognised that for Mr M to store the security credentials on 
the same device as his app was careless. But the bar for gross negligence is a high one. 
Given Mr M says the device was secured, I dont think it was necessarily grossly negligent 
for Mr M to have stored information on it. But this did mean that once the phone had been 
compromised that whoever had the phone could thereby gain access to Mr Ms other 
accounts.
I was also mindful that Revolut itself noticed that these transactions were suspicious. It 
repeatedly blocked Mr Ms account  13 times in total. Each time the block was removed 
using the app. And then, often following the very next attempt to withdraw cash, the card 
was blocked again. For example, between 5:06am and 5:39am, Revolut blocked eight 
transactions in a row. Then after a gap of 50 minutes, Revolut allowed four transactions at 
the same location before declining transactions again. I also saw that the final payment, at 
8:54, followed five failed attempts to top up the account using two payment cards.
With that in mind, I wasnt persuaded Revolut did enough to protect Mr M here. Given the 
suspicious transactions, I think continuing to block the account would have been reasonable. 
Or it could have tried to call Mr M to ask him to explain these transactions. I think this was 
particularly important given the time the transactions were taking place and that it was in 
another country. And given the transactions that Revolut did block, its clear it continued to 
have concerns about the use of the card notwithstanding that the block was being reversed 
in the app.
For these reasons, I wasnt satisfied that Mr M authorised these cash withdrawals or that 
Revolut did enough to protect him. And so I thought Revolut should reimburse Mr M for 
these amounts.
I thought about whether, following the chargeback, Revolut should have used another of Mr 
Ms payment cards to return the funds to the account. I saw that the terms and conditions of 
the account said that if Mr M owed Revolut money it could recover the amount by taking this 
off his stored card. As Id concluded that Revolut should reimburse the transactions made on 
Mr Ms account, I didnt propose to make further findings on this point  but I did think that Mr 
M found the situation stressful and he went to some effort to show he didnt complete these transactions.
With all this in mind, I thought Revolut should:
Reimburse the amounts withdrawn from the ATM plus fees (I worked this out to be 
£2,870.97),
Add simple interest to each of these amounts to compensate Mr M for the time hes 
been out of pocket.
Pay Mr M £200 for the trouble and upset Revolut had caused.
I said Id consider anything further I received by 7 January 2022.
Mr M has replied to say he agrees with my provisional findings.
Revolut disagrees. In summary, it thinks its unlikely that the person who managed to top up 
the account and withdraw the funds was a third party. It says that in order to top up the 
accounts, Mr M would have needed to authenticate them through his bank. Finally, it says 
Mr M could have locked the phone remotely once it was lost - and that, given the phone had 
information about Mr Ms payment information on it, he ought to have done this.
Ive therefore considered the complaint again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered the points Revolut has raised. But they dont change my 
conclusions. Ill explain why.
I acknowledge the points Revolut has made about whether Mr M most likely made the 
transactions in question. As I explained in my provisional decision, I think this is a finely 
balanced question. I accept that, given the circumstances in which Mr M says he lost the 
card, we may not ever know for certain what happened. But for the same reasons I gave in 
my provisional decision, I think on balance its most likely Mr M didnt authorise these 
transactions. The use of the card isnt consistent with Mr Ms previous use of the card, and 
the transactions were made at increasing distances from where Mr M was staying. 
I note Revoluts comments about the security features of Mr Ms device. It points out that to 
access the device, a third party would have needed access to Mr Ms fingerprint  and that in 
order to change the fingerprint, the third party would also have needed access to Mr Ms 
passcode. I note that if the third party had access to the passcode, theyd have been able to 
access the phone in any event. Revolut points out that Mr M never mentioned sharing this 
information with any thief. But I think its just as possible that he was seen entering his 
passcode at some point  and I dont think its surprising that Mr M cant now say exactly 
what happened.
Ive considered Revoluts comments about whether Mr M was grossly negligent. While I 
recognise Mr M might have locked his phone remotely, based on what Mr M has said it only 
came to light that his payment card was missing the next morning, by which time the 
disputed transactions had already ended. I note also that Revolut thinks we should get 
evidence of how these payments were authenticated from Mr Ms bank. But for the reasons 
Ive explained, the evidence Ive considered means Im satisfied that the payments out of the Revolut account werent authorised. So dont think this alters Revoluts obligations.
But in any case, Im still of the view that Revolut could have done more to stop these 
transactions. Revolut repeatedly flagged these transactions as fraudulent or suspicious. It 
seems that Revolut had reasons to suspect that these transactions werent made by Mr M, 
notwithstanding that whoever made them had Mr Ms payment card, PIN and access to the 
app. As I said in my provisional decision, Revolut could have blocked access to the card 
altogether or called Mr M to check if the transactions were genuine. It didnt.
For these reasons, I reach the same conclusions as in my provisional decision. I uphold the 
complaint.
Putting things right
Reimburse the amounts withdrawn from the ATM plus fees (I worked this out to be 
£2,870.97),
Add simple interest to each of these amounts to compensate Mr M for the time hes 
been out of pocket. If HM Revenue & Customs requires Revolut to deduct tax from 
this interest it should provide Mr M with a certificate setting out what it has done if he 
asks for one.
Pay Mr M £200 for the trouble and upset Revolut had caused.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Revolut Ltd should put things right by doing 
what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman