DRN-3804405
The complaint
Mr M complains about his insurer, I Go 4 Ltd (IG4), pursuing him for premiums for his motor 
insurance policy when hed paid the premium by a lump sum.
Any reference to IG4 in this decision includes their agents. 
In making his complaint, Mr M was supported by a representative. References to Mr M 
include his representative.
What happened
In September 2021 Mr M took out a motor insurance policy with IG4, for which he paid a 
lump sum premium of £1,345.14 to cover the full year of the policy. This included a fee for a 
black box device to be fitted in his vehicle, which would record data on how Mr M drove. He 
received the device and installed it in his vehicle, which initially worked normally. Two 
months later, Mr M was contacted by IG4 to say that, having considered data received from 
the device, his driving style meant he was entitled to a refund on his premium (£78.86). But 
this wasnt received.
Shortly afterwards, IG4 contacted Mr M to tell him the charge level on the device was low 
and that while it was solar-powered, the device may need additional charging. He purchased 
what he thought was the necessary charging equipment. A few weeks later, IG4 contacted 
Mr M again to say they werent receiving data, asking him to contact them so they could 
advise him how to get the device working again. But they also said that if data continued not 
to be received, they would cancel the policy.
Mr M contacted IG4 to tell them hed tried charging the device with the additional charging 
equipment hed bought but couldnt get the device to work. He then contacted IG4 to request 
a replacement device. But he couldnt get a substantive response.
IG4 then contacted Mr M to say that they were cancelling his policy and would charge a £75 
cancellation fee, as well as a charge for the time on cover under the policy. They also said 
they wouldnt refund the £150 charge for the device. Mr M tried to contact IG4 to explain the 
situation, also telling them he needed his vehicle to be insured because he was receiving 
medical treatment and needed to travel to attend medical appointments. But he couldnt get 
IG4 to respond to him. Thinking his policy would be cancelled (and needing cover so he 
could continue to travel to his appointments) Mr M took out cover with another insurer, 
although at higher cost (£2,307.85). He also complained to IG4 about what had happened.
IG4 uphold the complaint. In their final response, they said theyd issued a notice of 
cancellation of the policy when they werent receiving data from the device  but when they 
then investigated matters, found an issue with the device. They extended the notice of 
cancellation and didnt cancel the policy. However, they didnt tell Mr M about this. As he 
wasnt aware (and thinking his policy was going to be cancelled) Mr M sought alternative 
cover. Following discussions with IG4, Mr M advised he wished to proceed with cancelling 
the policy. So, IG4 cancelled the policy, backdated to the original date of cancellation in the 
notice theyd sent (the date Mr M took out his alternative cover). IG4 also said theyd not 
issued the refund of premium Mr M was told he would be receiving  but had now done so.
In recognition of the issues that had arisen, IG4 said they would remove the £75 cancellation 
fee and refund the £150 fee for use of the device. In addition, they would issue a refund of 
the premium paid for the unused period of cover (£913.22) after the date of the policy 
cancellation. But they wouldnt reimburse Mr M for the difference in premium between his 
policy with IG4 and the policy with the new provider. But they offered £200 in compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr M.
Mr M complained to this service. He said IG4 unfairly pursued him for additional sums, even 
though hed paid a lump sum. He was also unhappy at IG4 continuing to communicate with 
him after hed told them he was in hospital and they should contact his representative.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding IG4 hadnt acted fairly. He thought IG4 had 
acted fairly in not charging the policy cancellation fee and refunding the device fee, as well 
as refunding the premium for the unused period of cover (meaning Mr M had only paid for 
the time the policy was in force, to the date of cancellation). However, the investigator didnt 
agree with IG4s position that they wouldnt reimburse Mr M for the higher premium hed paid 
for his new policy. In the circumstances, the investigator thought it was reasonable for Mr M 
to take out an alternative policy with another provider (given the issues hed had with IG4).
So, the investigator thought IG4 should reimburse Mr M for the higher premium hed had to 
pay with the new insurer.
IG4 disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. They said theyd sought to address Mr Ms concerns, but it was his decision to 
take out cover with another insurer. On the date Mr M took out cover with another insurer, 
his policy with IG4 was still in force. As such, they didnt think they should be held 
accountable for any higher premium from the other insurer. 
In my findings, I came to a different conclusion to our investigator on the issue of IG4 
reimbursing Mr M for the higher premium hed paid with his new insurer. I agreed it was 
reasonable for IG4 to reimburse Mr M for the additional premium he paid for the policy taken 
out with another insurer. However, I didnt think it fair and reasonable for this to be the 
difference between the premium he paid for his policy with IG4 (£1,345.14) and the premium 
he paid for his new policy (£2,307.85). Which is £962.71. Thats because the two figures 
were for differing periods of cover. IG4 have refunded the premium for the unused period of 
cover of their policy (£913.22). Applying a pro rata of the same unused period to the full-year 
premium of his new policy gives a figure of £1,568.07  which is a difference of £654.85. I 
thought it reasonable for IG4 to reimburse Mr M this figure.
I also thought it fair to add interest, at a rate of 8% simple, on the difference of £654.85 from 
the date he paid his new premium to the date IG4 reimburses the difference.
Because I reached a different conclusion to our investigator on this point, I issued a 
provisional conclusion to give both parties a chance to consider matters further. This is set 
out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Id first want to say to Mr M that I appreciate his circumstances and what hes told us about 
the medical treatment hes been receiving for a condition. I know it is a difficult situation and I can understand why having insurance in place for his vehicle is very important to him. Ive 
borne this in mind when deciding whether IG4 has acted fairly towards Mr M.
The key issue in Mr Ms complaint where there is disagreement between him and IG4 
concerns the higher premium he paid when he took out cover with another insurer at the 
point he thought his policy with IG4 was to be cancelled. Mr M says he had lost confidence 
in IG4 from what had happened, so wasnt willing to accept their offer to continue the policy. 
He needed to have cover so he could travel for medical appointments, he took out cover 
elsewhere. Given the higher premium hes paid, he thinks IG4 should compensate him for 
the difference. For their part, IG4 say it was Mr Ms decision to take out alternative cover 
elsewhere, rather than continue his policy with them. (as they hadnt actually cancelled it). 
As such, given it was his decision, they dont think they should be accountable for the higher 
premium hes paid. 
While this is the key issue for me to consider, Ive also considered the other issues in the 
complaint. These were that IG4 unfairly pursued him for additional sums, even though hed 
paid a lump sum. He was also unhappy at IG4 continuing to communicate with him after hed 
told them he was in hospital and they should contact his representative.
On the first of these issues, IG4s final response included their waiving the £75 cancellation 
fee that would normally apply to a policy cancellation, as well as refunding the £150 fee for 
use of the device. In addition, theyve refunded the [pro rata] premium paid for the unused 
period of cover (£913.22) after the date of the policy cancellation. This means Mr M had only 
paid for the cover provided from the date the policy began to the date of cancellation. I think 
this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case.
IG4 also acknowledged in their final response that they hadnt told Mr M about their 
extending his notice of cancellation and that they hadnt cancelled his policy as theyd initially 
given notice of. In recognition of the stress and inconvenience this would have caused Mr M, 
they awarded £200 in compensation. In the circumstances of this case, I think thats fair and 
reasonable.
Coming back to the key issue of disagreement, whether Mr M should be reimbursed for the 
higher premium hes had to pay for his new policy, Ive thought about this carefully. Given 
the specific circumstances of the case, Ive concluded it would be fair and reasonable for IG4 
to do this. Ill set out why Ive come to this view, together with how I think IG4 should put 
things right.
As set out above, IG4 accept they didnt tell Mr M about their extending his notice of 
cancellation and that his policy hadnt in fact been cancelled from the date they initially gave 
notice the policy would be cancelled. Theres also a call at the time in which Mr M set out his 
circumstances was disconnected, and IG4 didnt call him back. In the circumstances, 
particularly the medical condition requiring Mr M to travel for treatment, I think its 
understandable Mr M was anxious to ensure he had cover for his vehicle. Particularly given 
the point IG4 acknowledge about not telling Mr M about the extending notice of cancellation.
Given what happened and the issues that arose with the device, which subsequently were 
found to be a result of a fault with the device, I think its understandable why Mr M didnt 
want to continue his policy with IG4. 
Given these conclusions, I think its reasonable for IG4 to reimburse Mr M for the additional 
premium hes paid for the policy taken out with another insurer. However, I dont think its fair 
and reasonable for this to be the difference between the premium he paid for his policy with 
IG4 (£1,345.14) and the premium he paid for his new policy (£2,307.85). Which is £962.71. 
Thats because the two figures are for differing periods of cover. IG4 have refunded the 
premium for the unused period of cover of their policy (£913.22). Applying a pro rata of the same unused period to the full-year premium of his new policy gives a figure of £1,568.07  
which is a difference of £654.85. I think its reasonable for IG4 to reimburse Mr M this figure.
As I understand Mr M has paid the premium for his new policy from its inception, I think its 
fair to add interest, at a rate of 8% simple, on the difference of £654.85 from the date he paid 
his new premium to the date IG4 reimburses the difference.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint. I 
intend to require I Go 4 Ltd to:  
Reimburse Mr M for the pro rata difference in premium between his new policy 
and his policy with I Go 4 Ltd for the unused period of cover (£654.85).
Pay interest, at a rate of 8% simple, on the difference of £654.85 from the date Mr 
M paid his new premium to the date I Go 4 reimburses the difference*.
Pay Mr M £200 in compensation for distress and inconvenience (if they havent 
already paid it).
I Go 4 Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mr M 
accepts my final decision (if they havent already paid it). If they pay later than this they must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
*If I Go 4 Ltd consider that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mr M how much theyve taken off. They should also give 
Mr M a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Mr M responded to accept the conclusions in the provisional decision, as well as making 
several points. First, following advice from IG4 when he initially had problems charging his 
device, he purchased additional charging equipment (which didnt resolve the issue  it 
subsequently was identified as an issue with the device) at a cost of £10 - £12. However, Mr 
M wasnt seeking reimbursement of this cost. 
Mr M also noted the fault with the device was acknowledged after he complained to IG4. 
Mr M also confirmed IG4 had paid him the £200 compensation theyd awarded.
IG4 responded to make several points and seek clarification on others. First, they asked how 
the proposed refund to Mr M had been calculated. They noted Mr M took out a new policy, 
but it wasnt clear if this was the cheapest option at the time. They also asked whether Mr M 
had (when taking out his new policy) declared his previous policy with IG4 as having been 
cancelled. On the proposed payment of the pro rata difference between the cost of his new 
policy and the policy with IG4, they said Mr M could cancel his new policy at any time. If that 
were to happen, IG4 would have paid the difference in respect of a new policy that hadnt 
been used (for the full period it was taken out). Given this, IG4 thought it unfair to be asked 
to pay the different in cost as it wasnt certain the policy for run for the full year. IG4 also 
asked for confirmation that the £200 compensation proposed in the provisional decision 
wasnt in addition to the £200 theyd awarded Mr m (and had provided).
IG4 also thought it unfair they were not being allowed to correct an issue and look to rectify 
it. They thought this meant that if an insurer made a mistake, a consumer could go 
elsewhere (to take out a new policy) and they (IG4) would have to pay the difference 
between the two policies (it being the consumers choice to take out a new policy). That being the case, IG4 would have been entitled to charge a cancellation fee and the telematics 
fee as the consumer (Mr M in this case) had decided not to continue the policy (with IG4) 
when (as they saw it) the issue had been resolved. Theyd agreed to remove (the 
cancellation fee and telematics fee) as additional compensation to Mr M.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether IG4 have acted fairly towards Mr M.
Taking Mr Ms response first, Ive noted the points hes made. I dont think they affect the 
substance of the findings and conclusions in my provisional decision, other than having 
already received the £200 compensation awarded by IG4 (which IG4 also confirmed theyd 
paid) theres no need to include this element in my final decision.
Taking IG4s response first, my provisional decision set out the basis for the calculation of 
what I thought was reasonable given Mr Ms new policy was more expensive. On their point 
about whether Mr M had taken out the cheapest option for cover with his new insurer, thats 
not something that would fall within the scope of this complaint (nor is what he may have told 
his new insurer when taking out cover, as thats a matter for Mr M and his new insurer). My 
role is to decide whether IG4 have acted reasonably towards Mr M. My provisional decision 
set out the circumstances of what happened. From what I saw, Mr M thought his policy with 
IG4 would be cancelled. Given his circumstances, he needed to ensure his vehicle was 
covered so he could continue to travel to his medical appointments. While they extended the 
notice of cancellation and didnt cancel the policy, they didnt tell Mr M about this. As he 
wasnt aware (and thinking his policy was going to be cancelled) Mr M sought alternative 
cover. I think that was reasonable.
IG4 also say Mr M could cancel his new policy at any time. And if that were to happen, IG4 
would have paid the difference in respect of a new policy that hadnt been used (for the full 
period it was taken out). IG4 think it unfair to be asked to pay the different in cost as it wasnt 
certain the policy for run for the full year. Again, I dont think this is relevant, as its a 
hypothetical point about what may happen. 
On the point about whether the £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience in the 
provisional decision is additional to the £200 already awarded by IG4 (and confirmed by both 
them and Mr M it has been paid) I can confirm that it isnt. As such, as Ive noted above, as 
IG4 have paid the £200 then theres no need for this to be included in my final decision.
On IG4s point that it was unfair they were not being allowed to correct an issue and look to 
rectify it. I dont agree. As Ive said earlier, Mr M thought IG4 were going to cancel his policy, 
so it was reasonable for him to take out cover elsewhere given his need for cover. And IG4 
didnt tell him theyd extended the cover under their policy. So, in the specific circumstances 
of this case, I think it was reasonable for Mr M to seek cover elsewhere (and for IG4 to pay 
the pro rata additional cost of him doing so). So, I havent changed my view on this point.
On the point about IG4 not charging a cancellation fee or the telematics fee, I considered 
this as part of my provisional decision. I concluded it was reasonable in the specific 
circumstances of the case. And as I concluded it was reasonable for Mr M to take out cover 
elsewhere, then it wouldnt be reasonable for him to be charged a cancellation fee or 
telematics fee by IG4. Taking all these points together, Im not persuaded they change the conclusions set out in 
my provisional decision, other than to remove the requirement for IG4 to pay £200 for 
distress and inconvenience (as IG4 have already paid it). 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint. I require I 
Go 4 Ltd to: 
 
Reimburse Mr M for the pro rata difference in premium between his new policy 
and his policy with I Go 4 Ltd for the unused period of cover (£654.85).
Pay interest, at a rate of 8% simple, on the difference of £654.85 from the date Mr 
M paid his new premium to the date I Go 4 reimburses the difference*.
*If I Go 4 Ltd consider that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mr M how much theyve taken off. They should also give 
Mr M a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman