DRN-3287035
The complaint
Mrs B, Mr F, Mrs F and Mr F complain about Civil Claim Services Ltd (CCS) and the way 
they progressed their late fathers claim for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr F was represented by his son during the claims process with CCS and his complaint until 
his recent passing. For ease of reference, I will refer to both Mr F and his representative as 
Mr F throughout the decision.
In early 2018, Mr F instructed CCS to make a claim for mis-sold PPI on his behalf against 
lender L. Mr F provided CCS with documentation to support this and CCS submitted a full 
claim to lender L in March 2018. Lender L didnt respond to this claim so CCS sent further 
claims in June and October 2018 but again, they received no response.
CCS say they referred the claim to FOS in December 2018 but their notes suggest a PPI 
questionnaire was sent to Mr F in preparation for this, which wasnt sent back. So, in August 
2019 on the day of the PPI deadline, CCS sent another claim to lender L. Mr F delayed 
chasing CCS for an update after they made him aware theyd beaten the PPI deadline until 
November 2020, when Mr F says he was told the claim had been closed. Mr F was unhappy 
about this, so he raised a complaint through his representative.
Mr F was unhappy with the service CCS had provided. He thought CCS had failed to 
progress the claim effectively, causing it to be delayed for an unreasonable amount of time. 
Mr F also complained about the conflicting information CCS had provided during the lifetime 
of the claim and that theyd only acted when they had been chased for updates. So, he 
wanted evidence of the work CCS had completed. Mr F thought CCS service had impacted 
his ability to receive a refund of the PPI he believed was mis-sold so, he wanted CCS to pay 
him the refund he thought hed receive.
CCS responded and didnt agree. They explained they wouldnt usually provide documents 
to a customer. So, they asked Mr F to pay them for the hours worked to fulfil his request. 
And they didnt think theyd done anything wrong as they thought theyd submitted the claims 
to lender L and it was lender L whod refused to respond. So, they didnt think they needed 
to do anything more. Mr F was unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to 
us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They explained this complaint 
focuses solely on the service CCS provided, and not whether the PPI claim should be 
upheld by lender L. And she thought CCS had delayed the claim unreasonably which she 
recognised wouldve been frustrating and upsetting for Mr F. So, she thought CCS should 
pay Mr F £150 to recognise this.
CCS didnt agree. They thought theyd acted fairly by submitting the claim on numerous 
occasions. And they didnt think it was reasonable to say theyd acted unfairly because of 
lender Ls decision not to respond to their claims or requests for updates. So, maintained 
their belief that they didnt need to do anything more.
Mr F also didnt agree. He didnt think the £150 was enough to recognise the impact hed 
suffered from the delays caused by CCS. And he thought his PPI claim was rejected due to 
issues with the submission of the claim, not the merits, and so thought CCS actions had 
potentially caused him significant financial losses.
Unfortunately, shortly after this, Mr F passed away. So, the complaint has been continued on 
Mr Fs behalf by those involved in his estate. As Mr F didnt agree, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to explain exactly what Ive been able to consider. This complaint is focused 
solely on the service provided to Mr F. So, it doesnt consider any of Mr Fs concerns 
surrounding lender L and the way they responded to his PPI claim. Im aware this has been 
handled as a separate complaint with the Financial Ombudsman Service. This decision 
considers CCS actions, whether they were fair and if not, how they impacted Mr F directly. I 
understand Mr F was represented by his son for the majority of the claim and through the 
complaint process. While I recognise Mr Fs son wouldve been inconvenienced by this, my 
decision is only able to consider, and compensate if necessary, the customer of CCS which 
in this case is Mr F only.
Ive seen Mr F initially instructed CCS in early 2018. And from what I can see, the claim was 
still ongoing in early 2021, which is some three years later. This is a lot longer than I would 
expect a claim to be open for, so Ive considered what caused these delays and whether 
CCS couldve done more to avoid some of them. And I think they could.
I recognise CCS are unable to control the actions of lender L. And from what Ive seen, I 
think its clear CCS encountered difficulties when trying to obtain a response from lender L. 
In 2018, I can see they submitted the same claim in March, June, and October. But from the 
date of a claim being submitted, a lender has eight weeks to respond before a customer, in 
this case Mr F represented by CCS, could refer their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
I appreciate lenders had delays and I wouldnt necessarily have expected CCS to take this 
action straight away. But I think after theyd received no response to three separate claim 
submissions, Id have expected them to take this action or at least make Mr F aware of this 
option. CCS say they did so, but Ive seen no evidence to show this. And Im aware CCS 
have said they submitted a claim to the Financial Ombudsman Service in December 2018 as 
well as saying they asked for Mr F to complete a PPI questionnaire before doing so. So, I 
think theres been conflicting information provided.
On the balance of probability, based on the evidence I have, I think its more likely that CCS 
intended for Mr F to sign a PPI questionnaire before escalating the claim to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Mr F says he didnt receive this and Ive got no evidence to show it 
was sent. So, I dont think Mr F was ever in receipt of this to sign and return it.
As Mr Fs representative, Id have expected CCS to chase for a response to this questionnaire to ensure the claim was progressed effectively. But I cant see that CCS took 
any meaningful action on the claim until 28 August 2019 when they resubmitted a fourth 
claim to lender L. So, there was around an eight-month delay that I think was caused by 
CCSs lack of action. And even though they submitted another claim, I dont think this was 
the best course of action considering lender Ls failure to respond appropriately to the first 
three claims they put forward. So, I dont think I can say CCS acted fairly, and because of 
this, Ive then thought about what I think CCS should do to put things right.
Putting things right
When considering what CCS should do to put things right, any award or direction I make is 
intended to place Mr F back in the same position he wouldve been, had CCS acted fairly in 
the first instance. And crucially, Im unable to place Mr F in a position of betterment. This is 
why Im unable to consider Mr Fs potential financial losses as Im unable to speculate on 
whether his PPI claim should be upheld. If I was to say CCS should pay Mr F the refund he 
felt he shouldve received, and the PPI claim wouldnt have been upheld, Mr F (in this case 
his estate) would be left financially better off. And this is something Im unable to direct.
Also, as Ive explained previously, Im only able to consider the impact suffered by Mr F 
directly as he is the customer of CCS. So, although I recognise the inconvenience Mr Fs 
son wouldve experienced acting as his representative due to the amount he needed to 
chase CCS for updates, Im unable to compensate Mr Fs son for this. But I have thought 
about how this may have impacted Mr F indirectly. 
And I think its clear the claim has been delayed unreasonably. I think this wouldve been 
frustrating for Mr F and I think this is evidenced by his sons chasers to CCS on his behalf. I 
also think it wouldve been confusing for Mr F when he discovered CCS had told him his 
claim was being escalated to the Financial Ombudsman Service when in fact CCS were 
waiting for documentation from him, which I dont think he received. I can appreciate why 
this conflicting information wouldve upset Mr F and made him question the level of service 
he received.
But I also need to take into consideration the fact CCS did submit several claims to lender L 
before the PPI deadline. So, while I recognise Mr F believed his claim had been rejected by 
lender L due to issues with the claim submission, I dont think this is the fault of CCS. And 
so, I dont think Im able to say CCS failures caused Mr F to lose his opportunity to have his 
actual PPI claim considered. I think this is a concern Mr F needs to progress with lender L 
directly, which from what I understand he has done. 
So, any compensation award I make is intended to address the delays and 
miscommunication caused by errors CCS made. And it considers only the impact felt by Mr 
F directly. Our investigator recommended CCS pay Mr F £150 to recognise this. And I think 
this offer is a fair one which falls in line with what I wouldve awarded, had it not been 
recommended. So, I think CCS should pay Mr F this £150 to recognise the upset he 
wouldve been caused during the claim process.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs B, Mr F, Mrs F and Mr Fs complaint about Civil 
Claims Services Limited and direct them to take the following action:
Pay £150 to recognise the upset and frustration Mr F was caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B, Mr F, Mrs F 
and Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman