DRN-3343369
The complaint
Miss E complains about problems shes had with her Barclays Bank UK PLC mortgage.
What happened
Miss E has a mortgage with Barclays. From March 2020, lenders were required to grant 
borrowers a payment deferral for up to six months in light of the problems caused by the 
nationwide lockdown and the coronavirus pandemic. Miss E thought she would be affected 
by the pandemic, so applied for a three-month payment deferral under this scheme.
Miss E says she soon realised she would continue to be paid and wanted to cancel the 
payment deferral, but wasnt able to get through to Barclays to cancel it. So, she continued 
to make her payments manually during the three months of the agreed payment deferral. 
Following this, Miss E received some letters from Barclays saying she was behind on her 
payments. She complained to Barclays as this wasnt correct. She also complained that 
Barclays had extended the term of her mortgage by one month and that she hadnt agreed 
to this.
Barclays agreed it had made a mistake in saying she was behind on her payments and 
corrected her account so that it didnt show any missed payments. It offered Miss E £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the matter. It said it couldnt 
reduce the term of her mortgage. Barclays offered to pay her £351.27  the equivalent of 
one months mortgage payment. Miss E didnt accept this and referred the complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into things. He didnt think the complaint should be upheld as 
he thought Barclays offer was fair. Miss E didnt agree and asked for her complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me to consider and make a final 
decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main point of Miss Es complaint is that she believes that Barclays has extended the 
term of her mortgage by one month. She was initially told this was because of the payment 
deferral. But, as our investigator explained to her, we now know this wasnt the case. The 
reason her mortgage is showing as having a term of 35 years and one month is actually 
unrelated to the payment deferral mistake.  
Barclays has explained that it identified an error on Miss Es mortgage which meant that the 
initial payment wasnt taken during the month the mortgage it completed. It was taken the 
following month. 
Barclays has refunded the initial interest caused by the first payment being taken later than it 
should have. But it does mean that the mortgage will finish a month later than Miss E 
expected. This doesnt mean she will pay the mortgage over a longer period. It simply 
means that she made her first payment a month after originally intended and, as such, will 
pay her final payment a month later as well. This means that the mortgage in effect started a 
month late, and will end a month late. Barclays shows this on their system as her mortgage 
term being 35 years and one month rather than just 35 years. But this is purely for its 
systems benefits. It doesnt mean the term has been extended. 
Based on what Ive explained above, I dont think Miss E will have to make an extra 
payment. She will just finish her mortgage a month later than she thought. Im aware Miss E 
is disappointed with this, and I understand why. However, Barclays has offered to credit her 
with the equivalent of a months worth of her current mortgage payment. And if she chooses 
to credit this to the mortgage, it can be used to reduce the term. This will actually leave her 
financially slightly better off as she will have only made 34 years and 11 months worth of 
payments, rather than the full 35 years which were originally planned. And the mortgage will 
end the same time she expected it to. Based on this, I think Barclays offer to resolve this is 
fair and reasonable and that Miss E hasnt lost out financially here. 
Moving on to the mistake Barclays made when arranging the payment deferral. Barclays 
accepts it made a mistake. Miss E originally applied for a payment holiday but then found out 
she wouldnt need it. So, she understandably continued to make her payments. She wasnt 
able to cancel the payment holiday as she wasnt able to get through to Barclays. Whilst this 
wouldve been frustrating, I also need to consider the wider landscape in this case. 
The entire country was in a lockdown and being told to work from home where possible. This 
impacted many businesses from a staffing point of view, including Barclays. Furthermore, 
Barclays was told to implement the payment deferral scheme with very little notice. The 
combination of this meant that there were less people able to answer the phones and 
mistakes were always possible, especially early on in the pandemic when Barclays was 
making arrangements to allow these payment deferrals in exceptional circumstances. 
Barclays has now amended its records to show Miss E is up to date with her mortgage 
payments. I do accept that being told she was in arrears when she wasnt wouldve upset 
Miss E. And that she did have to contact Barclays to rectify this. However, I think that the 
£200 Barclays has offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, Im not going to 
ask it to do anything further.  
My final decision
Whilst I appreciate Miss Es strength of feeling about this matter, I think Barclays Bank UK 
PLCs offer is fair and reasonable. And Im not going to ask it to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman