DRN-3938565
The complaint
Ms F complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) didnt do enough to protect her when she fell 
victim to a scam and hasnt refunded the money she lost.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our Investigator. As such, the facts are 
well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here. Ill recap the key 
points and focus on giving reasons for my decision.
In August 2022, Ms F fell victim to an impersonation/safe account scam. She received a text 
message on 17 August 2022 from who she believed to be Revolut. The message was 
received within the same text message thread shed previously received genuine messages 
from Revolut in. This referred to an attempted payment and told Ms F to get in touch on the 
contact number shown within the message if the payment had not been made by her. As 
Ms F hadnt attempted to make this payment, she called the number listed. 
On this call, someone claiming to be from the bank said her account was at risk and had 
been hacked. She says she was told a new account was needed to be set up in her name 
and the remaining balance of her Revolut account transferred to the new account. The funds 
were sent in two payments in succession, one of £100 and one of £748.73. Unbeknown to 
Ms F she was infact speaking with a fraudster. I understand the fraudster told Ms F that 
Revolut would be sending codes to her mobile phone, which shed need to provide in order 
to allow Revolut to make the transfers for her. Ms F says she provided the codes to the 
fraudster and was aware the transfers were made. 
Ms F explained it was when the person claiming to be from Revolut said theyd need to 
check another account she held with another external bank that she became suspicious. 
Shes told us she ended the call and she contacted Revolut via its in-app chat function to 
report the matter. Having looked into things, Revolut said as Ms F authorised the transfers, it 
wasnt responsible for the loss. It also tried to recover her funds but said no funds remained. 
Unhappy, Ms F referred the matter to our service. Our Investigator looked into the complaint 
and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think Revolut ought to have done 
more to identify the payments as potentially fraudulent in the circumstances or have a cause 
for concern that Ms F was at risk of financial harm or was falling victim to a scam. She also 
considered that had Revolut contacted the receiving bank as soon as it was made aware of 
the scam it wouldnt have been able to recover any funds. And that was because the funds 
had already been moved on by the time Ms F had finished reporting the matter to Revolut. 
Our Investigator also considered Ms Fs concerns regarding the service shed received from 
Revolut. In particular, Ms F is unhappy that Revolut didnt have a contact centre she could 
call when reporting the scam and she raised there were inaccuracies within the final 
response Revolut issued on 23 August 2022. Ms F was also unhappy that the fraudster had 
been able to send a message within the same text thread as genuine messages and was 
able to open a second account in her name with Revolut which it says cannot be done. Our 
Investigator acknowledged the aspects about the service Ms F raised would have been 
frustrating for her, but she didnt find any poor service warranted a compensation payment or 
meant that a full refund of the money Ms F lost ought to be provided. 
Ms F disagreed with the Investigators opinion. So, as the matter hasnt been resolved, its 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been provided, 
and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
Im sorry to hear Ms F was the victim of a scam and I can understand why she wants to do 
all she can to recover the money she lost. But I can only direct Revolut to refund Ms Fs 
losses if it can fairly and reasonably be held responsible for them. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive seen and been told; Im not upholding Ms Fs 
complaint. Ill now explain why. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. 
Ms F says she was persuaded to authorise the payments through a scam. Shes told us that 
she provided the fraudster with codes in order to enable them to make the transfers and 
maintains she did not make the payments herself. Revolut, within its submissions, has 
provided information which indicates the scam payments were made using Ms Fs primary 
device on her account. While I appreciate the information given by both parties somewhat 
contradicts itself, I dont find this point makes a difference to my findings in this case. I say 
this because, whether the payments were made by Ms F or as she recollects were made by 
the fraudster and not herself - she was aware that her funds were being moved and she 
provided the fraudster with the codes to enable this to happen. Therefore, Im satisfied Ms F 
authorised the scam payments totalling £848.73 from her Revolut account. So, although she 
didnt intend the money to go to the fraudster, Ms F is presumed to be liable for her loss in 
the first instance. And under the terms and conditions of the account Ms F held with Revolut, 
where a valid payment instruction has been received, Revoluts obligation is to follow the 
instructions that Ms F provides. 
But, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for 
Revolut, as an electronic money institute (EMI), to take additional steps or make additional 
checks before processing a payment in order to help protect its customer from the possibility 
of financial harm from fraud. For example, if a customer made a payment request for an 
amount that was out of character given the normal use of an account, Id expect Revolut to intervene and ask questions about the intended transaction before processing it and provide 
a suitable warning. 
In this case, when looking at the transaction history, Im not persuaded the payments were 
so out of character that there could reasonably be grounds for Revolut to be suspicious Ms F 
may be a victim of fraud to an extent that it should have intervened further and questioned 
her about the payments. I say this because, I dont think the payments were large enough to 
have caused Revolut concern. While I accept the account wasnt regularly used  like that of 
an everyday current account, from what account activity I have seen, I dont consider the two 
payments to be remarkable enough that Revolt should have had concerns that Ms F may be 
the victim of fraud. It follows that I think the fact that Revolut didnt flag the transfers for 
further intervention or questioning was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Im mindful Ms F has commented about the organisation (another EMI) the payments were 
sent to. Shes raised that this organisation is used often by fraudsters and so she considers 
it reasonable to have expected that Revolut has systems that flag transfers to such 
organisations. Ive thought carefully about this point but as our Investigator explained to 
Ms F not all payments made to such an organisation will be as the result of fraud or a scam. 
Banks and Payment Service Providers process a high volume of transfers and transactions 
each day. There is a delicate balance to be struck as to when it should possibly intervene on 
a payment against not holding up or delaying its customers requests. With this in mind, I 
cannot fairly and reasonably conclude that Revolut ought to stop every payment simply on 
the fact alone that its customer is making a payment to the particular EMI in question. 
Revolut did provide a warning when the new payee was set up. As set out above, Ms F says 
she provided the fraudster with the codes in order for the transfers to be made to the new 
account. Whilst i note in this situation this may then have meant the warning wouldnt have 
been seen by her, with all things considered, I think the warning when setting up a new 
payee was a proportionate intervention, given the individual circumstances of this case, and 
Im not persuaded Revolut needed to do anything more.
I have also considered whether Revolut did all it could to try and recover the money Ms F 
lost. The evidence Ive seen persuades me Revolut could have acted sooner than it did. But 
unfortunately, it is common for fraudsters to withdraw or move the money on as quickly as 
possible. 
Here, the receiving bank (the bank used by the fraudster) has provided information to show 
when Ms Fs transfers were credited into the account  and importantly when they were 
withdrawn / moved on. The two transfers Ms F made were credited instantly and were 
moved on by the time shed reported the fraud. So while I consider Revolut could have 
logged the fraud claim and notified the receiving bank sooner than it did, ultimately it 
wouldnt have made a difference here.  
Ive also carefully considered the aspects Ms F is unhappy with relating to the service she 
received. Firstly, I recognise Ms Fs dissatisfaction with being unable to contact Revolut by 
phone to report the scam. While I note Ms Fs strength of feeling about the in-app chat and 
the process to report the scam, Im afraid I cant say Revolut has acted unfairly in this 
regard. I say this because Revolut is an online bank and it is not for this service to regulate 
or tell a business how it should operate or run its business. Our role is to look to resolve 
individual complaints between a consumer and a business. Should we decide that 
something has gone wrong we would ask the business to put things right by placing the 
consumer, as far as is possible, in the position they would have been if the problem hadnt 
occurred.As Ive said above, I dont think Revolut acted on the fraud notification as quickly as it could 
of done in terms of looking to recover any funds, but for the reasons Ive said earlier, this 
didnt make a different in this case  there were not funds to recover as theyd been moved 
on by the time the fraud had been reported. With this in mind, I dont consider an award is 
warranted for this aspect.  
Ms F has said Revoluts operating system permitted the infiltration of text messages. She 
also considers that the bank should recompense her as its security systems were not of an 
acceptable standard. Ive thought carefully about these points. While I can understand 
Ms Fs upset and strength of feeling about the fraudster being able to send a message to her 
which appeared within a thread of genuine text messages from Revolut, Im afraid I cant 
hold Revolut responsible for this. Unfortunately, fraud and scams are continually evolving, 
and fraudsters are adapting and using sophisticated means in which they scam their victims. 
I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to hold Revolut responsible for the specific 
tactics fraudsters use, which are outside of its control. Further, it is not within this services 
remit to tell a business how to run their security procedures in order for the business to be 
satisfied they are meeting their regulatory requirements. It would be the role of the regulator 
 the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct Revolut to make changes 
to their policies and procedures, if necessary. So, it follows that these points dont change 
my conclusions.   
I am sorry to have to deliver this news to Ms F and I know this will not be the outcome she 
was hoping for. There is no doubt that she has been the victim of a scam, but I am only able 
to consider whether Revolut can fairly be held liable for her loss. After carefully considering 
everything, Im not persuaded there are any grounds on which Revolut can fairly and 
reasonably be held responsible for refunding the two payments Ms F authorised. I also make 
no recommendations in respect of the service aspects Ms F has raised, for the reasons Ive 
already explained.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman