DRN-3186415
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with the way The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited (NFU) handled a claim they made under their home insurance policy.
Mr P has dealt with things throughout, so Ill only refer to him.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mr P had a home insurance policy with NFU. He made a claim after his bag and 
several items of contents were stolen.
NFU appointed a loss adjuster to investigate the claim. They met with Mr P to take a 
statement from him.
Mr P says he withdrew the claim after he realised he may have mistakenly submitted 
some receipts that werent relevant to the stolen items. Despite this, NFU continued 
to investigate the claim and ask Mr P to answer questions about it.
Later, NFU told Mr P it thought hed breached a fraud condition of the policy. As a 
result, it cancelled his policy from the date of claim  and said it wouldnt pay the 
claim. It also asked him to pay the costs NFU had incurred investigating the claim.
Mr P complained about the way the claim had been handled. NFU was satisfied it 
had treated Mr P fairly. 
Mr P referred his complaint to this service. He said legal action had been taken 
against him as a result of NFU alleging his claim was fraudulent.
Our investigator thought there were aspects of Mr Ps complaint that it would be 
inappropriate for us to consider given the ongoing legal action. That included NFUs 
decision to cancel the policy and decline the claim by relying on the fraud condition.
For the aspects the investigator thought we could consider, he was satisfied NFU 
was entitled to take the steps it had.
Mr P didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Mr P seems to have accepted there are some limitations to what it would be 
appropriate for us to consider, I think its important to clarify the scope of this decision.
I understand legal proceedings are underway and, if they reach court, they will decide 
whether the claim was fraudulent. That process is likely to consider how persuasive the 
evidence NFU has gathered is and how any costs incurred by either party should be settled.
Because of that, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to consider, comment on, or make any 
findings about, any of these points. Although Im aware that much of Mr Ps complaint 
touches on these points, directly or indirectly, that means I wont be considering them.
The remainder of Mr Ps complaint is essentially about the way the claim was handled. The 
main points hes made are:
NFU continued to investigate his claim after he asked to withdraw it.
He didnt hear anything from NFU for a number of months  and then discovered it 
had been investigating whether his claim was fraudulent.
When NFU told Mr P it thought his claim was fraudulent, it also asked him to pay its 
investigation costs. He thought this came across as an attempt to pressurise him.
NFU abused its powers by treating the claim as fraudulent  even though this hadnt 
been decided by a court or any other authority.
The loss adjusters investigation and report were aggressive and based on an 
assessment of his character rather than factual evidence.
NFUs policy contains a general condition titled fraud and misrepresentation. In summary it 
says that if Mr P makes a claim which is fraudulent, NFU is entitled to take a number of 
actions. These include: cancelling the policy, not paying claims, and recovering from Mr P 
any amounts NFU have paid in respect of a claim.
Most insurance policies will contain this kind of term, so its not unusual. And I dont think this 
term is unreasonable in principle. Its consistent with the Insurance Act 2015 which, amongst 
other things, sets out the remedies available to insurers for fraudulent claims. Im satisfied 
the condition in NFUs policy is in keeping with the remedies of the Act.
NFU, like any insurer, is entitled to apply its policy terms as it sees fit  provided it does so in 
line with relevant law, rules and guidance. That includes the Act. It also includes the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS requires insurers not to unreasonably reject claims, including where it cancels a 
policy. One example given of unreasonable rejection of a claim is for fraud  except where 
the insurer is able to rely on the relevant provisions of the Insurance Act 2015.
In principle that means NFU is entitled to rely on the fraud condition if it considers it is doing 
so in line with the Act. Whether it can show it was fair to rely on the fraud condition in the 
particular circumstances of Mr Ps case is outside the scope of this decision for the reasons 
above. But the key point is that NFU isnt limited to relying on the fraud condition only when 
the courts or other authorities have decided fraud has taken place. And I havent seen 
anything in its policy to suggest its unable to rely the fraud condition where its policyholder 
has withdrawn a claim.
Because of that, Im not persuaded it was unreasonable of NFU, in principle, to rely on the 
fraud condition in its policy. And the remedies its taken, including attempting to recover its 
costs from Mr P, are set out in its policy and consistent with the Insurance Act 2015. So 
again, in principle, Im not persuaded it was unreasonable of NFU to take the action it has as 
it considered the claim was fraudulent.Ive thought about the way NFU handled the claim, including the actions of the loss adjuster. 
I havent been persuaded there were any failings in its communication or the overall time it 
took to deal with things.
Mr P made the claim in June and NFUs decision to rely on the condition was made in the 
following April. During that time, it gave Mr P frequent updates with a reasonable level of 
detail about what was happening. It also gave him opportunities to provide further 
information and put forward his side of the story. Im satisfied that was a reasonable 
approach to take and it didnt cause delays. I havent seen any evidence to suggest NFU or 
the loss adjuster acted aggressively or unreasonably to Mr P.
The loss adjuster arranged an interview with Mr P which I understand lasted over two hours 
and resulted in the loss adjuster producing a statement for Mr P to sign. Its common for 
insurers or loss adjusters to speak with policyholders following a claim. This often involves 
checking that information given when the policy was taken out is accurate, an explanation of 
the circumstances leading to the claim, and details about the items claimed for.
Interviews are often recorded  audio usually but sometimes video too. This is to ensure an 
objective record is kept. Im satisfied that gathering information this way isnt unreasonable, 
though I recognise it may be an unfamiliar and unwelcome experience for policyholders. The 
information in the statement appears to relate directly to the insurance policy and the claim, 
so while I acknowledge this may not have been a pleasant experience, I dont think the 
interview contained irrelevant or clearly unnecessary questioning.
The loss adjuster reported its findings to NFU based on the statement. Whilst I wont 
comment on the findings for the reasons outlined above, Im not persuaded the tone of the 
report or the way it was presented was aggressive or inherently unfair to Mr P. Whether the 
report contains sufficient evidence to support NFUs decision to find the claim fraudulent is 
outside the scope of this decision.
The scope of this complaint is limited to the principle behind the actions NFU took and the 
way it handled the claim. Having considered these points, Im satisfied NFU acted 
reasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Ombudsman