DRN-2804724
The complaint
Mr J complains about unsuitable advice from Inter-UK Financial Services Limited to transfer
to a new self-invested personal pension (SIPP). 
What happened
In 2018 Inter-UK advised Mr J to transfer the SIPP pension fund he held to a new SIPP. He 
wanted to take tax free cash and drawdown from the remaining fund. Inter-UK said the new 
SIPP would achieve Mr Js investment objective of growing the fund to maximise his benefits
during retirement.
Mr J said he hadnt properly understood what he was being advised to invest in. He said he
didnt want to self-invest and considered a mainstream personal pension wouldve been
more suitable for him. Mr J said the choice of investments didnt reflect his attitude to risk,
and he was unhappy about redemption penalties for moving his investments. Mr J also
complained that Inter-UK charged upfront for ongoing advice, and about its charges for
overall advice at the outset.
Inter-UK didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. It considered its SIPP recommendation was
appropriate for Mr J, based on the information it had gathered about his circumstances and
investment objectives. Inter-UK was also satisfied that the investment it recommended was
suitable for Mr J, because it allowed access to funds that could create a portfolio that met Mr
Js needs and risk appetite.
Inter-UK clarified the basis on which it charged fees, and said this had been set out in the
suitability report provided to Mr J when he first invested.
Mr J was unhappy with Inter-UKs response and referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He noted that Mr Js primary
objective was to take tax free cash to buy a property, while growing the remaining fund to
drawdown from his expected retirement age. The investigator was satisfied that Mr J
couldve done this through his existing SIPP, rather than having to transfer to a new product.
He was also satisfied that there were enough available funds in Mr Js existing SIPP to meet
his investment growth requirements.
The investigator found the costs of Mr Js new SIPP had a negative impact on the value of
his fund. He wasnt persuaded that Inter-UK had properly compared the costs of Mr Js
existing SIPP with the new SIPP, or discussed this with Mr J. The investigator said the new
SIPP would have to perform particularly well just to cover costs, and this was at odds with Mr
Js objective to grow the remaining fund after hed taken his tax-free cash.
Inter-UK had told Mr J there were no exit penalties associated with his investments, but this
wasnt the case. So the investigator concluded Inter-UK had misled Mr J in this respect. He
also found that Inter-UK hadnt properly explained there was an annual 2% management fee
for the first nine years of his investment.
The investigator wasnt persuaded that the investments made on Mr Js behalf properly
reflected his attitude to risk. Mr J had been identified as an investor with a balanced attitude
to risk, but the investigator considered he was at the cautious end of balanced. Even though
Inter-UK had blended two investment funds to create a balanced portfolio, the investigator
found that the concentration of high-risk investments in one of the funds was inappropriate
for Mr J. So he didnt consider the investment was as balanced as it shouldve been.
The investigator considered that if Mr J had been properly advised, he couldve taken tax
free cash from his existing SIPP and remained invested within that product in line with his
cautious attitude to risk.
Inter-UK didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. It said Mr Js original SIPP fund had
been in cash since it was set up in 2017. It said there was no investment vehicle set up for
that SIPP, so it wouldnt have been possible to make the investments Mr J wanted without
an investment vehicle in place. There wouldve been a charge for this, on top of the charges
for the SIPP itself.
On this basis, Inter-UK said it was more cost-effective to move to a SIPP with lower charges
to set up the investment vehicle.
Inter-UK said that if compensation was measured based on performance of a fund within the
existing SIPP, this would not reflect the fact that Mr J wouldve needed advice to set up an
investment vehicle to achieve his objectives. It asked for an ombudsman to review the
complaint. 
I issued a provisional decision for the complaint on 6 April 2021. I said I intended to uphold 
the complaint, but that the redress Id suggested was different to the redress suggested by 
the investigator. Details of my provisional findings are set out below:
The issues to decide were whether Mr J needed to transfer from his original SIPP to 
achieve his objectives, and whether the SIPP Inter-UK recommended was cost 
effective for Mr J. 
As Mr J needed an investment vehicle wherever he invested, Inter-UK said it made 
sense to transfer to a SIPP with lower running costs. The fee schedule for his 
existing SIPP suggested the annual fee for fund values under £1 million was £500. 
Mr J wouldve also paid £100 per year for a regular income payment.
By comparison, the annual fee for the SIPP he transferred to was 0.5% of the fund 
value, capped at £400 and with a minimum of £200. There was also an initial set up 
fee of £250 plus VAT.
So I accepted that the annual cost of the new SIPP was lower than Mr Js existing 
SIPP, although in the context of the value of his pension fund I considered the saving 
to be minimal.
I accepted what Inter-UK said about Mr Js ability to invest as he wanted to
through his existing SIPP. But it would have been possible for Mr J to appropriately 
invest within his original SIPP  there was a range of suitable investments which 
could have been identified for Mr J. And as Id already identified, the cost saving by 
moving to the new SIPP would have been minimal for Mr J.
So I didnt think that Mr J needed to transfer his SIPP to achieve his objectives.I considered Mr J had a relatively cautious attitude to risk. But the underlying assets 
of the funds Inter-UK recommended included equity investment funds, structured 
products, emerging market bond funds, high yielding European bonds and real estate 
bonds. I agreed with the investigator that the concentration of these high-risk 
investments in Mr Js new SIPP wasnt appropriate for his attitude to risk. 
So I was satisfied that redress should be measured against the performance of
a fund that was more closely aligned to his attitude to risk.
I also agreed with the investigator that the fees associated with Mr Js new 
investment werent made clear by Inter-UK. In particular, it told him there were no 
early redemption charges associated with the funds, when in fact both funds had a 
6% charge. Inter-UK also failed to tell Mr J that one of the funds had a 2% annual 
charge for the first nine years. 
I thought this wouldve been particularly relevant to Mr J in his decision making
as he was only five years from his expected retirement age when the SIPP was 
arranged.
On balance I thought that if Mr J had been aware of these charges it was unlikely he 
wouldve invested in the funds. I thought he wouldve wanted to invest in funds that 
did not have exit penalties.
Mr J had taken recent advice on his pension arrangements and was
considering moving to a different product. I considered it reasonable for Inter-UK to 
cover any exit penalties Mr J had to pay in connection with moving away from his 
current SIPP.
The investigators suggested compensation didnt recommend that Inter-UK should 
refund the fee Mr J paid for its advice. And that reflected the fact that if Inter-UK had 
given suitable advice, Mr J wouldve still had to pay for its advice on an appropriate 
investment vehicle for his existing SIPP. But Mr J has now taken new advice, and 
given the circumstances, I didnt think that was unreasonable.
I considered Mr J should only have needed to pay one set of advice fees to establish 
a suitable arrangement for his SIPP funds. My suggested compensation therefore 
took account of the fact that Mr J has sought new advice to remedy what he 
considered to have been the unsuitable advice provided by Inter-UK. 
Mr J didnt make any further representations in response to my provisional decision.
Inter-UK responded to say that it accepted my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further representations from the parties, I am not minded to depart 
from the position set out in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
To compensate Mr J fairly, Inter-UK must:Compare the performance of Mr J's investment with that of the benchmark shown. If 
the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Inter-UK should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Inter-UK should pay into Mr J's pension plan to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Inter-UK is unable to pay the compensation into Mr J's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr J's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr J is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr J would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation. Ive assumed that Mr J will be a basic rate tax payer.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Inter-UK deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr J how much has been taken off. Inter-UK should give Mr J a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Forth Plus 
SIPPStill existsFor half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of
this final 
decision8% simple pa 
for the time it 
takes to make 
settlement 
beyond 28 
days after 
Inter-UK is 
notified of Mr 
Js 
acceptance of 
this final 
decision
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date  (the transfer
value)  which would take into account the effect of the initial fee on Mr Js pension funds -
and this should also reflect any exit/transfer penalties which would be applicable. 
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a returnusing the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Inter-UK
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month.
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum that Mr J paid into the investment should be added to the fair value
calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from
the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in
the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Inter-UK totals all those payments and deducts that figure
at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr J wanted income with some growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr J's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50
combination would reasonably put Mr J into that position. It does not mean that Mr J
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr J could have obtained from investments suited
to his objective and risk attitude.  
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Inter-UK Financial Services Limited to pay 
compensation to Mr J in line with the instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman