DRN-3220634
The complaint
A partnership which Ill refer to as L, complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds proposal to 
settle a claim they made on their commercial building insurance.
What happened
Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full 
timeline or list every point that has been made.
L noticed a neighbour had dug a trench in the rear of Ls property. The trench ran alongside 
an extension the neighbour had built a few years before. Ls neighbour disposed of the soil 
that had been removed, so L made a claim to Aviva for it to be replaced.
Aviva considered the claim, it said it would pay L the cost of replacing the soil. However, it 
would not put this back in place, as to do so would cause potential problems to the structure 
of the neighbours extension - as no retaining wall was in place to withstand the weight of the 
soil.
L was unhappy with this proposal and brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator 
considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said Aviva should pay the cost 
of reinstating the soil and rear of Ls property so it could be used in the way it had been 
previously  to park cars on. He also recommended Aviva pay L £500 compensation for 
delays in dealing with the claim.
Aviva disagreed, it said a retaining wall wasnt in place when the trench was dug and to 
reinstate the soil would require a new wall to be built. It argued the purpose of the land was 
not intended to be used for car parking and to make it safe to do so would require 
stabilisation works to the ground and this would result in betterment to L.
The case has been passed to me to decide.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision on 22 November 2021, in it I said I did not intend to uphold 
the complaint for the following reasons:
Im persuaded based on the evidence available to me that no retaining wall was in 
place on Ls property at the time the trench was dug.
Ls neighbour has suggested the wall was not maintained and fell down sometime 
before they built their extension up to the property boundary. Having reviewed pictures 
of the other walls surrounding Ls property I think this is plausible, as they to do not 
appear to be in good condition or to have been maintained. L however has suggested 
its neighbour demolished part of the wall to build their extension. Whichever happened, 
I dont think it changes my decision at this time. As I dont think Aviva should need to 
reinstate something that wasnt in place at the time the insured event happened.
L has argued it isnt being fully indemnified if the soil isnt replaced to allow for the 
area to be used for car parking once again. However, based on the evidence 
available to me, Im not persuaded that was the original intention of the way in which 
the land should be used. While its purpose may have changed over time, it seems 
that has been done without consideration of the surrounding area and the force the 
soil and car weight would have on surrounding structures.
The insured event here is the removal of the soil from the property, so Avivas liability 
is to pay the cost of replacing that soil. In this instance, I dont think it needs to 
undertake, and become liable for, the additional work that would be needed to safely 
allow the land to be used in the way L intends to. In this case I think that would be an 
example of betterment which the policy does not provide cover for.
I think Avivas offer to pay L the cost of replacing the soil and hire of temporary 
fencing is fair and reasonable. So, I wont be asking it to do anything more here. 
Having reviewed the claim timeline, Im not persuaded there were avoidable delays 
by Aviva, so I wont be awarding any compensation to  L.
Responses to my provisional decision
Aviva didnt provide any further points for me to consider.
L responded reiterating its position that Avivas current proposal doesnt fully indemnify it. It 
said there is unavoidable betterment in any insurance claim, and this is no different. It feels 
Aviva is obligated to return the property to its previous condition and to do this Aviva would 
need to replace the wall. It mentions Aviva retains its right to pursue the third party in order 
to recover its costs.
L also pointed out its lease requires it to return the property to its previous state and this 
means L is financial liable for reinstating the area should Aviva not fulfil its obligations. L is 
unhappy that the neighbouring property caused the issue and now Aviva is not fully 
supporting L in terms of resolving it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what L has put forward, but Im not minded to change the 
outcome I reached in my provisional decision. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, Im persuaded the wall was not in place at the time 
the insured event happened, whether that be because the neighbour demolished it, or it 
collapsed due to wear and tear. However, L for whatever reason, previously took the 
decision not to reinstate it. This is significant, as had L reinstated the wall then there would 
not now be an issue with the soil being replaced. Indeed, the reason the soil cant now be 
replaced is potentially the issue which was presenting itself prior to the insured event 
occurring. 
L hasnt been able to prove the wall wasnt in place due to an insured event and this isnt the 
claim that is being considered by Aviva.So, my thoughts remain the same that Aviva should not be liable for the costs of reinstating 
the wall. I appreciate the terms of Ls lease and its directors have my sympathies for the 
position it is now in, however this doesnt impact my decision.
Have considered everything available to me, I think the offer made by Aviva is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case and I wont be asking it to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ls complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman