DRN-2207525
The complaint
Ms C complains that Kensington Mortgage Company Limited (Kensington) treated her 
unfairly when her mortgage was in arrears. In particular she says the fees and charges 
added to her account were excessively high and therefore unfair. 
What happened
Ms C originally took out her mortgage with a different lender. It was transferred to 
Kensington in 2018. For clarity, I have referred to Kensington throughout, even when 
referring to fees and charges applied prior to the transfer. 
I have only considered fees and charges added to Ms Cs account from March 2013 
onwards. The jurisdiction decision issued in September 2020 explained why this service can 
only consider the fees and charges applied from March 2013 onwards.
Ms Cs mortgage was in arrears and Kensington applied over £920 in fees and charges to 
her account between March 2013 and 2019 when her mortgage was redeemed.
Shortly before Ms C redeemed the mortgage she complained to Kensington about the fees 
and charges that had been added to her account. She said she felt they were too high. 
Kensington refunded a total of £280 of arrears management fees and alternative payment 
method fees that had been applied to Ms Cs account since March 2013. But it said it was 
not willing to refund the remainder of the fees charged. It said the fees had been applied 
correctly in-line with its tariff of charges.
Ms C wasnt satisfied with Kensingtons response and referred the matter to this service. 
She said she felt it should refund all the fees it had applied to her account. Ms C also said 
she didnt think she had been informed that her mortgage account was moving to 
Kensington.
Having considered this complaint our investigator said he didnt think he could reasonably 
require Kensington to refund more than the £280 in fees and charges it had already 
refunded. 
He explained that the terms and conditions for Ms Cs mortgage set out that she was 
required to pay all costs and expenses that the Company reasonably incurs in connection 
with the Loan or the Mortgage including, without limitation - legal proceedings, costs it incurs 
as a result of legal proceedings, cost in recovering the loan amount etc.'
He reviewed all the fees that had been applied to Ms Cs account (aside from those already 
refunded by Kensington). Having done so he said he was satisfied that the charges had 
been correctly applied in-line with Kensingtons tariff of charges. 
As this was the case, he said he was satisfied that the remaining £644.60 of fees and 
charges had been applied correctly. He explained that where a fee had been applied Ms C 
had not either paid the contractual payment due or had used an alternative method to pay 
her mortgage. The build-up of arrears also led Kensington to instruct solicitors to help bring 
Ms Cs account up-to-date. He said he was satisfied these charges had also been correctly 
applied.
In relation to whether Ms C was informed when her mortgage was moved to Kensington, he 
said Kensington had provided this service with a copy of the letter sent to Ms C confirming 
the transfer of her mortgage, from her previous lender, to Kensington, dated 22 October 
2018.
Ms C did not accept our investigators view. She reiterated that she felt she had been treated 
unfairly by Kensington (and her previous lender). She said she felt it had charged excessive 
fees which do not reflect the work carried out by them.
She also said: 
It is concerning that Lenders are permitted to apply these highly excessive charges to their 
customers, especially when they are in financial difficulties and are suffering with health 
issues.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Ms Cs position and I have very carefully considered the points she has 
made. It is clear from the records I have seen that Ms C experienced financial difficulty and 
struggled to maintain her mortgage payments.
I note that Kensington has already refunded a total of £280 of arrears management fees and 
alternative payment method fees that had been applied to Ms Cs account since March 
2013. But it said it was not willing to refund the remainder of the fees charged. It said these 
fees had been applied correctly in-line with its tariff of charges.
I also note that Kensington refunded a further arrears management fee of £70 in 2015 
following a review it carried out of the charges applied to Ms Cs account.
Having reviewed the fees and charges that have been applied to Ms Cs account  and have 
not been refunded  I am satisfied that they were applied in line with Kensingtons terms and 
conditions. As this is the case, I cant reasonably say that Kensington was not entitled to 
apply these fees to Ms Cs mortgage account.
Ms C says Kensington should refund all the fees and charges it applied to her account as 
she feels they are excessive and do not reflect the work carried out.
I appreciate Ms Cs point. Lenders a required to ensure that arrears management fees 
reflect the additional costs involved in administering an account while it is in arrears.  But the 
fee charged doesn't have to be based on the costs of dealing with each individual borrower. 
Instead, the industry regulator allows lenders to estimate the level of work involved when 
dealing with all customers in arrears  and to set their charges accordingly.
I havent seen anything to suggest that the fees charged were not a reasonable pre-estimate 
of the costs Kensington will incur, on average and over time, of administering mortgage 
accounts that are in arrears.As this is the case, I cant require Kensington to refund the fees it applied to Ms Cs account 
when it was in arrears. These fees were set out in Kensingtons tariff of charges, and as I 
explained above, I am satisfied that the fees were correctly applied to Ms Cs account.
I do understand that this is not the decision Ms C was hoping for. If Ms C remains of the view 
that the fees, as set out in Kensingtons tariff of charges were too high Ms C may wish to 
refer this matter to the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not think Kensington needs to 
do more than it has already done to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman