DRN-2148174
The complaint
Mr T has complained about his EQUIFAX LIMITED credit score changing.
What happened
Mr T is unhappy that his credit score keeps changing despite his circumstances remaining 
broadly consistent. Hes unhappy with Equifaxs explanation for why this is. 
Equifax explained that Mr T lacked active credit accounts to help build his score. They set 
out a list of possible factors that could change his score, and said that the score could shift 
regardless depending on how lenders might view him or what group they put him in. They 
pointed to a search which they said may have had a larger impact than usual since Mr T 
didnt have many accounts. 
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. She felt 
Equifax had explained things reasonably. She pointed out that the credit score was just an 
internal indication for Mr T and wouldnt normally impact his ability to get credit as lenders 
would have their own criteria.
Mr T asked for an ombudsman to review things afresh, so the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr Ts changing credit score would seem odd to him and why hed like 
to know more about it. From his perspective, he keeps things stable: staying at the same 
address, not taking out credit in recent years, and keeping the same accounts.
But there are lots of factors involved. As an example, as the months go on, the time since 
Mr Ts last account opening, or default, or credit search  and so on  changes. Further, 
Mr Ts credit score is a suggestion of how Equifax thinks lenders might view his file, and 
lenders criteria can change over time. As can the algorithms involved. So his score can 
change even if things seem consistent on the surface.
I can see that Equifax have set out for Mr T what can affect his file, along with what they 
thought was the most significant factor in his last major score change. And theyve 
suggested how he could improve his score if he wanted. That all seems reasonable.
I can certainly appreciate if Mr T would like more detail. But I wouldnt expect companies to 
give out too much information about how their scores and ratings are calculated. Thats 
because while Mr T may want to know more details about the scoring for benign purposes, 
there are others who would use this information to try to manipulate or cheat the system. So 
it makes sense for companies not to give out too much information about how those 
algorithms work.
Ultimately, it is for Equifax to decide what factors they take into account in their own scoring 
algorithms. We cannot oblige them to change these. I could tell Equifax to put things right if 
I had found that they got something wrong, such as using incorrect credit file data. But from 
what both sides have sent us, there does not appear to be any incorrect information on 
Mr Ts credit file. So it does not seem that Equifax used any incorrect data, nor that they 
made any mistake in calculating the score based on their algorithms. So I cannot fairly tell 
Equifax to change the rating here or take any further action in relation to Mr Ts score.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman