DRN-3356512
The complaint
Ms C and Mr C are unhappy that Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) declined their travel 
insurance claim. They also say that Zurich discriminated against them by not accepting their 
claim. 
Any reference to Zurich includes all its agents.
What happened
Ms C and Mr C planned a trip within the UK and their intended travel dates were from 
11 September 2020 until 14 September 2020. 
On 6 September 2020, they booked flights for their trip and took out a single trip travel 
insurance policy to provide cover for the trip. The policy is underwritten by Zurich. 
Ms C received notification that a medical appointment had been booked for her on 
14 September 2020. They cancelled their trip as Ms C had to attend the appointment. They 
submitted a claim to Zurich for the cost of their flights. 
Zurich assessed the claim but declined it. It said Ms C cancelled the trip due to a medical 
appointment which was in relation to a medical condition for which she was diagnosed in 
February 2020. The policy that was taken out in September 2020 didnt provide cover for 
pre-existing medical conditions. Zurich also said there was no cover for what happened in 
Ms C and Mr Cs situation under the terms and conditions of their policy. 
Unhappy with Zurichs response, Ms C and Mr C brought their complaint to this service. 
They said Ms C did not have any pre-existing medical condition. Their GP had confirmed 
she was fit to fly in September 2020, and they would have travelled had it not been for the 
late notice of the medical appointment. They feel Zurich has discriminated against them by 
declining their claim based on the nature of Ms Cs medical condition that her appointment 
on 14 September 2020 was for. Zurich confirmed Ms C and Mr C cancelled their trip 
because of the medical appointment which needed to be attended and there is no cover 
under the policy for this reason or event. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She didnt think it should be upheld. She said 
under the terms and conditions of their policy, the situation Ms C and Mr C found themselves 
in wasnt covered. She didnt think Zurich had declined the claim unfairly. 
Our investigator also considered Ms C and Mr Ss concerns that Zurich discriminated against 
them. Having looked at all the evidence, she said she didnt think Zurich had treated them 
unfairly or unreasonably. 
Ms C and Mr S disagreed with the investigator. They asked for the complaint to be referred 
to an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me. 
They say the reason for Ms Cs appointment shows the cancellation of their trip was caused 
by an illness and feel their claim is justified because of this. They hadnt been made aware of 
the appointment until after the flights had been booked and therefore had no pre-existing 
nowledge they might not be able to travel on the dates theyd planned to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Ms C and Mr Cs policy as this forms the basis of 
the travel insurance contract with Zurich. I understand Zurich has given more than one 
reason for declining the claim. But for the purposes of this decision, Ive focused on the key 
point on why the cancellation claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of the 
policy. 
The cancellation section of the policy on page 23 sets out the cover that is available. It says:
Cover section
Cancellation
We will pay up to the limits specified in your statement of insurance for unused travel fare, 
accommodation expenses and/or other associated pre-paid charges including excursions (but 
excluding airport taxes, booking fees, credit card fees and administration charges), which 
have been paid or are contracted to be paid (including deposits you have already paid), if 
you cannot get them back from any other source, if you have to reasonably, necessarily and 
unavoidably cancel your trip before it starts as a result of any of the following: 
A. Accidental death, injury, illness or quarantine on the orders of a treating 
medical practitioner of you your travel companion, or someone with 
whom you have arranged to reside with during your trip. 
B. Accidental death, injury or illness of your, or your travelling companions 
close relative or close business partner. 
C.Witness summons, jury service or compulsory quarantine (on the orders of 
the treating medical practitioner) of you or your travel companion. 
D.Redundancy (qualifying for payment under UK redundancy payment 
legislation) or having a contract ended early if self-employed, of you or your 
travel companion.
E. Your home or your travel companions home suffering serious damage by 
fire, burglary, storm or flood in the seven days prior to the start date of your 
trip. 
F.The police requiring your presence because your or your travel 
companions home or place of work has been burgled.
G. The public transport carrier you have checked in for is delayed by at least 
24 hours from the time shown in your travel itinerary and you have not left your 
home country, as a result of strike, industrial action, adverse weather, 
mechanical breakdown or grounding of an aircraft due to mechanical or structural 
defect. Ms C and Mr Cs trip wasnt cancelled for any of the reasons listed above. This means their 
cancellation claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of the policy. 
I acknowledge that they feel the claim is justified and that Ms Cs condition is considered an 
illness. While I appreciate the reasons for which Ms C and Mr C cancelled their trip and that 
they took this decision because they needed to attend the appointment, I can also see the 
GP said Ms C was still fit to travel and could have gone on the trip. I dont doubt their need to 
keep the appointment but, at the same time, the event which led to the cancellation isnt 
covered under the policy. From the information available, I cant see there are reasonable 
grounds for me to ask Zurich to accept the claim. I understand that Ms C and Mr C might not 
have wanted to travel for reasons given above, but it doesnt mean that for this particular set 
of circumstances, Zurich would be responsible for paying the cost of the flights. 
I also cant see any evidence that Zurich has discriminated against Ms C and Mr C. The 
claim has been declined because the event simply isnt covered under the terms and 
conditions of their policy. I cant see that theyve been treated unfairly or unreasonably. 
Overall, in the circumstances of this complaint, Im not persuaded Zurich has acted unfairly 
in declining their claim. It follows that I dont think Zurich needs to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Ms C and Mr Cs complaint against Zurich 
Insurance PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman