DRN-2728300
The complaint
The estate of Mr G complains Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) unfairly 
declined a claim made under Mr Gs life protection policy. 
The estate of Mr G is represented by his executors. They themselves are represented in this 
complaint by Mr Gs son, who Ill call R. To keep things simple, Ill refer to all actions taken 
on behalf of Mr G and his estate as being those of R.
What happened
In January 2018 Mr G took out an LV life protection policy. It would pay a lump sum if Mr G 
passed away or was diagnosed with a terminal illness before his policys end date of
3 January 2028. Mr G bought this policy on the advice of an independent financial adviser. 
Mr G was diagnosed with metastatic squamous cell carcinoma, and made a terminal illness 
claim under his LV policy in early 2020. To assess the claim, LV got medical reports about 
Mr Gs diagnosis from his GP and treating consultant. These didnt confirm Mr Gs life 
expectancy was 12 months or less. So LV didnt accept Mr Gs terminal illness claim at that 
time. But it told Mr G it would reconsider the claim in a year, and that it had asked his GP for 
medical records relating to his alcohol consumption before he applied for the policy.
R asked LV to reconsider its decision about Mr Gs terminal illness claim and provided 
further medical evidence. So LV asked Mr Gs treating consultant for a further opinion about 
Mr Gs life expectancy. However, Mr G sadly passed away in April 2020. 
LV assessed a life claim under Mr Gs policy. And it thought Mr G had made a deliberate or 
reckless misrepresentation when he applied for the policy, by incorrectly answering 
questions about his alcohol consumption. So in June 2020, LV declined the claim, avoided 
the policy (cancelled it as if it had never existed) and kept the premiums Mr G had paid. 
R was unhappy about this and about how long LV took to assess the claim. But LV didnt 
change its position and said it wasnt responsible for any claim delays, which were instead 
caused by difficulties getting medical information from Mr Gs GP. 
Still unhappy, R referred the complaint to our service. He said Mr G would have answered 
the application questions truthfully and wouldnt have made a mistake on purpose. He said 
Mr G had been taking medication for other existing conditions when he applied for the policy, 
so might have misread or misunderstood the application questions. And that R didnt have 
any recollection of Mr G being advised to reduce his alcohol consumption.
Our investigator thought LV hadnt done anything wrong and had acted fairly and reasonably 
in the circumstances. But R asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a 
decision. So this complaint came to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying how very sorry I am to hear about Mr G passing away. I realise this 
complaint has been made under very upsetting and difficult circumstances for his family and 
Id like to offer them my condolences. However, Im not upholding this complaint. I realise 
this isnt the answer they hoped for, but Ill explain my reasons. 
I think it was fair and reasonable for LV not to accept the initial terminal illness claim Mr G 
made in early 2020. His policys terminal illness definition needed to be met in order for a 
claim to be paid. That definition said Terminal illness means an incurable illness where, in 
the opinion of an attending consultant and our Chief Medical Officer, you would not be 
expected to live for more than 12 months. To assess whether Mr G met this definition, LV 
asked for medical reports from his treating consultant and GP. 
The consultant report LV received said Mr Gs condition was incurable and beyond any hope 
of recovery. Regarding his life expectancy, it noted that based on previous studies, the 
chance of five year survival was 40% to 60%, with an average survival of less than 24 
months. Given this, Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable for LV to initially conclude Mr G 
didnt meet the policys terminal illness definition, as the medical evidence suggested he 
hadnt been given a life expectancy of twelve months or less. When R provided further 
medical evidence, LV began reassessing the claim by asking the consultant for further 
information. Im satisfied LV acted fairly here too, though this was sadly overtaken by Mr G 
passing away in April 2020.
The GP report LV obtained when it first began assessing Mr Gs terminal illness claim said 
Mr G had a history of excess alcohol consumption dating from 1997. Based on this and the 
policy application answers LV already had, Im satisfied it was reasonable for LV to think 
Mr G might have made a misrepresentation. LV is entitled to investigate possible 
misrepresentations, and I can see it let Mr G know it would be asking his GP for further 
information about his alcohol consumption.  
LV concluded Mr G made a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation in his policy application. 
Ive thought about whether this was a fair and reasonable conclusion for it to reach. The 
relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Ive considered the questions LV asked Mr G in the policy application. It asked, Have you 
ever been advised to reduce or stop your alcohol consumption by a doctor or nurse or other 
medical professional? Including: A referral for specialist support such as an alcohol 
dependence unit or Alcoholics Anonymous. And Mr G answered No.
I think this question was clear. And Im satisfied Mr G made a misrepresentation when he 
answered it, because his medical records show this answer wasnt correct. The relevant 
entries from Mr Gs medical records include:2009  Mr G consulted his GP regarding his alcohol consumption. Its noted hes 
consumed 12 to18 units a day for many years, had sought help from an alcohol support 
service, was now restricting himself to 12 units a day and seeing his case worker soon. 
2010  a GP record notes Mr G is a fairly heavy drinker consuming 20 units a week. 
And that the plan was to refer him for support with his alcohol issues.
May 2013  a hospital letter notes Mr Gs daily habit of heavy alcohol consumption and 
that the consultant advised him to seek support to reduce his alcohol consumption as he 
was forgetting to take his medication.
February 2015  a hospital letter says Mr G has been advised to stop drinking.
February 2017  a GP record says an intervention for excessive alcohol has been 
completed and notes Mr G is consuming 7 to 9 units per day. 
Based on this, Im satisfied Mr G made a misrepresentation when he applied for the policy. 
I say that because his medical records show hed previously been advised to reduce his 
alcohol consumption on several occasions before he bought his policy, including attending 
an alcohol treatment service. 
And Im satisfied this misrepresentation made a difference, because LV has provided 
underwriting guidance that shows it wouldnt have offered Mr G the policy had all the 
application questions been answered correctly. So Im satisfied it was a qualifying 
misrepresentation. 
LV has categorised the misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless. The relevant guidance 
defines deliberate or reckless misrepresentation as being where the customer knew, or must 
have known, that the information they gave was both incorrect and relevant to the insurer, or 
that the customer acted without any care as to whether it was either correct or relevant to the 
insurer. Ive considered whether LV was fair to categorise Mr Gs misrepresentation this way, 
and I think it was. Ill explain why.
Sadly, Mr G cant tell us why he gave the application answers he did. But R says Mr G would 
have answered the application questions truthfully and wouldnt have deliberately made a 
mistake. I acknowledge what R says. But as Ive outlined, Mr Gs medical records show 
there were longstanding concerns about his alcohol consumption. He was advised to reduce 
his alcohol consumption on several occasions by more than one medical professional, with 
an intervention by his GP as recently as eleven months before Mr G applied for his policy. 
Mr G also saw an alcohol support service in 2009. Given this, I think its unlikely Mr G would 
simply have forgotten this part of his medical history or thought it wasnt relevant to the clear 
question LV asked in the application. 
R also says that Mr G was taking medication for other existing conditions when he applied, 
which might have meant he misread or misunderstood the application questions. And R 
didnt have any recollection of Mr G being advised to reduce his alcohol consumption. Again, 
I acknowledge what R says. But I think the application question was clear. And Ive not seen 
anything in the medical records Ive been provided with to make me think Mr G might not 
have had the mental capacity to understand and answer the application questions at that 
time. And Mr G disclosed other medical issues in his application, so I think he would also 
have been able to disclose that hed been advised to reduce his alcohol consumption.
In these circumstances, and given that Im satisfied LV would not have offered Mr G a policy 
if all questions had been answered correctly, CIDRA says LV is entitled to decline the claim, 
avoid the policy and keep the premiums Mr G paid. I can see this is what LV has done, so 
Im not asking LV to do anything further about the claim or policy. And I dont think LV caused any unnecessary claim delays here either, though I understand 
R might have wanted the claim to be decided sooner. I can see Mr G completed his terminal 
illness claim form on 30 January 2020, and LV told him its claim decision on 13 March 2020. 
And LV ultimately gave R its decision about the life claim on 17 June 2020. During this time 
LV was assessing the claim and providing R with updates. And I think LV asked for medical 
evidence promptly and chased for this information regularly and within reasonable 
timescales. So I dont think LV caused any significant unnecessary claim delays.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr G 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman