The complaint
Mr M complains that HBOS Investment Fund Managers Limited (HBOS) didnt give him an 
up to date quote for the value of his pension fund before processing his full encashment.
What happened
Mr M held a pension fund with HBOS. 
As Mr M was approaching his 65th Birthday, he called HBOS on 1 October 2019, to get a 
quote of the value of his pension fund and to discuss his options. HBOS told Mr M that the 
pension fund he held with them was valued at £38,908.63 on that date. HBOS arranged for a 
further call with Mr M on 7 October 2019 to discuss the options available to him and to give 
him further annuity quotes. During that call HBOS reminded Mr M of its previous quote about 
the funds value.
HBOS called Mr M on 21 October 2019 and he asked to withdraw his entire pension fund, 
this is known as a full encashment. HBOS processed the encashment on that date, but Mr 
Ms fund had dropped in value to £37,201.34. This sum was paid to Mr M, minus the 
appropriate taxes.
Mr M was unhappy, as the fund had lost value since his earlier quote. He said HBOS told 
him that the quote he was given on 1 October 2019 was guaranteed for 30 days. 
Mr M complained to HBOS. In his complaint he said that he didnt remember being told that 
the funds value wasnt guaranteed. He felt he shouldve been given a more up to date value 
when he spoke to HBOS, as he wouldnt have withdrawn the fund at that time had he known 
about the change in value. Finally, Mr M said that he should have had the encashment terms 
sent to him in writing as he couldnt always hear HBOS on the telephone. 
In response, HBOS said Mr M had been told several times that the value of his plan wasnt 
guaranteed. HBOS said the operator who spoke to Mr M didnt have access to the live 
system but was able to use the quote from 1 October 2019, as it was dated within 30 days. 
And Mr M was told that he would be contacted if the value of the fund had changed by more 
than 10%. HBOS also said it had listened to the calls. Mr M had mentioned in one call that 
the line was bad. So, HBOS called him back on the landline. And during that call, Mr M 
hadnt said he couldnt hear. Therefore, HBOS didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Mr M remained unhappy as he felt HBOS should have been able to give him an up to date 
quote when he called them to claim his fund. So, he brought his complaint to us. Our 
investigator felt that HBOS had provided enough information to Mr M in order to make his 
decision. They didnt feel that HBOS had told Mr M the encashment quote was guaranteed, 
and HBOS hadnt made any errors when they processed Mr Ms withdrawal. 
DRN-1895755Mr M disagreed, he felt that, as he wasnt due to retire until his 65th birthday in November 
2019, he wasnt expecting the encashment to be processed on 21 October 2019 as it was. 
Mr M also said other companies were able to give up to date quotes on the value of pension 
funds, so he didnt think HBOSs approach was fair. So, the case has been passed on to me 
to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mr Ms pension fund had lost value and he didnt end up receiving the 
funds he was expecting. 
My role, in cases like these, is to decide if HBOS gave Mr M clear information or if it made 
any errors in processing Mr Ms pension encashment.
HBOS have provided recordings of the relevant calls. In the first call on 1 October 2019, Mr 
M was given the quote of £38,908.63 for the full value of his pension fund. Mr M said in the 
call he wanted a quote for his fund but also said he was aware it may take time to process 
his request and the fund value may go up and down in that time. The operator agreed and 
told Mr M that the quote wasnt guaranteed, and the price would fluctuate up until the point of 
claiming the pension. 
Mr M also asked during the call if he would be notified if there was a percentage deviation in 
the value of the fund. The operator confirmed to Mr M that, if the value of the fund changed 
by more then 10% from the quotation, Mr M would be contacted to see if he still wished to go 
ahead with the claim. So, I think Mr M was aware that he would only be contacted if the fund 
changed by more than 10%. As the fund had changed by less than 5% HBOS hadnt 
contacted Mr M when his encashment was processed.
HBOS also told Mr M the annuity rate quotes that it gave were guaranteed for a month. But 
the operator explained it was just the annuity rate that was guaranteed and not the value of 
the pension fund. So, I dont think Mr M was told the value of the fund quote was guaranteed 
for 30 days. 
During the first part of Mr Ms call on 7 October 2019, the operator again gave Mr M the 
funds value from 1 October 2019 but told him the date of the quote and that it wasnt 
guaranteed. After a short time, Mr M asked if HBOS could call him back on his landline 
because the mobile line wasnt clear. HBOS agreed and called him back on the landline. 
Again, the operator told Mr M the quote from 1 October 2019 and said this figure wasnt 
guaranteed. HBOS reminded Mr M that it was an important decision and gave him the option 
of having a friend or relative present on the call. Mr M and the operator then spoke about the 
options available to him. During the call Mr M didnt appear to struggle to hear the operator 
and didnt mention that he was struggling to hear at any point. 
In the final call on 21 October, the operator again informed Mr M that the quote from 1 
October 2019 wasnt guaranteed. Mr M was given the option to proceed with the full 
encashment over the phone or to make the request online at a future date. Mr M questioned 
whether he would receive the money straight away of have to wait until his 65th birthday in 
November. HBOS explained that Mr Ms policy didnt have any special features that meant 
he needed to wait until November to claim it, as it could be claimed anytime from age 55. So, 
I think Mr M was aware that he could either wait and claim his fund at a later date or proceed 
on the phone as he did.   I can appreciate that it would have helped Mr Ms to have had a more up to date quote. And 
he was frustrated, as he believes other companies can offer more up to date quotes. But my 
role isnt to tell a business how they must operate. And I dont think its unreasonable for 
HBOS to use a quote within the last 30 days. I say this because the quote was still relatively 
recent, and the fund value was likely to change regularly. HBOS also had a process of 
informing its clients if the fund had changed by more than 10%. And Mr M was aware of that. 
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mr M but overall, I think that HBOS gave 
clear information about the value of his fund and when he was able to take the full 
encashment. I dont think it was clear to HBOS if Mr M couldnt hear what was being 
discussed over the phone. I also dont think HBOS pressured Mr M to go ahead with the 
encashment on 21 October 2019, as he was given the option of proceeding online at a later 
date if he wished. HBOS processed the encashment following Mr Ms instructions. So, I cant 
see that it made any errors in processing Mr Ms claim.  For these reasons, I dont think it 
would be fair to ask HBOS to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman