DRN-3574071
The complaint
Miss T complains that Ageas Insurance Limited mishandled her claim on a motor insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to Ageas, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include 
employees and others insofar as I hold Ageas responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a hatchback car first registered in about 
2015. Miss T had it subject to a finance agreement.
For the year from May 2021, Miss T had the car insured on a comprehensive policy with 
Ageas.
Unfortunately, in mid-July 2021, Miss T reported that the car had been damaged by ingress 
of water.
By late July 2021, Ageas said the car was a total loss. Ageas said its pre-incident valuation 
was £5,000.00. Ageas deducted a policy excess of £200.00 and settled the outstanding 
finance. It paid Miss T the balance of £1,340.64.
In late March 2022, Miss T complained to Ageas that she hadnt been given the option to 
keep her damaged vehicle.
By a final response dated April 2022, Ageas turned down the complaint but said it had   
increased the valuation to £5,470.00 and paid Miss T a further £470.00. Miss T brought her 
complaint to us in early May 2022.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Ageas hadnt acted unfairly.
Miss T disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
The damage was to the interior of the car, not to the structure or the engine.
The car was written off under category S, so she shouldve been given the option to 
keep the damaged car and repair it. Ageas did not discuss the category or give her 
this option. As a result she has been out of pocket. 
She has long- term health conditions and needs a car. She did request that she 
wanted to keep the car as she needed it. 
Not having a car put pressure on her health, for which she expects to be 
compensated.
The car was repaired and back on the roads within weeks.
Ageas gave very poor customer service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An insurance company that has made a financial outlay on a claim will commonly treat the 
claim as a fault claim against its policyholder unless and until it recovers its outlay in full, 
typically from a third party who caused damage. There may be a number of reasons why an 
insurer cant recover its outlay. So an insurer may record a fault claim against a policyholder 
who didnt cause the damage.
Any claim  especially a fault claim  is likely to cause insurers to quote higher for renewal or 
replacement of the policy.
Where an insurer treats its policyholders vehicle as a total loss and pays its pre-loss value, 
the damaged vehicle becomes the property of the insurer.
If the policyholder said that she wanted to keep (or salvage) and repair the damaged 
vehicle then I would expect an insurer to discuss this (and a salvage payment) with the 
policyholder. But I wouldnt regard it as unfair for an insurer not to initiate a discussion about 
salvage with a policyholder who hadnt said she wanted to keep the damaged vehicle.
As water ingress caused the damage, there was no prospect of Ageas recovering its outlay. 
So I dont find that Ageas treated Miss T unfairly by recording a fault claim against her.
From the engineers report, I see that the car had damage to its floor, electrical items and 
seats. The engineer said it was in salvage category B. 
Ive noted the make, model, age, below- average mileage and good condition of Miss Ts car 
in July 2021.
For a car like Miss Ts in July 2021, Ive seen retail prices in the trade guides as follows:
CAP £4,975.00
Glasss £5,310.00
Cazana £5,568.00
Of course, Miss T wouldve preferred the highest valuation. But Ageass valuation of 
£5,000.00 was within the range of these valuations. So I cant say that it was unfair or 
unreasonable.
Ive seen a letter dated early August from Ageas to Miss T. It asked her to deal with the V5 
registration document. From that, I find that Miss T knew that Ageas intended to pay the pre-
damage valuation and to keep the damaged car. If she had asked about keeping the 
damaged car and getting it repaired, then I wouldve expected her to raise that with Ageas at 
that time.
Miss T was freed of the outstanding finance and she received the payment of about 
£1,300.00.Ageas has told us that there was a change to category S, and it has sent us a further report 
saying that it recovered a salvage value of £1,100.00. 
Several months went by before, in late March 2022, Miss T complained that Ageas hadnt 
given her the option to keep the damaged vehicle. From what she says, this was prompted 
by the discovery that Ageas had sold the damaged vehicle, and someone had repaired it 
and got it back on the road.
More recently, Miss T has told us that she had asked to keep the car. But I find it likely that, 
if she had asked, Ageas wouldve referred to the write-off category B or S. So Miss Ts 
statement that she asked isnt consistent with her other statement that Ageas didnt discuss 
the category or give her the option to keep the car. So I find Miss Ts recollection unreliable.
As I dont find that she asked about keeping the car, I dont find it unfair for Ageas not to 
have initiated a discussion about salvage with Miss T.
If Miss T had wanted to keep the damaged car, she wouldve had to pay (or suffer a 
deduction) of a reasonable salvage value. She would also have had to pay to repair it  yet 
the car wouldnt have had the same market value as a similar car that hadnt been written 
off.
In response to the complaint, Ageas increased its valuation to £5,470.00. Again, Miss T 
wouldve preferred the highest valuation. But Ageass valuation was within the range of the 
retail valuations in the trade guides. And I dont think that Miss T has complained that it was 
unfair or unreasonable.
Miss T hasnt provided enough detail or evidence to show that Ageas was responsible for 
poor customer service.
I can understand that Miss T feels the loss of her car and its impact on her health. But I dont 
consider that Ageas treated her unfairly, causing her loss, ill-health or distress and 
inconvenience. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Ageas to pay Miss T 
compensation or to do any more in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Ageas Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman