DRN-1556768
 Complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr and Mrs T were sold PPI in 1997. This was in connection with a mortgage and further 
advance they had taken out some years earlier. 
The PPI would have provided a monthly benefit if Mr and/or Mrs T were off work sick or lost 
their job for up to 12 months per claim. The monthly benefit was split equally between them.
Our adjudicator thought that Mr and Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld. Nationwide didnt 
agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ts case.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. I will now go on to 
explain why.
Nationwide should have made the main exclusions and onerous terms in the policy clear to 
Mr and Mrs T and drawn their attention to them at the time of the sale. This is so that Mr and 
Mrs T could make an informed decision about whether or not to take the policy out. 
Mr T was self-employed at the time of the sale. I note from the policy leaflet relevant to the 
time of the sale (April 1997), that in order for Mr T to make a claim for unemployment he 
would have to stop trading and submit closing accounts. I note what Nationwide say about 
these terms not making it difficult for Mr T to make a claim in his particular circumstances. 
But I consider this condition to have been onerous as it would have potentially meant further 
expenses and a delay, amongst other things, before Mr T could make a claim under the 
policy. So Nationwide should have brought this condition to Mr and Mrs Ts attention.
Nationwide say that Mr and Mrs T were made aware of this condition. But from the evidence 
available to me I dont think they drew Mr and Mrs Ts attention to this term as they should 
have done. And while I appreciate that other types of claims could still have been possible 
under the policy, I think that if Nationwide had drawn Mr and Mrs Ts attention to this 
condition then Mr and Mrs T wouldnt have taken the policy out as they wouldnt have 
considered it to have been good value for money in their circumstances. 
It follows that I think Nationwide mis-sold Mr and Mrs T this PPI policy. 
Fair compensationNationwide should put Mr and Mrs T in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Nationwide 
should:
 
Pay Mr and Mrs T the amount they paid each month for the PPI
 
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
 
If Mr and Mrs T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mr and Mrs T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint against Nationwide Building Society and require them to 
pay Mr and Mrs T the compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman