DRN-1699616
Complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in 1996 alongside a mortgage.
Background
This policy covered Mr and Mrs P if they were unable to work because of an accident or 
sickness or if they lost their jobs. It cost Mr and Mrs P £23.20 per month and it provided the 
monthly benefit of £400. This would have been paid for up to 12 months on a successful 
claim.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with this view and 
asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I realise Mr and Mrs P will be 
disappointed with my decision, so I will explain why below.
As the policy was sold such a long time ago, its not surprising or unusual that HSBC does 
not have all the records available from the time. It doesn't have to keep records indefinitely. 
But where the evidence is incomplete or inconsistent, I will make my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities. That is the standard of proof I will use to decide whats more likely to 
have happened, taking into account what both parties have told me, the evidence that is 
available and also taking into account what we know about how this business sold these 
types of policies at the time.
Mr and Mrs P are unable to reconcile the date of sale of the PPI which HSBC has used, from 
their records. They are also unable to tell me when this policy was sold. This is 
understandable, taking into account that over twenty years has passed since the sale. To 
explain HSBC are unable to provide the exact date when this policy started. It has said it will 
use 1996 as the start date of the policy as this is when any existing policies were transferred 
from one system to another, so it has evidence to support that the PPI was in place in 1996 
and it has provided an internal screenshot to confirm this. So as Mr and Mrs P had a PPI 
policy at this time, this is the date I have used to make my decision.
HSBC is unable to confirm how this policy was taken out. It also can't confirm whether it 
advised Mr and Mrs P. So, to be fair to Mr and Mrs P I will look at this matter as if HSBC 
advised them to take out the policy. This put more responsibility on HSBC as to how it sold 
the PPI and meant it had to take reasonable steps to make sure it was suitable as well as 
giving Mr and Mrs P clear information so they could make an informed choice about taking it 
out.The first thing Ive considered is whether Mr and Mrs P were given a choice about taking it 
out. As Ive explained HSBC is unable to provide a copy of the application for the PPI. But I 
think its likely that the premiums were paid for by direct debit - so I think its more likely that 
Mr and Mrs P completed a direct debit mandate for the PPI and that the PPI would have 
appeared on mortgage statements. On balance if Mr and Mrs P didn't know they had it, or 
they hadn't wanted it they could have questioned it with HSBC at the time. I havent seen 
evidence they did so. 
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that at the time they bought the PPI, Mr 
and Mrs P had a choice about buying it and knew what the policy covered them for.
To help me decide whether it was suitable for them Ive thought about Mr and Mrs P's 
circumstances and Ive also looked at the policy terms and conditions from around the time.
Mr and Mrs P have both explained that they were self-employed in established businesses 
at this time. They say the policy would have been no benefit to them as they had other 
people who were able to take over the running of their businesses should they become ill or 
be unable to work. I have thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs P have told me.
Sometimes a policy term will make it more difficult to make a claim, but I dont think that is 
the case here. As a self-employed person the terms to make a claim on the policy were no 
more onerous than if Mr and Mrs P were employed. Although I appreciate that Mr and Mrs P 
had established businesses, insurance is put in place to protect an unexpected event and all 
in all I think it could still have been useful if things went wrong. And I dont think they would 
be likely to have been affected by any of the limitations in the policy about health as they 
didn't have any pre-existing health conditions.
Mr and Mrs P as self-employed wouldn't have been in receipt of sick pay, and they cant 
remember the amount of any savings they had exactly. But even with some savings this 
policy covered their mortgage repayments and would have paid out in addition to any 
savings they did have. This policy was in place to cover a mortgage which was secured on 
their home, so the consequences of being unable to repay their mortgage repayments could 
have been serious. On balance, Im satisfied that the PPI was suitable for them.
On balance, the costs of the policy seemed reasonable for the benefit it provided.
I cant say what was said to Mr and Mrs P when they bought the cover. It's possible that not 
all the information given to them was as clear as it should have been. But even so, it seems 
like they chose the cover - so it looks like they wanted this type of insurance and for much 
the same reasons as Ive set out above as to why the policy was more likely suitable, I cant 
say Mr and Mrs P would have made a different decision even if they'd been given  more or 
better information. 
Overall, I can't say Mr and Mrs P lost out because of anything HSBC did wrong. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr and Mrs P but Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman