DRN-2926923
The complaint
Mr B complains that ReAssure Limited has unfairly valued his pension savings before they 
were transferred to another provider.
What happened
Mr B has been assisted in making his complaint by his wife. However, for ease, in this 
decision I will generally refer to all communication as having been with, and from, Mr B 
himself.
Mr B held pension savings with ReAssure across two separate pension policies. He says 
that he had a number of discussions with ReAssure about reducing the volatility of his 
pension investments in the light of concerns about market movements during the Brexit 
negotiations. He then made further contact with ReAssure on 6 March 2020 when faced with 
similar concerns about investment volatility due to the start of the coronavirus pandemic.
On the call with ReAssure on Friday 6 March Mr B asked to move his pension investments 
into a frozen state. ReAssure explained that what Mr B was really wanting was to move his 
pension investments into a low risk fund  generally known as a cash fund. But since it 
wasnt able to provide Mr B with advice, it said that he would need to decide which specific 
fund to move his pension investments into. ReAssure agreed to send Mr B details of the 
available funds by post. It also provided Mr B with a valuation of his pension savings at that 
time.
By the following Monday, Mr B hadnt received any information from ReAssure so he called 
again. He asked that the information be sent to him urgently. It seems that ReAssure 
received confirmation of the required investment switch from Mr B a few days later. But Mr B 
complained about the time it had taken for the information to be sent to him, and ReAssure 
later agreed to backdate his investment switch to the date of his initial call on 6 March.
Mr B instructed ReAssure to pay his pension savings to another provider in order that he 
could purchase an annuity. Despite confirming that it had made the payment, it appears to 
have failed. So after further investigation ReAssure needed to make a new payment. But 
I understand that this delay didnt result in any reduction in the value of the annuity that was 
received by Mr B.
In response to Mr Bs complaints ReAssure apologised for the delays it had caused and the 
trouble and upset these had caused to Mr B. In total it paid him £150 as an apology. Mr B 
has confirmed that his complaint doesnt relate to the delays that were caused by ReAssure.
On the call with ReAssure on 6 March Mr B was told that his pension savings were valued at 
approximately £113,000. But when ReAssure backdated the investment switch instruction it 
was applied to pension savings with a value of approximately £110,000. It is this difference 
that forms the basis of the complaint I am dealing with in this decision.
Mr Bs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She didnt think that Mr B 
was entitled to receive the higher valuation that ReAssure provided on the phone call. And 
she thought that the £150 compensation that ReAssure had already paid was a fair reflection 
of the trouble and upset this matter had caused to Mr B. She didnt think ReAssure needed 
to do anything further in relation to the complaint.
Mr B didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr B and by ReAssure. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
There is little dispute that, during the call that took place on 6 March, ReAssure told Mr B 
that his pension savings were valued at approximately £113,000. But as is the norm with 
such valuations they do remain subject to change following any movements in the financial 
markets. And the time that this valuation was provided was a time of particular volatility due 
to the impending coronavirus pandemic.
I think it would be helpful here to set out my understanding of how investments, such as 
those held by Mr B, are valued. Generally investments of this nature are revalued each day 
at a fixed point in time  their values dont change in real time such as might be seen with 
shares listed on a stock exchange. So when a valuation is provided that will always reflect 
the previous pricing point. But any sales, or transfers, of those investments will be valued at 
the next pricing point.
So in the specific circumstances here, when Mr B was given information about the value of 
his pension savings, that reflected their value at the close of the previous trading day. And 
when ReAssure backdated his transfer request it correctly reflected the value of Mr Bs 
pension investments at the close of that trading day. The value of the investments had fallen 
between 5 March and 6 March, and that is why Mr B received a lower amount than had been 
quoted on the telephone call.
So I am satisfied that the value ReAssure applied to the backdated transfer of Mr Bs 
pension investments was correct. I appreciate it is disappointing for Mr B that his pension 
savings fell in value at a time when he was preparing to use them to purchase an annuity. 
But I cannot reasonably say that was as a result of anything that ReAssure did wrong. 
I accept that ReAssure could have explained the valuation methodology more carefully to 
Mr B. But I dont think he would have done anything differently if it had.
I think, for completeness, it would be helpful for me to briefly reflect on the other aspects of Mr Bs complaints with ReAssure.
I think ReAssure has treated Mr B fairly by backdating the transfer of his pension 
investments to the time of his first phone call. Whilst ReAssure needed to be careful to 
ensure it didnt provide Mr B with advice, his request was relatively straightforward and the 
funds most likely to meet his needs could have been described to him during the telephone 
call. So it might have been possible for Mr B to instruct the investment switch at that time. 
But that is the position into which Mr B has been placed by the backdating of the transfer, so 
it doesnt seem to me that he has lost out as a result.
And I am sure that, following his earlier complaints, Mr B would have been exasperated to 
learn that his pension savings had failed to safely arrive at the new provider. I havent seen 
any explanation for the failure of the funds transfer, but I accept ReAssures explanation that 
it was unaware of the failure until Mr B and the new provider got in touch. But as I said 
earlier it doesnt seem that the delay caused Mr B to lose out either.
So I think that the compensation ReAssure has already paid to Mr B is a fair reflection of the 
trouble and upset these two matters have caused to him. He has undoubtedly been caused 
some inconvenience by the delays  but I dont think there are any further financial losses 
that ReAssure needs to compensate him for.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
ReAssure Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman