DRN-3755305
The complaint
X is complaining Barclays Bank UK PLC (t/a Barclaycard) hasnt refunded an amount he 
paid for an excursion abroad. He brings the claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (Section 75).
What happened
In February 2020 X bought a package for him, his wife and three children to attend a 
religious event in Saudi Arabia. The package was arranged by a travel agent  who I shall 
refer to as F. The total cost of the package was £27,000. X paid £100 on his Barclays credit 
card and paid the remaining balance by bank transfer.
However, in June 2020, F contacted X to say, due to local restrictions owing to Covid-19, the 
event wasnt able to go ahead. So it said the trip was cancelled. X tried to get a refund from 
F, but was unsuccessful. So he contacted Barclays to request it refunded the full £27,000 he 
paid.
Barclays responded a few months later and said it should have processed a chargeback 
claim when X first made the claim. And it acknowledged its delay has meant it could no 
longer proceed with chargeback. So it refunded the £100 he would have received under the 
chargeback plus a further £25 in compensation. But it said it wasnt liable for the remaining 
losses under Section 75 because it said X paid a third party. X didnt agree and referred his 
complaint to this service.
Since then, X has told us that he took F to court and the court has ordered F to refund the 
£27,000 paid plus legal costs. However, X has said F is having to repay this in instalments 
so hes still out of pocket.
I issued a provisional decision partially upholding this complaint and I said the following:
X is complaining about the way Barclays handled a dispute over a payment he made to F to 
attend a religious event in Saudi Arabia. Where a consumer raises a dispute about a 
transaction made on a credit card, the card provider can consider the dispute under two 
guises  chargeback and Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (Section 75). I would 
expect the card provider to consider both avenues.
However, in this case Barclays has acknowledged it didnt do the chargeback claim correctly 
and has already refunded what X would have received had it done it correctly. So, as X has 
already received everything he would have got from the chargeback, I dont need to think 
about this any further. And, ultimately, Xs dispute is in respect to the Section 75 claim. 
X paid for the package on his Barclays credit card. Section 75 sets out that in certain 
circumstances, as the finance provider, Barclays is jointly liable for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by F.
As I said above, in order for Section 75 to apply, there are certain criteria that need to be 
satisfied  one of which is establishing a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement (DCS) between 
the parties. In essence, the key here is that its the debtor who is entitled to make a claim 
against the creditor, and their claim against the creditor is the same as their claim against 
the supplier. So, if the debtor doesnt have a claim themselves against the supplier, they 
cant hold the creditor liable for any breach of contract with the supplier. 
I note Barclays doesnt think X is eligible to bring a Section 75 claim because it said he paid 
a third party. But X bought a packaged holiday through F. Under the Package Travel and  
Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTRs) F is considered to be the supplier of 
the contract and is responsible for its performance and is liable for any breach of contract 
arising from the packaged holiday contract. X paid F for the contract, so it follows that 
Barclays can be held jointly liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by F. 
Theres no dispute here that F breached the terms of the contract. The trip was cancelled 
and, under the terms of the contract and the PTRs, X was entitled to a full refund of what he 
paid. But he didnt receive it and hes lost out as a result. Section 75 sets out that Barclays is 
jointly liable for losses arising from the breach of contract. However, since raising the 
Section 75 claim, X has obtained a County Court Judgement (CCJ) against F. The effect of a 
CCJ is that F has a legal liability to refund the amount being claimed for and X has rights 
through the courts to enforce this debt. 
I acknowledge F hasnt settled the CCJ in full as of yet. But I havent seen anything to show 
that F is unable to comply with the CCJ. And X has rights through the courts to enforce this 
debt. So, given this, I think the CCJ means X will be refunded the cost of the flights and to 
require Barclays to settle this loss too under Section 75 means X is likely to be double 
compensated for this. So I dont think Barclays has any further liability under Section 75. 
However, Ive also thought about whether Barclays should compensate X for the way it 
handled the Section 75 claim. As I said above, I think it was wrong to decline the Section 75 
claim. Had it not done so, X would have been refunded the full cost of the flights in October 
2020  when it declined the claim. X is, therefore, out of pocket as a result of this. So I think 
Barclays should pay 8% simple interest on the £26,900 he paid by bank transfer from the 
date it declined the Section 75 until the date of the CCJ, subject to X providing the CCJ to 
Barclays showing that the Court did not award 8% simple interest. 
Further to this, had Barclays settled the Section 75 claim when it should have done, X 
wouldnt have felt the need to start legal proceedings. I think this has caused further  
unnecessary distress and inconvenience. So I think Barclays should pay £500 in 
compensation for this.
X didnt accept my provisional decision. He provided copies of Fs accounts which he says 
shows that they wont be able to settle the CCJ. He set out that the account show F has a 
significant overall debt which is significantly more than the amount it owes him. So he said 
that, to pursue the claim against F further would be a futile expense and put him more out of 
pocket. He believes F will be declared insolvent sooner rather than later. So he maintains 
that the liability to compensate him for his losses rests with the businesses jointly liable  i.e. 
Barclays.
Barclays accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Xs point of view in this matter and I do not dispute the fact that F is in financial difficulties. However, the inescapable fact is that X has a legal document requiring F to pay 
Xs losses. I recognise its possible F may not be able to satisfy the CCJ. But, until such time 
as its legally recognised or some other legal statement that shows that F wont comply with 
the CCJ I cannot require Barclays to settle this. If I was to do so, it could result in X 
potentially being double compensated for his losses.
I naturally wholly sympathise with X for the situation he and his family have found 
themselves in. But the issue for me to decide is whether I can reasonably require Barclays to 
settle the remaining balance and for the reasons Ive set out above, I cant do so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I partially uphold this complaint 
and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
1. pay 8% simple interest on the £26,900 he paid by bank transfer from the date it declined 
the Section 75 until the date of the CCJ, subject to X providing the CCJ to Barclays 
showing that the Court did not award 8% simple interest;
2. pay £500 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused in declining the 
Section 75 claim.
I dont intend to award anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman