DRN-3308837
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
applied when she returned a car after she voluntarily terminated a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
Mrs S entered into a hire agreement in August 2018, the agreement ended in August 2021 
and Mrs S returned the car. She says shes unhappy with the end of contract charges that 
were applied when she returned the car. Mrs S told us:
The car was first inspected at her house and the inspector complimented her on the 
state of it;
some time later, MBFS sent her an invoice for vehicle damage totalling £1,255.65, 
and after she complained about this, the invoice was reduced to £297;
shes being unfairly billed for vehicle damage that simply wasnt present when the car 
left her house.
MBFS rejected this complaint. It said the car was collected on 23 August 2021 by an 
independent third party and taken to a site for a detailed inspection, which took place on 31 
August. It said this inspection identified some faults and damages totalling more than 
£1,200. MBFS said it had reviewed the charges and agreed to remove four of them and 
reduce a fifth charge. 
MBFS said its Vehicle Returns Standards (VRS) document detailed the expected return 
condition of Mrs S car. It said the pricing matrix it had supplied to Mrs S at the start of the 
finance agreement provided details of the expected cost of any repairs. And it said Mrs S 
had had ample opportunity to familiarise herself with its fair wear and tear expectations and 
this provided her with the opportunity to have any repairs carried out.
MBFS said it was satisfied that the damage it had identified was clearly evidenced and had 
been charged in accordance with the Vehicle Returns Standards and the pricing matrix. And 
it confirmed that it was owed £297.00 by Mrs S. 
Mrs S disagreed and brought her complaint to this Service.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained that the standard for what constitutes fair wear and tear is set out in the British 
Vehicle Renting Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines and his role was to decide whether 
the charges applied by MBFS were fair and reasonable.
He said hed looked at the evidence submitted by MBFS to support its position and he 
thought the damage was visible and outside the fair wear and tear guidance and, as a result, 
was chargeable.
Mrs S disagrees, so the complaint comes to me to decide. She says shes being unfairly 
charged; the photographic evidence was taken some time after the car had been collected 
and she shouldnt have to pay for the items listed by MBFS.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly 
the same reasons.
The terms and conditions of the agreement, signed by Mrs S, sets out in some detail the 
acceptable return condition of the car. It clearly sets out that an assessment will be made in 
line with the VRS and it sets out what the acceptable conditions are, with examples, and 
what conditions are unacceptable. It goes on to explain that the customer will have to pay 
the costs of either repairing or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the consequent 
reduction in the sale of it. Ive read this carefully, and Im satisfied that Mrs S was 
responsible for returning the car in good condition, but the question is whether all the 
charges applied by MBFS are fair and reasonable.
MBFSs inspection identifies four areas of damage that it deems to be unacceptable - 
outside fair wear and tear:
1. Left hand rear wheel  damage was evident requiring refurbishment £110.00
2. Right hand rear wheel  damage was evident requiring refurbishment £110.00
3. Front right door pad insert  scuffing requiring specialist repair £35.00
4. Interior mirror  damage to casing was evident requiring repair £42.00
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVLRA) and these are accepted as an industry standard in determining 
whether any damage goes beyond fair wear and tear. So, Ive also taken these into account 
alongside MBFS VRS when deciding what is fair and reasonable for MBFS to charge Mrs S.
The BVRLA guidance sets out the standard regarding fair wear and tear. Ive looked 
carefully at what it says in regard to the areas identified by MBFS. It says:
Wheels  Any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia or hub of the alloy wheel is 
not acceptable.
Vehicle Interior  The interior upholstery and trim must be clean and odourless with 
no burns, scratches, tears, dents or staining.
Interior Fittings  Interior fittings such asrear view mirrorsmust be present, intact 
and free of damage.
So, Im satisfied that the areas identified by MBFS as faulty or damaged are indeed beyond 
what is recognised as fair wear and tear according to the published industry standards.
Ive also considered the VRS that were in place at the time Mrs S signed her hire agreement 
in August 2018. These say:
Wheels and Tyres  Scuffs, chips and scratches exceeding 25mm are not 
acceptable.
Interior  Broken or damaged interior mouldings, trim pads, instrumental panel, sun 
visor or headlining etc are not acceptable.
Finally, Ive looked very carefully at the evidence that MBFS provided, and Im satisfied that 
the areas of damage identified are indeed damaged outside fair wear and tear. The spokes 
of both wheels are scratched and scuffed; there is clear visible damage to the back of the rear view mirror; and there is scuffing to the door pad. So, I think the charges have been 
applied fairly.
Given all of the above, Im satisfied that the charges MBFS asked Mrs S to pay were applied 
fairly and in line with relevant industry guidance and that MBFS has acted fairly in respect of 
the charges it applied.
Ive considered Mrs S inference that all this unrelated damage took place after the vehicle 
was collected from her home, but I just dont think this is likely. I say this because MBFS 
appointed an independent third party, one that is recognised in the industry, to conduct an 
assessment. And although Mrs S says that when the car was collected, she was told it was 
in exceptional condition, I think its more likely than not that the nature of the identified 
damage wouldnt have been apparent until the car was thoroughly examined later.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman