DRN-2247639
The complaint
Mr T complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) wouldnt repair his TV 
following a claim on his warranty.
What happened
Mr T Domestic & General Insurance Plc bought a TV in 2017 which came with an extended 
warranty. In 2019 he had problems with it and made a claim on the warranty. D&G accepted 
the claim however said it wouldnt be able to send out a repairing agent as it didnt have one 
in the area Mr T lived. So it said he would need to arrange an expert to repair the TV and it 
would reimburse the cost.
Mr T didnt think this was fair. He said the policy stated that D&G would send out a repairer, 
so he thought it should honour this. He also said that he had spent a lot of time on the phone 
to D&G when he registered the claim as there had been a misunderstanding about the 
correct reference number for the warranty. He made a complaint to D&G.
D&G upheld Mr Ts complaint as it accepted it had provided poor service on the phone. It 
offered £50 compensation to make up for the inconvenience it had caused. However it said it 
wouldnt be able to send out a repairer as it didnt have any in the area Mr T lived. It said it 
states in the policy that it may need to rely on the customer getting their own repairer in 
these situations, so it was acting inline with the policy terms and conditions.
Mr T didnt think this was fair. He said he was worried that if he arranged a repairer and they 
made the problem worse then D&G wouldnt honour any future claims related to the fix. He 
also said he wasnt sure how to choose a qualified repairer. He brought his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She 
said that D&G should assist Mr T in selecting a repairer to ensure that they met its 
requirements. Further she said that D&G should agree to cover any additional problems that 
occur in relation to the same fault, to offer Mr T reassurance about engaging his own 
repairer.
D&G said that it would accept the opinion of any of the registered TV repairers in Mr Ts 
area. And would agree to cover future problems relating to the fault.
Mr T didnt agree with our investigators view as he said that it stated in the welcome letter 
he received when he took out the policy that D&G would send out someone to repair his TV. 
So he though it wasnt fair that it wouldnt do that. He asked for the complaint to be looked at 
by an ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
D&G has said that it isnt able to send a repairer to inspect Mr Ts TV as it doesnt have 
anyone contracted in the area. 
I have looked at the policy terms and conditions. Under the section that covers repairs it 
states as follows:
If we authorise a repair but are unable to find an engineer, well permit you to use your 
chosen engineer. You will have to pay them and claim the cost back from us. Please keep a 
copy of your invoice to send to us.
So under these terms I can see that D&G are able to ask its customer to choose their own 
engineer.
Mr T has said that he doesnt think this is made clear. He said on the letter that accompanied 
the policy documents it says Well send out an expert engineer and he thinks this is 
misleading. 
I have considered this and while I sympathise with Mr T, I think the term is made clear 
enough. The policy terms and conditions were sent to Mr T with the welcome letter. So 
although I can see the front page said D&G would send out an engineer, the policy does 
allow for instances when this isnt possible. So D&G have acted in line with the policy terms. 
Further, the warranty is there to cover the repair of his TV. And by asking Mr T to organise 
his own repairer which it will pay for, this still allows this purpose to be fulfilled. So I dont 
think D&G have acted unreasonably by requesting this. 
Mr T has explained that he is concerned that if he arranges his own engineer, they may not 
be correctly qualified, and any subsequent fixes wouldnt be covered under the policy. 
Following our investigators involvement D&G has offered Mr T reassurances that it will pay 
for the repairers time and any subsequent repairs related to the current problem. It has 
pointed to the process that needs to be followed in the for work over £150  which will 
require its own authorisation before going ahead. It has also said that it will accept work from 
any TV repairer in the area Mr T lives. And has provided him with a way of finding a 
specialist for his make of TV.
So although I sympathise with Mr Ts concerns I think D&G has done enough to reassure 
Mr T about the process and what is covered under the policy. And it has attempted to help 
him find a suitable engineer. 
For these reasons I am satisfied that D&G are acting in line with the policy terms by requiring 
Mr T to find his won engineer. And I think it has treated him fairly and reasonably in handling 
the claim. So I wont ask it to do anything further.
Mr T was also unhappy about the service he was provided when he originally made the 
claim. I can see there was some confusion over the correct reference number for the 
warranty that meant Mr T had to be on the phone to D&G for longer than he should have 
done. I can appreciate this would have been inconvenient. D&G has accepted that this was 
poor service and offered £50 compensation to make up for this. I think this is sufficient to 
make up for the inconvenience caused so wont ask it to do anything more in relation to this.
My final decisionFor the reasons I have given, I wont require Domestic & General Insurance Plc to do 
anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman