DRN-4151243
The complaint
Mr B complains that MBNA Limited irresponsibly provided him with two credit cards. 
What happened
MBNA provided Mr B with a credit card in March 2016 with a credit limit of £8,000. Ill refer to 
this as Card 1 throughout this decision. The credit limit on Card 1 was increased on three 
occasions until it reached £19,100 in June 2018. MBNA subsequently provided Mr B with a 
second credit card in February 2020 with a limit of £5,000. Ill refer to this as Card 2. Shortly 
after this, some of the credit limit from Card 1 was redistributed onto Card 2.
In summary, Mr B says MBNAs lending decisions put him into a vulnerable position given 
his circumstances, and he couldnt afford the repayments each month. He says MBNA didnt 
lend to him responsibly and didnt properly check his existing levels of debt. Mr B also 
pointed out that both cards had promotional balance transfer offers, and MBNA wasnt clear 
about how much he would need to pay once the promotional offers ended. He says instead, 
MBNA allowed him to pay the minimum payment required each month despite being able to 
see this would likely leave him with a large balance at the end of the interest-free period. 
Mr B complained to MBNA.
MBNA reviewed Mr Bs complaint and issued a final response letter. It didnt comment on the 
lending decisions made on Card 1, but it didnt think that Card 2 was irresponsibly provided. 
In summary, MBNA said it had lent based on information Mr B supplied and also what it had 
gathered from credit reference agency (CRA) checks. In further correspondence sent to this 
service, MBNA confirmed it didnt think Card 1 and the limit increases on it had been 
provided irresponsibly either.
Mr B remained unhappy with MBNAs response, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators reviewed matters and thought that MBNAs initial checks werent 
reasonable or proportionate and had it carried out further checks, it would have seen that 
Mr B couldnt afford the credit in March 2016. Our investigator also thought the subsequent 
lending decisions wouldnt have happened if MBNA had completed proportionate checks.
MBNA disagreed with our investigators findings. In summary, it thought its checks were 
proportionate and showed that Mr B could afford the credit. It also said Mr B utilised 
promotional balance transfer offers, suggesting hed cleared his outstanding credit card 
debts. MBNA also pointed out that Mr B had been paying the minimum repayment 
throughout the lending history and had no missed payments until June 2021.
In summary, Mr B said hed asked MBNA to put his account on hold whilst matters were 
being investigated by this service, but hed only managed to secure temporary interest 
freezes for 30 days at a time. He explained his concerns about the impact this was having 
on his credit file and explained that matters were impacting his mental health.
There was some further correspondence between this service and the parties, and our 
investigator tried to reach a mediated resolution. Our investigator then ultimately reviewed 
matters again. In summary, he thought that there wasnt anything to suggest the initial credit 
card limit and the first increase on Card 1 were going to be unsustainable for Mr B. However, 
he thought that all subsequent lending decisions were always going to be unsustainable.
MBNA disagreed with our investigators opinion and mostly repeated its earlier arguments. 
Mr B also responded and repeated his earlier points. He also said that MBNA had since sent 
him an automated letter to advise his account had been closed and that it would register a 
default on his credit file. Mr B said hed been asking MBNA to place 30-day holds on his 
account and hed had no notice that his account would be closed and passed to recoveries. 
I issued a provisional decision where I said, in summary, that I didnt think MBNA completed 
reasonable or proportionate checks into Mr Bs circumstances by the time of the third lending 
decision. I was persuaded that had it carried out further checks into Mr Bs circumstances, it 
would have seen he was often using his overdraft at that time. I also thought MBNA would 
have concluded that Mr B was increasing his overall indebtedness. Overall, I didnt think it 
should have lent to him from this point onwards.
I acknowledged Mr Bs argument that MBNA didnt treat him fairly when he fell into financial 
difficulties. However, I noted that MBNA provided interest freezes on Mr Bs request for 
many months. Overall, I thought it had taken reasonable steps in the circumstances. In 
relation to the promotional offers, I thought the account statements, the credit agreement 
and the terms and conditions provided sufficient information about this. I also acknowledged 
Mr Bs comments that MBNA said a default would soon be registered on the account, but I 
explained I couldnt make any findings about something that hadnt yet happened or been 
complained about, or that MBNA hadnt yet had the chance to respond to first.
Mr B responded to the provisional decision and, in summary, raised several points. He 
asked some questions about the proposed redress. He also said that a default had been 
registered, which hed since complained about, and MBNA had provided a final response to. 
Mr B also explained he was being made redundant and the adverse information recorded 
was impacting his ability to find employment. So, he asked whether the adverse information 
could be removed first, after which point he would be happy to engage with MBNA to agree 
a repayment plan for any remaining debt. 
This service acknowledged the difficult position Mr B was in but reiterated that if an 
outstanding balance remained once the interest, fees, charges and insurances had been 
refunded, wed then ask the firm to arrange a repayment plan for the outstanding balance, 
and we usually wouldnt ask a firm to remove any adverse information until the balance had 
been cleared. This service also acknowledged Mr Bs point about the default and said this 
was arguably a separate issue. But Id noted that the default was registered due to the 
duration that payment hadnt been made to the account. So, I wasnt persuaded the outcome 
was impacted here. Mr B repeated some of his earlier points in response, and said he 
thought hed be given some warning before the account defaulted. He also said the only 
reason the 30-day interest freezes were put on the account was because the parties 
expected that a resolution to this matter would be due soon.
MBNA also responded to the provisional decision and asked to see the bank statements that 
had been relied on. Upon reviewing these, it asked several questions, including about some 
incoming payments from what appeared to be Mr Bs other account and what may have 
been additional income sources. When this service asked Mr B about this, he provided the 
statements for his other account which he said he opened in November 2017 and essentially 
held a zero balance since then, and also provided answers to MBNAs questions. In 
summary, he explained that he occasionally did some promotional work to generate some 
more money, but this amounted to little and didnt help. Mr B also explained some of the larger payments MBNA recognised that were coming into 
the account effectively created a debt elsewhere, and Mr B incurred these debts in order to 
bring the money into his current account.
This service provided the above information to MBNA, and also reiterated that the 
provisional decision outlined that Mr Bs statements showed he was often overdrawn and 
sometimes in his unarranged overdraft. So, I was persuaded that the management of Mr Bs 
account in itself at the relevant times would have likely shown that any further lending 
wouldve been unsustainable. This service then asked MBNA for any final comments. MBNA 
thanked the service for providing the requested information and confirmed it had no further 
comments to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I havent changed the opinion I expressed in my provisional decision. I've 
explained my reasoning below. But before I do so, I want to say that I have taken on board 
all of the additional comments that both Mr B and MBNA raised in response to the 
provisional decision. 
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to the crux of the complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made to date.
Mr B has raised a new concern since the complaint was referred to our service. As I 
understand it, MBNA has recorded a default on his credit file. Whilst I appreciate Mr Bs 
concern here, Im mindful that this is arguably a separate issue that should be dealt with 
separately, as this didnt form part of the original complaint made to MBNA or to this service. 
However, I appreciate that Mr B has waited some time for an answer to his overall 
complaint. So, it might be helpful to explain that the reason the account has defaulted is 
because of the duration where payments were not being made to the account. And, I note 
MBNA encouraged Mr B to contact it to discuss the available options, including coming to a 
repayment arrangement. This didnt happen, so Im not persuaded that this impacts the 
outcome of this complaint. Ill now move on to address the other complaint points raised.
The rules and regulations in place at the time MBNA provided Mr B with the credit cards and 
limit increases, required it to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of 
whether he could afford to repay what he owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes 
referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused. This means MBNA had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr B. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for MBNA to consider the likelihood of it getting the funds back 
or whether Mr Bs circumstances met its lending criteria  it had to consider if Mr B could 
sustainably repay the lending it was providing to him.  
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the lending. In 
general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent on a number 
of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they were seeking. Ive kept all of this 
in mind when thinking about whether MBNA did what it needed to before lending to Mr B.Mr B applied for Card 1 in March 2016. MBNA said it asked Mr B for his gross annual 
income, which he declared as £37,000. MBNA doesnt appear to have verified this 
information, however it does appear to be the case that this was broadly Mr Bs income. 
MBNA also said it carried out a full credit check which showed no obvious signs of financial 
difficulty. This credit check also showed Mr B had £12,700 in available credit limits, of which 
he had a £7,025 balance, and a balance of £3,897 in loans and/or hire purchase 
agreements. Ive also considered that Mr B utilised promotional rates on balance transfers 
when he transferred existing debt onto the card. On balance, considering that MBNAs 
checks didnt reveal any obvious financial issues here, I think the checks MBNA completed 
were reasonable and proportionate and it wasnt wrong to issue the card with a limit of 
£8,000. 
In October 2016, MBNA proposed a credit limit increase from £8,000 to £11,100 and this 
was subsequently approved in December 2016. MBNA says that Mr B had been managing 
his account well in the months until the limit was increased. Its credit checks showed no 
obvious financial difficulties such as defaults. Theres an argument to be made that MBNA 
could have checked that Mr Bs income hadnt changed, or it couldve completed a further 
credit check to review Mr Bs access to existing credit. But I dont think this wouldve showed 
a substantial increase in access to credit from the information Ive seen. 
MBNA also saw that Mr B had taken advantage of promotional balance transfer offers at 0% 
shortly after the card was opened. So, on balance, I can see why MBNA might have thought 
that Mr B was taking steps to reduce his overall indebtedness here and saving money on the 
interest he would have been paying on debts elsewhere. So, considering all this, I dont think 
the increase to £11,100 on Card 1 was unreasonable either.
Mr Bs limit was increased again on Card 1 in November 2017 to £16,100. I appreciate that 
MBNAs credit checks still didnt highlight any obvious signs of difficulties and Mr B had 
declared a higher gross annual income of £40,000. But this was now a significant amount of 
credit which was more than double the original credit limit MBNA gave Mr B the previous 
year. And just because Mr B was managing to avoid difficulties on the credit he had, this in 
itself doesnt mean that he could pay a significant amount of additional funds. 
Ive reviewed Mr Bs current account statements to build a picture of his circumstances at the 
time, and what MBNA likely would have seen had it carried out further checks. Having 
reviewed these, I can see Mr B was using his overdraft regularly in the months leading up to 
this increase. Whilst there were occasions where Mr Bs account was in credit, this was often 
only for a few days at the most following when hed been paid. The account was then in 
overdraft again soon afterwards. Mr B was also sometimes in his unarranged overdraft, and 
incurred fees as a result. 
Ive considered MBNAs argument that Mr B appeared to be using the promotional offers to 
clear his debts. However, I think MBNA would have likely concluded that Mr B was 
increasing his overall indebtedness, had it carried out further checks into his circumstances. 
I also think its fair to say that by this lending decision, it ought to have seen a pattern 
emerging, in that Mr B was taking more credit and transferring balances over to the account, 
suggesting he was continuing to spend on other credit facilities. As our investigator also 
pointed out, Mr Bs minimum payments became unaffordable when the promotional offers 
ended, which ought to have been an important consideration for MBNA, given that the 
promotional offers were temporary and Mr Bs indebtedness was increasing during this 
period rather than reducing. So, I think it was irresponsible to increase Mr Bs limit to 
£16,100.
Having reviewed Mr Bs circumstances in the years following this, Im not persuaded they 
changed for the better either, so as to say that further lending wouldve been sustainable. So, for the avoidance of doubt, I also think that the credit limit increase to £19,100 in 
June 2018 on Card 1 and the £5,000 limit on Card 2 in February 2020 were also 
irresponsibly provided. 
Ive considered MBNAs questions related to some incoming payments to Mr Bs account 
over the years. As outlined earlier in this decision, Mr B explained some of the larger 
payments that were coming into the account effectively created a debt elsewhere, and Mr B 
incurred these debts in order to bring the money into his current account. With this in mind, 
this information doesnt change my findings outlined above. And, as explained in previous 
correspondence with MBNA, Im persuaded that the management of Mr Bs account in itself 
at the relevant times would have likely shown that any further lending wouldve been 
unsustainable. So, Ill need to next think about how MBNA puts matters right, which Ill come 
onto later in this decision.
Mr B has also said MBNA hasnt treated him fairly when he told it he was experiencing 
financial difficulties. MBNA initially agreed an interest-freeze for five months in the initial final 
response letter and encouraged Mr B to contact its collections team following this if he 
thought the payment would still be unaffordable. MBNA then agreed to further 
interest-freezes for a number of months, more recently for 30 days each time.
As I understand it, Mr B didnt want to enter a repayment plan because of concerns about 
how that would affect his credit file. He has asked MBNA to continue applying 
interest-freezes whilst the complaint was being reviewed. However, I cant fairly say that 
MBNA hasnt taken reasonable steps here. It agreed to offer Mr B interest-freezes for 
several months as he had requested. The contact notes show it also told Mr B the interest-
freezes were only a short-term solution, and it encouraged him to contact the relevant 
department to complete a full review of his circumstances and discuss his options, including 
coming to an arrangement. So overall, I think MBNA has taken reasonable steps in the 
circumstances.
I also note Mr B has raised that MBNA werent clear about when the promotional offers on 
the cards would end. However, Im persuaded that the account statements, the credit 
agreement and the terms and conditions provide sufficient information here, including the 
dates the promotional offers end, the standard monthly interest rate for balance transfers 
and also how the monthly minimum repayment is calculated. So, I dont think MBNA needed 
to do anything further in this regard.
Fair compensation  what MBNA should do to put things right 
In most cases where credit has been provided where it shouldnt have been, it would be fair 
and reasonable for the lender to refund any interest and charges paid by the borrower. And, 
the borrower would usually be expected to repay any remaining amount of the money they 
had been lent. So, Id expect Mr B to pay back the money he was lent, but not the interest.
I note that Mr B has asked for the adverse information to be removed before the outstanding 
balance is paid off. As explained in previous communications with Mr B, in the event that an 
outstanding balance remains, MBNA would be directed to remove the adverse information 
only at the point that the outstanding balance is repaid. In this event, an outstanding balance 
would remain on the account, which he would be expected to repay.
With this in mind, MBNA should put things right for Mr B by doing the following, in relation to 
each card:
Card 1Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not already 
refunded) that have been applied to balances above £11,100.
If the rework results in a credit balance on the account, this should be refunded to 
Mr B along with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. And, MBNA should remove any adverse 
information reported to Mr Bs credit file about this account after November 2017.
Or, if after the rework an outstanding balance remains, MBNA should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr B for the remaining amount. Once Mr B has 
cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after 
November 2017 in relation to the account should be removed from his credit file. 
Card 2
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not already 
refunded) that have been applied. 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr B along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. MBNA should also remove all adverse information regarding this 
account from Mr Bs credit file. 
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, MBNA should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr B for the remaining amount. Once Mr B has 
cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be 
removed from his credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MBNA to take off tax from this interest. MBNA must give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and directly MBNA Limited to settle Mr Bs complaint in the 
way that Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman