DRN-1664634
 
complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs D took out a mortgage with BoS in 1991. At the same time they were sold a PPI 
policy which would have covered their mortgage repayments for up to 12 months at a time if 
Mr D couldnt work due to an accident, sickness or redundancy. They cancelled this policy in 
1993. 
In 2003 they took out a further advance on their mortgage. At this point they took out another 
PPI policy which would have provided similar benefits. Again, it only covered Mr D. 
Mr and Mrs D say that they didnt know about the PPI. They are certain it was never 
mentioned and that they werent given any information about it.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs D 
disagree, so their complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ds 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Was the policy optional? Did Mr and Mrs D give their consent?
1991 sale 
BoS had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs D that the PPI was optional and needed their 
consent before it could be applied. BoS say that the PPI wasnt compulsory and Mr and Mrs 
D would have given their permission to buy it. Mr and Mrs D say they are certain it wasnt 
mentioned or discussed. Although I appreciate this is Mr and Mrs Ds genuinely held belief I 
havent seen sufficient evidence to suggest that on this occasion its more likely that BoS 
added the PPI without Mr and Mrs Ds knowledge or consent. And given the event was 
nearly 30 years ago I am not satisfied I can safely rely on Mr and Mrs Ds recollection of 
what was and wasnt discussed. 
2003 sale
Its 17 years since since the 2003 sale. Again, neither party has been able to supply the 
documents from the time of sale. However, this service knows more about BoSs sales processes and has seen sample documents of those in use around this time. They make it 
clear that PPI is optional. Other than Mr and Mrs Ds testimony I dont have any other 
evidence to suggest that BoSs normal processes werent followed and therefore that the 
PPI was added without Mr and Mrs Ds knowledge or consent. 
So, on the limited information I have, I think its most likely Mr and Mrs D bought the policies 
understanding they had a choice.
Were the policies suitable?
BoS says it advised Mr and Mrs D to take the PPI on both occasions. This means it had to 
check it was suitable for Mr and Mrs D. While neither party has been able to provide a copy 
of the policy document from 1991 I have reviewed a policy document from after the sale 
which I think likely reflects similar or the same terms to those in 1991. I have also reviewed 
the policy document from 2003. I dont know if BoS took all the steps it should have done to 
check whether the policies were suitable but looking at the policy documents Ive described I 
think the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs D. I say this because:
 
Mr D (whom both policies covered) was eligible for the PPI and wouldnt have been 
affected by any of the terms which might have made it more difficult to make a 
successful claim, such as those related to existing medical conditions or self-
employment;
The PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Ds statutory sick pay and potentially 
for a much longer period of time. Similarly, it would have paid out in addition to any 
redundancy pay for up to a year at a time. This would have meant that Mr and Mrs 
Ds savings (if they had any) could be used to cover other uninsured expenses;
I havent seen anything to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs D;
Mr and Mrs D could have cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out if they no 
longer wanted or needed it. 
 
As well as checking that the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs D, BoS also had to give them 
clear information about the PPI  in particular about the costs, benefits and main exclusions 
in the policies  so that they could make an informed decision about whether or not to take 
them out.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr and Mrs D wasnt as clear as it should have been 
but this in itself doesnt mean the policies were mis-sold. I have to go on and consider 
whether better information would have put them off taking out the policies. And I dont think it 
would have. I say this because Im satisfied the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs D in the 
way Ive described. So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think BoS mis-sold 
Mr and Mrs D these PPI policies.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ds complaint, so Bank of Scotland plc doesnt have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman