DRN-3494978
The complaint
Miss V is unhappy NCO Europe Limited didnt let her know that her credit card account had 
been defaulted.
What happened
Miss V held a credit card where the debt was transferred to a company who Ill refer to as A 
 they then became the legal owners of the debt. While A are the legal owners of the debt, 
NCO manage this debt on behalf of A and have done so since October 2019. NCO have 
confirmed A are responsible for updating information about the account on Miss Vs credit 
file, such as defaults. However, NCO are responsible for reporting the account activity to A 
and for sending out correspondence such as a default notice.
In August 2021, Miss V says she received a letter from NCO letting her know that due to a 
technical issue regarding her contact preference settings on her account, a default notice 
that should have been sent to her was incorrectly supressed by NCOs system. So, Miss V 
wasnt told about the default when this marker was applied to her credit file in March 2021 by 
A.
Miss V says having a default on her credit file had an impact on her as she wanted to 
transfer her existing credit card balances to credit cards where she wouldnt have to pay any 
interest. However, shes not been able to successfully apply for credit cards that offer this 
benefit and instead, has had to pay a significant amount of interest.
NCO issued a final response letter in October 2021 saying payments hadnt been received 
from April 2020 to when their final response letter was issued. Therefore, two regulatory 
letters were sent to Miss V  one was a notice of termination of agreement which was issued 
on 7 January 2021 and the other was a termination letter which was issued on 17 March 
2021. These letters were sent because NCO said Miss V hadnt adhered to actions that were 
required to prevent a default from being registered. NCO also said Miss V was sent monthly 
statements which set out clearly what she needed to do and what would happen if she didnt 
make the payments. 
Later on, NCO explained that when initially reviewing this complaint, they hadnt realised 
Miss Vs account had been identified as one where they hadnt actually sent the regulatory 
letters, due to her opting out of communication via letter in December 2019. NCO 
acknowledged they hadnt correctly sent the letters to Miss V which would have notified her 
of the default. So, this was why they sent Miss V an apology letter in August 2021. NCO also 
confirmed that because of this, the default was going to be removed from Miss Vs credit file.
Miss V checked her credit file and found that the account had completely disappeared from 
her credit file. Miss V queried why the account was no longer appearing despite having an 
outstanding balance of around £900 on the account. NCO say A have confirmed that when 
they became the legal owners of Miss Vs account, theyd made a business decision to not 
report the account on her credit file unless the account had defaulted. As a result of the 
default now being removed, NCO say Miss V wont see the account on her credit file (unless 
it defaults). NCO have since confirmed while Miss V stopped making payments in April 2020, 
shes set up a repayment plan of £50 a month from June 2022  this would mean her final 
payment would be taken in October 2023.  
Our Investigator looked into Miss Vs complaint. In summary, she explained that Miss Vs 
credit report showed other adverse information. So, our Investigator didnt feel she had 
enough evidence to suggest that Miss V was declined for credit as a direct result of the 
default that NCO failed to make her aware of. However, our Investigator recognised that 
NCO ought to have sent information to Miss V about the default before it had happened. So, 
our Investigator agreed with NCOs actions to have the default removed. Our Investigator 
also said even though NCO said the default would be removed in their letter of August 2021, 
this hadnt happened at the time of our Investigators view in February 2022. So, she asked 
NCO to pay Miss V £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to her.
NCO agreed with our Investigators findings. However, Miss V didnt. Miss V says she 
received two letters from A confirming that shed need to make a payment by 1 April 2022 
and the other said shed need to make full payment by 15 May 2022. Miss V says shes 
aware she will need to start making payments towards the outstanding debt again, but she 
didnt expect to receive demands for payments while her complaint was ongoing with our 
Service. Miss V also said she calculated the total cost of interest shes had to pay towards 
her credit card since the default. Miss V says the default was incorrectly on her credit file for 
a total of 11 months. For this period, Miss V has calculated the interest to be £682.28 which 
she says she wouldnt have had to have paid had she been able to transfer her balance to a 
0% interest credit card. Because of this, Miss V has asked NCO to compensate her 50% of 
the interest, which is £341.14 to resolve her concerns. So, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Miss Vs complaint is that she didnt know about the default on her credit file as 
she wasnt made aware of this by NCO. I need to make clear that I can only look into the 
actions of NCO who managed the debt on behalf of A. Im not able to look into anything A 
may or may not have done as this complaint isnt against them.
NCO have acknowledged there was an error in letting Miss V know about the default  they 
said that when she registered her account online in December 2019, she had opted out of 
being contacted by NCO via phone call, letter and text messages. And that this created an 
issue with sending out regulatory letters due to Miss Vs communication preferences. So, Im 
satisfied that something went wrong here, and that Miss V didnt receive notification that the 
account was defaulted.
To rectify this, I can see NCO sent out an apology letter in August 2021 and arranged to 
have the default removed. However, NCOs final response letter of October 2021 said 
something different to what was in their apology letter  they explained that the account had 
been correctly defaulted even though they told Miss V two months before that the default 
was going to be removed from her credit file. So, I think this caused some confusion. 
Despite NCOs letter saying it could take six to eight weeks for the default to be removed, 
Miss V has provided us with evidence of her credit file from January 2022 and I can see the 
default was still there. It wasnt until February 2022 that Miss V confirmed the default had 
been removed from her credit file. Its not clear why it took longer than the timeframe 
mentioned in NCOs letter for the default to be removed. Nonetheless, I think this caused Miss V inconvenience as she had to raise the matter again with NCO in order to get the 
default removed.
Now the default has been removed, Miss V says the account is no longer appearing on her 
credit file at all. I can appreciate this may be confusing for Miss V; however, NCO have told 
us that A said the account will only appear if a default is present. In any case, it seems from 
what NCO have told us about their responsibility of this account that it is A who are 
responsible for updating Miss Vs credit file with any information about the account. So 
should Miss V have a complaint about how the account is now being reported on her credit 
file, its likely shell have to raise this with A. 
NCO have confirmed the account hasnt terminated and that Miss V logged into NCOs 
website on 9 May 2022 to set a repayment plan for £50 a month from 28 June 2022. NCO 
have explained this would mean Miss Vs final payment would be taken on 28 October 2023. 
So, Miss V will need to continue to make the monthly repayments she set up in order to clear 
the debt.
Miss V has told us that having a default on her credit file led to her being declined credit 
cards where she didnt have to pay interest. And that shes then had to pay a significant 
amount of interest which has increased her debt. Miss V has also said that from looking at 
her credit file, she noticed other negative information on her credit file  she saw that on one 
of her accounts it was showing an arrears payment which she wasnt aware of. Miss V also 
said she had to use her credit cards for bills, rent and council tax arrears, so shes aware of 
the high amount of credit she already has. Additionally, Miss V said she knows she has other 
borrowing which hasnt helped her credit file.
Ive not looked into whether the default was applied fairly because as Ive explained, NCO 
arent responsible for registering the default, this seems like it was the responsibility of A. 
However, I note Miss V has recognised there may have been other adverse information on 
her credit file, and this could have contributed to her being declined credit cards which were 
interest free. So, because I cant look at the default, Ive also not considered whether Miss V 
was due a refund of the interest shes mentioned.
I note Miss V says she received letters from A asking her to make payment even though her 
complaint was with our Service. I can understand Miss Vs concerns, but businesses arent 
obliged to stop communicating with their customers while their complaint is with our service.
Putting things right
As Ive explained, I think it would have been worrying and concerning for Miss V to find out 
about the default without being told about it in the first place. And I do think that NCO could 
have told Miss V in their final response letter that she hadnt been sent the letters they 
thought she had, rather than saying that their position remains the same in that the default 
was fairly applied to her credit file. There also seemed to be a delay in the default being 
removed from Miss Vs credit file which caused her inconvenience. With all this in mind, I 
think NCO should pay Miss V £150 compensation. 
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint and I require NCO Europe Limited to 
pay Miss V £150 compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman