DRN-3667576
The complaint
Mr W complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited (II) took too long to transfer his 
Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) to another provider (provider A). He says the delay 
caused a financial loss. 
What happened
II havent provided this service with their full file. So Ive based by decision on the information 
available. 
Mr W held a SIPP with II. He moved the assets within the SIPP into cash on or around 2 July 
2020. He said he did this because he felt the markets were volatile, and because he was 
aware that the SIPP funds would be out of the market whilst the transfer took place. 
Mr W said he asked provider A how long the transfer would take. He said they told him that if 
II used a specific system, which they did, it would take about two weeks, but could be 
quicker. Mr W said he proceeded with the transfer on this basis. 
II received Mr Ws request to transfer his SIPP to provider A on 22 July 2020. They said that 
as Mr W had only transferred his SIPP from provider A to them within a year, their 
administrator contacted them on 27 July 2020 for security purposes. They asked them to 
clarify with Mr W why he wanted to move his SIPP back to provider A. 
II said that on 7 August 2020, they sent Mr W an email asking him to provide the reason for 
the transfer. Mr W replied on the same day. 
II emailed Mr W on 7 August 2020. They told him that a cash SIPP transfer usually took up 
to three weeks. 
II passed Mr Ws response on to their administrator on 13 August 2020 so they could 
complete their security checks. And on 17 August 2020 II emailed Mr W to tell him his 
request was being processed. 
On 19 August 2020, II confirmed that the transfer request had been accepted, and the cash 
would be moved from the account. And on 20 August they sent the funds to provider A, who 
Page 2 of 5 received them on 26 August 2020. At this point the transfer completed. 
Mr W was unhappy with how long his SIPP transfer was taking, so he complained to II. 
II issued their final response to the complaint on 28 September 2020. They didnt uphold it. 
They said the security checks had been important due to the recent rise in pension scams. 
They said theyd never told Mr W that his transfer would take two weeks. And that after the 
security checks had been completed, and the transfer process had started, the transfer had 
taken just under the three weeks theyd told him it should take in their 7 August 2020 email. 
Unhappy with IIs response, Mr W brought his complaint to this service. He considered 
whether provider A or II should be held responsible. But felt that II were responsible, as 
provider A had been relatively proactive during the transfer process. He said that II had 
given him spurious reasons for the delay, such as asking him why he wanted to transfer his 
SIPP back to provider A. He wanted to be compensated for his financial loss. And also said 
hed been worried and distressed when he couldnt access his funds. 
Our investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld. She considered that II had caused 
a delay to the transfer between 22 July 2020 and 7 August 2020. She felt that II should 
compensate Mr W for the financial loss she felt the delay to the SIPP transfer had caused. 
She concluded that the transfer shouldve completed on 10 August 2020. And also 
considered that II should pay Mr W £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
theyd caused him. 
II didnt agree with our investigator. They said theyd received the initial request to transfer 
from provider A on 22 July 2020. They said they uploaded the request to their administrator 
for approval. But that because Mr W had only recently transferred his SIPP from provider A 
to II, this had raised a red flag and their administrator had asked them, on 27 July 2020, to 
clarify why Mr W had requested to transfer back to provider A. They said theyd emailed Mr 
W on 7 August 2020 to ask him to provide the reason for the transfer. And that hed replied 
the same day with the following message: 
Your pensions administrator has asked why I want to transfer my SIPP back to provider A. 
For ease of use, really. I oversee 8 other accounts there. 
II said the only evidence they had of any timeframe being provided to Mr W was on the email 
of 7 August 2020 which had stated: 
Cash transfers can take up to 3 weeks 
Please be aware the above timescale is an estimation and depends on various factors, 
which can impact how long your transfer will take. 
They said that once they had received Mr Ws response to the security question, the transfer 
had completed on 26 August 2020, which was within the three-week timeframe provided on 
7 August 2020. So they didnt agree that the transfer had been delayed. 
II also said that as Mr W had only held cash in his SIPP at the time he requested the 
transfer, there was no financial loss to consider in terms of share price movement or market 
exposure. 
Mr W said that hed moved his SIPP funds into cash to expedite the transfer. He said hed 
wanted to re-invest the money in funds with provider A. He said the funds he wouldve 
invested in had increased hugely in value in the period after 5 August 2020. He felt that II 
Page 3 of 5 were responsible for his financial loss due to the delays theyd caused. 
Our investigator issued a second view on the complaint. She felt it should be upheld. She 
concluded that the transfer shouldve completed on 5 August 2020. And also considered that 
II should pay Mr W £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
II wanted to know when Mr W had re-invested the funds after the transfer had completed. Mr 
W provided this service with investment information, showing that hed invested the money 
over several weeks after the transfer. 
II didnt agree with our investigators second view. They made the following points: 
Our investigator had stated that II should calculate the financial loss based on the 
earliest possible date that the transfer couldve reasonably been completed, which shed felt was 5 August 2020. But the post-transfer investment information theyd 
been provided with showed that Mr W hadnt invested in most funds until mid-
September 2020 and in some cases even into October 2020. They felt this showed 
that there was no urgency on Mr Ws part to invest the cash once it was transferred. 
And that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold them responsible for any perceived 
loss on those units. 
II also said that if Mr W had been concerned about prices increasing, he couldve 
invested the funds with them first, and then completed an in-specie transfer. They 
said this wouldve protected his assets. They said Mr W had never suggested that he 
wanted to invest in any funds that II couldnt provide. 
The overall transfer had been completed within their stated timeframe. Therefore 
theyd caused no delay. 
After receiving IIs points, our investigator asked Mr W why hed decided to wait before 
investing. He replied that any sensible investor, when the market was volatile, would drip 
feed back into the market to avoid buying in at peak prices. Our investigator also asked Mr 
W if II had told him that he could make an in-specie transfer to protect his assets. He told her 
that they hadnt made him aware he could do this. He said that II had made it clear that the 
quickest and easiest transfer was cash. And that was why hed transferred his SIPP as cash.
II said that as Mr W was transferring away from them, it wasnt their responsibility to inform 
him of his transfer options. They said they acted on the request theyd received from 
provider A. They didnt feel theyd done anything wrong. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for a review. 
I issued my provisional decision on 4 August 2022. It said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold it. I know this will be extremely disappointing to Mr 
W. I acknowledge that our investigator felt that II had taken an unreasonable amount of time 
to process the transfer. But I dont agree. Ill explain my decision. 
I acknowledge that Mr W felt that because provider A had told him the transfer should take 
two weeks, thats how long it shouldve taken. But that Mr W also accepts that II never told 
him the process would take two weeks. 
Ive constructed a timeline of events below, so that I could see how many working days each 
part of the process took. 
Timeline 
Wednesday 22 July 2020: II received the request to transfer. 
Monday 27 July 2020: (Three working days later) The administrator contacted II for 
clarification of the reason Mr W was transferring out so soon after transferring in. 
Friday 7 August 2020: (Nine working days later) II asked Mr W to confirm the reason for the 
transfer. He replied the same day. 
Thursday 13 August 2020: (Four working days later) II passed Mr Ws response to their administrator for security checking. 
Wednesday 19 August 2020: (Four working days later) The administrator confirmed they 
accepted the request to transfer. 
Thursday 20 August 2020: (One working day later) II sent the funds to provider A. 
Wednesday 26 August 2020: (Four working days later) Provider A received the transferred 
cash. 
I can find no reference to a commitment within the SIPP terms to carry out a transfer within a 
certain period of time. I can also find no requirement for any particular stage of the process 
to be completed within a fixed period of time. However, IIs website contains information 
under How long do transfers take?. This states: 
Pension transfers 
Transferring your pension as a cash payment usually takes two to six weeks to complete. 
Please note that time frames are a guide from when you have sent all the forms and 
information we require. From that point, transfers can take longer depending on the type of 
investments you hold. 
Although the transfer took longer than Mr W had expected, Im satisfied that each stage was 
necessary  including the request for confirmation of why Mr W had requested the transfer. I 
agree with II that the security checks were important  and necessary - due to the recent rise 
in pension scams. Therefore I dont agree with our investigator that II wasted the time 
between 22 July 2020 and 7 August 2020. 
Based on what both parties have told me, the SIPP terms and conditions, and IIs website, 
Ive no evidence that II were under any obligation to carry out the SIPP transfer Mr W 
requested within a set period of time. II did indicate on their website that a cash transfer 
could take two to six weeks. And their 7 August 2020 email suggested it should take around 
three weeks. Ive found no other evidence of II telling Mr W how long his transfer might take. 
Its generally accepted that ten working days is a reasonable service level expectation. And, 
having reviewed the terms and conditions of the SIPP, Ive seen no evidence of a shorter 
service standard being applicable here. 
Looking at the timeline above, Im satisfied that each stage of the process was completed 
within the normal service standard this service considers reasonable for transactions of this 
Page 5 of 5 type. And, although I understand why Mr W considers that the transfer couldve 
been processed more quickly, Ive no evidence that II did anything wrong. I say this because 
the terms and conditions dont specify that any of these stages must be carried out in a 
particular time. 
I acknowledge that Mr W was clearly concerned about possible market volatility and out of 
market risk. Hed moved his holdings into cash three weeks ahead of his transfer request. 
But as Ive found that II caused no delay to the process, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to 
hold them responsible for any financial loss Mr W considers he suffered due to the length of 
time the process took. 
I appreciate that II received Mr Ws initial transfer request on 22 July 2020. However, Im 
persuaded that the checks they carried out between 22 July 2020 and 7 August 2020 were 
reasonable and necessary. Therefore I dont consider that the transfer request itself began to be processed until 7 August 2020. 
I acknowledge that Mr W considers that II couldve acted more quickly to complete this stage 
of the process. But, as shown in the timeline, Im satisfied that II acted within ten working 
days at each stage. 
The SIPP transfer was completed on 26 August 2020, just under three weeks after the 7 
August 2020 email, and therefore within the period II indicated the transfer might take in their 
7 August 2020 email. 
Even if I felt that the transfer process shouldve started immediately on 22 July 2020, I 
wouldve then calculated that the process took five weeks. This wouldve been within the 
timescale II reported on their website. And, although longer than the estimated three weeks 
noted on 7 August 2020 email, not outside what I consider a reasonable range based on IIs 
statement in that email. 
From what Ive seen, the process was completed within generally accepted timescales. II 
had made no commitment to complete the transfer within a fixed period of time. On 7 August 
2020, they told Mr W to expect the transfer to be complete within three weeks. And the 
transfer did complete within this timeframe. Therefore Ive found no evidence that II did 
anything wrong. 
As Ive found that II caused no delays to the transfer process, it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to hold them responsible for any perceived financial loss. Im not 
persuaded that II have done anything wrong. And I dont intend to uphold the complaint. 
Response to my provisional decision 
II accepted my findings on the whole. But asked me to provide clarity on a statement I had 
initially included in my provisional decision:
II havent provided this service with their full file. So Ive based by decision on the 
information available.
They said they had provided their case file and had replied to numerous queries about the 
case. 
Mr W felt that two crucial parts of his complaint had been missed.  
1. He explained that hed encashed his investments with II at the beginning of July 2020 
so that the transfer could go ahead as quickly as possible. Hed done this because 
provider A had told him that it could take as little as two weeks for the transfer to 
complete if it was a cash transfer. He said that hed read that an in-specie transfer 
might not be possible if the funds held werent identical. Mr W said that as soon as 
the encashment had completed in early July 2020, hed contacted provider A to 
request the transfer. But that provider A had then waited until 22 July 2020 to pass 
on the transfer request. He said hed done everything he could to transfer his SIPP 
speedily and re-invest the funds wisely. But that II had let him down.
2. Mr W felt the delay between 27 July 2020, when he was asked for the reason he was 
transferring, to the point it was accepted (19 August 2020) was unreasonable. He felt 
that this shouldve taken two days at most. He said he felt II had communication 
issues. He also felt that his response to IIs question about why he wanted to transfer 
his SIPP  which was for ease of use  hadnt really been a scam proof reply. Mr W also told this service that he hadnt been slow to reinvest the funds after the 
transfer. Instead, he had reinvested into the same funds over a period of about 6 
weeks, so that he could smooth out any fluctuations. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regarding IIs comment, I can confirm that this service did receive their case file, and their 
responses to numerous queries. I apologise for any confusion caused by my statement. 
Having carefully considered Mr Ws points, Im not persuaded to change my opinion. While I 
can understand why he feels let down by how long the transfer process took, and I 
acknowledge that he did everything he could to speed things up, Ive found no evidence that 
II were required to process his transfer any more quickly than they did. Im sorry that the 
transfer didnt go as quickly as Mr W had planned for, and had expected. But I remain of the 
view I set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman