DRN-4261292
The complaint
Mr S complains that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited (Hiscox) avoided his contents 
insurance policy and refused to pay his claim following a break-in at his home.
 
What happened
Mr S has home contents insurance with Hiscox. The policy provides cover for general 
contents, clothing, electronic equipment, art and collections, as well as jewellery, watches 
and valuable items. The policy began in December 2018 and renewed in December 2019. 
Unfortunately in early December 2019 there was a break-in at his home and so Mr S 
reported it to the police and Hiscox. At the time Mr S told Hiscox that the break-in had 
occurred when no-one was home. 
Hiscox instructed a loss adjustor to validate the claim. Following this Mr S says Hiscox 
voided the policy on the basis the declaration contained within the statement of fact was not 
true, accurate, or complete. 
Mr S says when taking out the policy he was asked if his home was unoccupied overnight 
more than 90 days in total during the period of insurance. Mr S says he answered no since 
his friend stays at the house when he is away. Mr S says he was also asked whether the 
property is solely occupied by him and his family. Mr S answered yes because his friend 
only stays there when Mr S and his family arent staying there. 
Hiscox has said in a period of a year Mr S has been out of the country for 249 days which 
was considerably more than 90 days as stipulated within the statement of fact. Mr S says he 
didnt notice this in the statement of fact and hes certain it wasnt there when he originally 
took the policy out.
Mr S also says English isnt his first language so its possible he misunderstood what the 
questions were asking. But since he was at home at the time the incident happened he cant 
understand what difference it makes.
Mr S says he took out the policy in good faith and Hiscox want to cancel it because hes had 
to make a claim. Hiscox declined the claim and voided the policy.
Mr S wasnt happy so complained to Hiscox. Hiscox said it appointed loss adjusters to 
investigate the claim. Hiscox said it requested clarification from Mr S on a number of 
occasions in relation to the claim but these werent forthcoming. Hiscox said at the time the 
policy was taken out it asked Mr S a number of questions. Hiscox also said at policy 
application stage and for each renewal it had issued the policy documentation, including a 
statement of fact, and asked Mr S to read it carefully to ensure all answers contained within 
it was true, complete, and accurate. It said had it been aware of the extent of Mr Ss travels it 
would have refused to provide cover. And so it voided the policy. 
Mr S didnt agree so he referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things for him. He said he was satisfied Hiscox had acted fairly in avoiding the policy but 
unfairly in not returning Mr S premiums, and so he partially upheld the complaint. The 
investigator said Hiscox should refund the premiums from the point it avoided his policy. 
Hiscox didnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
Hiscox said due to the investigation into the claim third party costs had been incurred so it 
didnt agree it should refund any premiums. Because Hiscox didnt agree the matter was 
passed to me for review. 
My provisional decision
I recently issues a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the key complaint points 
and how I thought matters might best be resolved. I said: 
Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Ive explained my reasoning below. 
There is a lot of information about the claim Mr S made, and Ive looked through everything 
provided. The detail is well known to both Mr S and Hiscox so I havent described the claim 
in any great detail here. Ill comment on any relevant evidence where appropriate to explain 
my decision. It is also not my intention to minimise the effect the claim has had on Mr S and 
his family. I recognise the impact the matter has had on Mr S and I empathise with the 
difficulties hes clearly faced.
I understand Mr S questions how having his friend stay at his home while hes away, or his 
home being unoccupied for longer than 90 days, could impact the underwriting of this risk. 
Insurers generally adopt their own approach to assessing risk, and while some might offer 
cover based on specific factors, others might not. An insurer will decide what factors to take 
into account and how much weight to put on each of them. Some may only use a few 
factors, others many more. We dont have the power to direct a business on what risk factors 
they should take into account. And, while I acknowledge consumers might sometimes have 
their own view on what should constitute risk, the ultimate decision on what risks are 
acceptable rests with the insurer. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has 
certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying 
misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it 
would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Hiscox thinks Mr S failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation in respect 
of the period of time spent away from the property and any arrangement in respect of a 
friend living at the home. 
Ive look at the statement of fact and the questions asked by Hiscox at renewal of the policy. 
The statement of fact says, is this your main home solely occupied by you and your family. 
Mr S answered yes. The next question is, Is your home unoccupied overnight more than 
90 days in total during the period of insurance. And the answer here is no. Mr S was out of the country for over 90 days in the insurance period but argued his friend 
stayed at the property when he was away so he answered no. But if this is the case then he 
should have made Hiscox aware of this and answered the question about the property being 
occupied by him and his family as no since his friend stayed there. Im satisfied the 
questions asked by Hiscox were clear and so I think Mr S failed to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation. 
I will now move on to whether the misrepresentation was a qualifying one. And what Hiscox 
would have done had it been aware of the correct information. 
Hiscox has provided evidence by way of the relevant underwriting criteria which shows that 
part of the decline criteria is when a property is unoccupied for over 90 days and occupied 
by anyone other than family the insurance policy would have been refused. So Im satisfied 
Mr Ss misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
Hiscox has said Mr Ss misrepresentation was careless because he knew of the correct 
information and just didnt provide it when asked. I agree its reasonable for Hiscox to say 
this misrepresentation was careless. Mr S did know of the information and so I think it was 
careless not to think back and provide the correct answer when asked. I do appreciate Mr S 
has explained about the possible language barrier. And I have thought about that here. But I 
havent seen anything to show this meant Mr S couldnt understand what the question was 
asking, or that he could take steps to obtain clarification if he was unsure. 
CIDRA explains that when considering whether a consumer has taken reasonable care, all 
the circumstances must be taken into account, including at renewal, how clearly the insurer 
communicated the importance of answering those questions (or the possible consequences 
of failing to do so). 
So Ive considered whether Hiscox made it clear that reviewing the previous questions and 
checking those was important. And I think it did. Ive seen the renewal documents sent to Mr 
S in November 2019. The letter says, please check all details within your policy schedule 
and statement of fact and if this information is incorrect please call us. It could affect the 
validity of the policy, or our ability to pay a claim if you do not tell us. So I think Hiscox made 
it clear that checking the statement of fact was important and could affect whether any 
claims were paid. 
As Im satisfied Mr Ss misrepresentation should be treated as careless Ive looked at the 
actions Hiscox can take in accordance with CIDRA. 
Since the qualifying misrepresentation should be treated as careless, and Hiscox has shown 
it wouldnt have offered cover had it been aware of the living arrangements, it is able to;
Avoid the policy from the point of misrepresentation, 
Return any unused premiums,
Treat the policy as though it never existed from the point of avoidance and not deal 
with any claims
The insurer may also look to cover any costs its paid to a third party on any claim 
after the misrepresentation 
Therefore, Im satisfied Hiscox was entitled to avoid Mr Ss policy in accordance with CIDRA. 
And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, Hiscox does not have to deal 
with his claim following the break-in at his home. As CIDRA reflects our long-established 
approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Hiscox to rely on it to avoid Mr S 
policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint. Hiscox has said the premiums collected for the policy are less than the costs incurred in 
investigating the claim and so no refund of premiums is due to Mr S. But this isnt what 
CIDRA says. It says Hiscox may avoid the policy and refuse all claims, but it must return the 
premiums. Where the loss or damage occurred in the second year after renewal, as is the 
case here, I think its fair that Hiscox refund the premiums back to the beginning of the policy 
Hiscox is avoiding, since the misrepresentation was careless. This is what CIDRA requires.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments they wished to make in response 
to my provisional conclusions. 
Response to my provisional decision 
Hiscox agreed with the findings set out in the provisional decision. Mr S didnt raise any 
additional points or query my findings.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of the fact that Hiscox accepted my conclusions, and Mr S didnt have anything to 
add to the findings set out in my provisional decision (which Ive reproduced here and which 
forms part of this final decision) Im satisfied it represents an appropriate way to resolve the 
dispute. For the reasons Ive set out above, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. 
Putting things right
In light of all this I think a fair and reasonable outcome is for Hiscox to;
Refund the premiums paid from the beginning of the policy period until the date the 
premiums are refunded. 
Add interest to the above amount at a rate of 8% simple per year from the 
commencement of the policy, until the date Hiscox makes payment. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint in part. I direct Hiscox 
Insurance Company Limited to do as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman