DRN-3043088
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001 and again in 2006. Mr and Mrs C say Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them PPI. 
On each occasion they were arranging credit and took out a policy that protection each of 
them for a proportion of the benefit amount.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Cs circumstances at the times of the sales as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint about the miss-sold PPI. Mr and Mrs Cs 
representatives did not agree with the outcome reached by the adjudicator  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Cs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint about the sales of PPI in 2001 or 
2006. I explain why below. 
So, the questions I need to consider are whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs C information that 
was clear, fair and not misleading in order to put them in a position where they could make 
an informed choice about the insurance they were buying. And whether in giving any advice 
or recommendation, Lloyds took adequate steps to ensure the product it recommended was 
suitable for their needs. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons for this conclusion 
below:
 
I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr and Mrs C didnt have to take out the PPI and 
they chose to take it out each time. I say this because to get the cover Mr and Mrs C 
had to complete an application form for it. And the application was separate to the 
application they were making for credit each of those times.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs C, so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at the time, 
shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For 
example, Mr and Mrs C were eligible for the cover and they had a need of the cover. 
I say that because Mr and Mrs C told us that they had limited sick pay and the policy 
could have paid out in addition to their sick pay and for longer than their employers 
would have paid them at their full rate of pay. And Mr and Mrs C told us that they 
chose to protect their savings at the time of taking out credit, by not choosing to 
borrow less, and the cover could have further protected those savings.  
There was nothing about Mr and Mrs Cs employment or occupation which would 
have made it difficult for them to claim. And Mr and Mrs C havent told us about any 
pre-existing medical conditions that could affect their ability to claim. There were also 
no additional restrictions on cover for mental health and/or back problems.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs C 
as I concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were 
buying from the information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it 
seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of 
this I dont think Mr and Mrs C would have declined the cover had Lloyds done 
anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs C would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Cs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Cs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Cs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Cs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.This means Lloyds doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
non-disclosure of commission
Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-
disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  
and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Lloyds didnt need to disclose the commission it received, so 
Lloyds doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs C paid. My reasons are 
set out below.
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin 
v Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who make the 
rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses to 
follow when theyre looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses will sometimes 
need to give consumers back some of the commission paid on certain PPI policies.
But this does not apply to credit agreements that are regulated mortgage accounts. From 
what Lloyds has told us and from the information Ive seen, the credit agreements in this 
case were, or became, regulated mortgage accounts - and so I dont think Lloyds have to 
refund any of the commission paid on the PPI policies.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I 
have set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about the policies sold by 
Lloyds Bank PLC  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman