DRN-3143733
The complaint
Mrs W is complaining that because of delays caused by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
she can no longer get a buy to ley mortgage on a property she and her husband own.
What happened
In 2000 Mr W and Mr W2 took out a buy to let mortgage with Barclays. It ran for 20 years. At 
some point during that time, Mr W2 was removed from the mortgage and Mrs W was added. 
In May 2020, a few days before the mortgage term ended Mrs W asked Barclays to provide 
a further mortgage, which would be in her sole name. 
Some delays were caused by the ongoing COVID pandemic, so Barclays couldnt make an 
appointment with Mrs W until July. The application progressed and a valuation carried out in 
early September. At that point Barclays told Mrs W that as the property she wanted to 
mortgage was a multi-unit property (three flats in a single building) she couldnt have a 
mortgage, as Barclays no longer lent on this type of property.
Barclays said that it could have provided a mortgage if Mrs W had been an existing 
customer  but as her old mortgage had expired, she was classed as a new customer and 
Barclays no longer lent to new customers on this type of property.
Mrs W didnt think that was fair as shed contacted Barclays before her old mortgage ended. 
She complained, saying she is being asked to repay the outstanding balance on the old 
mortgage (which was interest only, so she and Mr W still owe the capital they borrowed), 
and is struggling to find a mortgage with another lender.
Barclays acknowledged the service it provided could have been better and offered her £100.
Mrs W asked us to review her complaint as she thinks it unfair for Barclays to treat her as a 
new borrower.
Our investigator didnt think Barclays had been unfair when it treated Mrs W as a new 
borrower, given that the old mortgage had expired before she could complete a new 
application. But he did think Barclays could have handled the process quicker than it did, 
and that it should increase the compensation for the inconvenience it had caused by an 
extra £150.
Barclays agreed to this, but Mrs W says shes having problems re-mortgaging the property 
and is very distressed by the need to repay the capital.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going to uphold this complaint, but Im not asking Barclays to do more than pay Mrs W 
the extra compensation recommended by our investigator. I realise this will be disappointing 
for Mrs W, but Ill explain how Ive reached this decision.
Mrs W contacted Barclays about a week before the old mortgage expired. Thats a very 
short time period to leave before arranging new borrowing, especially when Mrs W must 
have known that, unless she could arrange a new mortgage, the consequences were that 
she and Mr W would need to repay the capital outstanding.
I agree there were some delays in handling Mrs Ws application for a new mortgage. Those 
seem to have largely been because of COVID restrictions in place at the time. Thats not 
something Barclays could have done anything about. There were also some problems with 
Barclays IT systems, which it was responsible for, although these dont appear to have been 
major.
Barclays says it was right to consider Mrs W a new customer when it assessed her 
application some time later. It says shed have needed to have completed and submitted an  
application for the new mortgage before the old one expired if she was to be considered an 
existing customer. I think thats reasonable  once the old mortgage expired, neither Mr or 
Mrs W had an active mortgage with Barclays. Instead they simply owed Barclays the capital 
outstanding.
Ive thought carefully about whether, if Mrs W had been able to get an appointment straight 
away and proceed with her application in early May, shed have been able to complete the 
process before her old mortgage ended. I dont think she could have. There were only a few 
working days available, and Mrs W also wanted to move the mortgage into her sole name. 
That means there would always have been a full assessment of her circumstances and the 
property before any offer of a new mortgage was made. There was also no guarantee a 
mortgage would have been offered, given the change in borrowers, as thats a commercial 
decision for Barclays is entitled to make.
So I think Barclays was fair when it assessed Mrs W as a new borrower. And, as it had 
decided to no longer offer mortgages on multi unit properties to new borrowers I cant say 
that was unfair. Barclays is entitled to review the types of lending it wants to do, and thats a 
commercial process it wouldnt be appropriate for me to challenge.
I do think Barclays let Mrs W proceed with the application when it knew its lending policy had 
changed, and I agree it has caused her some inconvenience. And five months is also a long 
time for a mortgage application. So I think the revised compensation of £250 is a fairer way 
to put things right.
Mrs W has told us shes distressed by the fact that she cant now re-mortgage the property 
elsewhere and she and Mr W have to find some way of repaying the capital. But thats the 
position theyd always have been in at the end of the mortgage if they hadnt made alternate 
arrangements, so I cant say that means Barclays has unfairly affected their financial 
position.
Putting things right
Barclays should pay Mrs W £250 for the distress and inconvenience its actions caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mrs W 
a total of £250, if it hasnt already done so.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman