DRN-4299879
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint is about a lifetime equity release mortgage they used to have with 
Prudential Lifetime Mortgages Limited. 
After a jurisdiction decision, an ombudsman has decided that we are able to consider the 
following issues:
the interest rate applied to a drawdown made in 2020, and the early repayment charge 
(ERC) applied to that drawdown when it was repaid;
further drawdowns took the borrowing over the maximum limits originally applied when 
the mortgage was taken out in 2008;
that from 1 February 2015 Prudential failed to check that Mr and Mrs W could afford the 
mortgage, other than by sending annual statements;
Prudentials customer service was poor in 2020, 2021 and 2022;
there were data breaches by Prudential.
What happened
I will not set out the history of the matter. There are several reasons for this. First of all, there 
are detailed summaries of the complaint set out in correspondence between the parties, in 
the ombudsmans jurisdiction decision dated 7 June 2023, and in the investigators letter 
dated 17 July 2023. There is therefore no need for me to repeat all those details here. 
In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Mr and Mrs W being identified. So for these reasons, I will instead concentrate 
on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I decide the merits of a complaint, I am required first to consider whether the 
complaint falls within our jurisdiction. Thats because we review jurisdiction at every stage of 
our case-handling process. I confirm Ive read the jurisdiction decision issued by my fellow 
ombudsman on 7 June 2023, and I agree with her conclusions about which parts of the 
complaint we can, and cannot, consider.
I will address the complaint issues in the order set out above.
2020 drawdown
On 8 June 2020 Mr and Mrs W drew down a further advance of £23,000 at a fixed rate of 
interest of 4.03%. Interest rates on equity release mortgages generally reflect the 
commercial reality that lenders advance funds to borrowers on the understanding that the 
lenders will receive no return on the funds for many years, and so the product is priced to 
reflect this. I am satisfied that interest has been charged on this further advance at the 
contractual rate specified in the offer, a rate which Mr and Mrs W accepted when they took 
out the additional £23,000 drawdown.
The further advance offer explains the circumstances in which an ERC will be charged and 
how it is calculated. The mortgage was repaid in January 2021. Prudential has confirmed 
that there was no ERC charged on the £23,000 drawdown. Ive looked at the redemption 
statement and I note that on redemption of the mortgage there was an ERC of £25,000 
charged on the initial drawdown from 2008, but there was no ERC charged on any of the 
other six drawdowns Mr and Mrs W had taken over the years. Mr and Mrs W have therefore 
suffered no financial loss or detriment, as they werent charged an ERC on the £23,000.
I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
Drawdowns allowed over the maximum limit
The mortgage offer from 2008 says:
The maximum amount you are currently eligible to borrow is £112,000.00. This 
represents 16% of the original property value shown above. This is the maximum 
amount that you can currently borrow and this figure will increase by £7,000.00 each 
year up to an absolute maximum of £245,000.00.
and
Your additional borrowing facility will increase by £7,000.00 each year up to the 
maximum loan amount of £245,000.00.
The initial drawdown in 2008 was £100,000. Between 6 August 2010 and 8 June 2020 
(inclusive) six further drawdowns were made, totalling £83,000, taking the total borrowing to 
£183,000. This is below the maximum loan amount provided for in the contract. Prudential 
did not therefore allow Mr and Mrs W to withdraw more than the maximum contractual limit.
I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
Prudential failed to check affordability
An ombudsman has already decided that our power to consider this part of the complaint 
runs from 1 February 2015 onwards. The complaint is that, other than sending annual 
mortgage statements, Prudential failed to carry out any affordability checks to ascertain 
whether Mr and Mrs W could afford the borrowing.
By design, this type of mortgage is expected to be repaid from the sale of the property. 
Therefore the risk of it not being repaid altogether with minimal. No monthly (or other 
periodic) repayments were required to be made by Mr and Mrs W during the lifetime of the 
mortgage. Consequently, affordability wasnt an issue because there were no monthly (or 
other periodic) repayments. Prudential was required to inform Mr and Mrs W of the interest that was continuing to accrue 
against the amounts theyd borrowed, and Im satisfied that the annual statements sent since 
February 2015 fulfilled that obligation. 
I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
Poor customer service between 2020-2022
In her detailed letter dated 17 July 2023 the investigator set out the issues Mr and Mrs W 
had had with Prudentials customer service.
In 2020, you complained that it was difficult to get through to Prudential and with
communicating via secure email system. Prudential hasnt disputed this. They have
apologised for these delays.
In 2021, you complained there were delays with Prudential coming back to you 
regarding the redemption payment. Prudential hasnt disputed this and have 
apologised for these delays and the concern this would have caused.
In 2022, you complained that the figures you were given were incorrect on the 
mortgage. Prudential hasnt disputed this and they have apologised for the incorrect 
information given.
For these customer service issues, Prudential has paid compensation totalling £809.89, as 
follows:
10 June 2020   £100 plus £9.89 interest = £109.89
16 June 2020 £100
18 March 2021 £500
26 July 2022 £100 
Ive looked at the customer service issues and, having done so, Im satisfied the 
compensation already paid by Prudential is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, and 
is proportionate to the customer service errors made. I therefore do not think Prudential 
needs to do anything more.
I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
Data breaches
Prudential inadvertently sent Mr and Mrs W information about a third party. That isnt a 
breach of Mr and Mrs Ws personal data. The third party could have complained that their 
data has been breached, but Mr and Mrs Ws data wasnt breached in this respect.
Mr and Mrs W are also unhappy that a letter sent to them was delivered to a neighbour, who 
opened it. Mr W says it had been put into the envelope in such a way that the address on the 
envelope couldnt be seen. However, if Royal Mail hadnt been able to read the address, it 
would, or should, have returned the letter to Prudential. Whilst I acknowledge Mr Ws 
strength of feeling that the letter was opened by a neighbour he doesnt like, I cant hold 
Prudential responsible for any errors by Royal Mail.I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
Further points
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs W were hoping for. I can see from what Mr W 
has told us that he feels very strongly about how unfair a product he thinks this equity 
release mortgage was. He sees wrong-doing and unfairness in practically everything 
Prudential has done. Thats an understandable reaction when youre as close to a situation 
as Mr W is. 
But I have a different remit; I have to be impartial and decide a case on the evidence. Having 
done so, other than the customer service issues for which I find Prudential has already paid 
sufficient compensation, Im unable to find Prudential has done anything wrong.
Mr W has made reference to a potential legal claim under the Misrepresentation Act 1967. If 
Mr and Mrs W are contemplating taking legal action against Prudential, I would suggest they 
take advice from a solicitor before doing so.
Mr W has also explained  and I am sorry to hear this  that he is facing bankruptcy. It might 
help Mr and Mrs W to speak to one of the free debt advisory services, such as Citizens 
Advice or StepChange, or to discuss their situation with an Insolvency Practitioner.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman