DRN-3648516
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly insisted he make a full application, including 
providing information about his finances, so that it would consider his request to extend the 
term of one part of his mortgage. And he complains that the subsequent disagreement about 
that issue delayed him obtaining a new product on a lower interest rate.
What happened
Mr B has two parts to his interest only residential mortgage  one part was due to end in 
2022 and the other was due to end in 2034. Mr B says the difference in the two terms was 
the result of an error by Santander and hes wanted both parts of the mortgage to end in 
2034 since approximately 2012. He discussed the matter with Santander at that time but, 
despite being dissatisfied with its response, wasnt able to pursue the matter at that time.
Mr B has provided numerous copies of correspondence since 2018 when he again asked 
Santander to extend the shorter termed part of his mortgage. Although his stance was that 
he didnt consider his request to be an application for a term extension to the shorter part of 
the loan. Instead, it was a request for Santander to correct the present unsustainable set-
up of his mortgage which he says was ultimately the result of Santanders error. Mr B 
pointed out that recent rule-tightening in 2014 [the Financial Conduct Authoritys mortgage 
market review] was introduced to prevent irresponsible lending, rather than to penalise 
people who already have mortgages.
By the time of his requests in 2018, Mr Bs mortgage was in two parts  both interest only. 
One part was for approximate £440,000, ending in 2034, the other was for £370,000, ending 
in 2022. Mr B says the only repayment vehicle for the mortgage was the house and he 
intended to sell it in 2034 and move to another property he owns. So, he wanted both 
mortgage parts to not be repayable until 2034.
Santander wrote to Mr B saying it had told him previously it wouldnt consider extending the 
loan with the shorter term until it was within six months of its term end. And its position on 
the matter had not changed. Santander didnt change its position going into 2019 and again 
responded to further correspondence from Mr B confirming that. However, in a final 
response letter dated 24 September 2019, Santander said its lending criteria had recently 
changed and its underwriters could consider an application to change the term. But that was 
subject to him submitting a full application including information about his income and 
expenditure. Its actual wording was:
This is subject to completing an application with our Mortgage Centre in order for us 
to assess the full details of the proposed change and to ensure the proposal is
affordable by way of your income in comparison to your expenditure and your other
proposals related to when you wish to retire and downsize.
In my jurisdiction decision dated 12 May 2022 I found that we can look into the first part of 
Mr Bs complaint  Santander unfairly insisted he make a full application so that it would 
consider extending the term of one part of his mortgage. In that regard, I said:
Santanders letter dated 24 September 2019 informed Mr B that its lending criteria 
had recently changed. And its underwriters could consider a request to extend his 
mortgage term, subject to application, including an affordability assessment.
The content of Santanders letter of 24 September 2019 appears to contain new 
information  its change in lending criteria. And Santanders insistence that Mr Bs 
request is subject to an application and affordability assessment is what hes actually 
complained about in his letter to it in 2020. So, Ive thought about whether Santander 
addressed that as a complaint point.
Ive read Mr Bs letters to Santander leading up to its final response letter dated      
24 September 2019. I havent seen that his concerns are about Santander insisting 
that he go through an application and affordability assessment to obtain a term 
extension. So, I dont think Santanders mention of an affordability assessment in its 
September 2019 letter is a response to a complaint hes made  its merely a 
comment on what happens next. 
As none of Santanders subsequent letters address that point and give referral rights 
to this Service, I think we can consider it. Thats because Mr B has raised it with 
Santander and it hasnt given a final response within the eight weeks it is allowed.
That meant our investigator could consider whether Santanders requirement for a full 
application was fair from the date it first informed Mr B  its letter dated 24 September 2019. 
That consideration doesnt include the fairness or otherwise of Santanders actions up to that 
point, though some of the background is included here for context.
Following Santanders letter of 24 September 2019, Mr B told Santander he shouldnt have 
to demonstrate affordability to increase the term of the shorter part of his mortgage. 
Santander wrote to Mr B on 20 December 2019 saying it was looking into fulfilling Mr Bs 
request without him having to go through the application process.
In its response letter to Mr B dated 6 January 2020 Santander said that whenever changes 
are made to the mortgage, it would ensure there arent any financial issues that require 
further consideration, which is why it asked for a full application.
Mr B then wrote several letters to Santander  Ill not outline them all here. Following a letter 
he wrote on 7 February 2020 and Santanders response on 25 February 2020, Mr B wrote to 
Santander on 27 February 2020. In that letter he said he previously made it aware of 
Mortgage Conduct of Business (MCOB) rules  specifically MCOB 11.7  that it wasnt 
required to make him go through an affordability assessment. And, he said, Santander was 
in breach of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) principle 7  in that its correspondence 
about why it wanted Mr B to go through an affordability assessment hadnt been clear, fair 
and not misleading.
Mr B wrote again to Santander on 16 March 2020 saying he made an application for a term 
extension and now has to go through affordability. So, can Santander confirm that the only 
reason he has to go through affordability now is changes he made to mortgages on other 
properties he owns?
Santander called Mr B on 20 March 2020 saying it was happy to proceed with his application 
without an affordability check. It said it would do so as an exceptional circumstance. 
Santanders mortgage offer letter dated 24 April 2020 shows both parts of his mortgage on a 
term of 15 years and 7 months.Mr B says Santander couldnt have referred the matter of whether it could ask him to submit 
details for an affordability check to its legal representative as it had claimed. Otherwise it 
would have found that it was able to extend the term without assessing affordability. And 
Santanders eventual acceptance that his application without an affordability assessment 
shows that Mr B was right to insist that it didnt need one. So, Santander were also at fault 
for the delay to the process and its lack of engagement with him on the issue was 
unreasonable and caused him further stress. 
Our investigator didnt think Santander had done anything wrong. She considered the MCOB 
rule Mr B had referred to and explained it as follows:
There are regulations which flowed from the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
Mortgage Market Review (MMR) since 2014. These regulations have brought about 
requirements for stricter lending assessments for all lending, to ensure that lenders 
were lending responsibly. The requirement to carry out an affordability assessment is 
contained in rule 11.6.2.
Lenders are required to look at income and expenditure and are expected to apply 
stress test as part of their affordability assessment. In essence, the rules placed a 
greater expectation on a lender to ensure that not only could the consumer afford the 
mortgage now, but that they still could if their situation was to worsen, such as if 
interest rates were to rise.
But the FCA recognised that this might cause difficulties for existing borrowers, so it
introduced flexibility to allow for exceptions to be made. It did this through two new 
rules  11.6.3 and 11.7.1.
The rule that applies here is 11.7.1 which allows- but doesnt require- a lender to 
forgo an affordability assessment during an application if the following applies:
the loan, or predecessor loan, pre-dates 26 April 2014
the loan is a first charge mortgage
no further borrowing since 26 April 2014, except to finance product fees or 
essential repairs to the property
the proposed transaction would be in the consumers best interests
Under this rule, even where a change material to the affordability of the mortgage 
takes place, the lender can - if it chooses - waive an affordability assessment. If the 
lender decides to carry out an affordability assessment, it shouldnt use that as a 
reason to decline an application, if allowing the application would otherwise be in the 
customers best interests. But the lender can take the assessment into account as 
part of its consideration of best interests.
Our investigator found that Mr Bs circumstances did meet those outlined under MCOB 
11.7.1, so allowed Santander to disregard the outcome of an affordability assessment. But 
she didnt think it was unreasonable for Santander to ask Mr B to make an application as he 
wanted a variation to his mortgage. She also made the distinction between the consideration 
of income and expenditure and an affordability assessment  the former not being assessed 
against lending criteria. She concluded that Santander hadnt carried out an affordability 
assessment and had applied its own criteria for contract variations.
Santander made no further submissions in response to our investigators view.Mr B didnt agree with our investigator. He said Santander has never argued that an 
affordability assessment was discretionary, but it had said that the rule Mr B had informed it 
of making it so, applied only to mortgage prisoners looking to move home. He said 
Santander went onto mislead him by saying it would consult a legal representative, only to 
conclude an affordability assessment was required  thereby implying it was a legal 
requirement.
Mr B also disagreed with our investigators distinction between a consideration of income 
and expenditure and an affordability assessment. And he said it isnt true that Santander 
couldnt consider the request until an application was made.
As Mr B disagreed with our investigators findings, the complaint has been referred to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide Mr Bs complaint Ive thought about whether, in 2019, Santander unfairly asked  
Mr B to make an application for it to consider his request to increase the term of the part of 
his mortgage that was due to end in 2022. To do that Ive considered all the circumstances 
of this complaint, including the MCOB rules as well as the relevant part of Santanders 
lending policy. 
However, my consideration is limited to the complaint I said I could consider in my 
jurisdiction decision dated 12 May 2022. I know Mr B wants answers to all the questions 
raised in his submissions. But its not my role to provide him with those, so thats not what Ill 
do. And, if I find that it was reasonable for Santander to ask Mr B to make an application, 
that doesnt mean Ive found it has acted without fault in all its dealings with him.
Ive considered the findings of the mortgage market review  where they apply here  and 
the subsequent additions to the MCOB rules. The mortgage market review found that 
affordability assessments should be much more rigorous than they previously had been. And 
additional considerations were expected for interest only mortgages.
That said, I agree that Mr Bs circumstances did meet the criteria under MCOB 11.7.3, 
allowing a lender to disregard the outcome of an affordability assessment if it was in the 
borrowers best interest to do so. Mr B thought hed fail such a rigorous affordability 
assessment so its understandable that hed seek to avoid one, especially where the rules 
say a lender could choose to disregard the outcome of it.   
Santander says its lending criteria changed to allow a borrower to use the sale of the 
property as a repayment vehicle in situations such as this. Its contract variations policy 
confirms it would require a customer wanting an extension of an interest only mortgage to go 
through an application process to confirm they met certain criteria, such as not being in 
financial difficulty, being a UK resident, the property being the main residence and no 
significant changes in circumstances. And if that criteria were met, affordability could be 
assessed on past payment history. Santander says thats what happened in Mr Bs case.
As mentioned above, Santander wrote to Mr B on 6 January 2020. It said:
It is unlikely that we will request full details of income and expenditure, however, we 
are obliged to ensure, whenever such changes are being made to a mortgage, there 
are no underlying financial issues which require further considerationI think thats a clear explanation of why Santander asked for Mr B to complete an application. 
I understand that he didnt want to fall short of Santanders policy as a result of sharing 
information that Santander didnt need to ask for  following the findings and 
recommendations of the mortgage market review. But I also think its reasonable that 
Santander is able to gain a better understanding of Mr Bs overall circumstances so that it 
didnt put him in a position that wasnt in his best interests, and that it was acting responsibly 
by making the changes that Mr B had requested.
Like our investigator, having read the requirements of an affordability assessment under the 
mortgage market review rules  MCOB 11.6.2 to 11.6.39  I think theres a significant 
difference between those rules and what Santander asked of Mr B in this application. I dont 
think Santanders application was unreasonably rigorous in the circumstances and it did fulfil 
Mr Bs request after he went through its application process.
I have noted that the change in criteria that Santander says allowed Mr B to apply to change 
the term is different to that communicated to him in its letter dated 24 September 2019. But I 
havent seen that added a level of confusion which would have led to an error being made 
about its request for an application. 
I havent seen that Santander did or didnt refer the matter of it forgoing an affordability 
assessment to a legal representative. But I dont agree that its continued insistence that     
Mr B go through an application implies that it had to by law, or that the referral never took 
place. Thats because I dont think the application Santander required was the same as the 
more rigorous affordability assessment required as a result of the findings of the mortgage 
market review. Instead, I think it merely followed its own lending policy. I dont think doing so 
was unfair and I dont think the policy itself goes against either the letter or the spirit of 
MCOB 11.7.1. The rule doesnt say a lender cant have an application process if a borrower 
who is seeking to alter their mortgage, meets the rules requirements. And I dont think its 
purpose is to encourage lenders to make such changes without reasonable care.
Ive considered the circumstances needed to reach a finding on this complaint. Having done 
so, I dont think Santander acted unfairly or unreasonably in asking Mr B to apply to extend a 
part of his mortgage when its lending criteria changed in 2019.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman