DRN-1725336
The complaint
Miss B complains that Santander UK Plc restricted and then closed her accounts.
What happened
Miss B had five accounts with Santander.
On 6 June 2019, Santander reviewed Miss Bs accounts. Whilst it completed its review it 
blocked all the accounts. This meant Miss B wasnt able to use her accounts during that 
time. Santander completed its review on 10 June 2019. And wrote to Miss M to let her know 
it had decided to close her accounts immediately.
Miss B says that as a result of the block she was left without any money and wasnt able to 
pay for food or petrol to travel to work. Shes explained that was due to go on holiday in mid-
June, so the block made things particularly stressful for her. And that her mental health 
suffered. 
Santander said it hadnt done anything wrong when it decided to review Miss Bs account. 
And had done so in order to meet its legal and regulatory obligations. Miss B wasnt happy 
with this response. She wants Santander to give her a proper explanation why it blocked and 
then closed her accounts. So, she brought her complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Bs complaint. She said Santander hadnt done 
anything wrong when it had reviewed and then closed Miss Bs accounts. Miss B disagreed. 
And asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from what Miss B has told us and the bank that she feels very strongly about her 
complaint. I appreciate that shes upset that Santander blocked her accounts and that this 
caused her inconvenience. I can also understand that this was no doubt stressful for her 
especially as she was due to go on holiday and was worried about how she would manage 
to get to work. But for me to uphold this complaint, I must be satisfied that the bank has done 
something wrong. And in this case, I dont think it has. Ill explain why. 
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. Banks are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of 
an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to restrict customers 
accounts. Santander has said that Miss Bs access to her accounts was blocked to meet 
these requirements.
Ive looked at the available evidence, and Im satisfied that Santander was within its rights to 
review Miss Bs accounts and that it was entitled to block them whilst it carried out that 
review. Santander also werent obliged to tell Miss B why it was carrying out a review of her account  as much as shed like to know. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it 
do so.
Having looked at whats happened in this complaint, Santander were also entitled to close 
Miss Bs accounts and did so in line with the accounts terms and relevant regulations. So, 
whilst appreciate this caused Miss B inconvenience, I cant say Santander have treated Miss 
B unfairly when it decided to close her accounts.
I appreciate of course that Santanders actions caused Miss B stress and inconvenience. 
And she had to go to the trouble of opening new accounts. So, I realise Miss B will be 
disappointed by my decision. But it wouldnt be appropriate to make an award of 
compensation for that, since I dont believe Santander acted inappropriately when it blocked 
and closed Miss Bs accounts.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Santander UK Plc to do anything more to resolve Miss 
Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman