DRN-3296075
The complaint
Miss W complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) have unfairly 
withdrawn cover from her Legal Expenses Insurance (LEI) claim. 
Where I refer to RSA, this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
Miss W used a representative to bring her complaint, but for ease of reading Ill only refer to 
Miss W and will ascribe the representatives comments to her. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. In July 2019 Miss W sought to make a claim on 
her LEI policy which is underwritten by RSA. She wanted legal assistance to defend a claim 
that had been brought against her by a previous employer. 
The claim was initially accepted and progressed. In November 2019 RSA said that following 
a review, they didnt believe Miss Ws claim met the terms of the policy and as such cover 
was being withdrawn. In summary they said no insured event had taken place, and even if it 
had  further policy exclusions would apply. I understand that RSA paid around £10,000 
towards the legal expenses incurred whilst cover had been in place. 
Miss W contested RSAs decision and subsequently raised a complaint. But RSA maintained 
their position and the matter was referred to our service. One of our Investigators didnt 
recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought RSA had acted fairly in the 
circumstances. Miss W disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point here is the policy terms. Miss Ws LEI policy provides cover for a variety of 
issues including personal injury and consumer protection. But the relevant section for this 
complaint is the cover relating to employment. Under the heading of Employment the policy 
says there is cover for:
1. The cost of you taking legal proceedings against your employer over your contract of 
employment
2. The cost of defending legal action brought against you in the territorial limits as a result of 
prosecution which results from your normal duties as an employee. This includes civil 
proceedings under the Race Relations Act 1976, the Sex Discrimination Act 1986, the 
Disability Discrimination Act 1995, the Data Protection Act 1998 or any Acts which replace or 
change these.
It isnt in dispute that Miss W was defending rather than taking legal action. As such the first 
part of cover mentioned above doesnt apply. RSA say that Miss W is defending a civil action 
(not being criminally prosecuted) and as that civil action isnt in relation to one of the Acts 
listed above, then there is no cover available. The word prosecution isnt specifically 
defined in the policy. Miss W says the dictionary definition of prosecution is the act of 
bringing a court case against another which doesnt exclude civil cases or mean that it only 
applies to criminal cases. 
Ive taken this into consideration and can understand the point Miss W is making. But when 
looking at the term as a whole it goes on to explain that it will include defence of the civil 
proceedings that it lists. I think this differentiates civil proceedings from the term 
prosecution. I dont think this differentiation would be required if prosecution were to include 
all civil action taken against an insured. I also think the common everyday use of 
prosecution implies criminal proceedings. There are many dictionary definitions available 
online, some of which do specifically refer to criminal proceedings. Taken as a whole, I think 
the policy is sufficiently clear and I dont think the decision RSA reached was unreasonable.
Miss W has provided a leaflet from RSA which shows an overview of the cover available. 
She says this doesnt support that only criminal defence employment matters are covered. 
Ive considered this, but I wouldnt expect the full details to be provided in such a document. 
It is the policy documents which form the basis of available cover and where the full details 
are provided. 
Im satisfied that RSAs decision that the policy doesnt cover the circumstances of Miss Ws 
claim was fair. As such, Im not going to go on and comment on the exclusions that they said 
would also apply. 
RSA say it was an error to accept the claim in the first instance. Clearly it would have been 
better if this error hadnt occurred. But they have also paid out around £10,000 for legal 
expenses incurred during the time cover was mistakenly in place. As such, I dont think they 
need to do more as Miss W has had the benefit of cover she wasnt strictly entitled to. I can 
see that RSA relied on a costs expert when assessing what theyd pay during the relevant 
time. I think this is fair and it is standard industry practice for this type of claim. It was also 
fair for RSA to limit what theyd pay to the costs incurred prior to cover being withdrawn. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman