DRN-3630158
The complaint
Mrs B complains that NCO Europe Limited unfairly terminated her credit card agreement and 
recorded a default on her credit file.
 
What happened
Mrs B originally took out a credit card with a business Ill refer to as V. The credit card debt 
was later sold to another business Ill call A. And A instructed NCO to manage the account. 
On 18 December 2020 NCO sent a termination letter to Mrs B that said she had until 
1 March 2021 to clear the outstanding balance. Otherwise, NCO said it would terminate the 
agreement and record a default on Mrs Bs credit file. No payment or contact was received 
and NCO terminated the account and reported a default five days earlier than advised, on 
25 February 2021. No payment or contact from Mrs B was received prior to 1 March 2021. 
In April 2021 Mrs B emailed NCO and asked to make a payment arrangement of £25 a 
month to clear the balance. 
Mrs B later complained about the default on her credit file and date NCO had terminated the 
agreement. NCO didnt agree it had made a mistake by terminating the agreement but 
apologised that it had given the wrong end date in its termination letter. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mrs Bs complaint and partially upheld it. The 
investigator asked NCO to pay Mrs B £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
mistake in its termination letter. But the investigator didnt ask NCO to take further action in 
relation to the default.
In response to the investigator, Mrs Bs representative (Mr B) said NCO was five days early 
in applying the default so she should get five days back to repay it. On settlement Mr B said 
NCO should arrange for the default to be removed. They also said Mrs B had funds available 
at the time to clear the outstanding balance. As Mrs Bs representative asked to appeal, her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We try to resolve complaints by putting the consumer back into the position they wouldve 
been in had no mistakes been made by a business. In this case, NCO says its termination 
letter dated 18 December 2020 contained the wrong default date and ought to have said 25 
February 2021. Thats the date the default was applied. But Mrs B says the mistake was that 
NCO closed the account and applied the default four days too early as it gave her until 1 
March 2021. 
In either of the above scenarios, to avoid a default, Mrs B needed to clear the outstanding 
balance in full. But no contact from Mrs B was received and no payments were made. I can 
see Mr B has forwarded a bank statement and told us Mrs B had funds available at the time. 
But I have to factor in that Mrs B didnt use those funds to make the payment required to 
avoid the default by the date given in the termination letter  1 March 2021. So even if we 
proceed on the basis that the default was applied five days early, that doesnt change the 
overall position which is that no payment was made before the due date. 
Mrs B has told us she found the default on a free credit report on 25 February 2021  the 
date the account was terminated. But I have to take into account that credit files arent 
updated in real time and theres generally a delay of around a month. I havent seen any 
evidence that NCO or A reported the default as early as 25 February 2021.
I note Mrs B told us she wouldve borrowed money to clear the outstanding balance by 
1 March 2021. But its very unlikely NCO wouldve accepted money Mrs B had borrowed 
elsewhere to clear the outstanding balance. 
Even accepting that NCO made a mistake with the termination date, I dont agree it would be 
fair to remove the default from Mrs Bs credit file. As no payment was received within the 
time given in the termination letter and no contact was made for around a further month, Im 
satisfied the decision to terminate the account and apply the default was fair. 
Our investigator asked NCO to pay £100 to Mrs B for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by the error noted in its termination letter. I can see the mistake caused Mrs B a reasonable 
level of distress and understand shes upset. Whilst I havent found grounds to tell NCO to 
remove the default, Im satisfied a £100 payment to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience caused is a fair and reasonable way to resolve Mrs Bs complaint. As a result, 
Im going to uphold Mrs Bs complaint and proceed on that basis. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Bs complaint an direct NCO Europe Limited to pay her 
£100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman