DRN-1192564
 
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) handled a claim he made on 
his home emergency policy after his hot water cylinder started leaking.
Mrs H has brought the complaint to us on his behalf.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr Hs hot water cylinder started leaking. So Mr and Mrs H called Aviva to 
make a claim. An engineer came out to their home. He called up the claims team to check 
what Mr Hs policy covered. As the cylinder was unvented, the engineer was told Mr H would 
only be covered for it to be drained and isolated. 
Mr and Mrs H said the engineer didnt offer them this option and didnt turn off the leaking 
water. They told us the engineer left their home and the water continued leaking. They said 
they had to call out an independent third party engineer who carried out the drainage and 
isolation of their cylinder. They complained about Avivas engineer and sent it a copy of the 
engineers invoice so it could reimburse their costs.
Aviva looked into Mr and Mrs Hs concerns, but it didnt agree to reimburse their costs. It 
said its engineer had offered to drain and isolate Mr Hs cylinder and that Mr H had refused 
it. The engineer told Aviva Mr H had said he didnt want disruption to the hot water and he 
was arranging for a private engineer to come out. Itd also spoken to the engineers manager 
who said the engineer was very experienced and had confirmed hed offered a drain down. 
So it didnt think its engineer had done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs H werent happy with Avivas decision. They asked us to look into their 
complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought it was most likely 
the engineer had offered to drain and isolate Mr Hs cylinder and that Mr H had turned down 
this option. He didnt think the engineer had been required to turn off the water at Mr and Mrs 
Hs home. And he thought Aviva had dealt with the claim in line with its terms and conditions.
Mrs H disagreed with the investigator on Mr Hs behalf. She asked why she wouldve refused 
help when water was leaking through the ceiling. She thought the engineer had changed his 
statement from claiming hed dealt with Mrs H to saying hed dealt with Mr H. And that hed 
simply told them they werent covered for their boiler and pointed at the number on his t-shirt 
when they asked what the next steps should be.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think Aviva has treated 
Mr H fairly. Ill explain why.
What did the policy cover?
First of all, Ive thought about what Mr Hs policy covered him for and whether the engineer 
shouldve offered anything more than a drain and isolate. So Ive looked carefully at the 
terms of the policy. Under the Gas Central Heating Breakdown section it says:
What isnt Covered?:
c) repair or replacement of water tanks, radiators, radiator valves and water cylinders;
d) Immersion heaters, combination cylinders, elson tanks, thermal storage units (e.g. Gledhill 
Boilermate), unvented hot water cylinders (e.g. Range Powermax) or their controls.
Mr and Mrs H had an unvented hot water cylinder. So it seems claims for repair or 
replacement wouldnt be covered. But the policy also says:
Examples of claims covered
Drain down and isolate leaking water tanks , radiators and hot water cylinders.
So it appears a drain down and isolation of the hot water cylinder was what wouldve been 
covered by the policy. 
Should Aviva have done anything differently?
Mr and Mrs H say the engineer didnt offer them the option of a drain and isolate. Aviva says 
the engineer did offer this option and it was refused. In cases like these, where theres a 
dispute about whats taken place, I need to make a decision, on balance, about what I think 
is most likely to have happened. I make this decision by looking at everything thats been 
said and the evidence thats available to me. 
On the one hand, Mrs H asks why they wouldve left water leaking from the cylinder into their 
home, if thered been a choice to get the drainage and isolation done. And the invoice from 
the engineer they called out suggests this was the action he took to stop the leak.
But on the other hand, Aviva has a recording of the call its engineer made to the claims team 
while he was at Mr and Mrs Hs home. The engineer called to check what cover Mr H had. 
When he was told what the policy didnt cover, he checked what hed be able to offer Mr H. 
He was told he could only offer a drain and isolate.
The notes the engineer made on Avivas system after going to Mr and Hs house say: 
Offered drain down, ph refused, ph phoning one contact.
It seems unlikely to me that the engineer would take the time to call the claims team to find 
out what Mr Hs policy covered and ask what he could offer Mr H if he didnt plan to then 
offer that option. If that were the case, Id have expected him to end the call with the claims 
team when he found out unvented cylinders werent covered. The contemporaneous notes 
he made on Avivas system at the time also seem to support that he did offer a drain down 
and isolation.Aviva looked into Mr and Mrs Hs concerns. The engineer was interviewed and the concerns 
were also discussed with his manager. The engineers version of events seems consistent 
with whats been recorded on Avivas systems. And given the length of time the engineer 
had worked for Aviva, it seems more likely than not that hed be aware of the appropriate 
remedial actions to take in the case of leaks like Mr Hs cylinder suffered.
Mrs H has given us her recollections about what happened. I acknowledge these are 
detailed. Shes pointed to things she believes are inconsistent about what the engineer said. 
Having considered the evidence though, I cant see that the engineer did refer to speaking to 
her. His notes record he spoke to the ph  the policyholder. In this case, the policyholder is 
Mr H. The engineers referred to Mr H in his discussions about what happened with Aviva. 
So I dont think theres enough inconsistency for me to uphold the complaint on this basis.
Overall, I have to decide what I think is most likely to have happened. And based on all Ive 
seen, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs H, I think its most likely the engineer did offer 
a drain down and isolation. And that this was refused because Mr and Mrs H planned to call 
out their own engineer to fix the problem.
Ive thought about whether or not the engineer shouldve turned off the water. It seems like it 
mightve been a sensible thing to do. But an engineer can only take actions a policyholders 
happy with. In this case, it seems Mr H didnt want the hot water interrupted or isolation to 
the cylinder at the point the engineer visited. So I dont think I can fairly hold Aviva 
responsible for what seems to have been Mr Hs choice.
Based on all Ive seen, Im not directing Aviva to reimburse Mr and Mrs H the costs they 
incurred.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman