DRN-1096441
Complaint
Miss E, who is represented by a third party, complained that Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) 
mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a credit card in August 2000. 
She says she doesnt think she ever agreed to the PPI.
Background
Our adjudicator thought Miss Es complaint should be upheld.
Because Barclays disagrees, her complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold Miss Es complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive been sent Miss Es original Barclaycard application form from August 2000 which she 
filled out and sent in by post. Ive looked at this and can see she didnt agree to buy any PPI 
at that time. Although there was an option on the form to ask for PPI, Miss E didnt tick the 
box.
Barclays confirms this and says the PPI policy was added to her account a short time later 
during a phone call of some sort. But it cant say whether it phoned her, or the other way 
around.
So its clear to me that Miss E didnt want any PPI when she applied for her credit card and it 
was added a short time after this  on around 8 August 2000 - as a result of telephone call. 
However, Barclays cant show me anything that confirms or suggests Miss E agreed to this 
sudden change of mind. And looking at Miss Es situation of that time, I find it quite unlikely 
that she didnt want any PPI when she filled out her application  but did shortly after. 
Barclays sent me a number of documents about the rules governing the selling of PPI and 
some details about Miss Es account. 
Whilst Im grateful for these, they dont add anything to this particular case. What Ive seen 
strongly shows that Miss E didnt want any PPI. Barclays hasnt got any evidence to make 
me think she changed her mind between the short period of her applying for the card and 
supposedly speaking to Barclays on the phone. So Ive decided its more likely than not, that 
Miss E didnt give her consent to this policy being added to her card. 
I therefore dont need to explain anything else. Providers of policies like this are required to 
get the agreement and consent of consumers during these sales. Barclays cant show me it 
did this.It follows that Im upholding Miss Es complaint.
fair compensation
Barclays should put Miss E in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A. Barclays should find out how much Miss E would owe on her credit card if the policy 
hadnt been added to it. It should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any 
interest charged on those premiums.  It should also remove any charges that were 
caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Miss E owes and what she 
could have owed. If Miss E made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays 
can take off what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
B. If when Barclays works out what Miss E would have owed each month without PPI  
Miss E paid more than enough to clear her balance, Barclays should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Miss E paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Miss E wouldve owed Barclays something on her credit card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.
C. Barclays should tell Miss E what its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Miss E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Miss Es complaint against Barclays Bank Plc and require it to pay the 
compensation set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 January 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman