DRN-2423836
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complained that they were mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy by Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (BoS).
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out their mortgage in 1988. In July 1995 they took out a further advance 
on the mortgage, and it was at this point the PPI was sold. Mr and Mrs W couldnt remember 
much about the sale. BoS couldnt confirm whether the sale took place in a branch of the 
bank, but had considered the complaint on the basis that it had, and that it had 
recommended the policy for Mr and Mrs W. Mr and Mrs W told us they didnt know they were 
paying for the PPI and didnt ask for it. 
The policy provided accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mr W at a monthly cost 
of £34.50. The monthly benefit was £500.00. If he had made a successful claim, the policy 
couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagreed, and asked that it be 
referred to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs W complained that the PPI was added to their mortgage without their knowledge 
and consent. BoS couldnt provide copies of any documentation from the point of sale, 
although this is not surprising as the mortgage was repaid in 2004  over 16 years ago - and 
businesses are not required to keep records indefinitely. However, it was able to send us a 
copy of its computer records of Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage account (and the PPI), including 
an extract from the list of transactions on the account. As Mr and Mrs W havent been able to 
give us much information about what happened when they took out the PPI, Ive also taken 
into account what we know about other BoS PPI sales at around the same time.  
As Ive said, the PPI was taken out when Mr and Mrs W increased the borrowing on their 
mortgage in 1995. The computer records that BoS provided show answers to questions 
about eligibility for the PPI, and Ive no reason to think the questions werent asked  which 
suggests some discussion about the policy took place. Ive also kept in mind that I havent 
seen problems with PPI being added without consent in other, similar BoS sales. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs W said, but on balance, I dont think I can fairly 
say its most likely that the PPI was added without Mr and Mrs Ws knowledge and consent, 
which is what Id have to do to be able to uphold the complaint on this point  I simply dont 
have enough evidence that this is what happened. 
Ive considered this complaint on the basis that BoS advised Mr and Mrs W to take out the 
policy  which holds it to a higher standard - so it shouldve made sure it was suitable for 
them. I think it was.
I cant know how the adviser explained the PPI - especially the things not covered. But I 
cant see that Mr W (as the insured) wouldve been affected by any of these. Its not clear 
how the cost of the PPI was explained to Mr and Mrs W, although I dont think theyd have 
agreed to take it without some idea of the cost. And Ive no evidence to suggest the premium 
was unaffordable for them.
Mr and Mrs W said that Mr W wouldve been entitled to sick pay from his employer of six 
months full pay followed by six months half pay. They also said that Mrs W wouldve been 
entitled to sick pay, but didnt say for how long this wouldve been paid. Mr and Mrs W also 
said they had a small amount of savings they couldve relied on, and that family members 
wouldve helped out if needed  although their circumstances couldve changed so I dont 
think their help couldve been guaranteed. 
Its not clear why the policy only covered Mr W  I dont have much information about Mrs 
Ws employment circumstances at the time of the sale, so it may be that Mr W was the 
higher earner. However, looking at the information I do have, I think Mr and Mrs W couldve 
found it difficult to meet the mortgage payments if Mr W (as the person insured) was off sick 
for any length of time or had lost his job. And I think Mr and Mrs W could reasonably have 
wanted to protect an important commitment that was secured on their home. Ive also kept in 
mind that the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months in the event of a successful claim.
On balance, although I cant know whether BoS clearly explained all of the policy details, I 
think Mr and Mrs W would still have bought the policy if it had. It couldve provided useful 
protection if Mr W couldnt work. This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman