DRN-4086645
The complaint
Mr H complains Santander UK Plc (Santander) closed his account and applied a fraud 
marker against him. 
To put things right, Mr H wants Santander to remove the fraud marker it applied against him. 
What happened
In October 2010, Santander blocked Mr Hs account after it had received a report that he 
had received fraudulent funds. Santander attempted to speak to Mr H about his entitlement 
to these funds. 
Later, in November 2020, Santander wrote to Mr H and told him his account would be closed 
in 30 days time. Unhappy with Santanders actions, Mr H complained. Santander did not 
uphold his complaint. 
Mr H later realised he couldnt open a bank account elsewhere and pursued his complaint 
with Santander. Santander had notified CIFAS (Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance System) 
who applied a category six marker against him.
In summary and in its response, Santander said: 
- It had acted properly when restricting Mr Hs account
- As Mr H didnt provide a reason for why the funds were sent to him and proof of 
entitlement to them, a decision to close his account in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account was made
- Santander can not help him with his complaint about the fraud marker 
Unhappy with what Santander said in its responses, Mr H referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our Investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint. In summary they found 
Santander had sufficient grounds to apply the CIFAS marker against him. 
Mr H did not agree with our Investigators findings. He said he didnt have anything to do with 
the crime, and the letter he had sent showed charges were dropped against him by the 
Police. So as this was the basis of Santanders application of the marker, it should be 
removed. 
Mr H also accepted that the funds sent to him were fraudulent  but he didnt know anything 
about this as he was helping a friend. He also said the funds hed spent from the fraudulent 
funds was an innocent mistake, as he believed he was going to receive his salary that day  
and was borrowing from his friends money as he would pay him back when paid. 
Mr H emphasised that if he had anything to do with the crime which led to the fraudulent 
funds being sent to him, then he wouldve been charged by the Police. 
Our Investigator then responded to Mr Hs further arguments. The key points they made 
were: 
-You [Mr H] said that as the charges against you were dropped by the Police, the 
CIFAS marker registered against your name should be removed. As stated before, 
Santander are not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that a consumer is 
guilty of a fraud of financial crime in order to register the marker. Instead, they must 
show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. So, the fact 
that the charges against you were dropped, doesnt mean that the CIFAS marker 
should be removed. Im satisfied that Santander had sufficient evidence to meet their 
standard of proof and therefore entitled to escalate their concerns
-You [Mr H] said you spent some of the funds as you thought you were getting paid 
on that day (that is on 23 October 2020) and so I borrowed some of the funds from 
my friend and would be paying him back. While I acknowledge your comments, Ive 
taken into account that you havent provided a copy of your payslip for end of 
October 2020, as confirmation that you were expecting your salary on that day. So, 
on balance, I still think its less likely that you could have thought you were using your 
salary because it wasnt due for another week
-Ive also taken into account your [Mr Hs] previous testimony that you were 
supposed to withdraw the money and give it to your friend once the funds had come 
in. As stated before, Ive looked at the account statements and cant see that any 
withdrawal for the sum received was made at that time. I note that you logged into 
your online banking on several occasions on 23 October 2020 and also made a 
faster payment of £100 during this time. 
So, I think its less likely that you were supposed to use this money for the purposes 
youve explained, which was to receive it for a friend and pass it on to the friend. On 
balance, I think its more likely than not that you would have known the funds were 
going to come in and you had intended to use them as they came in. And in doing so, 
I think its more likely than not that you were aware of the true origin of these funds
Mr H remained unhappy with what our Investigator said and asked for his complaint to be 
looked at by a more senior member of this service. It follows this complaint has now been 
passed to me  an Ombudsman  to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr H, 
so Ill explain why. 
Banks in the UK, like Santander, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order 
to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Having looked at Santanders reasons for restricting Mr Hs account, Im satisfied it hasnt 
done anything wrong here. Im also satisfied Santander didnt cause any undue delay in 
carrying out its review.
Santander is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. 
But before Santander closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which Santander and Mr H had to comply with, say 
that it could close the account by giving at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice.
Having looked at the information given to me by Santander, Im satisfied it was entitled to 
close the account in the way that it has done. Mr H may want to know Santanders reasons 
for restricting and then closing his account. But Santander is under no obligation do this. I 
note however it did give Mr H some explanation in its final response.
CIFAS marker 
This brings me onto the crux, and overarching point, of Mr Hs complaint. 
The marker Santander have filed with CIFAS is intended to record theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds.
In order to file such a marker, Santander is not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt 
that Mr H is guilty of a fraud of financial crime, but they must show there are grounds for 
more than mere suspicion or concern. CIFAS says:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show fraudulent funds have 
entered Mr Hs account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. Secondly, 
Santander will need to have strong evidence to show the consumer was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate 
payment.
A marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there should be 
enough evidence to show deliberate complicity. So, I need to consider whether Santander 
has enough evidence to meet the standard of proof and load a marker for misuse of facility 
with CIFAS. 
Ive seen a copy of the fraud report Santander was sent by a third-party bank. I also note 
Mr H accepts he had received fraudulent funds. Because of this, Im satisfied Santander had 
reasonable grounds to believe a financial crime had been committed. 
Santander would need clear, relevant and rigorous evidence that it could report the 
potential fraud to the Police. In this case, it quickly became apparent, given the nature of the 
fraud and how quickly it was reported, that the Police were investigating it. So Im satisfied 
that Santanders actions met this test.
But, and as Ive said above, Santander will need to have strong evidence to show Mr H was 
deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent funds  and he knew, or might have known, 
they were illegitimate. More to the point, I need to weigh up whether I think Mr H was 
complicit to the meet the standard of proof required for such a marker to be applied. 
At this point, I must add that where evidence is inconclusive, or incomplete, I am able to 
reach my findings on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened. This is a different standard to one that criminal courts will apply  normally a 
defendant in those types of cases needs to be proven guilty beyond reasonable doubt. 
This is an important distinction given the argument Mr H raises about the Police not charging 
him. The Police after all deal with investigating criminal matters  and thats not what Im 
doing here. Im deciding whether Santander has acted fairly in applying a CIFAS marker 
against Mr H in line with the standards Ive set out above. 
Santander hasnt been able to give me copies of the phone conversations it had with Mr H 
shortly after the fraud was reported. But it has given me screenshots of its internal systems 
which show the notes left by its agents when speaking to him. These notes would likely have 
been left very shortly after any conversation with Mr H. So, in the absence of the calls, Im 
satisfied that I can rely on them. 
The notes show that when Mr H was asked about the source and his proof of entitlement to 
the funds on the first call, the call disconnected. There could be a multitude of reasons for 
this, so I dont think I can draw any inference from this. But a few days later Santander spoke 
to Mr H again, and when asked again he said he didnt want to say anything about what the 
transaction was for as he didnt want to incriminate himself as the Police were investigating 
and he didnt know who was listening to the call. 
Mr H later told this service that he had agreed to the transfer of the funds from a friend as 
they had told him they didnt have access to a bank account. He adds that he doesnt have 
any records of this as this was all done on an old phone he no longer has. Mr H also says he 
knew nothing about the source of these funds as he was merely helping out a friend. So hes 
effectively saying that he wasnt complicit in any fraud. 
Given Mr H says he didnt know anything about the funds being fraudulent, I do question 
strongly why he wasnt more honest with Santander when asked about the funds. To my 
mind, his conduct with Santander appears to be evasive. 
Mr H has also said that he spent some of the fraudulent funds because he believed he was 
going to be paid the day, or just after the funds came in. Hes also said that when he 
wouldve been paid his salary, he wouldve given any funds back to his friend that hed spent 
of his. It appears Mr H wasnt going to be paid his salary for at least another week, and I 
think its likely he wouldve known this given how close he was to his overdraft limit 
suggesting he needed money. Because of this I dont find Mr Hs testimony to be plausible or 
persuasive. 
Mr H has said that he had agreed to withdraw the money his friend had sent and give it to 
him. But for the limited time the account remained unrestricted I havent seen any evidence 
that Mr H was looking to withdraw these funds in the way he says he had agreed to. 
So taking all of this into account, Im persuaded on balance that Mr H was most likely 
complicit and knew that the funds he was receiving were illegitimate. That in turn means he 
was likely witting and complicit. Because of this Im satisfied Santander has met the 
standards of proof its required to in order to apply the fraud marker it has. 
Mr H argues the Police have not charged him for any criminal offence in connection to this 
despite arresting him and investigating the matter. The letter he has sent from the Police 
shows that he wasnt charged due to insufficient evidence. That is a different thing to saying 
he isnt complicit. Its important for Mr H to note here, as Ive already explained, that the 
standards Santander had to meet to apply the marker are different to what the Police were 
investigating. In this case, Ive found that Mr H had received fraudulent funds and its most 
likely he knew that they were  in other words he was complicit.  So, in summary, Im satisfied Santander fairly restricted Mr Hs account and closed it in line 
with its terms and conditions. And that it also fairly applied the CIFAS fraud marker against 
him. This means I dont think Santander have done anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman