DRN-4351917
The complaint
Mr Ms unhappy with TSB Bank Plcs actions in relation to chargeback claims he made.
What happened
Mr M had made a couple of payments using his TSB debit card. He sought the banks 
assistance with disputes he had with the respective merchants, instigating chargeback 
claims in relation to the transactions, which Ill call claim A and claim B.
Although Mr M received refunds in respect of both transactions, TSB mistakenly told Mr M 
the amount of the refund of claim A when referring to the refund on claim B. Its subsequent 
emails made similar mistakes in conflating Mr Ms different claims.
Mr M became further dissatisfied when using the banks Live Chat facility, which referred to 
an earlier dispute and sought to pass him back to the card disputes team. He was unhappy 
with the banks mistakes and complained, seeking immediate correction and £200 
compensation.
TSB responded to Mr M a few days later. It apologised for its errors, provided him with 
assurances that the correct refunds had been applied to his account, and paid him £50 
compensation. Mr M doesnt feel this properly recognises the impact on him of the banks 
errors and is seeking more compensation.
Our investigator acknowledged what Mr M said about what had happened. But she thought 
TSB had taken appropriate steps to try and resolve matters. She didnt propose that the 
bank pay further compensation. Mr M disagreed and the matter has been passed to me for 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while its not in dispute that TSB made mistakes in the information it gave 
Mr M, Im not going to require it to pay more compensation. Ill explain why.
Ive considered what Mr M has said about his personal situation and the impact of the banks 
errors. I dont doubt hes experienced some frustration in his dealings with the bank. And he 
clearly has strong feelings about how the bank and its staff should operate. Of course, banks 
should take reasonable steps to avoid making errors. However, its unrealistic to expect that 
mistakes will never be made. Its a fact of life that mistakes do happen and we all experience 
inconvenience from time to time in our dealings with organisations. Customers cannot 
expect to receive compensation simply because a mistake was made, or because thats 
caused them to have to contact a business.
When a mistake happens its reasonable to expect a bank to apologise, correct them and 
where appropriate  offer compensation for any material loss, trouble or upset caused. In 
this case thats exactly what TSB did. The key question for me to consider is whether the 
amount the banks paid is fair.
To determine this Ive thought about the extent of the banks mistakes and their impact on 
Mr M. Here, the transaction amounts were relatively low  both refunds were for less than 
£50. Mr M appears to have been immediately aware that the bank had made a mistake and 
wasnt misled by it in any way.
Hes had to contact the bank to rectify the matter, though as Ive said the inconvenience of 
doing so wouldnt in itself necessarily merit compensation. While hes also dissatisfied with 
the response he received from the Live Chat facility, overall I dont believe the compound 
level of inconvenience or frustration of any of his interactions with TSB warrants an increase 
to the £50 the bank has already paid him.
Ive noted what Mr M has said in his complaint to us, both about interest and the toll the 
matter has taken on his mental health. Im not persuaded either of these makes the banks 
settlement unfair. I think its reasonable, taking into account all that happened.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require TSB Bank plc to do anything further to resolve Mr Ms 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman