DRN-3133065
The complaint
Mr H complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) unfairly applied 
charges when he returned a vehicle to it at the end of a hire purchase agreement (HPA).
  
What happened
Mr H entered a HPA with MBFS in March 2017. The HPA was for four years. He arranged 
for the vehicle to be collected and returned to MBFS in February 2021. He says he 
wanted to return the vehicle to the local dealership, but he was told that wouldnt be 
possible. Instead a representative (B) was sent to pick up the car. The collection date was 
postponed by MBFS and rearranged for 2 February 2021.
On 2 February 2021 B attended Mr Hs home to collect the vehicle. He says B spent 
around 30 minutes inspecting the car and told him the condition of the car was fine and 
the cost to him, based on the condition of the car would be £0. He says B told him it would 
email a copy of the inspection report to him shortly. Later that morning he received the 
email.
Mr H says he was concerned by the contents of the inspection report. It said a second 
inspection would be required and that hed agreed with the reported condition. He 
disputes this and says he didnt sign the form. He contacted B to query what the email 
said. He says B told him not to worry as this was merely a formality because the weather 
conditions had been poor at the time of the inspection.
Mr H says he heard nothing further from B or MBFS. He contacted MBFS on 26 February 
and it told him hed have to pay £1417.50 for charges. He asked for a copy of the second 
inspection report and this was sent to him. He disputed the charges and raised a complaint 
with MBFS. He provided photographs and a video hed taken of the car on the date when 
the original inspection had been due to take place. He said that if there was damage to the 
vehicle it must have occurred after B took the car away.
One of the items on the inspection report related to damage to the windscreen of the 
vehicle. Mr H provided a repair document from a company that had repaired the 
windscreen on his car in February 2020. He said he shouldnt have to pay for damage that 
had already been repaired.
MBFS investigated his complaint. It said a second inspection needed to be carried out 
because of the heavy rain at the time of the first inspection. It said it wouldnt consider 
photographs of the car which Mr H had provided because these werent date stamped. 
Instead it relied on the inspection carried out by B. It said all charges had been raised in 
accordance with its vehicle return standards (VRS). The VRS also included a provision 
which made clear that if weather conditions were poor, it may be necessary to complete 
the inspection at a later date.
MBFS said B had confirmed no damage occurred during transit of the car. It said it had 
reviewed the repair document relating to the windscreen. This repair had taken place 
almost a year before the vehicle was returned. It said the damage to the windscreen could 
have taken place since that date.
MBFS accepted that the original collection date had been delayed by B. So, it agreed, as 
a gesture of goodwill, to discount its invoice for the charges by 15%. It said this offer 
would remain open until 4 April 2021.
Mr H didnt agree. He complained to our service. Our investigator looked into his 
complaint. He said a second inspection was required because of the weather conditions 
on the date that the vehicle had been collected. He considered each item on the invoice of 
charges against the VRS. He thought that all of the charges, apart from the spoke damage 
to the right front wheel, were acceptable based on the evidence hed seen. So, he thought 
MBFS shouldnt apply the charge for the wheel damage. That would reduce the invoice to 
£1307.50
Our investigator considered what Mr H had said about the possibility that damage 
occurred after B took delivery of the vehicle. But, he considered this was unlikely given the 
statements from B and the nature of the damage that had occurred.
In order to resolve the complaint our investigator asked MBFS if it would stand over its 
offer to discount the invoice by 15% - to £1203.87. It agreed to do that. In these 
circumstances, our investigator didnt think MBFS should have to do anything more.
Mr H didnt agree. He said:
There was no way to prove that the damage had been caused whilst the car was 
in his possession;
Because the damage had only been noted at the second inspection  there was 
no way for him to dispute it;
Under the Consumer Rights Act (CRA) he said he was entitled to rely on the 
verbal information provided by MBFSs representative, B, when hed been told 
that the condition of the car was fine and thered be no charges. He said that 
statement by B was binding on MBFS.
When hed got the windscreen repaired hed been given a guarantee against that 
repair which lasted for the lifetime of the vehicle whilst it was in his possession. 
Hed relied on what B had told him and that was why hed allowed the vehicle to 
be taken away. This meant he was now left with no recourse under the guarantee.
Because Mr H didnt agree, his complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Mr H disputes the charges which MBFS seeks to apply, following the second 
inspection.
Ive looked firstly at the terms and conditions of the agreement which Mr H 
entered into. It stated that at the end of the agreement Mr H was required 
to return the vehicle in accordance with the terms and conditions. These 
said the vehicle had to be returned in line with the VRS.The VRS sets out the contractual arrangements between Mr H and MBFS. 
So, he agreed that the VRS would apply when he returned the vehicle. But, 
when considering the VRS Ive also had regard to the fair wear and tear 
Guide provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association. 
(BVRLA). The BVRLA Guide provides an industry-wide set of accepted 
standards that define fair wear and tear on vehicles when they are returned 
at the end of a lease or finance agreement. And, although they dont apply to 
the agreement Mr H entered into, when thinking about Mr Hs complaint and 
whether hes been treated fairly and reasonably, Ive taken the BVRLA 
standards into account.
The VRS provided as follows:
- The Vehicle Return Standard Inspection would be carried out by trained 
technicians at the nominated Defleet Centre. If the weather conditions 
were poor it may be possible to perform a partial inspection and in that 
instance, the inspection would be carried out at a later date.
It appears that the trained technician appointed to carry out the Vehicle 
Return Inspection was B. And, it was agreed that the car would be inspected 
at Mr Hs home. Its not clear why that was decided but it appears it may 
have been related to the restrictions imposed by the UK Government during 
the coronavirus pandemic.
The charges applied for damage to the vehicle
When considering this matter, Ive looked carefully at the photographs and 
video footage provided by Mr H. Im satisfied that footage was taken when 
the vehicle recorded 41005 miles. This is evident from the video images. 
Ive also looked at the photographs and video footage taken by B on 2 
February 2021 when it collected the vehicle. The mileage on that date was 
recorded as 41005 which corresponds with the mileage on the date Mr H 
took his video. B also took photographs and a video when it carried out the 
second inspection on 8 February 2021. The mileage on that date was 
recorded on the video as 41055. Ill consider this difference in mileage 
further below.
Ive also noted that at the time B carried out the first inspection there was 
heavy rain. The report stated that a second inspection was required.
Mr H says he didnt see this report at the time and his signature does not 
appear on the report. He says it was emailed to him later. Hes also told us 
that B told him at the time that the condition of the car was fine, and he 
wouldnt have to pay anything. Ill comment further about what Mr H says B 
told him later in this decision. But, insofar as the terms and conditions were 
concerned, I dont think B did anything wrong when it decided that due to the 
weather conditions, it needed to take the vehicle away and carry out a more 
detailed inspection later.
A further detailed inspection was carried out subsequently. The inspection 
report detailed various issues. There is a dispute about Bs assessment of 
the vehicle against the VRS. Ive looked at each of the areas of dispute 
below.Windscreen damage
The damage to the windscreen is clearly visible in the video and photographs 
taken by Mr H and also in the video and photographs taken by B at the 
second inspection.
The VRS states:
chips on windscreen which are less than 5mm, providing they do 
not obscure the drivers line of vision
The BVRLA standards also include provisions about damage to 
windscreens. They say that damage, in the drivers line of vision (as 
defined) of 10mm or less is acceptable and elsewhere windscreen damage 
of less than 40mm is acceptable. Repaired chips are also acceptable 
provided the repair has been carried out to a professional standard and the 
work is warranted.
Mr H says he was aware that the windscreen had been chipped. Hes 
provided a copy of details of the repair carried out to the windscreen in 
February 2020 (about 12 months previously). The details of the repair 
show that thered been an 11mm star crack to the windscreen  which was 
greater than the 5mm stated in the VRS and also greater than the 10mm 
stated in the BVRLA standards. It was also described by the repair 
company as a crack.
Ive looked at the close-up photographs taken during the second inspection 
and these show that the damage was still visible. The second inspection 
refers to it as a crack. Im also satisfied from looking at the video and 
photographs taken by Mr H and by B during the second inspection that the 
damage to the windscreen was in the drivers line of vision.
Mr H says there was a guarantee from the company that carried out the 
repair. Ive looked at the documents provided by Mr H but Im unable to find 
details of the guarantee hes referred to. Ive also noted above that the 
damage to the windscreen was described by the repair company as a 
crack. The documentation hes provided does include the following wording
the visibility of a repair to glass depends on the nature of the 
damage at the time of the repair. If you are not happy with the look 
of the repair, we can replace your windscreen if you pay the 
required amount
Having considered the nature of the damage to the windscreen and the fact 
that, despite the repair, the damage was still visible on the photographs and 
the videos, Im satisfied that the VRS for the windscreen were not been met. 
So, I think it is fair and reasonable for MBFS to apply charges in respect of 
this item.
Wheel Spoke
The inspection report states that the wheel (right hand front) had damage 
which was over 50mm and required repair and refinish.
The VRS states that scuff chips and scratches exceeding 25mm are not 
acceptable.Ive looked at the video provided by Mr H and also the photograph of the 
wheel taken by B at the date of the first inspection. There is no visible 
evidence of scratching to the wheel spoke. At the time of the second 
inspection the photographs show significant scratching to the wheel spoke. 
The scratching is such that it is difficult to see why it wouldnt have been 
visible in the photographs taken on the date the vehicle was collected.
Mr H says that this damage must have occurred after the vehicle was 
collected. MBFS does not agree. It says that B confirmed no damage was 
caused whilst the vehicle was in transit and its policy is that any such 
damage should be reported. So, it doesnt accept what Mr H says.
Having considered all of the photographic evidence, the nature of the 
damage to the wheel spoke and the fact that the vehicle travelled fifty 
miles after it was collected, Im not persuaded, on balance, that the 
damage to the wheel spoke was present when Mr H returned the vehicle 
to B.
For that reason, I dont think it is fair and reasonable for MBFS to charge for 
this damage.
Bumper (rear)
The second inspection report records a dent to the rear bumper. The 
photograph shows the dent. It doesnt appear to penetrate through to the 
base material. It is not possible to see this damage on the video and 
photographs taken by Mr H. But, I havent been able to conclude that this 
means the dent isnt present. I say this because of where the dent is 
located, the fact that the base material hasnt been penetrated and the 
angle from which Mr Hs photographs and video are taken.
VRS says dented bumpers and/or any dents penetrating through to the 
base material where painted  not acceptable.
The BVRLA standards state that dents of 12mm or more are not acceptable.
Ive looked at the close-up photograph taken during the second inspection 
and it shows the dent to be approximately 20mm in diameter.
Having considered all of the evidence, Im persuaded, on balance, 
that it is fair and reasonable for MBFS to conclude that the VRS 
hasnt been met in respect of the rear bumper. So, I think MBFS can 
apply charges for this damage.
Bodywork  doors
The second inspection report records scratches, penetrating through to the 
base coat on both the right-hand front door and the right-hand rear door. 
Photographic evidence has been provided with the report.
The VRS says:
Any chipping and scratching of paintwork that has penetrated the 
base coat and/or has caused corrosion of any kind which cannot be 
polished out  not acceptable.Ive carefully examined the video and photographs provided by Mr H. There 
is no evidence of the scratches referred to in the second inspection report. 
Having considered the angle these photographs are taken from and the fact 
that the second inspection report says the scratches penetrated through to 
the base coat, I wouldve expected them to be visible on Mr Hs 
photographs.
Im also mindful that a further fifty miles had been travelled by the car and, 
as mentioned above, it appears scratching may have been caused to the 
front right wheel between the first inspection and the second inspection, Im 
not persuaded that it would be fair and reasonable to conclude that Mr H 
should be responsible for the charges MBFS seeks to apply for this damage.
Door aperture tread area
The second inspection report records scratching to the door shut inner, right 
hand front door. The photographs and videos taken by Mr H do not include 
images of this area. So, the only evidence I have of this damage is the video 
and photographs from the second inspection.
The VRS states:
Acceptable:
A minor amount of scuffing to the door and luggage 
area tread sills. Not acceptable:
Damaged paintwork down to bare metal and aperture seals 
are torn
The BVRLA standards state that scratches on treads or sills are 
acceptable provided they reflect normal use. So, this is in line with what 
the VRS says.
Having looked at the photographic evidence of the door inner shut, it 
appears that there are several chips and scratches which are likely to have 
taken place over a period of time. Some of these chips and scratches have 
damaged the paintwork down to bare metal. Theres no evidence of torn 
aperture seals. But, overall I dont think the damage to this area could be 
described as minor scuffing.
So, on balance, I think the damage to this area breaches what is acceptable 
under the VRS. For that reason, Im persuaded its fair and reasonable for 
MBFS to apply charges for this damage.
Bs conversations with Mr H
In his complaint to our service Mr H told us that B made certain statements 
to him at the time the vehicle was collected and subsequently. Those 
statements were to the effect that the vehicle was fine and thered be no 
charges. Mr H says that under the Consumer Rights Act these statements by 
B are binding on MBFS.
The conversation between Mr H and B wasnt recorded. The inspection 
report, which wasnt signed, stated that a second inspection was required 
because of the adverse weather conditions. So, theres a dispute about 
what was said at the time of the first inspection.Ive also thought about what Mr H has said about the Consumer Rights Act. 
The provisions he refers to apply to a situation where a service is being 
provided. But, the collection of the vehicle by B was not a service being 
provided to Mr H. Instead B was engaged by MBFS to exercise its rights 
under the HPA to collect the vehicle. So, for those reasons, Im not 
persuaded that the point Mr H has raised here about the Consumer Rights 
Act, changes how I think this complaint should be resolved.
What Ive provisionally decided needs to be done to put things right
Ive provisionally decided that its fair and reasonable for MBFS to apply 
charges in respect of the following damage:
Bumper Rear dent - £260.00
Screen front cracked - £522.50
Door aperture area - £105.00
I dont think its fair or reasonable for MBFS to apply charges in respect of 
any of the other damage detailed on the second inspection report.
MBFS had agreed to discount the charges it sought to apply by 15% as a 
gesture of goodwill. That offer was made because MBFS accepted thered 
been a delay to the first inspection. I think its fair and reasonable that the 
15% discount it offered should be applied to the charges which Ive 
provisionally decided it may apply. So, Ive provisionally decided that the 
maximum it can apply for charges is £754.38 (being £887.50 less 15% 
discount).
It's not clear if MBFS has recorded any adverse information about Mr Hs 
failure to pay the amount it sought to charge him. If it has recorded adverse 
information with credit reference agencies about that, then it should remove 
that information.
Mr H has been inconvenienced as a result of whats happened here. Hes 
told us about the initial delay when B postponed the inspection. Hes had to 
record video evidence and send it to MBFS. MBFS didnt consider the video 
evidence he submitted. It said it wasnt time stamped. This was despite the 
fact that the mileage on the car had been included in the video and it 
corresponded exactly to the mileage recorded at the first inspection. Hes 
also had to deal with the subsequent uncertainty about how much hed have 
to pay. In these circumstances, Ive provisionally decided MBFS should pay 
him £100 by way of compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, my provisional decision is that I intend to 
uphold this complaint, in part, about Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited.
Ive provisionally decided its fair and reasonable to require Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited to take the following action to resolve this 
complaint:
apply charges of £754.38 (in total);
remove any adverse information recorded (if any) with 
credit reference agencies about Mr Hs failure to pay the amount stated on the invoice in respect of charges 
to be paid when the vehicle was returned; and
pay Mr H £100 for distress and inconvenience he 
experienced as a result of what happened.
MBFS hasnt made any comments about my provisional decision.
Mr H responded to my provisional decision. He supplied further pictures hed taken of the 
rear bumper on the date the car was collected. He said these pictures showed there was no 
evidence of damage and the charge for this item should be removed. He also provided a 
quote for a windscreen replacement which was for a lesser amount than hed been charged 
by MBFS. He said this was sourced from an authorised Mercedes-Benz service centre and 
MBFS should honour this price. So, he thought the charge for the windscreen should be 
reduced to no more than the quotation hed received.
Mr H told us he was concerned that the unusual circumstances of COVID related removal 
hadnt been factored in. He said this meant he hadnt been able to challenge the inspection 
report. He wouldve been able to do this if hed been able to take the vehicle to the Defleet 
centre himself. In those circumstances, he says he couldve engaged in a two-way 
discussion.
So, I now have to make a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id just comment firstly about what Mr H has said concerning the fact he wasnt present at 
the second inspection. That is not usual. The BVRLA Guide says that some leasing 
companies will collect the vehicle, make a note of its condition by recording all readily 
apparent damage and complete the final inspection later at its nominated site. Mr H wasnt 
present at the second inspection but MBFS has provided photographic evidence of what it 
found during the first inspection and the second inspection. So, Im not persuaded that Mr H 
was treated unfairly or unreasonably because of the process that was followed.
Ive looked at the new photographs of the rear bumper Mr H has provided. Having done so, 
Im still not persuaded these photographs provide clear evidence that there is not a dent on 
the bumper at the date the vehicle was collected. I say this because of the location of the 
dent visible at the date of the second inspection and the angle Mr Hs photographs are taken 
from. The photographs taken at the second inspection are taken from an angle that makes 
the dent visible. So, I remain of the view that the charge for this item is fair and reasonable.
Ive then considered the quotation provided by Mr H for a replacement windscreen and what 
hes told us about the difference in price between this quotation and what he was charged. 
The quotation hes provided refers only to the price of the windscreen. Theres no reference 
to the cost of labour that would be associated with replacing the windscreen. So, although 
the price of the replacement windscreen appears to be cheaper than he was charged, Im 
not persuaded that the replacement cost wouldve been cheaper. 
Mr H couldve replaced the windscreen himself before he returned the car to MBFS. That 
was something he wouldve been permitted to do  especially in circumstances where he 
thought it might have been cheaper for him to have done that. The BVRLA Guide states that 
any repairs to the vehicle, before its return, must be carried out to a professional standard by 
repairers who can provide full warranty for their work. Mr H didnt replace the windscreen before returning the vehicle. So, I remain of the view that the charge for this item was fair 
and reasonable.
Having considered everything here, I havent changed my view about how this complaint 
should be resolved.
  
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint, in part, about Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited.
I now require Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited to take the following action to 
resolve this complaint:
apply charges of £754.38 (in total);
remove any adverse information recorded (if any) with credit 
reference agencies about Mr Hs failure to pay the amount stated on 
the invoice in respect of charges to be paid when the vehicle was 
returned; and
pay Mr H £100 for distress and inconvenience he experienced as a 
result of what happened.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman