DRN-3036006
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Ageas Insurance Limited has turned down a claim they made for 
additional expenses they incurred whilst they were stranded abroad.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S booked a trip to two countries Ill call N and A. They were due to travel 
between 28 February and 26 March 2020. On 3 June 2019, they took out a single trip travel 
insurance policy through a broker to cover their holiday. Mr and Mrs S travelled to N as 
planned.
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation categorised Covid-19 as a 
pandemic. On 19 March 2020, Ns government closed its borders to non-nationals and on 23 
March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office advised all UK nationals 
abroad to return to the UK. Subsequently, Ns government placed much of the country under 
further restrictions on 25 March 2020.
Mr and Mrs S airline cancelled their original flight and subsequently cancelled further re-
bookings. Ultimately, Mr and Mrs S stay in N was extended until 1 May 2020, when they 
were able to return to the UK on a repatriation flight. Their travel agent refunded their 
repatriation flight costs. So Mr and Mrs S made a claim on their policy for the remaining 
costs associated with extending their stay.
Ageas turned down Mr and Mrs S claim.  It said their costs simply were covered by any 
section of the policy.
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with Ageas decision. They noted that the curtailment section of 
the policy included cover if a policyholder was burgled and the police required their early 
return to the UK. They explained that their home had been broken into on 28 March 2020, so 
they considered that they should be covered under this section of the policy.
However, Ageas maintained its stance and so Mr and Mrs S asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs S complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the 
circumstances of the claim and the extension of Mr and Mrs S trip were covered by any 
section of the policy. So he felt it was fair for Ageas to turn down Mr and Mrs S claim.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed and Ive summarised their response. They maintained that the 
policy covered curtailment if the police requested a policyholders presence after a burglary 
and thats what had happened here. They queried whether the abandonment section of their 
policy would cover their situation. They explained that they had made multiple attempts to 
return to the UK early, but that their airline had cancelled each of the flights.  And they also 
considered that they were entitled to benefit under the travel delay section of the policy, as 
they felt their return flight had been delayed.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint to Mr and Mrs S, I think it was fair for Ageas to 
turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr and Mrs S policy and the circumstances of their claim to decide whether Ageas 
treated them fairly. 
Ive first turned to look at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs S policy, as these form the 
basis of their contract with Ageas. 
It seems Ageas initially looked at the claim under the Cancellation and Curtailment section 
of the policy. This section of the policy provides cover if a policyholder needs to either cancel 
their trip or cut it short and return to the UK early for one of the following, listed reasons:
1. the death, bodily injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of you, a close relative 
or any person you have arranged to travel or stay with during your trip; or
2. you being called for jury service or as a witness in a Court of Law (but not as an 
expert witness or where your employment would normally require you to attend 
court); or
3. your redundancy, provided that you were working at your current place of 
employment for a minimum of 2 years and that you were not aware of any impending 
redundancy at the time this policy was issued or the trip was booked; or
4. your home being made uninhabitable due to accidental damage, burglary, flooding or 
fire
5. the police requesting your presence following burglary or attempted burglary at your 
home; or
6. you, or any person you intended to travel with, who is a member of the Armed 
Forces, emergency services, the nursing profession or a government employee 
being ordered to return to duty.
Whilst Mr and Mrs S return flights were cancelled while they were abroad, cancellation 
cover only applies before a policyholder departs for their holiday. And the policy sets out 
what Ageas means by curtailment. This is defined as to: return early to your home after the 
commencement of the outward journey.
I think its clear though that Mr and Mrs S trip wasnt cut short and they didnt return to the 
UK early. In fact, their trip was extended. While I appreciate their return was delayed through 
circumstances beyond their control and that they had little choice but to buy new flight 
tickets, this simply isnt a cost which is covered by this section of the policy. Im sorry to hear 
that Mr and Mrs S suffered a burglary at their home while they were abroad and I dont doubt 
how upsetting this mustve been for them. And I acknowledge that this section does cover 
curtailment in the event that the police request a policyholders presence following a break-
in. But as Ive explained, while I understand Mr and Mrs S tried to return to the UK earlier, 
ultimately, their trip wasnt cut short  it was significantly extended. So I find it was fair for Ageas to conclude that Mr and Mrs S claim didnt fall within the scope of this section of the 
policy.
Mr and Mrs S have referred to the abandonment cover provided by their policy and have 
suggested this should apply to the circumstances of their claim. Ive thought about this. 
Abandonment cover falls under the Travel Delay section of the policy. This says:
We will pay you:
1. up to the amount shown in the summary of cover if the international departure of the 
public transport on which you are booked to travel is delayed by at least 12 hours; or
2. up to the amount shown under the Cancellation section of this policy in the summary 
of cover if you abandon the trip after a delay to your outward flight, sea crossing, 
coach or train departure from your home country of more than 12 hours beyond the 
booked departure time; as a result of:
a) strike or industrial action provided that when this policy was taken out, there was no 
expectation that the trip would be delayed;
b)  adverse weather conditions;
c)  mechanical breakdown or technical fault of the aircraft, coach, train or sea vessel.
I think the policy terms make it clear that Ageas will only pay claims for abandonment of a 
policyholders trip, if their departure is delayed on the outward journey for more than 12 
hours because of one of the specific, listed reasons Ive set out above. Mr and Mrs S 
outward journey wasnt delayed and they didnt abandon their trip  they were able to travel 
out to N as planned. So I dont find their claim falls within the scope of this cover. And as 
their return flight wasnt delayed due to strike; industrial action; adverse weather or 
mechanical breakdown/technical fault of their aircraft, I think it was fair for Ageas to conclude 
that Mr and Mrs S werent entitled to any delay benefit payment. 
While I sympathise with Mr and Mrs S position because I appreciate theyve been left 
significantly out of pocket for reasons beyond their control, Im satisfied it was fair and 
reasonable for Ageas to conclude that their claim wasnt covered by the policy terms. Overall 
then, I dont think there are any reasonable grounds on which I could direct Ageas to pay Mr 
and Mrs S claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman