DRN-2167963
The complaint
Mr Ms unhappy Barclays Bank UK Plc, trading as Barclaycard, reduced the limit on his 
credit card.
What happened
Mr M was applying for a mortgage, so paid off his credit card balance on 26 May 2020.
The following day, Barclaycard wrote out to Mr M and let him know they were going to be 
reducing his credit limit from £15,000, to £300 in the next two days. They explained the 
reason for this was because they wanted to make sure no one is borrowing more than they 
can afford, and in deciding this they look at things like missing or late payments, and 
peoples credit files.
Mr M complained to Barclaycard about this, saying they hadnt given him any real notice, 
and didnt think this was fair especially as hed been a customer of theirs for a number of 
years.
Barclaycard replied to the complaint. They said theyd reduced Mr Ms credit limit in line with 
their responsible lending policy, and theyd proactively contact him if he became eligible for a 
limit increase.
Mr M wasnt happy with this and asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so 
but felt Barclaycard had acted fairly and in line with their terms and conditions that allowed 
them to reduce the credit limit.
Mr M didnt accept this, and said he was reliant on this credit limit, so the complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms unhappy Barclaycard substantially reduced the credit limit on his account. But 
lenders do have a regulatory requirement to monitor a borrowers account, including their 
repayment record, in order to establish that any credit offered remains sustainable for them. 
In this case, Barclaycard says Mr Ms credit limit was reduced because they wanted to make 
sure he didnt borrow more than he could afford. And Ive seen in Mr Ms statements in the 
12 months prior to the reduction in his credit limit he was close to the £15,000 limit regularly 
 and on four occasions exceeded it. In my view, this was an indication Mr M was struggling 
to manage his credit card account.
Barclaycard decided Mr Ms previous credit limit now presented too much of a risk for them. I 
understand that Mr M is unhappy with the notice he was given before his limit was changed. 
But the terms and conditions of Mr Ms credit card say Barclaycard will review the credit limit 
from time to time, and if theyre changing it, theyll write to their customer. They also say if 
they reduce a credit limit based on an assessment of risk or the ability of the customer to 
repay, they dont have to give notice.
In any event the important thing here is that although Mr M says he was relying on his larger 
credit limit, he rarely used his card in the months leading up to the reduction. So even 
though Mr M was only provided with two days notice, I dont think his limit was reduced in a 
way that was likely to cause him hardship or difficulty. Therefore, for all the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont think Barclaycard did anything wrong or that theyve treated him unfairly.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman