DRN-4108610
The complaint
Mr G complains about the advice given by Brown Shipley & Co Limited, trading as Brown 
Shipley, to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme 
to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He complains that the compensation he has 
been offered due to the SIPP being mis-sold is not right. 
What happened
Mr G was advised to transfer out of two DB schemes by Brown Shipley in 2018. I understand 
a total of £412,114.87 was transferred into a SIPP that Mr G already owned. 
Mr G already had some investments in this SIPP. He had around £850 in cash. A 
shareholding worth around £40,000 which Ill call S1 and another shareholding with a value 
of around £4,000 which Ill call S2. 
In July 2022 Brown Shipley wrote to Mr G and informed him that it had reviewed the advice 
that it had given him to transfer and found that it wasnt suitable for him. It calculated redress 
based on the regulators method of compensation for unsuitable DB pension transfers. It 
calculated that Mr G had suffered a loss of £10,453.79. 
Mr G didnt agree with this loss assessment. He said that Brown Shipley hadnt accounted 
for the fact that some of the value of the SIPP was due to investments that didnt come about 
due to the DB transfer advice. These had already been in the SIPP when the transfer took 
place. 
Brown Shipley agreed that it hadnt taken this into consideration correctly and adjusted the 
value of the SIPP used in the redress calculations. It did this broadly based on proportioning 
the SIPP value so that it only used a percentage of the value that matched the amount of the 
original DB transfer percentage, and didnt include the amount that was in the SIPP initially. 
This increased the redress to £26,730.20. 
Mr G didnt agree. He said that the value of the two shareholdings should be excluded from 
this SIPP valuation as he already held these when the DB transfer took place. Brown Shipley 
doesnt agree with this, as Mr G sold S1 shortly after the DB transfer had taken place and 
repurchased it a few weeks afterwards. And it thinks the DB transfer influenced his decision 
to do this.  
Mr G referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator upheld the complaint. She agreed 
that Brown Shipley should pay compensation. She thought that S1 and S2 should be 
excluded from the SIPP value. This is because they were both held within the SIPP when it 
was started. And the fact that S1 was sold and repurchased shortly after the transfer 
seemed to be a continuation of a trading strategy that Mr G had before he made the DB 
transfer. And so, the DB transfer wasnt instrumental in enabling him to do this. 
Brown Shipley disagreed, saying that: 
It wasnt certain that Mr G would have sold and repurchased the S1 shares. But as 
the transfer provided him with a large amount of cash it would have affected his 
decisions about what shares he bought and sold. 
It thought that Mr G had chosen his investments as a whole to follow a particular 
strategy. And so, it was appropriate to include the S1 shares in the redress 
calculation (proportioning aside). 
It hasnt acted negligently or outside of the guidance given by the regulator for 
redress in this kind of case. 
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. 
As Ive outlined above Brown Shipley has accepted that it mis-sold the DB transfer to Mr D. 
So, I dont need to consider if the DB transfer was right for him. Ive only considered if the 
redress offer is fair. 
The industry regulator has produced some detail about how to perform the redress 
calculation where a DB transfer has been mis-sold. As both parties are aware this guidance 
has changed recently. 
The relevant rules are in DISP App 4, and Ive reproduced some of these below. Ive not 
reproduced the parts that that arent relevant here. These give guidance on calculating the 
value of the DC pension, which in this case is the SIPP. It calls this value (D). DISP App 
4.2.6 says:
DISP App 4.2.6 R 01/04/2023
A firm must use an actuary or an approach approved by an actuary when undertaking calculations in 
accordance with this appendix to calculate:
(1 )  
(2) the value of the consumers DC pension arrangement, where adjustments are 
necessary to obtain the current value.
And DISP App 4.2.12 also says:
DISP App 4.4.12 R 01/04/2023
To determine the value of D in DISP App 4.4.2R(4), a firm must:
(1) use the value of all investments and holdings within the consumers DC pension 
arrangement at the valuation date, in accordance with the technical guidance at DISP App 
4.5.5G;
(2)  (3) deduct the accumulated value of any contributions and transfers to the DC pension 
arrangement, allowing for investment returns, not resulting from the pension 
transfer advice; and
(4)   
Its not clear to me that that Brown Shipley has followed this guidance fully. I accept that it 
wasnt in place when the original calculation was done, but it also wasnt a large departure 
from the guidance that came before. And in any event Brown Shipley now needs to follow 
this guidance. 
Its firstly not clear Brown Shipley used an actuary, or an actuarially approved method, to 
make the calculation for D. It should do this going forward. 
And secondly this section of the regulations essentially say that the SIPP valuation should 
start with the total value at the time of the loss calculation. It should then remove from this 
the value of any investments that were not due to the transfer. And this can be calculated 
accurately as Mr G has provided a full statement for the SIPP. 
There is no dispute that the values of the cash already held, and S2, should be taken from 
the SIPP value at the time of calculation. The ongoing disagreement is about whether S1 
should be taken from the value of the SIPP. 
At the time of transfer Mr G already had a holding in S1 so they could not have resulted from 
the pension transfer advice. So, the starting point is that the S1 holding, and any 
accumulated value that came from it, should be deducted from the SIPP value. 
Brown Shipley is right to say that this isnt the full picture here as Mr G sold S1 and then 
repurchased the shares a few weeks later. It says this means that the value of repurchase 
could be included in the value of the SIPP, as this repurchase could have been made using 
the DB transfer funds. 
But I dont think its reasonable to assume this. Mr G had bought and sold these shares a 
number of times in the past. And this seems to be a trading strategy he had for this particular 
share. So, I dont think its reasonable to say that he made this trade due to the DB transfer 
as hed already done this before. I dont think it should be included in the SIPP value used 
for the redress for this reason. 
And I dont think its reasonable to say that the transfer particularly enabled him to follow a 
high risk strategy with these funds  by allowing him to invest in lower risk funds elsewhere  
as hes said this part of his money was always in high risk areas and this seems to be the 
case. And whilst a lot of the SIPP remained in cash, he did invest in single equites which I 
dont think is a low risk investment strategy. 
In any event, as Ive outlined above, I dont think this assumption would necessarily follow 
the current guidance. Brown Shipley needs to properly separate out the returns due to DB 
transfer and those that came from investments he already had. And I think that the 
investment Mr S held in S1 should be regarded as being an existing SIPP investment, and 
removed from the SIPP value. For the reasons Ive said above. 
Mr G also said that he may incur a possible chargeable gain. However, pension schemes
dont usually incur tax charges of this type. Brown Shipley has said that if there is a liability 
as a result of the redress, then it would compensate Mr G for this. I agree that this is 
reasonable. Given all of the above I think Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. Brown Shipley should 
recalculate the loss Mr G has suffered due to its unsuitable advice and it should properly 
remove the values of S1, S2 and the cash Mr G already held in the SIPP. Ive outlined the 
compensation below.  
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr G, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr G would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
Brown Shipley must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mr G has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Gs acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Brown Shipley should:
calculate and offer Mr G redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr G before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr G receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr G accepts Brown Shipleys offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr G for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Gs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr G as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Brown Shipley 
may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Gs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensationrequires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Brown Shipley & Co 
Limited to pay Mr G the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Brown Shipley & Co Limited pays Mr G the balance.
If Mr G accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Brown Shipley & Co 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr G can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr G may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman