DRN-1681018
The complaint
Mr. P complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) incorrectly advised him there was no outstanding balance on his finance 
agreement. He would like more compensation than the £25 that BPF has paid. And the 
outstanding debt reduced by half.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: -
I have looked at the Conditional Sale Agreement that Mr. P signed. This makes clear 
the circumstances that would allow BPF to make a charge on early termination of the 
agreement. So, I think BPF were entitled to make a charge.
BPF wrote to Mr. P to tell him there was an outstanding balance of £11,860.48 on his 
account on 3 October 2017. Even if Mr. P didnt get this letter, he would have known 
from the contract that there would be an amount owing.
BPF has accepted it could have been more responsive to Mr. P. And that the wording 
policy write off on its statements was unclear. I think this wording could have been 
taken to mean there was no longer an outstanding debt. However, I think Mr. P had 
enough other information to know that wasnt the case. I dont think it is wrong for 
BPF to expect the outstanding debt to be paid off in full.
Mr. P says had he known he had an outstanding debt he would have made payments 
over the last year. I accept that might have been the case. But as no fees have been 
added to the account during this time, Mr. P wont be paying back any more than he 
would have paid had this situation not arisen.
BPF has accepted our investigators recommendation that it pay a further £125 
compensation in addition to the £25 it has already paid. I think that is fair as Mr. P 
has been put to some inconvenience and stress.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement Barclays Partner 
Fianc should pay Mr. P £125 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman