DRN-1925056
The complaint
Mr D complains about the service he received from Loans 2 Go Limited when he contacted 
them about his personal loan. 
What happened
Mr D took out a fixed sum loan with Loans 2 Go. He got behind on his payments and when 
Loans 2 Go offered to help him get his account back on track he decided to take them up on 
their offer. He called them in mid-June 2019 and set up a payment plan. He agreed to pay 
about £70 by the due date, which was about a week later, and Loans 2 Go confirmed that 
his account was in an acceptable state and no default would be applied to his credit file. But 
a few days later, Mr D received a default notice letter saying he had to pay the outstanding 
balance on his account, about £460, within the next two weeks or it would be defaulted. Mr D 
was confused and asked Loans 2 Go to confirm whether or not his account would be 
defaulted if he continued with the payment arrangement hed made. He contacted them on 
several occasions over the next few days but because he wasnt satisfied with what he was 
being told, he paid the full amount to ensure a default wouldnt be recorded on his credit file.
Mr D complained to Loans 2 Go as he said hed been misled when he made the payment 
arrangement and asked them to explain why theyd told him his account wouldnt be 
defaulted and then that it would. He said hed made financial decisions on the basis of what 
hed been told by Loans 2 Go and he wanted compensation for the financial difficulty he was 
now in and for the distress and anxiety theyd caused. 
Loans 2 Go said the default notice letter had been sent out just before Mr D had called them 
to make the payment arrangement. It was a system generated letter and their call handler 
wouldnt have been aware of it at the time they were speaking to Mr D. Loans to Go 
confirmed the default letter was purely between them and Mr D and no default had been 
recorded with the credit reference agencies. Mr D wasnt happy and complained to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she didnt think Loans 2 Go had done 
anything wrong. The default notice had been sent after Mr D had missed several payments 
and just before hed agreed the payment arrangement, so she didnt think Loans 2 Go were 
wrong to send the default letter. And the call handler had given Mr D correct information at 
the time theyd spoken to him.    
As Mr D remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to a different outcome to our investigator. Let me explain why.Although the default notice letter was sent to Mr D on the same day he made the payment 
arrangement with Loans 2 Go, the evidence shows it was issued just before he spoke to 
them. At the time it was issued, Mr D had missed several payments and although hed 
indicated he wanted to make a payment arrangement, he hadnt given them enough 
information to allow that to happen. So, I dont think Loans 2 Go acted unreasonably in 
issuing the default letter. And the person Mr D spoke to on that day wouldnt have known 
about the default letter as it wasnt updated on their records until later that day. So, the 
information Mr D received from Loans 2 Go at that point was accurate.
At the end of that call, Loans 2 Go confirmed that the payment arrangement hed made 
meant his account wouldnt be defaulted. So, I can understand his confusion and concern 
when only a few days later he received a letter that said his account would be defaulted if he 
didnt pay the full balance within the next two weeks. 
Mr D did the right thing by contacting Loans 2 Go and asking them to clarify the situation. In 
his email he specifically asked them to confirm that a plan was in place and a default 
wouldnt be recorded against his account. He also made several telephone calls over the 
next few days to clarify the position. 
Loans 2 Go havent been able to provide recordings of all of the telephone calls with Mr D 
but I have been able to listen to some of them. Ive also relied on Loans 2 Gos notes of 
those calls and Mr Ds account of what was said. Having done that it seems to me that 
Loans 2 Go gave Mr D a confusing picture of what would happen. He asked clear and 
straight forward questions about whether or not he needed to pay the full amount of about 
£460 to avoid a default and whether Loans 2 Go could remove the default in light of the 
arrangement hed made with them a few days earlier. Mr D also made it clear he could afford 
to pay the amount agreed, about £70, but couldnt afford to pay the full amount, £460. He 
said paying the full amount wasnt affordable and would cripple him. 
Loans 2 Go didnt clarify the issue. There was some understanding of the situation he was in 
but he was given conflicting information about what he needed to do to avoid the default. 
Because Mr D didnt get the assurance he was seeking, he decided to pay the full amount 
due to ensure a default wasnt recorded against his account. 
When I asked Loans 2 Go to explain what should have happened in this situation, they 
confirmed that they wouldnt have expected the customer to pay the full balance as per the 
default notice if there was a payment plan in place. This is the information Mr D was seeking 
in June 2019 and I dont see any justifiable reason why they couldnt have told him that at 
the time. Their failure to do so amounts to poor service and I think Loans 2 Go need to take 
responsibility for the impact this poor service had on Mr D.
Putting things right
Mr D says he took out a loan to help make the payment to Loans 2 Go in June 2019. I 
havent seen any details of that loan so its unclear whether he incurred any financial loss 
due to this matter. But I can see that this situation caused Mr D a lot of financial concern. If 
Loans 2 Go had correctly informed him of the default position, he could have continued with 
the plan hed arranged with them. Hed still have needed to repay the balance he owed on 
the loan but he could have done that more comfortably and in line with his budget plans. The 
evidence makes it clear that Mr D was very anxious and concerned about his financial 
situation and that could have been avoided had Loans 2 Go been clear about his default 
position. As a result, I think Loans 2 Go should pay Mr D £200 for the distress and anxiety 
caused by their poor service. Mr D has recently given us evidence which shows that Loans 2 Go did record a default 
against his account in June 2019. In light of the above, I dont think thats fair and 
reasonable, particularly as it contradicts what they told him in their response to his 
complaint. Loans 2 Go should therefore remove any negative markers on Mr Ds credit file 
that were recorded as a result of the circumstances described above. I think that, alongside 
the compensation, provides a fair and reasonable resolution to Mr Ds complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited 
to do the following:
Pay Mr D £200 for the trouble and upset theyve caused.
Remove any negative markers recorded against Mr D's credit file as a result of the 
circumstances described in this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Richard Walker
Ombudsman