DRN-1627738
 
The complaint
Ms W is unhappy about how Aviva Insurance Limited settled a claim on her mobile phone 
insurance policy.  
What happened
Ms W had a mobile phone insurance policy purchased through a high street mobile phone 
shop. The policy was underwritten by Aviva. 
Ms W's mobile phone screen cracked, so she claimed on the insurance. Aviva accepted the 
claim and in settlement sent her a refurbished phone in replacement.
Ms W was unhappy with this as she thought she would get a new phone and not a 
refurbished one. She complained to Aviva.
In their response they said under the terms and conditions of the policy, where they agree to 
cover the loss, they would replace it with an equivalent phone from their refurbished stock. 
Ms W did not accept this outcome and complained to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold her complaint. She said Aviva had been clear in their terms 
and conditions that where a phone needs to be replaced, it would be with a refurbished 
model. 
Ms W did not accept this, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not disputed that Ms W had a valid claim under her mobile phone policy. What is not 
agreed is how the claim has been settled. Ms W said she expected a new phone to replace 
her damaged one.
I have checked the terms and conditions of the policy of insurance that Ms W had. I can see 
on page two of the policy booklet, that it says "our replacement phones are grade A 
refurbished models with a 12 month Team Knowhow warranty." This is then repeated in the 
main terms and conditions section of this booklet.
So, I agree that Aviva have acted within their terms and conditions. I need to decide if they 
have applied these terms fairly in their settlement of Ms W's claim.
When Ms W took out this policy of insurance, she signed for, and was provided with the 
policy document that I have seen. I think the information that replacement phones will be 
refurbished models, is prominently displayed on the first page of this document, and again 
later in the information about "making a claim". So, I think the policy terms are clear on what Aviva can do, and its acted in line with these. 
And whilst I understand her disappointment and that she was excited about getting a new 
phone, I dont think Aviva has treated Ms W unfairly in sending her a refurbished device to 
settle her claim. I do not require Aviva to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman