DRN-2653587
The complaint
Mr B is represented in this complaint by a Claims Management Company (CMC). The CMC 
complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) gave unsuitable advice to Mr B and he suffered a 
financial loss as a result.
What happened
In February 2000, Mr B was advised to invest £35,000 into an investment bond which was 
split equally into two funds  The Defensive Fund and the UK Equity Fund. In May 2004, Mr 
B surrendered the bond and received just under £31,000.
In 2019, the CMC complained to HSBC that the advice that Mr B had received was 
unsuitable. HSBC said that as the complaint had been made too late, it wasnt a complaint 
that they could consider.
The CMC complained to the service and the investigator agreed with HSBC that it had been 
made too late. The CMC asked that an ombudsman look at the complaint to give a decision 
on the jurisdiction of the complaint. The ombudsman reviewed the complaint and said that it 
had been brought to the service within the timescales permitted under the rules and that it 
was a complaint that the service could look at.
The investigator reviewed the complaint based on its merits and initially thought that HSBC 
had acted unfairly. The investigator set out how he thought that HSBC should compensate 
Mr B.
HSBC provided further information to the service and the investigator changed his view. He 
said that HSBC had acted fairly and did not uphold the complaint. 
Unhappy with the investigators view, The CMC have asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator for 
much the same reasons and will not be upholding the complaint.
The CMC raised the following points in their complaint to the service:
Mr B had paid off his mortgage debt and he invested too much money, more than 60% of 
his free assets into the investment bond
Mr B was an inexperienced investor and the recommendations to invest into the 
investment bond was too high risk
Mr B shouldve been recommended to invest into a high interest savings account instead
Ill answer each of these points in turn.
Mr B invested too much of his assets into the investment bond
When assessing the suitability of any recommendation to a consumer, the business needs to 
conduct a fact find to understand the personal and financial circumstance of their client.
I can see that HSBC undertook a fact find in February 2000 and Mr Bs personal and 
financial details were discussed. The fact records that Mr B had an annual income of 
£12,372 arising from his pension. His net monthly income was recorded as £894 and his net 
disposable income was put at £294.
A business should consider the affordability of any recommendation that they give. This is 
either done by looking at the consumers disposable income or their available assets.
From the documentation that I have reviewed, Mr B had disposable monthly income, but this 
was not the source that he was using to invest. Mr B was investing using available capital 
coming from his retirement.
Mr Bs total assets were put at £61,101 including £51,956 from retirement. It has been noted 
that Mr B wished to put aside cash for home improvements out of his retirement lump sum. 
In their submission to the service, HSBC have said that allowing for the money to be spent 
on home improvements, Mr B had £11,000 remaining which was enough to 
meet more than 18 months worth of outgoing.  
A business should consider the affordability of any recommendation that they give and 
should look at whether the consumer has enough funds to cover any unforeseen 
emergency. I think that Mr B had enough funds in reserve to cover any unforeseen 
emergency.
I note that in the fact find, the following information is recorded:
The client states that his income is quite sufficient to meet his outgoings and wishes to invest 
the majority of his remaining money for capital growth over the medium to long term with the 
option to take income or withdrawals at a later stage if required.
Having reviewed the fact find information, I am satisfied that HSBC considered the 
affordability of the recommendation that they provided. The client gave clear instructions that 
he wanted to invest most of his money. Im not going to ask HSBC to do anything else here.
Mr B was an inexperienced investor and the recommendations to invest into the investment 
bond was too high risk
When a business recommends an investment to a consumer it must consider the 
consumers attitude to risk and then recommend an investment that is consistent with this 
risk rating. The consumers investment objectives should also be considered.
I can see from the fact find that Mr Bs attitude to risk is recorded as being Balanced and his 
investment objective was for capital growth.
HSBC invested Mr Bs cash into two funds - The Defensive Fund and the UK Equity Fund. In 
their submission to the service, they have said that the Defensive Fund invests in cash held 
on deposit, it also invests in fixed income securities and the shares of major companies. If 
you are a cautious investor, it offers the chance for some growth with a great deal of safety.The UK Equity Fund brochure says The fund sought growth from major British companies 
like BP Amoco, Vodafone, BT and Tesco. It invested in UK shares, mainly large, well 
established companies.
Mr Bs attitude to risk was Balanced. From what I have seen, HSBC invested in two funds  
one which had a more cautious outlook and one which exposed Mr B to more risk as it 
invested in equities. Overall, I think the two funds were reasonably diverse and could be 
considered a balanced portfolio.
I dont think that the investment bond was too high risk and I think that it matched Mr Bs 
attitude to risk and investment objectives. Im not going to ask HSBC to do anything else.
Mr B shouldve been recommended to invest into a high interest savings account 
The complaint is about whether the recommendation provided to Mr B was unsuitable. I 
have reviewed the documentation and think that the advice was suitable and matched Mr Bs 
personal and financial circumstances at the time.
Mr Bs investment objective was for capital growth and while a high interest savings account 
may have also delivered this outcome, the recommended investment bond should have 
delivered the outcome had it been held for the investment horizon originally set out by Mr B.
In summary, I think that HSBC considered Mr Bs personal and financial circumstances and 
provided a recommendation that suited his attitude to risk and investment objective. I think 
that the advice was suitable, and HSBC have acted fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman