DRN-4027143
The complaint
Mr L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc reduced his overdraft limit.
What happened
Mr L says HSBC unfairly reduced his overdraft limit in December 2022 without explanation 
or discussion. He says he was misled by HSBC when he called it about the decision and 
says he was incorrectly told he could reapply for it. Mr L says he may need the overdraft 
facility in the future and would like compensation as well as the limit reinstated.
HSBC says it wrote to Mr L in December 2022 telling him his overdraft limit would reduce 
from £3,000 to £1,800 in January 2023. It says its entitled to make such decisions in line 
with account terms and conditions and says it had previously written to Mr L about his 
overdraft usage. HSBC accepts it didnt call Mr L back as agreed and has paid him £25 
compensation for that part of the complaint.
Mr L brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought HSBC acted in line with account terms and conditions and that an 
overdraft was repayable on demand. The investigator didnt think HSBC misled Mr L during 
the December 2022 telephone call.
Mr L doesnt accept that view and maintains the call clearly provides evidence he was 
misled.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr L will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked carefully at Mr Ls account terms and conditions which I think he would have 
agreed to when the account was first opened. Those terms and conditions make clear that 
an overdraft is repayable on demand. It follows that HSBC is entitled when exercising its 
commercial judgement to decide what the overdraft level is and to ask for it to be repaid in 
full at any time. The terms and conditions also make clear that an overdraft is intended for 
short-term borrowing and that HSBC will review the amount regularly.
Im satisfied that is what took place here, that from 2021 HSBC sent a number of letters to 
Mr L about his overdraft usage asking him to reduce his reliance on it. And in December 
2022 told him it was reducing the overdraft amount. Im also satisfied that HSBC was entitled 
to make such a decision and acted in line with agreed account terms and conditions. I dont 
think HSBC acted unfairly by making that decision and dont think Mr L has an automatic 
right to a £3,000 overdraft which of course if used would be HSBCs money being spent.
I appreciate Mr L says he was misled during the phone call between him and HSBC in 
December 2022. I have listened to the call, and I have to disagree with Mr L for the reasons I 
will explain. Im satisfied that Mr L told HSBC that he didnt use a large proportion of the 
overdraft in any event, and it was clearly explained to him that the decision could not be 
changed by the advisor, but the concern would be passed to the relevant team.
I also appreciate Mr L was told hopefully  positive response. But I cant see Mr L was told 
that the decision would be overturned and there was no guarantee. I accept it would have 
been more appropriate to have told Mr L the decision had already been made on that call, 
but the outcome is exactly the same, that the overdraft would not be increasing. Im satisfied 
there was no guarantee the overdraft limit would be increased, and the use of the term 
hopefully confirms that. In any event I have made clear its up to HSBC to determine if an 
overdraft is approved and what its level is.
Overall, Im satisfied HSBC acted in line with agreed account terms and conditions and is 
entitled to reduce an overdraft limit. Im satisfied it gave Mr L appropriate notice of the 
change and had on other occasions told him about concerns about the overdraft use. I 
accept HSBC ought to have called Mr L back but am satisfied the £25 compensation is fair 
and reasonable for what I think was a mistake that doesnt justify further compensation or 
that had any real impact.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman