DRN-1606522
Complaint
Mr D is unhappy with Santander UK Plc due to issues related to receiving money into his 
account. Hes also unhappy with the service hes received during the time hes tried to 
receive the money. 
Background
Mr D has experienced problems when trying to help his Mum transfer funds from her 
account to his account. Mr D has said hes had to get taxis to his Mums address, who lives 
several hundred miles away, to help her get the transfers to go through. Mr D says as a 
result of this hes essentially lost his inheritance with the issues Santander have caused  
and hes had to get payday loans to cover these costs.
Mr D also says that Santander have lied to him and abused him. And said staff members 
have mocked him for trying to access him Mums accounts.
Santander investigated the issues Mr D raised. They felt they hadnt done anything wrong 
with the issues he was experiencing with his Mums account. And generally they didnt think 
theyd treated him unfairly when talking to him on the phone  but paid him £50 for not 
getting to the bottom of things when he became agitated.
Our investigator issued her view but didnt uphold Mr Ds points. As well as covering the 
issues noted above, she also provided comments on other concerns she could see Mr D had 
raised with us or Santander to provide a complete answer.
Mr D didnt agree with the outcome reached. He said his main concern was travelling to and 
from his Mums house which has cost him his inheritance because she lives so far away 
from him. He also that Santander had lied to and abused him.
Because of this, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D was emphatic in a phone call with one of our managers that he only wanted me to 
consider these two issues:
Repeated round trips to his Mum to gain access to money  costing him his 
inheritance
That Santander have lied to him, and abused him
Ive listened to this call, to ensure I understand all of Mr Ds concerns. And although Ive 
focused on those issues, Ive covered what I felt was necessary below to provide an answer 
to this complaint.
Repeated round trips to his Mum to gain access to money  costing him his inheritanceI think its important to explain to Mr D that I can only award him compensation, or financial 
losses, if the issue thats caused the problem relates to his account. 
The complaint that Mr D can raise here is if there was an issue with him receiving money 
into his account from another account. He cant complain about issues related to the other 
account  so if the issue was on the other account, then he cant be compensated for that as 
its not his account. 
During the time Mr D was having issues with asking his Mum to transfer money to him, he 
was also having issues accessing his online banking. Santander say this is because Mr D 
was inputting his security details wrong. Mr D told us in a call to our service that hes known 
these details for a long time, and theyre easy for him to remember. Clearly, its difficult to 
know exactly what details Mr D input, because by their very nature I cant see them. But 
regardless of whether Mr D entered the details correctly or not, I dont think itd make a 
difference to the outcome of his complaint.
Thats because even if his online access was blocked it wouldnt stop money being received 
into his account  blocking access online doesnt automatically mean the underlying account 
access is removed. And in Mr Ds case, Ive not seen anything to suggest the account itself 
couldnt operate as usual.
Ive also not seen anything to suggest the reason Mr Ds account couldnt receive these 
transfers were anything to do with issues related to him, or his account. Separate 
investigations were carried out to identify the block issue wasnt on his account. 
So having reviewed all the information Ive got, I cant see any reason why Mr D couldnt 
have received money from his Mums account for any reason related to his account. Put 
more simply  his account wasnt causing the problem. This means I cant compensate him 
for any issues hes experienced  including the costs of using payday loans for the round 
trips hes made to visit his Mum.
That Santander have lied to him, and abused him
Ive reviewed the information Mr D has given me here and compared this against the 
information Santander have given me.
Mr D has said Santander have made accusations about why hes trying to gain access to his 
Mums account. My D says this has happened repeatedly, many times.
Ive looked at all the notes Santander have provided. These show that Mr D has made many 
calls in relation to this and other issues. None of these notes show Santander making any 
accusations of this nature. If this had happened as many times as Mr D has suggested, I find 
it unusual that at least one person wouldnt have recorded something to suggest this had 
been said.
Mr D has said several times that Santander have chosen what information theyve sent to 
us. His suggestion is that Santander havent given us information that would prove his point 
 though hes not able to remember when things happen to pinpoint that.
Where the evidence is incomplete, or contradictory as it is in this case, I have to decide what 
I think is more likely than not.
Mr D has said this has happened quite a few times, but that theres no evidence on anything 
Santander have provided to us. So, I cant say its more likely than not they have been 
accusing Mr D about his motives for accessing his Mums account.And overall, Ive not seen anything to suggest Santander have been abusing him, as hes 
said. In fact, from the notes Ive read it seems at times hes often sworn and generally been 
aggressive. These notes reflect Mr Ds own behaviour with our service at times. Everything 
Ive seen in the notes suggest Santander have tried to help Mr D as best they can  in 
sometimes quite challenging circumstances.
I have though seen one occasion where Santander told Mr D they were going to transfer him 
through to the complaints department  but he ended up talking to a manager from a 
different department instead. Mr D has mentioned this, although its unclear if hes 
specifically referring to this as an instance of him being lied to.
The notes suggest Mr D wanted to talk to the complaints department, but no one was 
available. Given that they transferred him to a manager in a different department but didnt 
explain this. The fact they didnt explain to him it wouldnt be a manager in the complaints 
department is unfortunate, but I dont think this was done deliberately  rather I think it was 
done to try and help Mr D because no one else was available. I dont think this was 
unreasonable in the circumstances.
Mr D has pointed to examples where hes called them, and they said theyd call him back but 
didnt. Ive only found one example in the notes Santander have provided where Mr D has 
mentioned this to them. And in this they explain theyd be writing out to him and didnt say 
theyd call him back. This is because it was the outcome of his complaint about some of the 
issues. I cant see they said they would call him back, and its fairly standard practice to write 
out with the answer on a complaint. So, overall in the absence of enough to suggest 
otherwise, I cant reasonably say Santander have done anything wrong.
My decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before DATE.
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman