DRN-3882122
The complaint
Mr L has complained that CST Wealth Management Limited (CST) gave him unsuitable 
advice to transfer his defined benefits from his occupational pension scheme (OPS)  the 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS)  to a Personal Pension Policy (PPP).
What happened
The investigator who considered this matter set out the background to the complaint in his 
assessment of the case. Im broadly setting out the same background below, with some 
amendments for the purposes of this decision.
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, one of
which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ls employer would be set up  the BSPS 2.
This was, however, intended to receive deferred benefits only. The main defined benefit
OPS had been replaced by a new defined contribution scheme. The existing scheme was
due to be closed in the near future, with the options being set out in a subsequent letter in
October 2017 for deferred members to either transfer their benefits to the successor
scheme, BSPS 2, the PPF or into a private arrangement, such as a PPP.
On 18 September 2017, a statement of BSPS benefits was issued to Mr L which detailed
a pension at date of leaving of £6,508 pa, accrued from 12 years and 5 months service and 
a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £146,628.
Mr L met with an adviser from CST in October 2017 to discuss his retirement planning
needs and options. CST then completed a fact find analysis to establish Mr Ls 
circumstances and financial objectives. An assessment of Mr Ls attitude to risk was 
completed and Mr L signed a risk profiling questionnaire on 23 October 2017.
Subsequently, a risk profile report was produced which confirmed a risk profile of highest
medium. The fact find recorded the following:
Mr L was 37 years old and employed, earning a basic salary of £31,957 pa.
Mrs L was 31 years old and employed, earning £43,000 pa - she had her own 
pension provision.
The main residence was valued at £165,000 and had a mortgage for £119,000 and
an 18-year term remaining.
Mr L had cash funds of £800.
Mr L had a credit card balance of £3,800.
Mr L was a member of the defined contribution scheme which was receiving 6% 
employee contributions and 10% employer contributions.
Mr L had a previous employer pension but was unaware of the details.
Mr and Mrs L were both in good health.
A transfer value analysis (TVAS) was completed on 29 October 2017 which noted the 
following:
An estimated existing annual pension of £11,220 at age 65 with a critical yield (for a 
transferred sum to match the scheme benefits) of 5.51%, or a lump sum of £51,735 
with an annual pension of £7,760 and a critical yield of 4.89%.
An estimated existing annual pension of £7,470 at age 57 with a critical yield of
6.78%, or a lump sum of £36,539 with an annual pension of £5,480 and a critical 
yield of 5.96%
A product charge of 0.45%.
A Governed Portfolio charge of 1.0%.
An initial advice charge of 1%.
An ongoing advice charge of 0.5% per annum.
An illustration and Key Facts Document (KFD) was produced for the PPP on 31 October
2017 and CST also issued its suitability report on the same date. CST recommended that Mr
L transfer his defined benefits to a PPP. CST recorded that Mr L had the following 
objectives, which formed the basis of its recommendation to transfer:
Mr L wanted to retire at age 57 and set up his own business.
Mr L felt he had nothing to lose as the BSPS benefits were low and would have
virtually no impact on his lifestyle in retirement.
Mr L wanted to break all ties with his employer relating to the BSPS.
Mr L accepted CSTs recommendation and the amount transferred was £146,628.
Mr L complained to CST in July 2022, raising concerns that the advice was unsuitable. 
CST declined to uphold Mr Ls complaint, saying that it didnt simply facilitate Mr Ls wishes,
but it didnt consider his wishes should be totally disregarded either. CST said Mr Ls
objective was to invest his BSPS CETV in the hope that it might increase in value sufficiently
so that he could retire at age 57 in order to proceed with his ambition to build his own 
business. 
It also said Mr L wanted to take control of his pension fund so he could withdraw income 
flexibly, potentially increasing his withdrawals earlier in retirement and reduce them
once he received his state pension.
CST said the flexibility Mr L wanted wasnt possible via the PPF or BSPS 2 options andconcluded that the advice to transfer was suitable and in line with Mr Ls objectives.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr L referred his complaint to this service.
Having considered the complaint, our investigator thought that it should be upheld. He said 
the following in summary:
The regulators guidance, when considering a transfer of defined benefits, was that it 
should be presumed to be unsuitable unless it could be clearly demonstrated that it 
was in an individuals best interests.
The advice had been after the regulator had given instructions in final guidance 
FG17/9 as to how businesses could calculate future discount rates for complaints 
about transfers which were being upheld. Prior to that, this service was publishing 
information with which businesses could calculate future discount rates. 
Whilst businesses werent required to use these when giving advice, they 
nevertheless provided a useful guide as to the kinds of returns deemed feasible at 
the time of the advice.
The critical yield to match the scheme benefits at age 65 was 5.51% and to match 
them at age 57 it was 6.78%. The discount rates to those ages was 4.6% and 4.4% 
respectively and, taking into account Mr Ls attitude to risk, it was unlikely that the 
scheme benefits could be bettered through transferring.
Mr L didnt need to make an irreversible decision to transfer at the age of 37, and any 
early retirement plans could well have also changed over the years.
Even if Mr L did in fact require flexibility of income when he came to retire, this could 
have benefitted from the foundation of guaranteed pension benefits which the 
scheme would have been provided.
Mr Ls investment experience and financial knowledge didnt support the position that 
he would want to have control over his pension funds.
Lump sum death benefits, and the legacy that this may provide for his family, might 
have been attractive to Mr L, but the advice needed to be given in his best interests  
which was his own financial security in retirement. Mr L had also recently married, 
and so his wife would benefit from the 50% spouses pension which the scheme 
would provide.
Any concerns Mr L had about the BSPS and his employer should have been 
rationally addressed and managed by CST. There may have been uncertainty 
around the position at the time, but both the BSPS 2 and the PPF would offer 
valuable guaranteed benefits.
Contrary to the regulators guidance, the motives to transfer appeared to be generic 
rather than specifically tailored to Mr L.
The investigator recommended that CST undertake a loss calculation in accordance
with the regulators guidance (FG 17/9) for such complaints  and on the basis that Mr L
would have opted to join the BSPS 2.
But the investigator also noted the regulators consultation on a revised methodology and 
enquired of Mr L as to whether, if the complaint was upheld, his preference would be to have a loss calculation undertaken on the existing basis, or to await the new methodology for 
defined benefit transfer redress calculations.
He said that any redress should in the first instance be paid to Mr Ls pension plan, but if this 
wasnt possible, it should be paid directly to Mr L, with a notional deduction for the (assumed 
basic rate) income tax he would have paid on the pension benefits.
He also said that CST should pay Mr L £250 in respect of the trouble and upset that the 
matter would have caused him.
Mr L accepted the investigators findings. CST didnt initially accept them, however, saying 
the following. Im summarising this very briefly, for reasons which become clear below:
The transfer met Mr Ls objectives (whereas retention of the scheme benefits 
wouldnt). 
It wasnt certain at the time that the BSPS 2 would be implemented.
There was no evidence that Mr L had suffered a financial loss.
The investigator then wrote to both parties to confirm that the FCA had developed a BSPS-
specific redress calculator to calculate redress for cases which were included in the BSPS 
consumer redress scheme. But, he said, the FCA was also encouraging businesses to use 
the calculator for non-scheme cases.
The investigator further said that, when issuing my decision, I may require CST to use the
FCAs BSPS-specific calculator to determine any redress due to Mr L.
The investigator said that, if either party didnt think it was appropriate to use the BSPS-
specific redress calculator in the circumstances of Mr Ls complaint, they should let him
know by 5 June 2023.
CST confirmed that it would be using the BSPS-specific redress calculator if an ombudsman 
upheld the complaint.
CST then agreed, albeit with no admission of unsuitability of advice, to abide by the 
investigators recommendation and undertake the loss calculation, in addition to paying Mr L 
the suggested £250 in respect of the trouble and upset caused.
This was conveyed to Mr L, but he expressed a preference to have the matter reviewed by 
an ombudsman for a formal determination on the merits of the case. Mr L also said that he 
wished to submit a new statement regarding the distress and inconvenience the matter had 
caused him, but I note nothing further has been received by Mr L to date.
 
As requested, the complaint has been passed to be for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As CST has offered to undertake the redress calculation and pay Mr L £250 in respect of the 
distress and inconvenience caused to him, Ill keep my commentary relatively brief. 
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of B's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, CST should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ls 
best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The TVAS report which CST was required to carry out by the regulator said that the 
critical yield - how much Mr Ls pension fund would need to grow by each year in 
order to provide the same benefits as his defined benefit scheme  was 5.51% to 
match the full pension hed have been entitled to under the scheme at age 65. Or to 
match the maximum tax-free cash and reduced pension the scheme would provide at 
that age, it was 4.89%. To match the full pension at 57, the critical yield was 6.78% 
and to match the tax-free cash and reduced pension, it was 5.96%.
Given Mr Ls recorded highest-medium attitude to risk, the discount rate of between 
4.4% and 4.6% between ages 57 and 65, and the regulators middle projection rate 
for growth (5% pa), I think Mr L was more likely than not to receive pension benefits, 
from age 65, of a lower value that those hed have been entitled to under the BSPS 2 
(or the PPF) by transferring and investing in line with that attitude to risk. And given 
what the TVAS noted about the critical yields for retirement at age 57, I think he was 
even more likely to receive lower benefits than either the BSPS2 or the PPF offered if 
he retired early. 
Early retirement may well have been appealing to Mr L, as it might reasonably be 
appealing to a great many people, but he had no clear or pressing plans to do so, 
which I think is understandable for a 37 year old. Mr Ls circumstances may in any 
case have changed significantly between then and retirement. And I note that, as Mr 
L has since had a child, he no longer envisages retiring before age 67. In terms of the alternative lump sum benefits a transfer offered to his family, the 
priority here was to advise Mr L about what was best for his retirement. And the 
existing scheme offered death benefits, by way of a spouses (and dependants) 
pension, that could have been valuable to his family in the event of his death.
While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it would have also 
been reduced by any income Mr L drew in his lifetime. And so may not have provided 
the legacy that Mr L may have thought it would. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr L. And ultimately CST shouldnt have 
encouraged Mr L to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a 
personal pension over his security in retirement.
I think Mr Ls desire for control over how his pension was invested was likely 
overstated. As with the investigator, I cant see that he had an interest in managing, 
or the knowledge to be able to do so, his pension funds on his own. And the 
recommendation seems to have been given on the basis hed receive, and pay for, 
ongoing support with his pension. So, I dont think that this was likely a genuine 
objective for Mr L  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his 
defined benefit scheme.
Mr L may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his 
pension and the prospect of entering the PPF. But it was CSTs role to objectively 
address those concerns. At the time of the advice, all signs pointed toward the BSPS 
2 being established. But even if not, the PPF still provided Mr L with guaranteed 
income and the option of accessing tax-free cash. Mr L was unlikely to improve on 
these benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as concerning as he 
might have thought, and I dont think any concerns he held about this meant that 
transferring was in his best interest.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons as to why it was clearly in Mr Ls best interest to 
relinquish his defined benefits and transfer them to a PPP. And I also havent seen anything 
to persuade me that Mr L would have insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the 
defined benefit scheme. 
So, as with the investigator, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr L received 
from CST was unsuitable.
 
Putting things right
As set out in the investigators further comments relating to the BSPS-specific redress 
calculator, I consider that it would be appropriate to use that calculator here, given the 
BSPS-specific circumstances.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr L, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr L would more 
likely than not have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the 
BSPS 2 if suitable advice had been given.CST Wealth Management Limited must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with 
the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in 
policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
CST Wealth Management Limited should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to 
calculate the redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr L and our 
service upon completion of the calculation.
Mr L hasnt yet retired, and cannot do so for many years yet. So compensation should be 
based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's 
guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ls
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and
set out in DISP App 4, CST Wealth Management Limited should:
calculate and offer Mr L redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr L before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line with the 
cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment
their defined contribution pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr L receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr L accepts CST Wealth Management Limiteds offer to calculate how much of its 
redress could be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr L 
for the calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of its redress 
augmented,
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ls end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr L as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in
line with DISP App 4, businesses may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension.Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have
been taxed according to Mr Ls likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%.
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require CST Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr L 
the compensation amount as set out above, up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I would also 
recommend that CST Wealth Management Limited pays Mr L the balance.
If Mr L accepts this final decision, the award will be binding on CST Wealth Management 
Limited.
My recommendation wouldnt be binding on CST Wealth Management Limited. Further, its 
unlikely that Mr L could accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr L may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final 
decision.
I also agree with the investigator that CST Wealth Management Limited should pay Mr L 
£250. I think its likely that hell have experienced not inconsiderable levels of concern over 
this matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct CST Wealth Management Limited 
to undertake the above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman