DRN-1958469
The complaint
Mr R complains that The Co-operative Bank plc (Co-op) incorrectly placed his loan account 
with a debt collection agency which led to his mortgage application being declined. 
What happened
Mr R took out a loan with Co-op while he was a student in 2017 and in error Co-op placed 
the loan account with a debt collection agency. Mr R says when he originally complained 
about this in 2019, he was told it was a mistake, as his payments were up to date. Mr R was 
then told Co-op were unable to take back the loan from the debt collection agency, but it 
wouldnt interfere with his credit rating. A few months later Mr R applied for a mortgage with 
another bank and this was declined because of the payments seen on his bank statement 
payable to the debt collection agency. Mr R says this caused considerable stress, 
embarrassment and delayed his mortgage application. 
Co-op says while they accept they made an error in placing the account with the debt 
collection agency, and in hindsight could have returned the loan account at the time of the 
initial complaint, Mr Rs credit rating wasnt affected by this. Co-op says that within a few 
days of his mortgage being declined, it was approved. Co-op says they have now returned 
the loan back from the debt collection agency. Co-op have also paid £500 by way of 
compensation in addition to £75 paid in 2019 when the original complaint was first made, 
and they feel this is fair and reasonable. 
Mr R wasnt happy with Co-ops response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at the information available but didnt uphold the complaint. She felt 
while Co-op hade made mistakes these had been put right and they had adequately 
compensated Mr R. 
Mr R wasnt happy with the investigators view and says the compensation offered  isnt 
sufficient and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
When looking at this complaint, given the mistakes made by Co-op have been corrected, I 
have considered if they have adequately compensated Mr R for the inconvenience he has 
been caused. 
I can see it would be upsetting for Mr R to have seen his application for a mortgage declined 
as a result of an error made by Co-op although its worth mentioning that Co-op have 
accepted, they made mistakes and have taken steps to put matter right. What happened 
here is Co-op, after initially granting a loan to Mr R in 2017, then rescheduled the loan to the 
correct repayment plan and it was these actions, it is thought, that led to the loan being 
incorrectly passed to a debt collection agency. 
From the information I have seen, Co-op apologised to Mr R at the time of his complaint in 
2019 and paid him £75 by way of compensation. I can also see that at this point they did 
have the opportunity to take back the loan from the debt collection agency but didnt. Mr R is 
right when he says the reason for his mortgage being declined initially was down to the 
mortgage provider noticing the direct debit payments to the debt collection agency on his 
bank statements. Mr R says this caused him embarrassment, inconvenience and delayed 
his mortgage being approved.  
The main complaint here centres around Mr Rs mortgage being declined but I can see that 
the mortgage was subsequently approved a week or so later after Co-op produced a letter 
for Mr R, confirming their mistake. While this would have been inconvenient for Mr R, I am 
satisfied that Co-op acted quickly to ensure this matter was resolved. 
As far as the loan being sent to a debt collection agency is concerned,  although this has led 
to the inconvenience mentioned above, this has now been taken back by Co-op and at no 
point was Mr Rs credit rating affected by this. That isnt to say Mr R hasnt been 
inconvenienced here and Co-op  have acknowledged that and paid a total £575 in 
compensation in recognition of this. 
I have considered what Mr R says about the compensation payment and while we would 
expect banks, like Co-op, to put matters right when mistakes are made and pay 
compensation when its due, its not my role to penalise them. As the investigator has 
explained this service doesnt look to compensate for working time that may have been lost 
during the time of the complaint.
In this case Mr R has been inconvenienced but I have to consider to what extent and degree 
and on balance, I am satisfied the compensation paid is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances for the reasons given before. 
While Mr R will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Co-op here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman