DRN-2490105
The complaint
Ms R complains that information provided by Compare The Market Limited (CTM) about a 
motor insurance policy was incorrect.
What happened
On 10 July 2020 Ms R used CTM to search for a motor insurance policy. She provided 
details of the car she wanted to insure and, after answering all the necessary questions, was 
presented with several quotes.
Ms R didnt take any action until a few days later when, on 13 July, she returned to purchase 
a policy from the quotes shed been given. In the meantime, CTM had sent Ms R regular 
email reminders setting out the quotes shed been presented with on 10 July. When Ms R 
attempted to buy a policy, she used a link in CTMs most recent email and was directed to 
the insurers website. But once redirected, Ms R found she was quoted a higher price for the 
policy than what was displayed in CTMs email.
 
Ms R thought something was wrong, so she returned to CTM to retrace her steps, but she 
was still provided with the higher price. Ms R raised the issue with CTM and it investigated 
what had happened. CTM told Ms R that quotes were only valid at the time they were 
created and, as she hadnt acted to purchase a policy until three days after first obtaining the 
quotes, the insurer may refresh its quote and provide a new price.
 
Unhappy with this explanation, Ms R complained  she said CTMs follow-up emails showed 
the same initial price shed been quoted, and shed checked back on CTMs website which 
also showed the quotes shed received on 10 July at the original price.
 
CTM issued its final response on 21 July. It reiterated that quotes were only valid at the time 
they were created. And it also set out that if  as Ms R had done  customers returned to a 
saved quote on its website, unless the quote was refreshed, the price could be updated once 
the customer was directed to the insurer. Additionally, CTM set out its terms and conditions 
which explained that it didnt control the price of a policy. Ms R remained unhappy, so she 
referred her complaint to our service.
 
An investigator here looked at what had happened, but he didnt think CTM had done 
anything wrong. He said CTM wasnt responsible for setting the price of insurance policies. 
The investigator highlighted a disclaimer message included in CTMs emails which sets out 
that it isnt responsible for prices changing. And he said given Ms R had returned three days 
after shed first obtained a quote, the insurer had recalculated its premium  which wasnt in 
CTMs control.
  
Ms R disagreed with the investigator. In summary, her view was CTMs email disclaimer 
supported her argument  specifically where it stipulated that all details in the email were 
correct at the time of sending. So, if all details were correct at the time of sending, Ms R 
wanted to know how the price could be different when she tried to buy it.   
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Ms R feels strongly about what happened and, in support of her complaint, has 
made several points. Im also aware that she has concerns over wider industry practices. So, 
I think its important to set out at the start that this service isnt a regulator. Instead, our role 
is to deal with individual disputes between businesses which provide financial services and 
their customers. 
Ms R has taken the time to set out her position in detail  and Id like to thank her for doing 
so. Ive summarised things in far less detail, and I may not have commented on everything 
Ms R has raised. I dont mean any discourtesy by this. Rather, my summary of Ms Rs 
concerns reflects the informal nature of our service.
Turning to the matter at hand, Ms R believes CTM shouldve ensured the price quoted to her 
initially  and re-iterated in the follow-up emails she received  was honoured by the insurer. 
So, first, I think its significant to distinguish CTMs role. Put simply, CTM isnt an insurance 
company and it doesnt have any control over product pricing. 
Ive seen that its terms and conditions support this, and are quite clear in explaining that the 
price is set by the product or service provider. Instead, CTM acts as an aggregator, 
essentially an introducer, providing product information and the link between insurers and 
customers. It cant change or influence pricing on behalf of the insurers it works with.
 
In response to the investigators opinion, Ms R drew attention to some wording CTM used in 
a disclaimer  which formed part of its follow-up emails to her  particularly a sentence which 
stipulates all details in the email are correct at the time of sending. Ms R received these 
emails after shed initially obtained some quotes using CTMs service.
 
In full, the disclaimer reads:
 
All details in this email are correct at the time of sending. It is the responsibility of the 
Customer to check that the rates outlined in this email are valid at the time of arrangement of 
the product concerned. Compare The Market Limited accepts no responsibility for any 
change to the rates outlined in this email made by the product provider between the date on 
which it was sent and the date of arrangement of the product concerned.
I can understand why Ms R thinks the wording CTM used in its disclaimer supports her 
position. But, having said that, I dont see things quite the same way. Thats because its 
important to recognise the context in which these emails were sent. In my view, the emails 
are a reminder  in effect, a prompt  from CTM, repeating the quotes Ms R wouldve seen 
some days earlier, encouraging her to return and continue using its service. The emails 
contain phrases like Dont forget about your car insurance quotes and Below is a reminder 
of your top quotes.... Crucially, the emails dont specify that the quotes contained within it 
had been refreshed or were up to date. And theres nothing to confirm Ms Rs quotes would 
still be the same if she decided to revisit them.
In any event, looking at CTMs disclaimer more broadly, its clear that customers should 
check the rates at the time of arranging an insurance product. And it sets out that CTM isnt 
responsible for any change in price between the email being sent and the arrangement of a 
product. So, with that in mind, even if the quotes included in CTMs follow-up emails had been up to date at the time the email was sent  its still plausible that those quotes could 
have changed at any point.
 
Overall, I cant conclude that CTM acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances. It 
has no control over the pricing of insurance products, its emails didnt suggest Ms Rs quotes 
had been refreshed and  more generally  its possible for the quotes CTM passes on to 
change at short notice. And for these reasons, it follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman