DRN-4219952
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the sale of a furniture damage protection policy by Acasta 
European Insurance Company Limited when he bought a bed. 
Mr Ms mother Mrs M is representing him in his complaint. 
All references in my decision to the underwriter of the policy Acasta include it agents. 
What happened
In April 2021 Mrs M bought a bed on behalf of her son. The bed was delivered to her sons 
address and the sales invoice was in Mr Ms name. However, Mrs M signed the invoice 
agreement and says she dealt with the sales person who sold the bed and the furniture 
damage protection policy. 
In 2022 Mrs M discovered a fault with the bed and looked for the invoice to see if the bed 
was still under guarantee. She says she noticed an additional payment on the invoice for a 
tax related item - and so she called Acasta. Acasta told Mrs M she had bought a furniture 
protection policy when she bought the bed. Mrs M didnt recall doing this. But in light of the 
information given, Mrs M made a claim against the policy for the fault. But her claim was 
declined. Acasta said the damage to the bed was structural and this was excluded from 
cover under the policy. 
Mrs M complained to Acasta. She said the policy had been mis-sold. She said the policy 
wasnt explained to her at the time of the sale and that neither she nor Mr M received terms 
and conditions of the policy to understand what had been sold. 
Acasta didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. It said due to the time that had passed - and that the 
sales adviser had since left the organisation - there was no evidence to show the policy had 
been mis-sold. It said Mrs M had signed the invoice agreement. 
Mrs M asked us to look at her complaint. She was unhappy that Acasta had asked for 
personal details about her and her son. 
Our Investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She said there was no 
evidence Acasta had provided details of the terms and conditions of the policy at sale. 
She recommended Acasta provide a refund of the £75 Mrs M had paid for the protection 
policy with interest at 8% simple interest a year. 
The Investigator didnt think Acasta had unreasonably asked for information to deal with Mrs 
Ms concerns - she found no evidence Acasta had breached data protection rules. But she 
explained that Mrs M could contact the Information Commissioners Office if she had 
concerns.
Acasta didnt agree. It said as Mrs M made a claim against the policy (which was declined) 
she had the benefit of using the policy. 
Our Investigator said this didnt mean the policy hadnt been mis-sold - and remained of the 
view that the complaint should be upheld. 
Acasta didnt agree. Mrs M didnt reply to the Investigators view. So the case has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M says she would not have paid for the policy - she says the sales person added lots of 
products to the invoice when she bought the bed: some they described as free, and the rest 
Mrs M says she asked to be removed as she didnt want to pay for them. 
Acasta says it would have provided the terms and conditions of the policy just after the sale 
of the policy. But it hasnt provided evidence that terms and conditions - or the Certificate of 
Insurance - was sent or given to Mrs M or her son Mr M when she bought the furniture 
protection policy. Mrs M says that in July 2022 she called Acasta to ask what the £75 
payment was for on the invoice. She had looked for the invoice to see if the bed was still 
under guarantee. Mrs M says she was advised that she had paid for a protection policy and 
so - given she had noticed a fault with the bed - she contacted Acasta to make a claim. But I 
dont think this means Mrs M was always aware of the product at the point of sale as Acasta 
says. 
Acasta says the sales agent has left the organisation. But it should be able to provide a clear 
record of the documents it provided to the customer at the point of sale. Acasta hasnt shown 
this. 
So I think the fairest outcome is for Acasta to provide a refund for the protection policy. I 
think it should pay interest as set out below. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Acasta European Insurance 
Company Limited to refund the £75 fee Mrs M paid for a furniture protection policy. It should 
pay interest on the refund at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from the date Mrs M paid the 
invoice to the date of the refund. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman