DRN-3427997
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Revolut Ltd blocked and later closed her account. She would like a 
reason and the account reinstated.
What happened
Mrs B had an account with Revolut.
In 28 May 2021 Revolut carried out a review of Mrs Bs account. It asked Mrs B for 
documents to show source of income and proof of entitlement to funds. Mrs B provided 
Revolut with some documents.
Revolut restricted the account on 14 July 2021. On 23 July 2021 Revolut decided to close 
Mrs B s account and gave her 60 days notice. The account remained restricted. Mrs B 
withdrew the balance in the account on 27 July 2021.And the account was closed that day.
Mrs B complained to Revolut she wanted to know the reason for the account closing and she 
wanted the account reinstated.
Revolut said it was entitled to review the account for legal and regulatory reasons and it had 
given Mrs B notice of closure of the account which it was entitled to do 
Mrs B complained to our service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He said 
Revolut hadnt done anything wrong when it reviewed and later closed the account. It had 
relied on its terms and conditions. He also said Revolut didnt have to give Mrs B reasons for 
the review and closure.
Mrs B was unhappy with the investigators view. She said she had provided Revolut with all 
the documents they had requested. Mrs B said she has been treated unfairly by Revolut. 
She says she has been discriminated against by Revolut because her husband has been 
able to open an account with Revolut in July 2021. Mrs B has said she has suffered financial 
loss and stress whilst her account was blocked and subsequently due to the situation.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Review and block of account
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mrs Bs account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Revolut were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Mrs Bs account. 
I can see that in blocking the account Revolut were following an internal process which they 
carried out in order to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. This was a 
legitimate exercise so I cant say Revolut was unfair. 
In addition, Clause 23 of Revolut terms and conditions allow Revolut to review an account. 
So, Im satisfied Revolut acted fairly when it reviewed and blocked the account.
Account closure
As the investigator explained, its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Ive considered whether Revolut acted fairly in closing Mrs Bs account. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of her account and Im satisfied they did. The terms and conditions 
outline that revolut can in certain circumstances close an account immediately. In this case 
Revolut closed Mrs Bs account without notice. For Revolut to act fairly here they needed to 
meet the criteria to apply their terms for immediate closure  and having looked at these 
terms and all the evidence Im satisfied that it has applied the terms fairly. And it was entitled 
to close the accounts as its already done. 
Because I think Revolut have acted fairly when they closed the account, I wont be asking 
them to reinstate Mrs Bs account. 
Reasons
Mrs B has said she wants to know the reasons why Revolut blocked and closed her account. 
Whilst Mrs B may have expected to be given the reasons for the closure, Revolut isnt 
required to give her a specific reason for closing the account. So, I cant say Revolut has 
done anything wrong by not giving Mrs B this information  as much as shed like to know.
Unfair treatment
Mrs B has said she believes Revolut have treated her unfairly. She says Revolut could have 
reinstated her account when her husband was applying for his new account in July 2021.She 
thinks Revolut has discriminated against her. 
I can see Mrs B is very unhappy at not having access to a Revolut account. She feels she 
has provided all the information she was asked to provide. She asked Revolut to contact the 
company secretary of her husbands company for information about her husband and his 
company.
I cant comment on whether Revolut were right to open an account for Mrs Bs husband and 
for his company. That is a separate situation which isnt the subject matter of this complaint 
and I havent seen any evidence. Its a matter for Revolut who they chose to do business 
with. However, Mrs B is complaining that Revolut have acted unfairly when they closed her 
account and I have already decided that they havent. Revolut were entitled to ask for the 
information they asked for in her case. So, I dont think that Revolut have acted unfairly. 
Mrs B says Revolut have discriminated against her. While I appreciate this is her 
perspective, it is not my role to decide whether discrimination has taken place as a matter of 
law  only the courts have the power to decide this.I have, however, considered the relevant law in relation to what Mrs B has said when deciding 
what I think is the fair and reasonable outcome. Part of this has meant considering the 
provisions of The Equality Act 2010. But after doing so Ive not seen evidence to indicate 
Mrs B was discriminated against, so I havent found that Revoluts behaviour was improper.
Impact
Mrs B has said she has suffered some financial losses and stress as a result of the block and 
closure of the account.
I appreciate this was a stressful situation for Mrs B However I wont be awarding her any 
compensation because Revolut have acted fairly when they reviewed, blocked and closed 
Mrs Bs account.
In summary, I know Mrs B will be disappointed by my decision but for the reasons I have 
mentioned above I dont think Revolut have acted unfairly when they blocked and 
subsequently closed her account. And I wont be asking them to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman