DRN-3250582
The complaint
Mr A on behalf of Q  a limited company  is unhappy Qs commercial insurance policy was 
cancelled. Mr A believes Quotemetoday.co.uk Ltd (QMT) is at fault for this because he 
doesnt believe it passed on the information the insurer required.
What happened
In April 2020 Q took out a motor fleet insurance policy through QMT  a broker  to insure it 
to operate as a removal company. Mr A says, when he received the paperwork, he called 
QMT as he was concerned the policy excluded goods for hire. QMT said the policy did 
include carriage of goods for hire and reward. On the same day QMT asked Mr A to provide 
proof of Qs No Claims Bonus (NCB). Mr A provided this and QMT passed this information 
on to the insurer.
In July 2020 the insurer contacted QMT to say it had issued a seven-day notice of 
cancellation to Mr A. QMT says it contacted the insurer who said it required the following 
information: 
Proof in writing of what Qs business activities were as the insurer said Companies 
House stated Q was unlicensed carrier.
Confirmation that Qs previous insurance policy for one of its vehicles had been 
cancelled.
The insurer believed a claim had been made in the previous five years, but Q hadnt 
disclosed any claims. It asked for proof no claims had been made. 
Confirmation as to whether Mr A had a second occupation as a gardener as the proof of 
NCB hed provided said he was. 
QMT spoke with Mr A and explained the concerns the insurer had. Mr A said he used to be a 
gardener but had set up Q to operate as a removal company. Mr A provided Qs website 
address and maintained he was operating as a removal company. QMT referred this website 
to the insurer and explained to Mr A it needed to wait for a response from the insurer. 
However the insurer responded to say it wasnt willing to revoke the cancellation. QMT said 
the insurer had said it still had concerns over conflicting information regarding what was on 
Qs website and what was on Companies House. QMT contacted Mr A to say it couldnt 
assist any further. And it said he owed £225.54.
Mr A complained to QMT that it hadnt passed all the information hed provided on to the 
insurer. Mr A continually contacted QMT to complain about the length of time it was taking to 
review the complaint. He was also unhappy a payment had been taken from Qs account for 
the insurance policy.
QMT didnt uphold Mr As complaint. It said, due to the impact caused by Covid-19 resulting 
in its staff being furloughed and working from home, it hadnt picked up the insurers emails 
sooner. It apologised for this and said, as a gesture of good will, it would remove its charges 
which meant Q didnt owe anything further.
But QMT said it was the insurers decision to cancel the insurance policy and it wasnt 
responsible for that decision. It said it had passed on all the information Mr A had provided 
but it said the insurer had still decided to cancel the insurance policy. It said the policy was 
cancelled because Q had declared it was a removal company, but the insurer considered 
that it was actually trading more as a man with a van.
In December 2021 I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint and I said the 
following:
I should first set out that Im only considering the actions of QMT in this complaint. QMT 
acted as a broker. It was responsible for administering the policy on the insurers behalf  
including requesting any information the insurer required. It was the insurers decision 
regarding what information it required and whether it wanted to provide the policy or not. And 
it was ultimately the insurers decision to cancel the policy. I cant consider the insurers 
actions in this decision. Further to this, QMT is not responsible for the insurers actions. In 
this decision Ive looked at whether QMT has carried out its administrative duties fairly and, if 
not, whether Q has lost out as a result. 
I appreciate Mr A is very unhappy the insurer cancelled Qs insurance policy, but as I said, it 
was the insurers decision to cancel the insurance policy. Mr A says the insurer cancelled the 
policy because QMT didnt pass the information he provided to the insurer. But I dont agree. 
Ive read all the correspondence QMT had with the insurer regarding this matter and I can 
see QMT did pass the information to the insurer. However the insurer responded to QMT to 
say it considered Q to be a man with a van company based on the information on Qs 
website, despite QMT explaining Mr A had said Q was a furniture removal contractor. 
I do think QMT could and should have been more pro-active in obtaining the information the 
insurer required. But I think the insurer was always going to cancel the insurance policy. I 
know Mr A doesnt agree with the insurers description of Qs business. But, as I said above, 
I cant hold QMT responsible for anything the insurer did wrong. Mr A will need to raise this 
issue with the insurer directly. While I do fully appreciate the impact this matter has had on 
Q, I cant hold QMT responsible for whats happened.
Ive also considered Mr As complaint about the length of time it took QMT to respond after 
he raised a complaint. But the industry regulator gives businesses eight weeks to respond to 
a complaint. I can see QMT did explain this to Mr A a number of times. I recognise Mr A 
wanted a quick response to his complaint, but QMT didnt act unfairly in this respect as it 
respond in line with the regulators complaint handling guidelines. 
I recognise Mr A feels strongly about whats happened in this matter and he said Q lost out 
significantly because the insurer cancelled the insurance policy. But, for the reasons Ive set 
out above, I dont think this was down to anything QMT did wrong.
QMT responded to accept my provisional decision. 
Mr A didnt accept my provisional decision and raised the following points:
He maintains the insurance policy was cancelled because of the limited timescales QMT 
gave Q to provide the required information.
He provided all the information the insurer asked for  some of it twice  including 
evidence of Qs NCB, claims history and clarification about when he used to work as a 
gardener. He said he called QMT to ask if it needed anything else and he was told it 
didnt.
He says QMT didnt provide proof of his NCB which he thinks is the reason the insurer 
cancelled Qs policy.The insurer asked for proof Q was a removal company. But he says QMT only provided 
this information to the insurer after the insurer had issued the cancellation notice.
He thinks its wrong Q was considered a man with a van company. He thinks this issue 
has arisen because QMT gave the insurer an incorrect name for Q. He said he provided 
QMT with Qs website. He maintained Q did not act as a man with van company but 
was a removal company. He doesnt think it should impact his insurance. 
He said he spoke to the insurer directly and he says the insurer said it had asked QMT to 
get this information some months before the policy was cancelled. 
Mr A maintained his policy wouldnt have been cancelled if QMT did its job correctly and 
requested for the information from Q sooner, especially the proof of previous policy 
cancellation that he provided to QMT twice but it failed to pass it on to the insurer.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr As additional comments, but Ive come to the same conclusion as I did in 
my provisional decision. 
As I said in my provisional decision, it was the insurers decision to cancel Qs insurance 
policy. Mr A has frequently said he believes the insurance policy was cancelled because of 
issues with Qs NCB and the cancellation of the previous policy, but the insurer specifically 
wrote to QMT to explain it cancelled the insurance policy because of concerns it had with the 
type of work it thought Q did. It didnt cancel the policy because of concerns with Qs NCB or 
because Mr A previously used to work as a gardener.
I note all of the comments Mr A has made about the work Q did and why he thinks its wrong 
this has affected Qs insurance policy. But the insurer specifically explained to QMT it had 
come to the conclusion it did after reviewing Qs website. So I understand it didnt cancel 
because of issues with the company name or because QMT didnt give the information Mr A 
provided, but because it wasnt happy with the risk it was being asked to insure as it still 
thought Q was acting as a man with a van.
I recognise Mr A disagrees with what the insurer says and he thinks its unfair this impacts 
his insurance policy. However, this complaint needs to be raised with the insurer as it wasnt 
QMTs decision to cancel the insurance policy. 
I appreciate Mr A feels strongly about this matter, but Ive still come to the conclusion that I 
dont think the policy was cancelled because of anything QMT did wrong.My final decision
For the reason Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman