DRN-2853229
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited unfairly cancelled his 
motor insurance policy as if it hadn't existed (known as voidance) and refused to settle a 
claim on it.
Mr B has recently sought the help of a professional representative. But, for ease of reading, 
Ill refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Bs.
  
What happened
Mr B bought a motor policy from a broker in 2018. When that policy was due to renew the 
broker sold him a policy underwritten by Markerstudy. Mr B was involved in an accident. His 
car was a total loss and he claimed on his policy. Markerstudy declined to pay his claim. It 
said Mr S wasn't the owner and registered keeper of the car and if it had been aware of that 
it wouldn't have insured him. So it voided the policy.
Mr B didn't think that was fair and brought his complaint to us. I issued a provisional decision 
on 10 February 2021. Ive copied the relevant extract below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr B first took out a policy from the broker he told it he was the owner and registered 
keeper of the car. That is a fairly standard question when consumers are looking for motor 
insurance policies. Thats because many insurers have strict underwriting criteria, which are 
the rules they follow when deciding whether to offer cover to individuals, and its fairly 
common for insurers to refuse to insure drivers if they or their spouse are not the owner or 
registered keeper of the car. And that's a decision which insurers are allowed to come to.
When the policy came up for renewal in 2019 Mr B confirmed that none of his circumstances 
had changed. In other words he maintained that he remained the owner and registered 
keeper of the car. And on that basis the broker sold Mr B the Markerstudy policy. But after 
Mr B made his claim Markerstudy learned that the cars V5 (log book) showed that the cars 
registered keeper was Mr Bs nan. She had secured finance to buy it, which meant that Mr B 
was neither the cars owner nor registered keeper.
Mr Bs explained that for ease of access to credit, his nan financed the purchase of the car. 
So the V5 was in her name. But Mr B said he was the keeper of the car as he had sole 
responsibility for it. He physically kept it at his address as well as being responsible for the 
outgoings associated with it. He said that while the finance for the car was in his nans name 
he made payments to her so that she could pay the finance company. So he considered that 
he was the cars keeper. But I think Mr B made a mistake when he said he was the cars 
owner and keeper.
Mr B's pointed out that the V5 makes it clear that it doesn't prove ownership of the car. And I 
agree that's the case. But all of the sale and finance documents for the car are in Mr Bs 
nans name and address. Mr B isn't mentioned on those at all. And the V5 says that Mr Bs 
nan is the cars registered keeper, regardless that Mr B may physically look after the car.
So when he was asked if he was the cars registered owner and keeper Mr B should have 
said no. And, if he didn't understand what was meant by registered owner and keeper then 
he should have asked. Had he done so I think he would have quickly realised that, for 
insurance purposes, he was neither the car's owner nor its registered keeper. And had he 
said he wasn't the cars owner and registered keeper he couldn't ever have secured the 
Markerstudy policy. But because he said he was the owner and keeper of the car he 
obtained a policy that he wouldn't otherwise have been eligible for. So hes given inaccurate 
information when taking his policy out.
Giving incorrect information when applying for a policy is known in the insurance industry as 
making a misrepresentation. And theres a specific law called the Consumer insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) which sets out what an insurer may do 
where a consumers made a misrepresentation. It says that where, but for that 
misrepresentation, an insurer wouldnt have entered into the contract, otherwise known as 
the policy, it may refuse any claim and void it.
In this case Markerstudy has shown us its underwriting criteria. And those show that it won't 
offer policies to people who arent the registered keeper of the car in question. So, if Mr B 
had told Markerstudy, via his broker, that it was his nan, rather than himself, who was the 
cars registered keeper, then Markerstudy wouldn't ever have insured him. And in those 
circumstances CIDRA allows Markerstudy to void the policy. I think its decision to do so was 
reasonable.
I understand that Mr B didn't deliberately give Markerstudy the wrong information. But I don't 
think that makes a difference here. CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation and it categorises misrepresentation as falling under one of two 
definitions: careless, or deliberate/reckless. Markerstudy hasn't said that Mr Bs 
misrepresentation was deliberate/reckless, but thinks it was careless. And I agree.
Mr Bs said his misrepresentation was innocent but thats simply not a classification of 
misrepresentation that applies to insurance policies and it's not mentioned in CIDRA. I 
understand the term innocent misrepresentation might apply to other aspects of contract 
law, but it doesn't apply here. So its not something that would be fair for me to consider 
when deciding whether or not Markerstudy has dealt with Mr B fairly. And as I think Mr B 
made a careless misrepresentation its reasonable for Markerstudy to apply the remedy 
CIDRA allows it and void his policy, which means that it won't pay any claim associated with 
it.
However, CIDRA also says that where a consumer makes a careless misrepresentation and 
the insurer voids the policy then the insurer must return the premiums paid. But in this 
instance Markerstudy hasn't returned any of Mr Bs premium. Its previously said it hadn't 
done so as it expected to receive a third party claim against Mr Bs policy, which it would be 
required to settle. And as Mr Bs policy says that, where Markerstudy is required by law or 
through agreement with the Motor Insurers Bureau (MIB) to settle such a claim, then it will 
seek to recover any outlay from Mr B. But as I understand it Markerstudy hasn't received or 
paid any such claim. And while it told us that its incurred recovery and storage charges, 
those aren't costs its policy entitles it to recover in these circumstances. And as CIDRA says 
that Markerstudy must return Mr Bs premium to him, I think it's fair that it refunds his full 
premium now. And, as hes been without the use of those funds, Markerstudy should add 
simple interest to that refund as set out below.Developments 
Mr B didn't agree with my provisional decision. Amongst other things he said he believed it 
was correct for him to say he was the owner and registered keeper of the car. And that, had 
it not been for the accident and the claim he would have remained unaware that the owner 
and registered keeper were not the same thing. He said the V5 was in his nans name 
incidentally because the finance was in her name. 
Mr B said that when answering the brokers questions about whether or not he was the 
owner and registered keeper of the car, in order to avoid making a misrepresentation he 
needed to answer the question to the best of his knowledge and belief. Mr B said he 
reasonably believed he was the cars owner and registered keeper. And when speaking with 
the broker he used terms like my car which demonstrated that belief. So Mr B thinks he 
answered the brokers questions to the best of his knowledge and belief. And he says 
Markerstudy hasn't proved that he didn't take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. So it wasn't fair for it to void his policy. 
Markerstudy has confirmed that it would return Mr Bs premium to him with 8% simple 
interest added to that sum. It added that it has a right to seek recovery of its costs for 
handling the claim from Mr B.   
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I don't intend to depart from my provisional conclusions.
Mr B has essentially argued that he genuinely believed he was the owner and registered 
keeper of the car. So he didn't make a misrepresentation. But I'm not persuaded by his 
arguments. 
When deciding whether Mr B made a misrepresentation, I need to think about whether he 
took reasonable care not to do so. That means he had to apply the level of care expected 
from a reasonable consumer. And a reasonable consumer is an average person without any 
special skills or knowledge. Mr B says that to the best of his knowledge and belief he was 
the owner and registered keeper of the car; so he took reasonable care to answer the 
questions asked. To address this I've thought about whether or not Mr B did take reasonable 
care. And when doing so I've considered what Mr B ought reasonably to have known about 
the car. 
All of the cars purchase documents, including its order form, were in Mr Bs nans name, as 
was the finance to pay for it. And it was Mr Bs nan that physically paid the finance payments 
to the finance company, even if Mr B paid her the money in order to enable her to do so. 
Also the V5 was in Mr Bs nans name. Mr B said this was done incidentally because the 
finance was in her name. But the V5 is a document which clearly sets out who the 
registered keeper of the car is. I think most reasonable consumers will be aware of the 
importance of a V5 document. Indeed, as far as I'm aware, car finance companies often 
require the individual securing the finance to be the cars registered keeper. And if Mr B 
wasnt aware of that importance then he had no reason to incidentally record his nan as the 
cars registered keeper. He could simply have put it in his name. But he didn't do so and 
none of the other documents associated with buying and paying for the car were in Mr B's 
name.So when Mr B was answering questions about whether or not he was the cars owner and 
registered keeper, I think he should have known he might not fall into those categories. And 
in those circumstances, rather than answering with his best guess, I think its reasonable to 
expect him to find out whether or not he was the cars registered keeper. But he didn't do 
that. And in those circumstances I don't think he took reasonable care to answer the 
questions put to him and as such he made a careless misrepresentation. It follows that I 
think it was fair for Markerstudy to void the policy and to refuse to pay his claim.
Markerstudy has confirmed it will refund Mr Bs premium together with simple interest, as I 
set out in my provisional decision. Its also said it will seek to recover some of its costs from 
Mr B. But, as far as I'm aware that isn't something its previously put to Mr B directly. So he 
hasn't had the chance to respond to that. It follows that I don't intend to comment on that 
here.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I partly uphold this complaint. I require Markerstudy Insurance 
Company Limited to refund Mr Bs premium to him. It should add simple interest to its refund 
at a rate of 8% a year from the date it voided his policy to the date it refunds him.1  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman
1 If Markerstudy considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give him a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.