DRN-2429534
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Barclay Bank UK PLC made numerous errors with their 
mortgage application. They ask for compensation for financial loss, trouble and upset and 
lost future rental income. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had a residential mortgage with Barclays. They wanted to buy a second 
property as an investment and contacted Barclays about additional borrowing. 
The intention was that Mr and Mrs B would take out a buy to let mortgage and fund their 
deposit with additional borrowing secured on their house. Barclays agreed to the additional 
borrowing on the basis the remaining term of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage was extended from 
13 to 16 years, and they switched from a lifetime tracker rate. Mr and Mrs B made an offer 
for a property and made the mortgage application. 
There were a series of errors and problems. Barclays reduced the amount of additional 
lending it would offer, leaving Mr and Mrs B with a shortfall. Its solicitors made errors and 
caused delays. The money for Mr and Mrs Bs deposit was transferred to the wrong account. 
And while Barclays then said it would lend them money for the deposit this was only if they 
repaid £11,000 of debts, most of which Mr and Mrs B say didnt exist. Mr and Mrs Bs 
purchase fell through and they say this was due to the delays caused by Barclays errors. 
There were further difficulties and delays before Barclays returned Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage 
to the original term and lifetime tracker rate. 
Our investigator said the compensation offered by Barclays for Mr and Mrs Bs financial loss, 
upset and inconvenience was fair. He said it wasnt reasonable to require it to pay further 
compensation for lost future rental income.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree, saying the compensation offered isnt enough. They say Barclays 
was trying to manipulate them to keep a mortgage that would have cost them £50,000 more. 
Mr and Mrs B expected to let out the property and say Barclays should pay compensation for 
their lost profit, which they estimate at £300 per month.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays made errors here. Mr and Mrs Bs purchase of an investment property fell through. 
And it took about nine months for Barclays to put matters right, including returning Mr and 
Mrs Bs mortgage to the original term and lifetime tracker rate. Barclays doesnt dispute it 
made errors here, or that it should pay compensation. I have to decide whether its done 
enough to put matters right. 
Barclays calculated Mr and Mrs Bs actual financial loss caused by its errors and delays at 
about £2,000. This includes additional interest costs, legal costs, valuation fee and other 
costs related to the mortgage accounts. Mr and Mrs B havent said this amount is incorrect. 
What Mr and Mrs B have said is that Barclays should pay compensation for lost rental 
income, and more compensation for their upset and distress. 
In its final response letter Barclays said it took all of the points raised by Mr and Mrs B into 
account when it offered £1,225 compensation. Its final response letter refers to the emotional 
impact, the lost investment opportunity and potential rental income, inconvenience and 
stress. So while Barclays didnt apportion all of the compensation, I think its intention is that 
the £1,225 compensation is for all of this. 
Mr and Mrs B specifically asked for compensation for lost rental income, and Ive thought 
about what a fair amount for this would be. In doing so, Ive taken the following into account.
I cant know for certain that Mr and Mrs Bs purchase would have gone ahead, had 
Barclays not made errors. However, given the number of errors, I think its likely this was 
the cause, or main cause, of Mr and Mrs Bs purchase falling through. 
Mr and Mrs B were disappointed their property purchase fell through, and wanted 
Barclays to compensate them. But I cant see that this prevented them from buying a 
second property, starting the process after the first property purchase fell through. If I did 
require Barclays to pay compensation for lost rent this would only be for a period, 
enough time for Mr and Mrs B to have found and bought another property. I think three to 
four months would be a reasonable period for this. 
Mr B says an agency had prospective clients willing to rent the property. He calculates 
lost profit (rent less costs) at about £300 per month. It seems likely there would have 
been a short period before tenants moved in and started to pay rent. 
Taking the above into account, If I did require Barclays to compensate Mr and Mrs B for 
lost rent, I dont think it would be fair for this to be for more than three to four months. 
This would come to about £900 to £1,200. 
If Mr and Mrs B had gone ahead with the purchase of a second property, I think its likely 
theyd have needed the additional borrowing to fund the deposit. So theyd have kept the 
new mortgage terms, including the switch from the tracker rate. It wouldnt be fair to 
require Barclays to refund the difference between the tracker rate and the more 
expensive product rate (about £700) as well as paying compensation for lost rent. 
I think it would still be fair for Barclays to refund other costs (such as legal costs and the 
valuation fee) as these would be incurred again if Mr and Mrs B find another investment 
property. 
Following this reasoning, if I did require Barclays to pay compensation for lost rental income, 
Id have required it to pay £900 to £1,200 for lost rent less the £700 refund for additional 
interest  so about £200 to £500. 
Barclays said £75 of its compensation was for three unnecessary trips to a branch, and £150 
was for the time it took to deal with Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. This means the remaining 
£500 to £700 of the compensation offered by Barclays is for Mr and Mrs Bs upset and 
trouble. I must take into account that the second property was an investment: although I 
dont doubt the upset caused by Barclays errors, the purchase was, in effect, a business decision. Taking all of the circumstances into account, I think £1,225 compensation is fair 
and reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs B say Barclays was trying to manipulate them to keep a mortgage that would 
have cost them £50,000 more. I know they feel strongly about this. But its not my role to fine 
or punish businesses. Barclays returned Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage to the original term and 
tracker rate. While this took longer than it should, Barclays compensated them for the 
additional interest. And the time it took to put matters right was one of the things Barclays 
considered when offering compensation.
While I know Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed, I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
require Barclays to pay further compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This is because I think the compensation 
offered by Barclays Bank UK PLC is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman