DRN-3039776
The complaint
Mr J complains about HSBC UK Bank Plcs decision to close his account without notice, 
including the recall of his overdraft.
What happened
In June 2019, HSBC closed Mr Js account without giving him notice. Mr J used his HSBC 
account to pay direct debits and standing orders  and held an overdraft facility of around 
£4,500. When HSBC closed Mr Js accounts, his direct debit and standing order information 
wasnt available to him  and HSBC asked him to pay the overdraft balance immediately.
Mr J says this caused him extreme stress and anxiety as he couldnt pay certain bills. Mr J 
wanted to do an account switch service but couldnt due to HSBCs decision to close his 
account. So Mr J had to manually transfer his direct debit and standing order payments 
which resulted in him missing payments.
Our investigator who looked into things upheld Mr Js complaint. He didnt think HSBC were 
fair in closing Mr Js accounts immediately  and thinks they should have given Mr J two 
months notice. So our investigator asked HSBC to pay Mr J £200 compensation.
Mr J responded and explained that he didnt think £200 was enough to recognise the 
extreme embarrassment, stress and anxiety. And he didnt think HSBC were entitled to ask 
him to repay his overdraft immediately. Mr J also said HSBC held security on a freehold 
commercial and residential property at the time.
HSBC didnt initially respond to the investigators opinion. But afterwards, they sent our 
service further and didnt agree that Mr J was entitled to any compensation as they felt 
theyd acted fairly in closing his accounts.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review. 
In August 2021, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said;
Firstly, our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat evidence from 
banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains information about 
other customers, security information or commercially sensitive information. Some of the 
information HSBC has provided is information that we considered should be kept 
confidential.
The account closure
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a 
number of reasons, and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same 
as if Mr J decided to stop banking with HSBC, he wouldnt have to explain why. HSBC can 
only close accounts in certain circumstances and if it is in the terms and conditions of the 
account. HSBC have relied on the terms and conditions when closing Mr Js account. Having 
looked at the information provided by HSBC, Im satisfied that HSBC was entitled to close 
the account immediately. 
This service wont generally intervene in a banks commercial discretion. HSBC exercised 
their right to no longer offer Mr J banking facilities and I've seen nothing to suggest that 
theyve made an unfair decision. So, I cant fairly ask them to do anything differently. 
I appreciate that HSBC closing Mr Js account wouldve caused him some difficulty  
especially as it resulted in direct debits and standing orders not being paid. But having 
looked at whats happened in this particular case, I can see no basis on which I might make 
an award against HSBC given that I dont think they failed to properly follow their own 
procedures when they closed Mr Js account. So Im not going to ask HSBC to compensate 
Mr J for any distress and inconvenience this may have caused.
I appreciate Mr Js strong feeling around this  and Im sorry I cant share more information 
with Mr J. But I hope he feels reassured that Ive carefully considered the evidence and Im 
satisfied that HSBCs actions are fair and in line what Id expect to see given the 
circumstances.
The overdraft
HSBC made the commercial decision to close Mr Js accounts with immediate notice  
which also meant HSBC cancelled the overdraft facilities on Mr Js accounts. HSBC are 
entitled to do this. Overdraft facilities are repayable upon demand. This means HSBC can, at 
any time ask Mr J to repay the full overdraft balance. Thats what happened here so I cant 
reasonably say that HSBC were at fault.
HSBCs other interests
Mr J responded to our investigators view and explained that HSBC held security on a 
Mortgaged Freehold Commercial & Residential property that had a loan balance of 
approximately £55,000 and at the time had a value of £600,000 plus. Mr J said he feels this 
was badly handled by HSBC and he should be compensated for it. 
I havent seen any evidence of the mortgage held with HSBC and cant see this formed part 
of Mr Js original complaint. Therefore, I havent considered it as part of this decision as our 
rules state that the bank should have an opportunity to try and put things right with the 
customer before our involvement. Therefore, if this issue is outstanding. I urge Mr J to raise 
this with HSBC as a separate matter.
So, I didnt think HSBC had to do anything differently.
HSBC responded and agreed. 
Mr J responded and didnt agree. In summary, he said;
he disagrees that HSBC should be allowed to provide evidence in confidence;
HSBC shouldnt have had the right to cancel his accounts without notice because he 
had a commercial loan and a mortgage held with them;
he thinks asking for his overdraft to be repaid immediately is unfair;
he had to try and remember all of his standing order and direct debit information 
because HSBC wouldnt allow the switch service to go through;
so, he thinks compensation is due.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.While I appreciate this will come as a great disappointment to Mr J, Im not going to be 
changing the overall outcome of my provisional decision. Ive explained my reasons below.
I appreciate Mr J thinks HSBC shouldnt be allowed to provide evidence in confidence. He 
says were an impartial service and doesnt see how an informed decision can be made 
without disclosing all of the information on file. I can understand why Mr J feels this way. 
However, just because I cant share certain information more publicly, it doesnt mean I 
havent considered it. HSBC hold information including commercial sensitivities and personal 
details of other customers as one example, so it wouldnt be appropriate for me to share 
information like this with Mr J or anybody else. But Id like to assure Mr J that I have 
considered everything which has been provided by both himself and HSBC before reaching 
my decision. And based on what Ive seen, I think HSBCs actions are fair in the 
circumstances.
Mr J has sent me a copy of his mortgage statement and details with HSBC. However, I 
explained in my provisional decision that because this aspect of his complaint didnt form 
part of his original submissions, HSBC hasnt had the opportunity to try and put things right. 
Therefore, Im not able to consider the issues relating to the commercial loan or mortgage as 
part of this decision. 
Mr J has explained that he doesnt think recalling the overdraft immediately was fair  and 
HSBC could have given him notice as per their terms and conditions. I understand Mr Js 
strong feeling around this, but HSBCs terms allow them to ask for an overdraft to be repaid 
immediately. And, in certain circumstances, they can close the account immediately  which 
is what theyve done here. Ive considered their reasons for this, and while I cant go into 
great detail with Mr J about the reasons why, Im satisfied that HSBCs actions were 
appropriate, so I wont be upholding Mr Js complaint on this point.
It no doubt would have been inconvenient for Mr J to manually move his standing orders and 
direct debits to another bank. The account switch service was introduced between banks to 
make this process easier. Mr J says HSBC have never explained why they refused to do the 
switch service. But a switch service can only be completed from one open account to 
another  and on conclusion of the switch, the primary account will close. Mr Js account 
was already closed so it wouldnt have been possible for HSBC to allow the switch to go 
through. I recognise the inconvenience of this to Mr J but as the decision to close his 
account had already been made, I cant fairly say HSBC did anything wrong.
Overall, I recognise Mr Js upset and frustration with this situation overall. And Im sorry I 
cant uphold his complaint in the way hed like me to. But having considered all of the 
circumstances Im satisfied HSBC were entitled to close Mr Js account immediately and 
recall the overdraft. So, I wont be asking them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman