DRN-2560824
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc handled a claim she made for 
damage to her car under her motor insurance policy.
Mrs B is being represented in bringing this claim by Mr B, but for ease Ive referred to all 
comments and actions as being those of Mrs B.
What happened
Mrs B was involved in an accident and AXA carried out some repairs to her car. Mrs B 
complained to AXA and said the car hadnt been restored to its pre-accident condition. She 
said there was a noise coming from the car which hadnt been there immediately before the 
accident.
AXA didnt agree the noise was accident related, so it didnt agree to carry out any more 
work on the car. It did offer Mrs B £175 compensation for issues in handling the claim, such 
as a lack of contact. 
Our investigator didnt think AXA needed to do anymore work on the car. He was persuaded 
by AXAs engineers comments about the accident impact being light and it being unlikely 
this would cause the noise. He said he hadnt seen enough to suggest the repair carried out 
by AXA hadnt been up to standard.
Our investigator recognised thered been some communication issues throughout the claim, 
but thought AXAs offer of £175 was fair to recognise the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Mrs B didnt accept what our investigator said. She provided comments from her own 
engineer not related to the noise, but relating to the use of washers in AXAs repair. Her 
engineer thought the use of the washers had been used as a quick fix to get a car back on 
the road, but that it showed significant damage had been suffered to the car which couldnt 
be fixed. 
AXAs response was that a washer had been used to fit a temporary wheel to the vehicle 
whilst the original wheel was restored. It said it did so to enable the car to be moved around 
the repair shop. It accepted this washer must have been left on the vehicle by mistake, but 
maintained that the wheel alignment had been tested and was satisfactory. Having reviewed 
the new evidence, our investigator didnt think AXA needed to carry out any further repairs to 
the car.
As the matter couldnt be resolved, it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is conflicting evidence from two parties, my role is to weigh up whats more 
likely to have happened, and which evidence Im more persuaded by.
In relation to the noise from the car, AXAs engineer concluded it was coming from the 
gearbox. It didnt think this could be related to the accident given the damage the car had 
sustained in the accident. It said whilst it was a lorry that hit Mrs Bs car, the impact damage 
was relatively light and there had been no damage sustained to the suspension; so it felt it 
was unlikely to have caused damage to the gearbox.
Mrs B says the noise must be accident related as it wasnt there immediately before the 
accident. Mrs B says although the impact looks light, given the weight of the lorry, it could 
have caused more damage than it appeared to have. She said AXA had only reviewed 
photographs of the damage, and no one had inspected it in person.  Having received our 
investigators view, Mrs B provided comments from her own engineer about the car and its 
repair, but there was no comment from the engineer on the noise coming from the car and 
its likely cause. Her engineer only commented on the presence of washers, which Ill come 
to later.
I understand this has been distressing for Mrs B; having been involved in an accident shes 
understandably concerned about the state of her vehicle. But based on the evidence Ive 
seen from both sides, Im more persuaded by what Ive seen from AXA. AXA did agree to 
investigate the noise from the gearbox and it was visually inspected, as well as road tested, 
so AXA didnt just rely on a virtual review of the damage to reach its opinion. And Mrs B 
hasnt been able to provide any evidence from her engineer that suggest there is damage to 
the gearbox related to the accident. So whilst I accept what Mrs B is saying is possible, I 
havent seen enough to suggest its most likely.
The other issue raised with the repair is the use of washers on one of the wheels. Mrs Bs 
engineer found that the refurbished wheel had been spaced out with washers when it had 
been put back onto the car. He thought this could mean there was more serious damage to 
the car. 
AXA accepts the washers were left on the car, but disputes this means it was trying to cover 
up a more serious issues. It said the washers had been fitted so that a donor wheel would 
fit onto the car and enable it to be moved around the workshop whilst the original wheel was 
refurbished. It accepted they should have been removed before the car was returned to Mrs 
B, but said the wheel alignment was checked and adjusted before the damaged tyre was 
removed. It said there was no issue with the wheel alignment, the washer had simply been 
left on by mistake. 
I can understand why Mrs B was concerned to find the washers fitted with the tyre, but Im 
satisfied AXA has given a reasonable explanation for how they came to be there. AXA has 
provided evidence that its wheel alignment was carried out and adjusted before the 
damaged wheel was removed, so Im satisfied it wasnt trying to disguise an issue with the 
wheel alignment by adding the washers. And Mrs Bs engineer hasnt provided any evidence 
that there is a serious problem with the car relating to the presence of the washers. Or that 
the washers being on the car caused it to be unsafe to drive. Its not clear if Mrs Bs engineer 
removed the washers, but it seems from AXAs comments that doing so would have no 
bearing on the performance of the car, so I dont think it needs to do anymore in relation to 
this.
I know Mrs B feels strongly about the issues raised and feels AXA has treated her poorly 
throughout the claim. I agree some of its communication was poor and I can see AXA has 
recognised that and apologised alongside offering a total of £175 compensation to reflect the 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience it caused. I think it was right to do so, AXA didnt 
update Mrs B as it should have and when she raised concerns about the noise in the car 
AXA didnt initially handle this well, which caused unnecessary upset. Given AXA has 
recognised its failings and offered compensation Im not going to require it to do anymore for 
the service it provided.
My final decisionMy final decision is that AXA Insurance UK plc should pay Mrs B £175 compensation, if it 
hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman