DRN-3708787
The complaint
Miss Q complains about Fairmead Insurance Limiteds (Fairmead) settlement offer following
an accidental damage claim under her home buildings insurance.
What happened
In May 2021 Miss Q found that water had entered into her house following a storm. She 
says water was seeping down the walls of the front bedroom, into the porch at the front of 
the house and also into the kitchen diner. Miss Q thought this might be related to new 
windows she had fitted around three years ago. She made a claim to Fairmead and it 
arranged for a surveyor to visit.
Fairmead agreed that there were storm conditions at the time the damage occurred. But 
the cause of the water ingress was thought to be due to the condition of the flat roof and 
potentially windows that had been installed incorrectly. Fairmead didnt accept liability for 
the condition of the roof or the fitting of the windows. But it did cover the internal damage 
under Miss Qs accidental damage cover.
Fairmead offered to arrange for the repairs once Miss Q had arranged for the external 
repairs to be completed. Alternatively, it offered to pay Miss Q a settlement figure based 
on its surveyors report so she could arrange this work herself. It offered £1,197.60 less 
the £300 policy excess.
Miss Q wasnt happy with the settlement offer. She wanted to ensure the paint used was 
the same she had used previously. Also, that all areas of the affected rooms should be 
decorated, and protective coverings put in place. Miss Q obtained quotes from several 
contractors to carry out repairs.
Fairmead asked that the quotes should be more detailed. It spoke with the contractors 
directly to arrange this. Miss Q says this put them off from doing the work. The quotes 
Miss Q obtained were considerably more that Fairmeads settlement offer at around 
£7,000.
Miss Q has raised concerns that a crack in the kitchen ceiling has developed and the
door is sticking as it has become swollen by the water ingress. Miss Q complained to 
Fairmead but an agreement couldnt be reached. So, she referred her complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator upheld Miss Qs complaint. He didnt think the policy covered damage to 
the roof or windows. But he said Fairmead should cover decorating the affected rooms in 
full, using the paint Miss Q bought originally. He says it should also include the skirting 
boards, the crack in the ceiling, the damaged door, and the provision of protective 
coverings. Our investigator said as Fairmead wouldnt carry out the work until the 
roof/windows had been repaired, it should cover the cost of Miss Q arranging the work 
through her contractors.
Due to the time elapsed since Miss Q made her claim, our investigator also thought 
Fairmead should pay £500 to acknowledge the trouble and upset she had been caused by 
the delay in restoring her home after the water damage.
Fairmead disagreed. It thought the quotes obtained by Miss Q were excessive and 
included betterment. It says it acted to validate the claim and the cost of the repairs as it 
was expected to do. Fairmead acknowledged its original costings didnt reflect the 
decoration of all walls and ceilings. It adjusted its settlement offer to £1,829.89 less the 
policy excess, but Miss Q didnt accept this.
Because an agreement couldnt be reached it has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in August 2022 explaining that I was intending to partially 
uphold Miss Qs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fairmead accepts the damage caused to the interior of Miss Qs home is covered by the 
accidental damage provision under her policy. But it doesnt accept storm damage as a 
cause for the external damage from where the ingress of water occurred. The notes from 
its surveyors visit refer to ponding on the flat roof and that the felt was, lifting.
Ive read Miss Qs policy terms to understand what cover is provided. The terms under 
the section entitled, What is not covered say:
Under this policy, we will not pay for:
Gradual events. Any loss, damage or liability arising from wear and tear that you know 
is happening gradually.
And:
Defects and faults. Any direct loss or damage due to defective design, defective materials, 
faulty materials, faulty workmanship or failure to follow manufacturers instructions.
Ive read the report and examined the photos provided by Fairmeads surveyor. This shows 
areas of water ponding and some areas where the felt has lifted at the edge of the roof. I 
think this reasonably supports Fairmeads view that the roof is in a deteriorated condition 
as a result of wear and tear over time. This cause is excluded from cover under the policy 
terms. Similarly, any issues with the installation of the windows is excluded by the second 
condition set out above. So, I dont think Fairmead acted unreasonably when declining to 
cover repairs for the external damage. Miss Q doesnt dispute this point, so I can move on 
to consider Fairmeads decision to offer a settlement payment.
The policy terms say that if a claim is accepted the insurer will agree actions on the initial call 
and keep in touch by phone. Ive read the claim notes provided by Fairmead as well as Mrs 
Qs testimony and timeline of events. This shows once the claim was received a surveyor 
was appointed and contact was maintained. Miss Q was later asked to provide quotes, 
which she did. This was significantly more expensive than Fairmead had assessed. I can 
see it asked for more detail of the intended works. It also spoke to the contractors Miss Q 
had approached directly to discuss this further.Miss Q raised concerns that Fairmead asked for too much information and didnt make 
its requirements clear from the beginning. She also says this has meant the contractors 
no longer want to do the work.
I sympathise with Miss Q for the situation she found herself in. The damage caused to 
her home must have been upsetting for her, and I acknowledge her frustration with the 
efforts required to obtain quotes. But I do think its reasonable for her insurer to have the 
opportunity to validate the claim. Fairmead was prepared to carry out the repairs once 
the underlying cause was resolved. As Miss Q had proposed alternative contractors, 
and the quotes she provided were much higher than Fairmead expected, it wanted to 
understand what work this entailed and the associated costs.
Under the section entitled, What happens next? the policy terms explain how Fairmead 
will respond when it accepts a claim. It says:
We may offer repair or replacement through our approved suppliers. If you prefer to 
use your own tradesman, or receive a cash settlement for replacement goods instead, 
we will need to agree this with you beforehand. Any payment will generally not exceed 
the discounted amount we would have paid to our chosen supplier.
Having considered the circumstances described I think Fairmead acted appropriately and 
in line with Miss Qs policy terms.
Miss Q raised concerns that Fairmeads schedule of work wouldnt include the full 
redecoration of the affected rooms. I can understand why she was concerned and her view 
that its not reasonable to only decorate the immediately affected areas. This would leave a 
mismatched finish. Since referring her complaint to our service Fairmead has now 
confirmed the full cost of the redecorations wasnt included in its original costings. I think 
its fair that it recognised this and has now increased its settlement payment to £1,829.89 
less the policy excess.
Fairmead says Miss Qs contractor quoted three times the cost it allocated for decorating. 
It says the contractor also quoted for skip hire at a far higher cost than it would expect to 
pay. It says plastering work to the ceilings in the hall and bedroom is included by the 
contractor when this work wasnt identified by its surveyor. Fairmead thinks some skirting 
can be removed and replaced, which again isnt reflected in Miss Qs quotes, and that 
boxing around a window wasnt necessary. Fairmead maintains that the quotes provided 
are excessive for the work identified by its surveyor.
I have thought about Miss Qs view that Fairmeads offer wont cover the costs quoted by 
the contractors she approached. And that it wont carry out the work using its own 
contractors.
However, from what I have seen Fairmead didnt refuse to carry out the work. It offered to 
complete the repairs once the damaged roof had been fixed. As its surveyor identified this 
as the source of the water ingress, I think its reasonable to expect this to be resolved 
before the internal repairs were completed.
I can see that Miss Q approached the contractors who fitted her windows. My 
understanding is that they werent prepared to do anything further to help. I havent seen 
evidence that Miss Q arranged for repairs to be carried out to her roof.
The policy terms say any offer of settlement will be based on the amount Fairmead would 
pay its contractor. So, I dont think it behaved unfairly when basing its offer on its 
discounted supplier rates.Miss Q refers to a crack in the kitchen ceiling over the window that has appeared as the 
property dried out. Also, a problem with the front door sticking, which she says has swollen 
because of the water ingress. I think its reasonable for Fairmead to consider these issues as 
part of Miss Qs claim as they appear to be directly related to the accidental damage cause it 
agreed to cover. It should include this in the scope of works, whether this is as part of a 
settlement payment or for its contractors to repair.
I have thought about Miss Qs comments that she has had to live in a house that smells, 
and that mould has developed because of the water damage. I note that her son intended 
to return home to stay but hasnt been able to because of the smell in the damaged 
bedroom. Im sorry for the disruption Miss Q has been caused, this has clearly been a 
distressing time for her. But I dont think Fairmead acted unreasonably when trying to 
validate the claim and establish what it should reasonably cost to carry out the repairs. The 
repairs were delayed because the underlying cause of the water ingress hasnt been fixed. 
This isnt Fairmeads responsibility.
Fairmead didnt include all the decorating works that were required in its settlement offer. I 
note Miss Q was told the overall area included in her quotes needed to be reduced, and 
she relayed this to her contactors. Its not until the matter was referred to our service that 
the full cost of decorations was included into the settlement payment. Miss Q was 
inconvenienced by this and it has added to the distress she felt following the damage 
caused to her home. To acknowledge this, I think its fair that Fairmead pays her £150 
compensation.
In summary I dont think Fairmead treated Miss Q unfairly when trying to validate the costs 
quoted by her contractors. It reasonably relied on its policy terms when offering to repair the 
insured damage or to provide a settlement payment. But I dont think it acted fairly when not
including the full cost of decorating the damaged areas.
I said I was intending to uphold the complaint in part and that Fairmead Insurance Limited 
should:
arrange for its contractors to complete the repairs to include the cracked kitchen
ceiling, the damaged front door and full redecoration of the damaged rooms or
provide a settlement payment incorporating these costs; and
pay £150 compensation to Miss Q for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Fairmead didnt respond to my provisional decision with any further comments or 
information. 
Miss Q responded with detailed comments describing the circumstances around the time of 
her claim and the events that occurred. I have read her comments in full, which I have briefly 
set out below.
Miss Q says Fairmead didnt initially offer to carry out repairs. She refers to conversations 
and correspondence with it involving the options available to her, and that she wasnt familiar 
with how the system worked. Miss Q says it was only after she told Fairmead she would 
refer her complaint to our service that it mentioned carrying out the repairs itself. Miss Q says Fairmeads contact with her contractors put them off carrying out the work. She 
also explains her roof has been repaired, but the business didnt ask her if this had been 
done. 
Miss Q says it was never her intention to include work that constituted betterment. She also 
says she wasnt initially aware of the revised settlement offer for £1,829.89, less the policy 
excess. Until her complaint had been brought to our service. Miss Q explains she didnt ask 
for the external repairs to be included in her claim, she queried whether they would be, as 
she was unfamiliar with how the process worked. 
Miss Q says Fairmead wanted a breakdown of costs from her contractors. She says this isnt 
what it had originally asked for. She also says she cant now access emails via Fairmeads 
system to support her complaint. 
Miss Q says the work Fairmead questioned, including the skirting boards was confirmed by 
her builders as something that was required. She says she cant see how the window boxing 
work could be avoided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Q has provided a detailed response commenting on each section of my provisional 
decision. I have carefully considered all of her comments and re-reviewed the evidence and 
testimony supplied by both parties. Ive considered everything Miss Qs said but I wont be 
responding in similar detail. So, if I dont mention a particular point it isnt because I havent 
seen or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. 
This isnt intended as a discourtesy, it is just a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
I acknowledge Miss Qs comments that Fairmead didnt offer to carry out the repairs until 
later into her claim. In my provisional decision I said it hadnt been confirmed that shed 
arranged for repairs to the roof to be carried out. I note what she says about this work having 
been completed, and that she had, of course arranged for this to happen. But I dont think 
this was made clear to Fairmead or to our service. 
I understand Miss Q is frustrated with how her claim was handled. As I said in my provisional 
decision this was clearly a very upsetting time for her. But I dont think shes shown that 
Fairmead acted unfairly. It couldnt arrange for repairs to the internal parts of her home whilst 
it understood there were ongoing issues with the roof allowing water ingress. 
I acknowledge Miss Q thinks Fairmeads surveyor hassled her contractor about the detail of 
the repair work, which resulted in his decision to stop communicating. I understand the point 
she is making. But Fairmead had valid reason to ask for a more detailed breakdown given 
the costing for the work differed significantly from the work its surveyor had scoped out. I 
havent seen evidence that the business acted inappropriately here. 
I dont dispute Miss Qs comments that she didnt intend for any betterment work to be 
included in her claim. I acknowledge her description of the refurbishment her home had 
undergone prior to the water damage occurring. And that it was, looking lovely. By no 
means am I suggesting Miss Q intended to gain more from her claim than was covered by 
the policy. In my provisional decision I commented that Fairmead identified some of the 
repair work included in the quote Miss Q provided hadnt been included in its surveyors 
scope of works. I dont think its unreasonable for an insurer to want to validate repair costs 
to ensure it only pays for the work covered by its policy. I think this is what happened here.I note Miss Qs concerns that Fairmeads surveyor didnt include all the necessary repairs in 
its scope of works. She specifically talks about boxing work required around the window. In 
my provisional decision I said Fairmead should consider the issue with the crack in the 
kitchen ceiling and the kitchen door sticking, as these appear to be related to the accidental 
damage cause Fairmead had agreed to cover. I have considered what Miss Q has said, but 
Im not persuaded from this that I need to change my decision. 
In summary, Im sorry for the upset Miss Q has felt through the process of making her claim. 
But having considered her further comments in detail, Im not persuaded that I need to 
change my decision, which I think represents a fair outcome in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Miss Qs 
complaint in part. Fairmead Insurance Limited should:
arrange for its contractors to complete the repairs to include the cracked kitchen
ceiling, the damaged front door, and full redecoration of the damaged rooms, or
provide a settlement payment incorporating these costs; and
pay £150 compensation to Miss Q for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Q to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman