DRN-2539910
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy with esure Insurance Limiteds (esure) handling of a claim made under her 
home insurance policy. She says that esures recommendations resulted in damp returning 
to her property, and the claim being prolonged.
What happened
In August 2014 Ms S property suffered damage following a flood and she reported a claim 
to esure, her home insurance provider.
Following a period of drying and a number of parties being involved in the claim, a complaint 
was made to esure and later to this service. This looked at what had happened up to the 
final response esure issued on 24 August 2015. 
In that complaint, our case handler said drying took a long time, but there wasnt a damp 
proof course (DPC), and as that wasnt covered under the policy, it was reasonable for esure 
to ask Ms S to pay for it. They also said alternative accommodation wasnt given at the start 
but later was and the property was considered dry when drying wasnt complete and this 
impacted on the alternative accommodation.
The case handler concluded that the £500 compensation, plus the other uninsured works 
and costs esure had already agreed to cover was reasonable, so didnt recommend they do 
anything further.
The claim and repairs continued after this time but Ms S property still continued to suffer 
from returning damp issues. Ms S was also asked to undertake works that esure said 
werent covered as they werent connected to the claim or flood, but needed to be carried out 
so the claim could progress and repairs could take place.
Despite the uninsured works being carried out as requested, and insured works taking place, 
the damp continued to return. Ms S feels that esures recommended installation of a DPC 
resulted in the ongoing damp issues, which she says werent present prior to the flood. Ms S 
also raised concerns about issues that have arisen throughout the claim, including the 
service provided by esure overall, the repair works, private works being asked to be 
completed and the security and garden at her property. Esure looked at complaints when 
they arose and gave compensation (or other gestures) at various points.
As with the last complaint for events prior to August 2015, Ms S asked this service to look 
into things.
As the claim was ongoing, and continually changing with new issues arising, our investigator 
outlined what period she would be considering in this complaint. Whilst some of the 
complaints addressed by esure had been raised with us outside of six months of the final 
response being issued, esure agreed for us to include those which otherwise wouldve been 
out of time. So our investigator looked at things from August 2015 to the most recent final 
response at that time  6 April 2020.
However, the claim has also moved forward since that point too (and further issues have 
arisen) which she didnt consider as part of this complaint. Ms S also raised a number of 
complaint points directly with esure for consideration after they issued the final response on 
6 April 2020, so she didnt comment on those specifically.
Based on what our investigator looked at, she didnt recommend esure do anything further. 
She recognised things had been ongoing for a considerable amount of time, and the impact 
on Ms S. But she also said she couldnt hold esure solely responsible for everything that had 
occurred. She said uninsured works caused some of the problems and delays, and there 
wasnt evidence the DPC which was carried out privately at the request of esure had solely 
caused the continual damp issues as alleged, which mostly contributed to the length of the 
claim.
She also didnt conclude the electrical works required privately were only necessary due to 
esures previous repairs as Ms S had alleged. And whilst Ms S said esure had caused her 
financial hardship, based on the evidence provided, she said esure had provided interim 
payments throughout and there hadnt been anything provided to demonstrate the actual 
alleged financial hardship or amounts, such as bank statements, or how esure had caused 
this.
Our investigator said that based on what shed seen, for events which she felt esure were 
solely responsible for, what it had already offered and done was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Namely that esure had provided a total of £2,350 compensation since 
August 2015. And theyd agreed to fund more than £6,000 of works not solely connected to 
the loss to try to ultimately resolve the variety of damp penetration issues, and other 
problems that arose. She also noted esure had more recently agreed to cover the cost of the 
DPC which was originally installed.
Ms S didnt agree and an ombudsman was asked for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should explain that whilst Ive referred to Ms S throughout my final decision, shes also had 
a representative who has been supporting her with the claim and complaint, and in 
correspondence with esure and this service on her behalf. And whilst Ive referred to Ms S 
throughout (as shes policyholder), this is also in reference to correspondence and actions 
by her representative.
A number of different parties were involved in the claim, and where Ive referred to esure, 
that includes the actions by its representatives, including loss adjusters, contractors and 
others involved in the claim.The claim duration and complaint responses from esure
Ill also confirm the period of time Im considering here, and thats the same as our 
investigator. From August 2015 to 6 April 2020. 
Between these two periods, esure considered a number of complaints and concerns raised 
by Ms S and issued several complaint responses. Some of these responses were formal 
final responses and are outside of the six-month timescale in which Ms S wouldve needed 
to approach this service. But esure confirmed it was in agreement with us including these 
responses as part of this complaint consideration.
Ive summarised the complaint responses issued by esure since August 2015 to April 2020:
10 June 2016  Esure said they could see Ms S had been let down, in particular there was a 
five-month delay where the loss adjuster didnt respond or progress the claim. They 
confirmed Ms S was able to change insurers despite the ongoing claim and theyd deal with 
it to conclusion regardless if she changed. They noted the snagging issues that had been 
raised. 
Esure noted damp was still penetrating. They gave various reasons why moisture was 
entering, including the chimney, roof and render where they were in a poor state of repair. 
They said moisture penetrating caused a curtain pole to fall down, and whilst uninsured, they 
were willing to assist with this. Esure also commented on the condition of the roof being 
several hundred years old, and the quality of previous repairs and the condition of the roof 
more generally, and suggested various works Ms S needed to do to make it watertight.
They also commented on some of the snagging works and what could be done to rectify 
these. They also commented on some of the private works already carried out, and how 
these would be rectified.
Esure summarised that it was a complex claim as some private and some insured works 
were both required and had taken place, along with wider maintenance issues being present 
which needed to be resolved. And that the damp issue required further exploration. Esure 
paid £350 compensation.
26 August 2016  Esure noted contractors had said snagging works were completed when 
they werent and called Ms S when they were asked not to. The contractors had sent a list of 
snagging works to the incorrect email address so Ms S didnt receive this. They also said the 
damp issue was complex and the cause was still being established, and whether it was the 
DPC or drying which was contributing. £250 compensation was given by esure.
4 November 2016  this said that the contractors had said there is an issue with the DPC, 
and this was private works, but the contractors had helped to arrange this. Esure said the 
DPC came with a guarantee, so the installer needed an opportunity to resolve things, but if 
that didnt work, esure would consider carrying out the work. They also apologised that there 
were still snagging issues, but there wasnt much rationale to resolving these until the damp 
issue was resolved. Esure apologised that the claim was still ongoing and gave £250 
compensation.
26 May 2017  Esure said the service received had fallen far short of the standards it aimed 
for. They said that since a damp specialist had attended there had been progress and site 
visits, and the repair work would be put out to tender and they hoped things would progress 
more smoothly. Esure paid a further £750 compensation.7 September 2017  this mentioned inconvenience of site visits and that Ms S was 
contacted and £150 compensation was paid.
12 April 2018  Esure explained works werent progressing because water was still entering 
the property. They said this was due to the French drain being installed incorrectly and an 
issue with the mortar flaunching to the chimney. They said the French drain was private 
rather than claim related works, and the chimney flaunching was a maintenance issue. So 
they said they couldnt cover either of those costs and the claim couldnt progress until the 
works had been completed. But esure apologised for poor communication and paid £100 
compensation.
6 April 2020  Esure said they were sorry to hear of some personal circumstances which 
had caused delays with the uninsured works starting, and then subsequently the insured 
works starting.
They said things had taken longer and it wasnt until recent work was nearing completion 
that a further damp issue came to light, which needed further investigation. And the 
conclusion reached was that it was penetrating damp, unrelated to the flood incident or work 
carried out by esure. They said that although the cost of resolving this by dry-lining the 
affected areas wasnt something thats covered or solely claim related, given the history of 
the claim, theyd agreed to cover the cost of this, in excess of £6,000, as a gesture of 
goodwill.
Esure apologised that the garden had been cut back and with the security issues at the 
property which had been raised on multiple occasions which werent sufficiently dealt with at 
the time.
In summary esure said that in addition to what theyd previously compensated (and along 
with over £6,000 of works theyd also paid for), theyd give a further £500 compensation.
Separate and/or new issues
As Ive outlined, esure addressed a number of complaints throughout the period August 
2015 to April 2020. And for anything which has occurred since that point which Ms S is 
unhappy with, or that wasnt considered by esure previously, shed need to raise this with 
esure to consider as a separate and new complaint(s).
Some points have already been raised separately by Ms S directly with esure after the final 
response was issued on 6 April 2020, and dont specifically fall as part of this complaint so I 
wont be commenting on those here. This included more recent issues with the repairs, the 
service received, works not yet being completed and lack of action by the contractors. Along 
with ongoing financial hardship and overdraft and loan charges being incurred. 
Ms S also raised the condition of the driveway, gates and leaving the heating on, and the 
quality of works and communication issues. The contractor using the property as a billing 
address and the renewal quote received. Some of these points do have elements which 
stem from before April 2020, but esure has only addressed specifically what Ive outlined 
above, and some of these points may have continued to change as the claim moved on after 
this time too.Previous complaint considered by this service
Our service previously looked at a complaint, in which a number of issues were considered 
pre-August 2015 and pre-date the above responses. This included esures request for a 
DPC to be installed at that time. As thats already been considered, Im not commenting on it 
specifically again here. So Ive considered from that point, up to when esure issued its final 
response in April 2020 as Ive outlined above. 
However, since that original complaint, and as reflected in the complaint responses since 
then, the damp has returned. And Ms S says that its solely because esure said the DPC 
should be installed. So whilst Im not considering whether it was reasonable for esure to say 
to install it early on in the claim (as thats already been considered), Im considering whether 
there is evidence that the returning damp since then was caused solely by that, based on the 
new evidence and information since that time.
The claim
The claim has gone on for a considerable period of time. And because its been prolonged, 
many events have occurred throughout that time, along with considerable amounts of 
communication between all the parties involved. When our investigator issued her 
assessment of the complaint, she focussed on the main issues which she believed were 
important for the outcome to the complaint over the four plus-year period. Plus some 
additional points specifically which Ms S raised with her.
As both parties are aware of what has happened, and each and every event and dispute 
which has occurred throughout this time, and esure dont dispute things went wrong, I dont 
intend to revisit or comment on everything that happened individually. Ill focus on what I 
believe to be the key points relevant to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I dont mean this as a discourtesy to either party, rather this 
reflects the informal nature of our service and my role within it. But its clear that its been a 
difficult time for Ms S and Id like to reassure both parties that Ive considered all the 
information theyve provided when reaching my final decision. 
Its not in dispute things have gone wrong throughout, and thats why esure has 
compensated Ms S £2,350 since 2015. And amongst other gestures, agreed to cover more 
than £6,000 of works to ultimately prevent the damp returning, despite it not being solely 
claim related. Here Im deciding overall whether thats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the complaint, based on the information provided by both parties.
This claim has been ongoing for a significant amount of time, has been very disruptive and 
complex, with both insured and private works required. Along with the damp returning with 
differing believed causes. And I sympathise with Ms S for the situation shes been in, and for 
such a long period of time. It will be distressing to have a flood in the first place, damaging 
your home.  But its clear that since then (and for the period Im looking at) there have been 
a number of issues which have meant the claim duration has been substantial, along with 
separate issues that arose throughout this time.
The damp problem
The main reason the claim has been ongoing for such a lengthy period is that the property 
has continued to suffer from damp problems. It was deemed dry originally in 2015, but the 
damp has continued to return since then, with differing opinions on the cause, and works 
being needed both insured and uninsured and privately funded, to try to resolve it. But none 
of these investigations or works resolved the problem of it returning, including after works 
had been carried out, over the four plus-year period Ive looked at.In the early stages of the claim it was identified that there wasnt a damp-proof course 
(DPC). Ms S was asked to install one in order for works to be completed and guaranteed. 
Ms S did this at her own cost (esure have more recently agreed to reimburse this). Im not 
commenting on whether it was reasonable for esure to ask for it to be completed at that 
stage in the claim, as that was what was considered in the last complaint with our service.
But Ms S says that the DPC installation has caused the damp to return continually since 
then, which is the main reason the claim has taken so long, and that it was only completed at 
esures request. So she says esure are solely responsible for everything which has 
happened since. Ive considered whether the evidence provided demonstrates this is the 
case.
Investigations were carried out into the cause of damp at various stages throughout the 
claim. Along with everything that has been done, insured or privately, to try to resolve it. But 
this ultimately still didnt resolve the problem as the damp kept returning. And as referred to 
in the April 2020 final response above, esure agreed to cover the £6,000 plus of works which 
were thought would finally resolve things.
When it was thought the DPC hadnt been installed correctly, the DPC installer re-inspected. 
They said that there was no evidence the DPC had failed and said there were problems with 
the guttering and the storm drain gutter needed checking if it was working properly. They 
also said a drainage trench was needed, attached to a soakaway or outlet and the masonry 
at the bottom of the wall needed repairing. These works werent related to the flood or 
covered by esure and were privately carried out by Ms S during the claim.
Initially when the returning damp was noticed, it was believed that the plastering had been 
completed when the walls were too damp, despite them being deemed dry prior to this. But 
this was disputed and it was also said moisture was penetrating through the roof and other 
maintenance related areas.
Following targeted drying, it was thought that the render method would have stopped the 
walls from breathing, and they had retained moisture. It was also said the DPC wasnt 
effective enough to prevent capillary action of ground water entering the property and a lime 
mortar finish may be necessary.
Damp specialists looked at the potential causes of damp too, they gave their opinions on the 
effectiveness of the DPC, but also commented on other maintenance and historic issues, 
including the roof. 
Earlier in the claim when the DPC installer gave their comments, drainage was identified as 
an issue not related to the claim as Ive outlined above. But it was later deemed (during 
repair works) the drain still wasnt functioning correctly as moisture was still entering the 
property causing further damp. And this then required private rectification works before the 
insured works could continue. 
But along with that drainage issue, it was also said there were issues with the chimney, 
which required rectification, which again wasnt connected to the original flood or covered by 
the claim. There was a delay in these being able to be completed, firstly by Ms S being 
unable to access the property, and then due to some personal circumstances for her 
representative.
Following this, works were carried out by esure including lime plastering, which was thought 
would resolve the damp problem. But during these works, the damp returned and again 
needed further investigation as to what was causing it. Ultimately it was concluded that the potential routes of moisture ingress were numerous, 
rising, penetrating and bridging damp, and that dry lining would resolve the wider issue of 
damp penetration. Whilst not concluded to be solely needed due to the original loss, and 
needed to stop various damp ingress causes, esure agreed to cover this cost (in excess of 
£6,000).
So there have been differing opinions at various stages throughout the claim. And this was 
before, during and after various works had been completed, insured and uninsured. And 
each time they required investigation, and the fact it kept returning, inevitably unfortunately 
prolonged the claim.
Ms S has said that the reason there have been ongoing damp issues is solely because 
esure said to have a DPC installed. Ms S says the property didnt suffer from damp before, 
so she says esure are solely responsible for the ongoing damp problems and all the issues 
that came with that. But I dont agree its been shown esure are solely responsible.
The evidence provided indicates a number of causes. And some causes became evident 
when other works were completed. This included the lack of a DPC and it was thought 
(which I acknowledge Ms S disagrees with) the property being damp originally and had poor 
drainage, which also later needed additional works. In addition, it was also thought that the 
type of render used, and it being an older property, was also contributing. And it was 
believed that the condition of the roof and chimney, and wider maintenance issues were also 
contributing to the damp problems.
So based on the information provided, Im unable to conclude it was solely based on esures 
requested DPC installation which caused the returning damp issue, and by extension 
everything thats happened since.
At the point Im considering the claim up to (April 2020), its thought the installation of a stud 
wall dry-lining and plastering throughout will ultimately now resolve all the damp problems, 
from various causes, and following the other works that have already taken place. As Ive 
mentioned, esure have agreed to pay in excess of £6,000 towards this. And I think thats fair 
in the circumstances.
Whilst I appreciate Ms S feels that esure are solely responsible for the damp issues, and 
there were no other previous issues with her property, based on all the evidence provided, 
Im unable to conclude on balance that this is the case.
The claim has moved on since esure agreed to do this, and Ive only considered whether 
that was fair up to 6 April 2020. If this doesnt (or didnt) resolve things, and if Ms S has any 
other evidence she feels shows esure are solely responsible for the damp, she should raise 
this with esure for consideration, if she hasnt already done so.
Electrical works
Ms S says that she needed to carry out private electrical works recommended by esure 
solely because of poor works they carried out previously. She says they otherwise wouldnt 
have been needed.From the information provided, the original claim works completed were in the ground floor. 
But these werent extensive works. The private works recommended were much more 
extensive and to other areas in Ms S property. And the reason these were suggested was 
due to the age and condition of the electrics, the installation and complying with current 
regulations. This became evident during the strip out works, following damp investigation 
and during the course of repairs.
Based on the evidence provided, I dont think its been shown this was only needed on the 
basis of being related to the original flood damage, or the original repairs carried out as 
alleged.
Payments being delayed and financial impact
Esure has paid for alternative accommodation, and made payments for this, along with other 
associated costs such as council tax and utilities. Some payments were as larger interim 
payments and some were offset against payments for private works. Ms S has mentioned 
concerns about how the payments were made more generally and said there were delays 
and issues with receiving them, and she had to continually fight for these during the claim.
Ms S has said both this and the claim and duration have caused financial difficulties and 
longer term costs which she otherwise wouldnt have had, and she says esure are solely 
responsible for those. She says she intended to sell the property prior to the flood but wasnt 
able to or to re-mortgage. And Ms S thinks there may be a difference in the price of the 
property when it does sell. 
I can see this was mentioned more broadly in correspondence with esure at some points 
during the claim (and its also been raised after April 2020 too as Ive referenced above). Our 
investigator said that whilst she noted Ms S comments, specific evidence of those actual 
costs hasnt been provided or considered by esure. 
Based on the information provided, whilst I note Ms S comments about the cost of her 
mortgage and outgoings, Ive not seen specific evidence in support of what those alleged 
additional financial losses or debts are specifically, or how and when specifically theyve 
been incurred over the claim. Or that those were solely due to esures actions or at what 
points. Ive outlined what the complaint responses by esure addressed, and esure hasnt yet 
considered these potential costs either. And as the claim has continued beyond when Im 
considering, this has potentially continually changed too if there are indeed costs or losses 
associated with it. And the alleged sale price impact wouldnt be known until the property 
does actually sell.
So if Ms S is able to obtain further information or evidence which shows this has been 
caused solely by esures actions, the amounts specifically and how this has caused financial 
difficulties, she should submit this to esure for consideration based on that additional 
information. Once esure has assessed this, and if Ms S remains unhappy with whatever 
outcome is reached, we may be able to consider this based on that new evidence as a 
separate complaint. But based on the information provided, Im not able to conclude esure 
are responsible for unknown potential costs or losses. 
Claim handling and service received
Its clear by the nature of the continued damp issues and claim duration that things havent 
gone smoothly. Neither party disagree on that. And this is why since August 2015 esure 
have given £2,350 compensation, along with covering more than £6,000 of additional works. There have been a number of smaller issues, and a number of much larger problems 
throughout. But I dont intend on commenting on or revisiting each and every issue, rather Ill 
comment on some of the key points and overarching themes. But Id like to reiterate that Ive 
considered all the information provided by both parties when deciding whether the 
compensation (and paying more than £6,000 for additional works) is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances overall.
When repairs have been carried out at Ms S property there have been snagging works 
which have needed rectification each time. And it does seem that the snagging works were 
extensive on each occasion. And esure were told by the contractors works had been 
completed, when that wasnt actually the case, and Ms S also wasnt sent a list of snagging 
works. Ms S was also unhappy with some of the private works completed, contacted esure 
for assistance, but they didnt respond for several months. Esure accept this was poor claim 
handling, and this caused unnecessary delays too.
Due to previous works by the contractor and a breakdown in the relationship, another 
contractor was required. And this inevitably caused delays. Esure also tried to move things 
forward more quickly by reducing the number of contractors who tendered for works to three 
and in one appointment, but delays had already taken place. There were also delays in the 
subsequent repairs and lime plastering due to the weather conditions. 
Throughout the claim, the damp was returning and differing opinions and investigations were 
carried out which, inevitably, made the claim much longer than otherwise wouldve been 
expected had things been less complex. And the damp returned after works had been 
completed which then meant they needed further investigation and repairs too.
During the course of the claim Ms S was also asked to carry out various non-insured works, 
such as drainage, roof, chimney and electrical works. And this did take some time which 
impacted on overall claim timescales. And when the drainage and chimney were determined 
as an additional source of moisture penetration there were some personal circumstances 
which meant things didnt progress here too, which impacted on esure then being able to 
progress things. 
So there have been some delays caused by esure, but I cant hold them solely responsible 
for everything that happened. And as I said above, I also havent concluded they were solely 
responsible for the damp returning on the basis of the recommended installation of the DPC 
as alleged. Consequently, as that was a major factor in the claim duration overall, whilst 
lengthy, I cant say its duration is solely due to esure.
Based on what Ive seen, Ive also not concluded that the uninsured works esure asked 
Ms S to complete were unnecessary or werent needed as alleged. In fact, the information 
provided suggests underlying issues with the property due to its age and condition, which 
meant additional works were required, not related to the flood. 
But esure have accepted things went wrong, like there were avoidable delays, they shouldnt 
have contacted Ms S directly, the garden was allowed to overgrow, then it was incorrectly 
cleared, and theyve covered those costs, and some others which arose too. So although 
things have gone wrong throughout, esure have tried to put things right, including 
compensating Ms S £2,350 since August 2015, and paying more than £6,000 for works as a 
gesture to reflect whats happened, and to try to resolve the ultimate damp issue.I think the communication could have been better overall though, thats evident from the 
emails and chasers Ms S had to send, which werent responded to. And I can see why Ms S 
would be unhappy with the overall communication throughout. There were occasions where 
there were significant delays in esure responding, and a lack of action on the claim. And 
thats accepted by esure. But whilst communication was poor on multiple occasions, there 
were also things happening on the claim in the background at times too. But, overall, the 
communication could have been better so Ms S was fully aware what was actually 
happening, and to manage her expectations from a customer service point of view.
The claim has clearly taken a considerable amount of time, and there have been multiple 
issues which have arisen and things that have gone wrong. But thats not disputed by esure 
and thats why theyve both paid compensation and covered additional works. And as Ive 
said, Im not persuaded esure is solely responsible for everything which occurred or resulted 
in the claim taking a long time. So having taken everything both parties have provided into 
account, I think the compensation esure have provided totalling £2,350 (along with over 
£6,000 of other works), is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, so Im not going to ask 
them to pay more at this stage.
But thats not to say that covers alleged potential costs Ms S mightve incurred as shes said. 
Financial loss or physical costs incurred as a result of esures actions would be separate to 
compensation (or the equivalent by covering non claim related costs or works). Ive 
explained above what Ms S should do if she believes this should be the case and can 
evidence it. But as this isnt known or evidenced at this stage, or considered by esure, Im 
not going to say they should do any more as what theyve already done and compensated, 
based on what Ive seen, is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman