DRN-1971622
The complaint
Mr H complains that American Express Services Europe Limited wont refund payments 
made on his credit card to a holiday cottage company.
What happened
In January and June 2019 Mr H made payments on his American Express Services Europe 
Limited (Amex for short) credit card to a holiday cottage company in order to stay at a 
holiday cottage for a week. When Mr H and others arrived at the cottage they said it was 
dirty and noisy. So they left the next day. Mr H then complained to the cottage landlords and 
the Holiday Cottage Company but didnt his money back. So he complained to Amex.
Amex looked into the matter, but it didnt think it could help. This was because it didnt think it 
a chargeback had a reasonable prospect of success in its view. It also thought a Section 75 
claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 should be unsuccessful. So it didnt think it could 
do any more for Mr H.
Mr H didnt think this was fair, so he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the matter. Overall, they didnt think Amex had acted unfairly by 
declining Mr Hs request for a refund. Mr H didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make very clear that this decision is not about the holiday cottage company or the 
holiday cottage landlords, neither of which are a financial services provider, and so dont fall 
within my remit. This decision is only about whether Amex has treated Mr H fairly in not 
refunding the transaction. 
I can see from Mr Hs representations to the Investigator that he is understandably and at 
least initially, focusing on the quality of the accommodation he stayed in. However whatever 
issues there may have been with the cottage it doesnt necessarily follow that Amex has 
treated Mr H unfairly. And as Ive said thats the only thing I can decide on in this decision.
authorising the transaction
Mr H accepts he made the transactions to the holiday cottage website. He doesnt dispute 
the dates or the amounts. So having considered this and what we know about what 
happened here I think the transaction was properly authorised and Amex correctly applied 
these charges to Mr Hs credit card account.
could Amex challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr H 
does here, Amex (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process. I 
dont think Amex couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mr H didnt properly 
authorise the transaction, given the conclusions on this issue that Ive already set out.
Amex is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. The supplier of the goods or services would then 
receive that chargeback request and may agree to refund the payment or may contest the 
chargeback. If it contests, then Amex should consider this and then if it still feels the 
chargeback is warranted then it can take the chargeback further and ultimately to the 
scheme provider (not Amex) who will then make an independent determination on the 
matter. So Amex isnt solely responsible for the decision whether to refund or not when 
going through the chargeback process. And it can decide to not proceed at any stage if it 
doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success.
Mr H says that when he first approached Amex it told him that because he was complaining 
about the quality of the service he received (that is the quality of the cottage 
accommodation) that he wouldnt be able to be successful through the chargeback process. 
This is supported by the contemporaneous records which Amex have provided which show 
that there was such a conversation and that he couldnt be successful through chargeback. 
Latterly Amex has said on the chargeback issue that it wrote to Mr H trying to gather more 
evidence and when he didnt respond it closed its file on whether to do a chargeback or not. 
Whatever the situation actually was it is clear Amex didnt go through with raising a 
chargeback with the merchant (the holiday cottage company here). So did Mr H lose out 
because of this?
I dont think Mr H lost out because of this. Ive considered the chargeback process available 
here and the codes that could have been used. I can also see that although the holiday 
cottage company did liaise with Mr H regarding his concerns it refused to refund him any 
money. Its position was that the cottage was available for Mr H to stay in for the whole 
booking period (and clearly he accessed and did stay in the property) and although Mr H had 
such feedback it didnt feel any refund was appropriate. As a consequence I think had Amex 
raised a chargeback the holiday cottage would have defended it and refused the 
chargeback. Amex is obligated to continue to pursue the chargeback process whilst it thinks 
the process has a reasonable prospect of success. Im not persuaded that if a chargeback 
had been raised it had a reasonable prospect of success or on balance would have been 
successful. So all in all, I dont think Mr H has lost out due to Amexs approach to 
chargeback here.
how about the Consumer Credit Act 1974?
The transaction was made using Mr Hs Amexs credit card. Under section 75 of this Act, in 
certain circumstances, he has an equal right to claim against Amex as he does against the 
supplier (the holiday cottage company) if theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. In summary section 56 has the effect of making Amex 
responsible during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mr H entering into the 
agreement. In essence this means Amex can be held responsible for the things that were 
done or said during the sales process before agreement was reached.
For a valid claim under this legislation there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement 
in place. This is often referred to as the DCS relationship or simply DCS. This means there 
needs to be the necessary three-party relationship. This often looks like:A debtor (who makes repayments to the creditor for the borrowing for the purchase)
A creditor (who has to send the borrowed amount direct to the supplier)
A supplier (who has to provide what was purchased to the debtor)
This means the person who paid for the goods, the debtor, should have a contractual
relationship with the company who supplied the goods, as well as with the credit provider, 
the creditor. But this isnt the case here. Mr Hs credit card was used to make payment here 
and he paid the holiday cottage company. But it was the cottage owners/landlord who 
supplied the cottage for Mr H to stay in. So although the holiday cottage company were 
acting as agents of the cottage owners it is clear that Mr H contracted with and paid the 
holiday cottage company the supplier of the cottage was a separate party (the cottage 
owner/landlord) who Mr H didnt either contract with or pay directly. So in essence Mr H is in 
a four-party relationship in here. 
Accordingly Im satisfied that there isnt the necessary DCS relationship present to make 
Amex responsible under this legislation. And thus it is fair that Amex isnt responsible for any 
failings by the cottage owners/landlord. And as a consequence of the necessary liability 
being made out here then Amex cannot be held responsible for the failings that Mr H says 
were present with the cottage he stayed at briefly. So Mr Hs complaint here fails.
For the sake of completeness Ill address a key issue here. Amex has said that DCS is also 
broken due to the presence of a payment processor here. I disagree. The Courts have 
considered the presence of extra financial transactional service providers within transactions 
(where DCS is a consideration) in two separate court cases. Such situations were 
considered by the Court of Appeal in the case of Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds & others 
[2006] (the OFT case) and by the High Court in the case of Governor and Company of the 
Bank of Scotland v Alfred Truman (a firm) [2005] EWHC 583, (the Truman case). Fellow 
Ombudsmen and I have issued decisions on when the DCS chain is and isnt broken by the 
presence of financial transaction service providers within transactions where DCS is a key 
issue. These are available on our website for Amex to consider and I suggest it does. But to 
be clear the presence within this transaction of a payment processor does not break the 
DCS chain in this specific situation. It is the issue of Mr H paying the holiday cottage 
company and contracting with it but receiving the benefit of the use of the cottage from a 
different party (the cottage owner/landlord) not having paid it (directly) that breaks the chain 
in this instance. 
I now turn to some of Mr Hs arguments. He says because Amex declined his request for a 
refund due to the presence of a payment processor and it is this services position that such 
a position is unfair that I should decide that Amex should refund him. This service is an 
impartial dispute resolution service which looks to settle disputes fairly and reasonably. It 
isnt a service to punish firms or to champion consumers over firms or have any such 
agenda. It would clearly be unfair between the parties to decide that because Amex has 
wrongly applied the position of the Courts with regard to payment processors it should then 
be liable for something it obviously isnt liable for due to other reasons. And similarly 
although Amex didnt pursue a chargeback here and this service considers doing so is good 
practice, it would clearly be unfair of me to make Amex refund the transaction due to not 
pursuing a chargeback when I consider on balance that such an endeavour would have 
been fruitless anyway.
Mr H says the investigators position was unfair, biased and acting outside of his role. Mr Hs 
reasoning for this was Amex should have been made to pay for handling his complaint 
wrongly and because the Investigators position didnt agree with Mr Hs views on the matter. 
Ive seen no evidence of bias here or Mr H being treated unfairly. And is of note that 
although Amex didnt raise the issue of the DCS chain breaking due to the relationship of the 
holiday cottage company and the cottage owners in its correspondence with Mr H it had raised it with this service in its representations to us. But even if it hadnt done so, this 
service is obligated to treat all parties fairly and this includes our inquisitorial remit which 
means that we/I can decide cases based on what we know and our approaches to situations 
even when both parties are ignorant of such issues. By doing this we fulfil our obligation to 
being impartial.
In summary I think that Mr H hasnt lost out here because Amex didnt take his chargeback 
further. Im satisfied the necessary relationship (DCS) isnt in place here so Amex cannot be 
held liable for any breach or misrepresentation by the holiday cottage company. And I think 
Amex correctly applied the cost of the accommodation to Mr Hs credit card account. So I 
dont think I can fairly require Amex to refund Mr H.
I appreciate this isnt the decision which Mr H would want. However he should remember 
that Amex is only potentially liable here due to the presence of the chargeback process and 
the legislation Ive described. It is not the party that supplied the cottage which Mr H 
considered substandard. He is at liberty to continue with his dispute directly with the holiday 
cottage company if he so wishes. But this decision brings to an end this services role within 
this dispute.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against American Express 
Services Europe Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman