DRN-2684005
The complaint
Miss L has complained about the time it took AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) to deal with an 
insurance claim she made following an escape of water in her home.
  
What happened
In August 2020 Miss L made a claim to AXA under her buildings and contents insurance.  
There had been an escape of water from her bathroom, which caused damage to the floor in 
the rooms below.
AXA accepted the claim and arranged for repair work to be carried out.  When changing the 
damaged carpet, asbestos floor tiles were discovered which affected the ability to complete 
repairs.  The repairs were eventually completed some four months later in December 2020.
Miss L is unhappy with the length of time it took AXA to arrange for the completion of the 
repair work.  She found the experience very stressful and that impacted upon a chronic 
health condition that she suffers from.
AXAs claims department offered £100 to Miss L in recognition of the time taken, but she 
didnt feel that was enough and referred her complaint to this Service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and recommended that it be upheld.  In 
summary he said that whilst there were reasons why the repairs took longer than expected, 
but AXA could have done more to resolve things quicker.  He recommended that a sum of 
£500 would be more appropriate for the stress caused to Miss L.
AXA accepted the investigators recommendation and agreed to pay £500 compensation to 
Miss L.
Miss L didnt accept the offer and said that she felt a legal approach would probably result in 
a much higher payment  so asked for £1,000.
As no agreement could be reached, Miss L requested that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a fresh review and to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having considered everything, Ive reached much the same conclusion as the investigator  
and Ill explain why.
In this complaint Im not considering the work carried out for the repairs completed under 
Miss Ls claim to AXA. Instead, Ive reviewed everything to consider the delays in completing 
that work and what would be fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances.
I understand Miss Ls frustration at the time taken to put things right, and AXA has accepted 
things could have moved quicker.  I note that AXA accepted responsibility for the claim and 
arranged for a visit to Miss Ls home within a reasonable time, but the issues seem to have 
arisen upon discovery of the asbestos tiles.
I appreciate that the discovery of asbestos would not have reasonably been foreseen, and 
the result of that would mean that things would take longer to put right.  But there were 
delays in communication at the time, and it wasnt made clear to Miss L how the repairs 
were going to be carried out.
Miss L continued to live in her property whilst the repairs were awaiting completion and Im 
sure that knowing there was asbestos would have caused her concerns.  Miss L says that 
the stress it caused triggered symptoms of her existing health condition.
So, I agree that its appropriate for AXA to compensate Miss L for the time it took for the 
damage to her property to be rectified.  But the key issue is for me to decide what an 
appropriate sum is to reflect that.
 
I realise Miss L may be disappointed with my conclusion, and I understand she is hoping for 
£1,000.  I must reassure her that Ive made my decision impartially and having reviewed 
everything. I appreciate she had to chase AXA for progress and updates, and Im sure that 
would have been stressful.  But overall, Im satisfied that £500 is a fair and reasonable sum 
in the circumstances.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ls complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc.  
Im satisfied that £500 is an appropriate amount of compensation, and I leave it for Miss L to 
decide whether to accept it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Ross Hammond
Ombudsman