DRN-3842146
The complaint
Mr L complains that Neovision Wealth Management Limited (NWM) provided unsuitable 
advice when their advisor recommended he transfer two personal pensions into a SIPP, 
causing him a financial loss.
Mr L has been represented by a claims management company throughout, but for ease of 
reference, Ill refer only to Mr L in this decision.
What happened
Mr L had two private pensions with A and F. In December 2016, he sought advice from 
Harrison Charles Wealth Management, (the trading name of NWM) and was advised to 
transfer these pensions to a SIPP operated by Intelligent Money (IM), and then invest into 
the Reyker Securities Balanced Portfolio (RSB). The transfers took place between 31 March 
and 10 April 2017, with a total transfer value of £28,490. 
At the time of the advice, Mr Ls circumstances were as follows:
He was 65 years old and had recently retired.
He was in receipt of a work pension of about £18,600 pa, and had total income of 
£22,740 pa.
He owned his marital home with his wife, with a mortgage, in which his share of the 
equity (25%, his wife having the larger share) amounted to about £54,000.
He and his wife also owned two buy-to-let properties, with his share of the combined 
equity amounting to about £72,500.
He owned shares valued at about £14,000.
IM made investments into the RSB Fund in June 2017. However, one month later, Mr Ls 
investment in the RSB fund was sold, and some months later reinvested in a new fund, the 
Saxo Capital Markets SCM Fund. Mr L approached NWM in February 2019 to discuss 
accessing his pension. By this time, the value of his fund had reduced to £23,029.50, which 
he then withdrew. 
Unhappy with how hed been treated, and the fund loss hed experienced, he complained to 
NWM. He believed their advisor hadnt acted in his best interests, and the investments made 
didnt reflect his attitude to risk. He felt NWM didnt carry out appropriate due diligence on 
the investments theyd recommended, had failed to investigate and advise on the benefits of 
Mr Ls existing A and F pensions, and had provided misleading information on charges. He 
also questioned whether a discretionary fund manager (DFM) was necessary.
NWM didnt uphold the complaint. They felt their advisor had undertaken a thorough fact find 
and provided a detailed suitability letter which highlighted the risks involved. NWM pointed to 
the fact Mr (and Mrs) L had experience of managing a buy-to-let portfolio, and Mr L said he 
was more comfortable with a property related investment, which the RSB and SCM funds 
were. NWM also said that any complaints about the performance of the funds should be 
addressed to the relevant firms.
Unhappy with this, Mr L brought his complaint to this Service. One of our Investigators 
considered his complaint. He agreed that NWN hadnt provided suitable advice to Mr L. He 
didnt feel NWM had properly considered whether Mr Ls existing plans were a better option, 
given their lower costs. He also felt the RSB fund didnt meet with Mr Ls balanced risk 
approach. He also felt Mr L hadnt been properly advised about the RSB Fund charges. So, 
our investigator upheld Mr Ls complaint, and set out a methodology for NWM to pay 
appropriate compensation to Mr L to put him back into the position he would have been in 
had Mr L remained in his A and F funds. 
NWM didnt respond to the Investigators view, and so the complaint has been passed to me 
to consider Mr Ls complaint further and issue a Decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L made various complaint points to NWM, and subsequently to us. However, Ill be only 
be addressing what I consider to be the key issues here, which are essentially whether 
NWMs advice to switch away from his existing pensions was suitable. 
And having very carefully done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our Investigator, 
and for essentially the same reasons. Ill explain. 
When assessing a complaint such as this, its important to begin by considering the Rules in 
existence at the time NWM advised Mr L. NWM was providing Mr L with regulated advice, 
and it had to ensure its advice was suitable for Mr Ls needs. These requirements are set out 
in the FCAs Code of Business Sourcebook (COBS), particularly COBS 9.2 -  assessing 
suitability. In summary, this required NWM to have done the following:
Take reasonable steps to ensure their recommendation was suitable for Mr L.
Obtain an understanding of Mr Ls general investment knowledge and experience 
relevant to the type of investment it was recommending.
Obtain information from Mr L to satisfy itself the recommended investment met Mr Ls 
investment needs, and he had the necessary experience and knowledge to understand 
the risks involved in the recommended investment.
And obtain information about his personal financial situation at the time. 
COBS 9.4 required NWM to provide Mr L with a suitability report, setting out his demands 
and needs, and an explanation why theyd recommended the RSB fund and why it was 
suitable for Mr L. The report also needed to explain possible disadvantages of the 
recommended investment. 
Further, in 2009 the FCAs predecessor published a report and checklist that firms needed to 
consider when a client was thinking about switching their pensions from one provider to 
another. This identified main areas of concern which could lead to a consumer losing out, 
the relevant ones here being:
The consumer had been switched to a pension which was more expensive than their 
existing arrangements  caused by higher initial and ongoing management costs, 
The new pension didnt match the consumers attitude to risk (ATR).
With the above in mind, I need to look at what NWMs advisor did when he met with Mr L, 
and what he then recommended based on the information Mr L provided him with. The fact-find
The advisor met with Mr L in December 2016, during which he carried out a fact find, to 
understand more about Mr Ls circumstances, and what his investment objectives were. The 
key information contained within the fact-find document was:
Mr L advised he wished to consolidate his A and F pensions, to protect their asset value.
He was interested in real property funds, as he has a good knowledge of investments 
and the associated volatility.
He said hes like to retire at 70, which he said was very important.
His investment objective was Growth.
He intended to withdraw funds from the investment within two to five years, via a one-off 
withdrawal.
He was willing to accept moderate risk in order to achieve higher returns. Minimising risk 
and maximising returns were of equal importance.
NWMs recommendation report
Armed with this information, the advisor prepared a recommendation report in March 2017. 
The report discussed the transfer options under consideration  transfer to a new personal 
pension plan (PPP) or to invest in a SIPP. It listed the generic advantages and 
disadvantages of these options. It acknowledged that SIPPs are typically more expensive 
than a PPP or a stakeholder pension as charges tend to be greater. The report explained, 
when deciding on what to recommend, the advisor would be considering whether:
the new scheme is more expensive than your old scheme and the reasons for 
this[and]the new plan offer[s] extra flexibility that the old one does not, which 
may be of value in the future[and]Our role in providing this advice and 
recommendations to you is limited to providing you with a product that meets your 
needs over and above your current product
 
The report addressed Mr Ls ATR, and said as follows:
Based on my assessmentand the fact you have no professional qualifications or 
experience in financial areas, we agreed you should be classified as an experienced 
investor [presumably a typo, and should read inexperienced]based on you not 
having personal experience of [fluctuations in stock market values]You are 
therefore deemed vulnerable in relation to financial and investment products 
The report considered Mr Ls capacity for loss, described as:
the degree to which you can tolerate the financial and/or emotional impact of any 
loss in relation to any investment contracts held. 
concluding by saying:
you do not have the ability to absorb any negative financial outcome that may arise 
from making an investment
The report concluded (based on Mr Ls responses to a risk profile questionnaire and 
following the discussions between Mr L and the advisor), that Mr L was a Balanced 
Investor. The advisor described a balanced investor as someone who was :
somewhat concerned with short-term losses and may shift to a more stable option 
in the event of significant losses. The safeties of investment and return are typically 
of equal importancethe portfolio should have at least an approximately 80% 
chance of achieving a non-negative return over a five-year holding periodThe report then provided the advisors recommendation  the IM SIPP, with investment in 
the RSB fund. It acknowledged the SIPP had higher annual charges than Mr Ls combined 
existing PPPs - £399.56 (no mention of the DFM cost, which was subsequently 
recommended) as opposed to £229.82  but the choice and flexibility offered by the SIPP 
was more important. The report confirmed that RSB, as the fund manager, would hand over 
complete control of the investment to a professional, including key asset allocation 
decisions. The report said Mr L wanted/agreed to an investment manager creating a 
bespoke portfolio, whod take full responsibility for Mr Ls investment decisions. 
This appeals to you as you do not have the time, knowledge or patience to run your 
own portfolio and are unsure how to create a balanced spread of asset[s]
The report listed the benefits of this approach as being an access to a wide range of funds, 
spreading the opportunity for returns across asset classes, minimising the risk of the overall 
portfolio suffering a downturn, and increased potential for stable returns through economic 
cycles, and active portfolio monitoring. This plan was being recommended because:
It places the investment under the supervision of a Discretionary Portfolio Service as 
your preference is for a discretionary fund manager (DFM) to look after and manage 
your investments[and it]
Improve[s] the diversification offunds held within the retirement plan[and it]
Givesaccess to a wide range of funds and fund managers that you can switch 
between for no extra cost [and it]
Gives access to E-services to improve the level of service that you receive [and it]
Provides for superior long-term performance
The report also explained how equities tend to outperform other investments over the long 
term, but as values fluctuate over the shorter term, equities are only suitable where the 
time horizon is five years or more. The report confirmed the advisor would continue to retain 
contact with Mr L, and have responsibility for [his] holistic financial planning needs. It then 
set out the advantages of a DFM involvement, which included - an investment portfolio 
tailored to Mr Ls  needs, it would allow an agreed benchmark to be set, face to face 
meetings with the DFM were available, Mr L would have online access to his portfolio, and 
the DFM would closely monitor performance. 
The report also listed the disadvantages of a DFM - past performance not being a guarantee 
of future performance, possible investment delay, possible extra initial charges, and there 
was no charging cap so charges will likely be higher.
The report then commented on charges associated with the plan. These were:
Annual product charge - £150
DFM fee  0.9% of fund value, per annum
NWM Advisor fee  - 1% of fund value per annum
£995 initial advice fee paid to NWM
Whilst the report didnt specifically set out what those charges would amount to, based on a 
fund value of £27,495 (28,490 less £995 fee), the IM/DFM arrangement would result in 
annual costs of about £672.41, against Mr Ls existing A and F plan costs of £229.82  an 
increase of about £442.59. The report said the target SIPP annual return was 5 - 5.5% with 
an investment horizon of 5 years or longer. The target volatility of the portfolio was 5%.NWMs Pension Switching Report
A  Pension Switching Report was prepared by NWMs advisor on 20 April 2017, repeating 
the generic advantages and disadvantages of the existing PPP and SIPP arrangement. It set 
out various financial projections. Of importance here is a comparison table setting out the 
projected fund values when Mr L reached his 70th birthday. It used three assumed growth 
rates (-2.37%, 0.56% and 3.49%), and showed the IM SIPP would  just based on charges, 
with no account taken of potential fund growth  negatively impact Mr Ls fund value by 
between 8.7% and 10.9% over that relatively short period. 
This report also explained about the critical yield  the annual rate of growth before charges 
required to provide an identical fund to Mr Ls consolidated A and F funds, stating:
The [IM SIPP] critical yields are higher than the assumed growth rates. This 
indicates that switching all your current pension plan funds to an [IM SIPP] you would 
need to achieve additional annual investment growthto match the total fund values 
projected for your current pension plans
The report confirmed additional annual growth of between 2.1% and 2.7% would be needed 
to match the performance of Mr Ls existing combined funds. 
Why I dont think NWMs advice was suitable
Having looked at the documents provided by NWM I think theres no doubt their advisor 
provided a very detailed recommendation report to Mr L. But having considered the contents 
of this, coupled with Mr Ls circumstances, Im not persuaded the advice to switch was 
suitable. I say this for various reasons. 
Cost -v- benefits
I acknowledge NWM did eventually set out the charging structure of the SIPP, including the 
extra DFM charge. However, the costs associated with the DFM are only first mentioned in 
the recommendation report on page 13, and even here only as a percentage cost. This 
should be compared with the first mention of NWMs fees, clearly set out (in numerical 
terms) on page eight  where it provides the £399.56 -v- £229.82 comparison. 
The report doesnt quantify the total charges with the DFM charge included, which if it did 
would highlight the actual cost of the recommended option of around £672.41 per year. 
I think this had the capacity to mislead Mr L, as whilst I acknowledge the report does 
mention a few times that the SIPP will be more expensive than Mr Ls existing PPPs, I dont 
think the report is sufficiently clear regarding what Mr Ls fund is actually going to be 
charged. The SIPP associated costs were about £440 more per annum, a sizeable extra 
burden given the relatively modest size of Mr Ls fund. 
Im also not persuaded the benefits associated with the DFM, or at least as they were 
recommended, were necessary for Mr L. Repeating what Ive said above, this was a modest 
value fund, and I havent seen anything that shows what benefit Mr L could have obtained by 
having a DFM involvement that couldnt have been obtained by NWM giving him extra 
advice when required. 
I think the DFM arrangement added an unnecessary layer of complexity and cost that wasnt 
needed, given the size of Mr Ls fund, and the amount of time he wished to have it invested 
for. I also cant see that cheaper or simpler options that didnt involve the DFM were 
explored either. 
Attitude to Risk
I think there is some inconsistency regarding how the advisor identified what Mr Ls ATR 
was. The advisor records Mr L was an inexperienced investor, who was deemed vulnerable in relation to financial investments. The advisor also concluded Mr L did not 
have the ability to absorb any negative financial outcome. And that one of the drivers 
behind the switch away from A and F was to protect the asset value of his funds. These 
point towards Mr L being considered more of a cautious investor, rather than a balanced 
one. And they appear at odds with other Advisor comments  that Mr L was only somewhat 
concerned with short term losses and was considering a portfolio that had an 80% chance 
only of breaking even over a five-year period.  
The SIPP investment period
By the time Mr Ls funds from the A and F PPPs had been transferred, Mr L was nearly 66 
years old. Hed been clear he wanted to retire at 70 (or more precisely, as hed already 
retired, access these funds). This meant there was only just over four years to this date. 
However, NWM acknowledged on various occasions funds of this type are only suitable 
where the time horizon is over five years or more. That was not the case here and I think 
would have been clear to the advisor at the time of the advice. Mr L had indicated in the fact 
find it was very important he retired at 70  suggesting it was unlikely he was looking to 
leave the funds invested beyond his 70th birthday (or put another way, it was likely hed be 
looking to access the full sum, via single drawdown, after about only four years). 
Investment objectives
I note too one of Mr Ls stated objectives in the fact-find was to protect the value of the 
funds. I havent seen anything here that persuades me investing via the SIPP provided any 
greater protection of the fund value. If anything the extra costs associated with the SIPP 
had the potential to erode the value of funds rather than protect them.
Summary
NWMs advisor was required to provide suitable advice. And given Mr L was considering 
switching his funds, the advisor needed to consider, and be satisfied, there was a good 
reason to switch away to offset the higher charges associated with the SIPP. As the 
recommendation letter confirms:
Our role in providing this advice and recommendations to you is limited to providing 
you with a product that meets your needs over and above your current product
For all the reasons Ive outlined, Im not satisfied NWMs advice for Mr L to switch his PPPs 
to a SIPP with DFM involvement was in his best interests. I dont think the SIPP placed Mr L 
in a better position, or was reasonably likely to, than his existing PPPs provided. 
Mr Ls funds had a modest value. He had little experience of investments and wasnt a 
particularly knowledgeable or sophisticated investor. I dont think C had the necessary 
knowledge or experience to understand the risks involved in the transaction or make an 
informed decision. 
Im satisfied Mr Ls losses flow from the unsuitable advice provided by NWMs advisor. Had it 
not been for this advice, I dont think Mr L would have switched his two pensions. The losses 
he appears to have experienced wouldnt have occurred. Given all Ive said above, I dont 
think there was a good reason to switch, and Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for NWM to 
compensate Mr L in full for the losses he appears to have experienced. 
Putting things right
To compensate Mr L fairly, NWM must take steps to put Mr L back into the position he would 
have been in, as much as possible, had he been given suitable advice by NWM. I think with 
suitable advice Mr L would most likely have remained with his previous pension providers. 
Accordingly, I think NWM must do the following:Compare the performance of Mr Ls SIPP investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous providers (A and F) until the date the SIPP funds were 
withdrawn. If the actual value was greater than the notional value, no compensation is 
payable. If the notional value was greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. 
If there is a loss, NWM should pay into Mr Ls new pension plan (if there is one), to 
increase its value by the amount of compensation and any interest. NWMs payment 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. NWM shouldnt pay the 
compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If NWM is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ls pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan it would have provided 
a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for 
any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using Mr Ls expected marginal rate of tax at retirement. I think its reasonable 
to assume that Mr L is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at retirement, so the reduction 
would equal 20%. However, as Mr L would have been able to take a 25% tax free lump 
sum, the tax reduction should only be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in 
a fair overall tax reduction of 15%.
NWM should add interest to any such loss, at 8% simple per year, calculated from the 
date Mr L withdrew the funds from his SIPP until the date redress is paid.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr L in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If NWM considers its required by 
HMRC to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr L a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
The compensation amounts must be paid to Mr L within 30 days of NWM being informed 
of his acceptance of this decision. If it isnt paid by this date, interest must be added to 
this award at a rate of 8% simple per annum, calculated from that date until the date the 
award is paid.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ls complaint and require Neovision Wealth Management Ltd to settle this 
complaint as outlined in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman