DRN-3873837
The complaint
Mr L complains that Zopa Bank Limited gave him personal loans without properly checking 
affordability or his creditworthiness.
What happened
Mr L took out two loans with Zopa:
1. In 2021, for £5,000 over 12 months, with a monthly payment of £489.57.
2. In 2022, for £3,000 over 12 months, with a monthly payment of £292.97.
Mr L complains that the loans werent affordable. He said that after other outgoings he did 
not have enough money to repay the debts without taking out further borrowing or gambling.
Our investigator said that Zopas offer to refund all of the interest on both loans and to 
remove any record of the loans from Mr Ls credit file was a fair outcome.
Mr L did not accept what the investigator said. He made a number of points, including:
He is a vulnerable person and is receiving treatment for a serious health problem.
The offer to resolve the complaint does not go far enough. He has had to take out more 
loans and credit card to be able to repay these loans.
Zopa should compensate him for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused 
to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There isnt any dispute that Zopa did not lend to Mr L responsibly. What is left for me to 
decide is whether Zopas offer to write off any interest on the loans and to remove any 
information relating to the loans form Mr Ls credit file goes far enough.
The starting point is that Mr L has had the benefit of the money from both the loans. So it is 
fair and reasonable that he should repay that amount  but less the interest Zopa applied. 
There might be circumstances where it would be unfair for a borrower to repay original 
amount borrower  for example if there is no prospect of a borrower ever being able to repay 
what they were lent. But I dont think that applies here. 
Zopa did not carry out adequate checks. If it had it would not have lent to Mr L. Looking at 
his circumstances, Mr L was employed and although he had other debts, I dont consider it is 
unrealistic that he would be able to repay the principal amount  albeit not on the repayment 
schedule agreed by Zopa and without any interest. Mr L had paid off loan 1 in full. 
I note what Mr L has said about his circumstances, but Im afraid that isnt enough for me to 
say that Zopa should write off the remaining balances of the loans bearing in mind he has 
had the benefit of those amounts. 
In regard to the other credit Mr L said he has taken out to repay these loans, that is 
something that he would need to raise with the lenders that gave him those loans. I couldnt 
fairly conclude that any losses Mr L suffered as a result of those loans were because Zopa 
approved these two loans, rather than the lending decisions of the other lenders. I consider 
Zopas offer is a fair to reflect any financial loss that Mr L suffered as a result of being given 
these two loans.
That leaves compensation for distress and inconvenience. I am able to award compensation 
to reflect distress and or inconvenience caused to Mr L because of the businesss mistake. 
Mr L said he is vulnerable because of his health conditions and as he is addicted to 
gambling. He has the stress of dealing with other debts he would not have had if Zopa had 
not lent to him.
I am sorry to hear what Mr L has been through. I dont doubt that he has suffered distress 
because of his personal circumstances. But I cant see that Zopa was aware (or ought 
reasonably to have been aware) of Mr Ls vulnerabilities when it granted the loan. I dont 
consider that it is responsible for any distress and inconvenience arising from that. 
If Mr L is experiencing distress because he is having to pay other debts, then that is not 
something that I could fairly say that Zopa should compensate him for. That is something he 
would need to raise as part of any claim to those other lenders.
It is clear that Zopa made a mistake in lending to Mr L. Looking at the evidence we have, 
including Mr Ls bank statements, I think it would be difficult for me to find that the loans from 
Zopa were the sole cause of any financial difficulty or any issues that Mr L had in managing 
his finances. In some months the payments into his bank account were more than the 
payments out. In others where the payments out exceed the amount received, I cant see 
that the Zopa loans were the sole cause of that or any distress arising from Mr Ls financial 
situation.
Looking at the evidence I have, I dont consider Zopas actions in granting the loans were the 
cause of the distress Mr L said he suffered. I say that in view of what we know about Mr Ls 
finances overall, and because he has told us some of the stress was caused by other credit 
facilities . After careful consideration, I dont consider Mr L has shown material distress 
caused by Zopas lending decision, rather than other 
My final decision
My final decision is that Zopa Bank Limiteds offer to write off the interest for both loans and 
to remove the information about those loans from Mr Ls credit file is a fair outcome in all the 
circumstances.
Zopa Bank Limited should honour its offer (if it has not done so already):
Refund all interest, fees and charges on both loans.
Deduct all of the payments made in respect of each loan from the remaining balance.
If there is a surplus, refund any overpayment with interest at 8% simple per year from the 
date of any overpayment until date of settlement.If there is a balance remaining, agree a mutually acceptable repayment plan with Mr L.
Remove both loans from Mr Ls credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman