DRN-2984037
The complaint
Mr H complains about the conditions UK Insurance Limited (UKI) used to decline his claim 
under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H made a claim for carpets that he said he had to throw out due to an unanticipated 
deluge of maggots in his property. UKI declined Mr Hs claim as it said that the infestation of 
maggots was not covered by the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr H complained to UKI as he believed that the definition of what is excluded under the 
terms and conditions of the policy, meant that maggots were covered, as they did not fall 
under any of the headings within the exclusion. 
In its final response, UKI maintained that it had correctly declined his claim as maggots fell 
under the broader definition of insects. It also apologised for the slight delay in registering Mr 
Hs claim. 
Mr H wasnt happy with the outcome and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said that UKI 
had fairly declined his claim. The terms and conditions of the policy didnt cover for the 
maggot infestation. So, there was nothing further that she could reasonably ask UKI to do. 
Mr H didnt accept our investigators view. He said that the wording of the exclusion clause 
needed to say either that it doesnt cover woodworm, beetles, moths, in order to exclude all 
insects. Or the policy should say it doesnt cover woodworm, beetles, moths, flies, maggots 
and insects to include all insects with the exception of woodworm, beetles, moths, flies and 
maggots. So, the implication was that maggots are covered under the policy. He asked for a 
decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Mr H, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
I should point out that its our job to look at the evidence provided by both parties and to give 
an answer to the complaint, that is both fair and impartial. However, it should be noted that 
we as a service cant dictate to businesses how they run their business as we are not the 
regulator. Bearing this in mind, Mr H said that his claim was incorrectly declined by UKI due 
to its loose policy definition. 
I have considered the terms and conditions of the policy and what is excluded from cover. 
The exclusions provide the following:
This policy doesnt cover
Just like most insurers we dont cover:
 Wear and tear.
 Maintenance and routine decoration.
 Loss or damage as a result of the lack of maintenance and/or routine decoration.
 Reduction in value.
 Damage caused by rot, fungus, woodworm, beetles, moths, insects or vermin.
 The cost of repairing or replacing any item following a mechanical or electrical fault or
breakdown, or where it has failed or stopped working despite there being no apparent 
damage.
 Damage caused by cleaning, dyeing, renovating, altering, re-styling, repairing or restoring 
an
item.
 Tearing, scratching, chewing or fouling by any pet or domesticated animal.
 Any damage caused gradually.
 Faulty workmanship, faulty design or the use of faulty materials.
 Items held or used for business purposes except those listed as business equipment
in the definitions.
 Any loss, damage or legal liability caused, or allowed to be caused, by the deliberate,
wilful or malicious act of you or any paying guest or tenant.
 Any loss, damage or legal liability resulting from the illegal acts of you or any paying
guest or tenant.
I have had a thought about what this means, and I think the exclusion clauses are clear. In 
that the policy doesnt provide cover for damage caused by (amongst other things) insects. 
The dictionary definition of a maggot is a soft legless larva of a fly or other dipterous insect, 
that often eats decomposing organic matter. 
UKI said that maggots fall under the heading of insects and as such are excluded under the 
terms and conditions of the policy. Im persuaded that maggots are fly larva that develop into 
flies, which are insects. In addition, I think that it would be unreasonable for UKI to have to 
list every insect species that is excluded under the policy rather than using a wide-ranging 
category (such as insects) as it did here. Therefore, I am unable to conclude that UKI 
unfairly declined Mr Hs claim, given the exclusion clause states that damage caused by 
insects isnt covered under the policy. 
I have next considered UKIs actions following the delay in registering Mr Hs claim. From the 
evidence, there was a delay of around 12 days following Mr H making the claim and UKI 
registering it. 
It explained that this breached the guidelines it has in place for the receipt of complaints. It 
apologised to Mr H for the delay and provided feedback to the relevant department to 
prevent this happening in the future. I think in the circumstances, that UKI accepted its 
shortcomings and has adequately reflected upon this by apologising to Mr H. And providing 
feedback to ensure that repetitions of this nature, will not occur in the future. 
Overall, I think UKI has applied the policy terms fairly and I cant reasonably ask it to do 
anything more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman