DRN-3783702
The complaint
Mr R complains that Amtrust Europe Limited withdrew cover under his credit protection
insurance policy and turned down his claim.
What happened
Mr R said he was hit in the rear by a car which had also just been hit in the rear by
another car. Rather than claiming on his car insurance policy he was referred to an accident
management company (AMC) as he said he wasnt at fault for the accident.
The AMC provided Mr R with a hire car and a credit protection insurance policy. The credit
protection insurance policy is designed to cover the hire car charges for Mr R if the AMC is
unable to reclaim them back from the third party responsible for the accident.
During the course of the claim the third party disputed that Mr R was involved in the accident
and refused to pay the hire car costs for Mr R. The third party said Mr R wasnt involved in
the accident and said hed asked to be a passenger in their car. Mr R disputes this but
Amtrust said it had been provided a text message sent by Mr R asking to be a passenger in
the third partys car.
Amtrust then said Mr R had misled it about the details of the accident, so declined to
cover the hire car costs and withdrew cover under the policy.
Mr R didnt think this was fair and complained. He didnt agree with the third
partys version of events and maintained that he hadnt provided misleading information.
Amtrust reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr R didnt agree he referred his
complaint here.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 7 November 2022 where I said Amtrust
should pay the claim as it had provided limited information to show Mr R had misled it
and the evidence it had provided didnt make sense in the context of the accident.
Mr R responded to my provisional decision and accepted it. Amtrust responded and didnt. It
maintained its position that Mr R had misled it and said this was intentional. Amtrust also
provided further comments to support this.
I then issued a second provisional decision on 13 February 2023 where I said:
The exclusion Amtrust has relied upon says it wont be liable for any claims under the
policy for:
Any charges, costs, damages or indemnities for which the Insured is
liable as a result of their breach of the Credit Vehicle Hire and/or
Credit Vehicle Repair Agreement(s).
Ive therefore looked at the relevant term under the hire agreement to see if Amtrust is 
applying this exclusion in a fair and reasonable way. The part of the hire agreement Amtrust
has referred to says:
8. You must at all times(ii) ensure that neither You nor the driver of
your vehicle mislead Us about how the accident happened or in any
other important way.
I think it would only be fair and reasonable for Amtrust to rely on this term if Mr R had
intentionally misled Amtrust or the AMC to obtain some benefit he wouldnt have otherwise
had. Our rules allow us to receive information in confidence. We may treat information from
financial businesses as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains
information about other customers, security information or commercially sensitive
information. Some of the information Amtrust has provided is information that we considered
should be kept confidential. This means I wont be able to share a lot of detail with Mr R but
Id like to reassure him that I have considered everything.
When considering this additional information from Amtrust Im satisfied it supports Amtrusts
reasons for declining the claim under the terms it has. And when taking everything into
account Im therefore not going to interfere with Amtrust decision to not pay Mr Rs claim.
Amtrust responded and said it had no further comments. M R responded and didnt accept it. 
He said the engineers report showed his car had been hit in the rear. He also said the 
ambulance report would show he was at the scene and asked for 4 to 6 months to obtain the 
ambulance report. Mr R also didnt think it was fair we could receive information in 
confidence and asked for this information to be disclosed to him. 
I asked our investigator to reply to Mr R to let him know I wouldnt be allowing an extension 
of 4 to 6 months as the complaint had been going on for a long time. I said that any new 
evidence he wished to provide would need to be provided to Amtrust for it to consider first 
and therefore wouldnt be appropriate for me to consider in this decision. Mr R didnt think 
this was fair and said my decision was biased. He also reiterated that it wasnt fair for the 
confidential information to not be shared with him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Rs comments, but theyve not persuaded me to change my decision. I 
say this because while I understand Mr Rs frustration that some information is confidential, I 
would like to assure him that Ive reached my decision based on the information provided to 
me, including the report on his car. And as some of that information is confidential, it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to share it or discount it. As explained in my provisional 
decision our rules allow us to receive information in this way in certain circumstances, and 
this is one of those situations. Therefore, it means Im unable to share this information with 
him. 
In regard to Mr Rs comments about my decision being biased. Were an informal dispute 
resolution service set up as an alternative to court. My outcome is based on the information 
and evidence provided to me. So, while I can understand Mr R is frustrated about not being 
able to see some of the information provided and disagrees with the outcome, Ive based my 
decision on all the available evidence and arguments. And for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision dated 13 February 2023, my final decision is that Im not going to uphold 
this complaint.   My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman