DRN-3084276
The complaint
A company, which I will refer to as F, complains about QBE UK Limiteds proposed 
settlement to their buildings insurance claim.
All references to QBE also include its agents
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
QBE have said it didnt see any record of storms around the time of the claim but 
also felt several of the list of issues submitted by F had occurred over a period of 
time
I note F has said successive storm conditions from December up until February were 
responsible for the issues, but these took place after the claim was logged in 
November 2019
Ive also looked at weather reports from the time of the claim in November 2019, and 
they have not shown storm conditions were present at the time  so Im not 
persuaded storm conditions were present 
QBEs surveyor believed damaged claimed for had happened gradually and I can 
see tenants had reported issues with the ceiling collapsing as early as July 2019. 
QBE has also asked for further information regarding issues with the gullies, but I 
cant see this has been provided by F. QBE has said they will consider this 
information if F provides it, and I think this is reasonable
QBE has addressed some of the water ingress issues under a separate section of 
the policy, I think this is reasonable and in line with what Id expect it to do
F has said it is unhappy with the settlement it has been offered for the claim, but 
based on the information available, Im not persuaded the damage has been caused 
by a one-off event  i.e a storm. 
So based on the information available, and with nothing to contradict QBEs 
surveyors opinion, I think QBEs decision and its offer is fair. 
Im satisfied that QBE have handled the claim in the way I would expect. They have
carried out a thorough investigation into the matter and progressed the claim 
proactively. So I dont intend to interfere with its decision
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold QBEs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman