DRN-2913224
The complaint
Mr S complains on behalf of his business that I will refer to as B, about how The National 
Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) handled his claim on Bs business 
insurance. 
What happened
Mr S owns a guest house  B. He took out insurance for B with NFU in April 2020.  In August 
2020 Mr S noticed a gap had appeared between the front porch canopy and the main 
building. He was concerned as this was the only guest entrance to the property so posed a 
risk to any guests, he called NFU to raise a claim. 
NFU arranged for an engineer to attend the following week, as it said a subsidence specialist 
would be needed. During this time Mr S cancelled all existing bookings at the guesthouse as 
he was concerned about the safety of the entrance. 
Once the engineer had attended, they concluded that the damage was due to wear and tear 
and wouldnt be covered under the policy. NFU wrote to him to say that as the claim hadnt 
been accepted, the business interruption cover in the policy wouldnt apply either.
Mr S made a complaint. He said he only cancelled the existing bookings as he thought he 
would be covered by the business interruption insurance. He said he was given the 
impression his claim would be covered by NFUs representative when he first called. And if 
he hadnt been, he would have made other arrangements to avoid losing money. He also 
said he had received poor service from the builder who attended and that it had taken too 
long for an engineer to attend which had meant he had to cancel more bookings.
NFU didnt uphold Bs complaint. It said business interruption cover is only provided where 
there is an insured event and so the declinature of the claim was correct. It didnt agree he 
was given incorrect advice about this on the phone and said the claim would always need to 
be decided by an expert, which is why a visit from a contractor was arranged. It also said 
that as conversations were had with the builder in person, it wasnt possible to know what 
was said. However it fed back the comments to the relevant suppliers. It agreed there had 
been a slight delay to the engineer attending and offered £100 compensation to make up for 
this.
Mr S didnt think this was fair. He said he had lost around £4,000 from cancelled bookings, 
due to advice received by NFUs representative. He brought Bs complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said on listening to the call she 
thought NFUs representative gave a false impression that the claim would be covered. And 
she believed Mr S would have acted differently if more accurate information had been 
provided. She therefore thought NFU should refund all bookings that were cancelled after 
the first day of the claim until the claim was declined. As well as booking enquiries for stays 
during these dates. She also thought NFU should pay simple interest of 8% on the amount 
to make up for the time B had been without the money.
NFU didnt agree with our investigators opinion. It said it didnt think its representative gave 
incorrect information on the phone or gave the impression the cancelled bookings would be 
covered by the policy regardless. It asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering complaints, it is the role of this service to determine whether the business 
got something wrong. And where we find it did, consider what would have been different if it 
hadnt. Then we can decide what it should do to put its customer back in the position they 
would have been in if it hadnt.
In this case the dispute has arisen over information provided in phone calls made between 
NFU and Mr S when the claim was first made. Mr S claims that NFU gave him misleading 
information about what would be covered. So Ive first considered these calls to decide if 
NFU got something wrong.
Ive listened to the two calls with the representative in question and I agree the information 
provided was misleading. Throughout both calls Mr S expressed concerns about cancelling 
the bookings. He explained that he was hesitant to take this action as he was aware the 
claim may not be paid out and this would lead to large losses for B. The representative 
repeatedly reassured him about this. For example in the second call, the conversation was 
as follows: 
Mr S: My concern is that we end up cancelling all these people and then not get ait not be 
covered and not be paid out
NFU representative: The only thing we exclude at the moment is anything to do with covid, 
we are not paying out for business interruption, but this isnt due to covid these are bookings 
that youre having to cancel due to the risk of injuring someone because of problems with the 
building, that will be covered 
Mr S: so if the surveyor and the adjuster turn around and say no thats not something 
were covered for, presumably youre still not going to then cover us for the business that we 
turned away whilst were concerned about the risk? 
NFU representative: To be honest, I cant see us turning around and saying this isnt 
something youre covered for
While I agree the representative doesnt explicitly say that the business interruption claim will 
be covered even if a claim isnt successful, I think the information they do provide gives the 
impression that the claim will be covered. And therefore any booking cancellations will also 
be paid out. As the representative repeatedly reassures Mr S that she cant see that it wont 
be.
NFU has said that Mr S talks about potentially instructing emergency repairs to avoid having 
to cancel the bookings. It says this shows he was aware that he had other options. While I 
agree Mr S was considering other options, I think this makes the information given during the 
phone call even more relevant. As its clear he is hesitant to cancel the bookings due to the 
potential losses. And the reassurance provided by NFU about the claim being covered, 
appears to be the deciding factor for him.So from listening to the calls I agree NFU has got something wrong here, by giving 
misleading information. So I now need to decide what would have happened if it hadnt.
If it hadnt given misleading information, NFU would have explained that if Mr S cancels the 
bookings, and the claim is declined, then he wont have any cover under the policy for 
business interruption. Based on the concerns that Mr S raised repeatedly on the phone calls, 
and the fact he spoke about getting emergency repairs, I think its most likely Mr S would 
have taken action to have emergency repairs carried out instead. This is because he was 
clearly very concerned about losing the money from the bookings and explains that he is risk 
adverse. So if he thought his claim could be declined, he would know he would stand to lose 
less money by getting the repairs done more quickly and not cancelling the bookings. So I 
think its most likely that he would have chosen to take this route to avoid the risk of losing a 
large amount of money.
Mr S said that when the claim was declined, he was able to arrange emergency repairs for 
the same day. So it seems most likely that these would have been carried out promptly after 
he raised the claim. I therefore think that if NFU hadnt provided misleading information Mr S 
would have arranged the repairs in the first day after the claim was raised and wouldnt have 
missed out on the revenue from the bookings after this.
So in order for NFU to put B back into the position it would have been in if it hadnt done 
something wrong, I agree with our investigator that it should reimburse B for all cancelled 
bookings it has evidenced after the first day of the claim. As I agree, its likely he would have 
cancelled the first nights bookings regardless of the advice given by NFU.
I have also considered the booking enquiries made in this time, as Mr S has explained they 
had to turn down those received during the time the claim was being considered. While it 
isnt possible to know if these enquiries would have resulted in confirmed bookings, I have 
also considered that Bs booking facility on the website had been made unavailable due to 
the claim. So there is a possibility that bookings that could have been made through that 
channel were also missed. And it isnt possible to know exactly how much revenue B missed 
out on due to this. Therefore I think its most fair to require NFU to pay for the booking 
enquiries made by email and phone, on top of the cancelled bookings. As its likely that it 
would have received additional confirmed bookings during this time.  
For these reasons I agree with our investigator that NFU should pay B a total of £3,449 to 
make up for the revenue it missed out on due to the misleading information provided. And I 
agree it should pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date of the loss until the date 
the payment is made, to make up for the time B has been without the funds.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Bs complaint and require The National Farmers' Union 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited to:
Pay B a total of £3,449 to make up for the lost revenue while the claim was being 
assessed.
Pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date of loss until the payment is made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Sophie GoodyearOmbudsman