DRN-3864766
The complaint
Mr H complains about the advice given by David Stock & Co Limited (DSCL) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme with British Steel 
(BSPS) to a personal pension arrangement. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and 
believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Hs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension 
schemes, paying compensation to members of eligible schemes for their lifetime. The 
compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original schemes benefits 
for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from the original scheme. 
Alternatively, members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer their benefits to a 
private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Hs employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
Mr H was concerned about what the recent announcement from his employer meant for the 
security of his pension so in November 2017 he approached DSCL for advice. At DSCLs 
request, Mr H completed a one page initial questionnaire dated 17 November 2017 with 
basic personal information and what his transfer value was. DSCL then prepared a transfer 
value analysis report (TVAS) and an initial report for Mr H dated 23 November 2017.
Mr H then met with DSCL on 14 December 2017 and it completed a financial planning 
questionnaire with him to gather information about his circumstances and objectives.
 
This recorded that he was 28; he was married with one dependent child; he worked full-time; 
his income wasnt recorded; he had an outstanding mortgage on his home; no other assets 
or liabilities were recorded; and he wanted advice because he felt let down and didnt want 
to go into the new BSPS2, and he wanted to protect his family in the event of his death. 
DSCL also carried out an assessment of Mr Hs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
cautious to moderate  the fourth risk category on a scale of one to ten.
During the meeting of 14 December 2017, it seems DSCL also discussed its initial report 
with Mr H. The report said that the critical yield was potentially acceptable to someone with 
an attitude to risk score of 5 and that it had assumed for the purposes of the report that 
Mr Hs attitude to risk was moderate / balanced. It said Mr Hs desire to transfer was based 
on the enhanced cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of his DB scheme benefits and that 
he wanted control of this significant amount of money. Reference was made to wanting to 
look after his family in the event of his death and it said he thought the BSPS2 could 
eventually fall into the PPF. It said if Mr H was confident he understood the risks involved in 
transferring, then DSCL could help him select investment funds and the next step was to 
complete the necessary forms. It said his transferred DB funds would initially be held in a 
cash-based fund until a full investment portfolio had been agreed.
On the same day, Mr H signed the necessary forms. He also signed to confirm DSCL had 
fully advised him about transferring from a DB scheme to an alternative pension provider, 
that he understood the risks and he wanted greater security for him and his family through 
having control of his DB scheme benefits and he wouldnt hold DSCL liable for any loss he 
might incur because of his decision to transfer. 
DSCL prepared a client agreement document that said it would, with very few exceptions, 
confirm to Mr H in writing the basis of its recommendations. The Financial Review and 
Recommendation and other sections of this agreement were crossed out with a note saying, 
Refer to Initial Report 23-11-17. DSCL hasnt provided a copy of any further suitability 
report. 
Sometime later, an amount of around £113,500 was transferred to Mr Hs new personal 
pension plan.
Mr H complained to DSCL in 2022 about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said hed 
received a letter from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) telling him about concerns it 
had about the advice given by some firms to British Steel employees to transfer their DB 
pensions. Mr H asked DSCL to review the advice he received.
DSCL didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It provided a 16-page response letter. I havent set this 
all out here. But in summary it said it had followed the regulators requirements and 
guidance, carried out a thorough advice process including understanding Mr Hs 
circumstances and objectives and explained the risks so Mr H was able to make an informed 
decision about the recommendation to transfer. It said the adviser recommended in writing 
that Mr H should transfer to a personal pension arrangement. It said The recommendation 
was clear. [the adviser] did not indicate in his report that you should not transfer but implied 
you should transfer.
Dissatisfied with its response Mr H referred to his complaint to us. One of our Investigators 
upheld it and required DSCL to pay compensation. They thought the advice was unsuitable. 
They said Mr H was likely to be worse off in retirement as a result of transferring. They said 
there was nothing to indicate Mr H wanted control of his pension  he was so far from 
retirement that he didnt know what his retirement might look like and in any event the 
investment decisions were handed to a discretionary fund manager. And they said death 
benefits wasnt a suitable reason to transfer. 
The Investigator also commented on the advice process DSCL employed in its interaction 
with Mr H. They said there was no suitability letter as such in which DSCL set out its 
recommendation. They said that, while DSCL said that it generally dissuaded Mr H from 
transferring and that it did not ...overtly recommend a transfer... because they thought Mr H 
had made it clear he was seeking advice on the best course of action for him, DSCL 
shouldve gone further and recommended that he remain in the DB scheme. They said if 
things had happened as they should have, Mr H wouldve opted to join the BSPS2.DSCL disagreed and asked for the matter to be passed to an Ombudsman. It didnt provide 
any further submissions.
The complaint was therefore subsequently referred for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of DSCL's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, DSCL should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Hs 
best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
Firstly, I think the advice process DSCL employed in its dealings with Mr H was 
somewhat unorthodox. 
It was neither a conventional advisory process where a suitability report was issued 
setting out an explicit recommendation to transfer (or not to transfer), which was 
accepted and actioned, nor was it an insistent client process where Mr H proceeded 
against a recommendation not to transfer his pension. Instead, what appears to have 
happened is that DSCL provided him with general information about the pro and cons 
of transferring, produced a TVAS report, obtained his willingness to accept the 
associated risks involved in transferring to an alternative arrangement and then 
facilitated the transfer. But Im persuaded that, based on what Ive seen, its actions 
can reasonably be construed as making a recommendation to Mr H. DSCL has itself accepted this  it says it actions in facilitating the transfer could be construed as a 
recommendation - and importantly I think it is likely Mr H believed he received a 
recommendation to transfer. It is clearly documented that Mr H sought advice from 
DSCL about whether to transfer his pension, and DSCL ultimately facilitated the 
transfer. As such Im treating this matter as DSCL having recommended that Mr H 
transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal pension arrangement. 
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) report, that DSCL was required to carry out by 
the regulator, said that the critical yield - how much Mr Hs pension fund would need 
to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme  was 
4.48% to match the full pension hed have been entitled to under the scheme at age 
65 (the lowest of three yields provided for different destination pension providers.) No 
figures was produced to match the maximum tax-free cash and reduced pension the 
scheme would provide at that age. To match the full pension the PPF wouldve paid 
from 65 the critical yield was 3.92% and to match the tax-free cash and reduced 
pension the PPF wouldve offered, it was 3.73%.
Despite the fact it was known by the point DSCL instructed the TVAS that continuing 
in the BSPS in its existing form wasnt an option for Mr H, and despite reference to 
the BSPS2 being made in the initial report of 23 November 2017, the analysis 
appears to be based on the BSPS benefits and not the BSPS2, even though details 
were available. I think it shouldve done. In any event, given what we know about the 
BSPS2, I think the critical yields to match the benefits the BSPS2 wouldve provided 
from age 65 were likely to be between those of the BSPS and the PPF.
DSCL assumed for the purposes of its initial report that Mr H was a moderate / 
balanced risk investor and that in its view the critical yield was acceptable for 
someone with this level of risk. But DSCLs subsequent assessment of Mr Hs 
attitude to risk was lower  it assessed him as a cautious to moderate risk investor. 
So, given Mr Hs recorded attitude to risk, the discount rate of 4.7% for 36 years to 
retirement and the regulators middle projection rate, I think at best the opportunity to 
improve on the benefits available to Mr H at 65 under the BSPS2 was limited as a 
result of transferring and investing in line with that attitude to risk. 
The critical yields were lower to match the benefits under the PPF and there might 
have been scope for a transfer to be financially viable if the scheme moved to the 
PPF. But, given Mr Hs broader circumstances  the fact he was only 28 years old, 
he had no real idea what his retirement would look like in 30 or more years time or 
what income he might need, coupled with the fact that there was no other compelling 
reason to justify a transfer at this stage as I will explain below, I dont think it was in 
Mr Hs best interests give up his guaranteed benefits at this time. 
DSCL recorded that Mr H wanted to protect the whole of his family and he wanted to 
ensure this was possible  he didnt think under the BSPS2 there would be much to 
pass on. 
But the priority here was to advise Mr H about what was best for his retirement. And 
the existing scheme offered death benefits, by way of a spouses pension, that 
couldve been valuable to his family in the event of his death. 
While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also 
been reduced by any income Mr H drew in his lifetime. And so may not have 
provided the legacy that Mr H may have thought it would. If Mr H had wanted to leave a legacy for his family, DSCL couldve explored life 
insurance as an alternative. Mr H was young and so I think its likely the premiums 
were affordable. And this couldve been considered on a whole of life or term 
assurance basis  which was likely to be cheaper. But there's little evidence DSCL 
did so.  
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr H. I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative. And ultimately DSCL should not have 
encouraged Mr H to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a 
personal pension over his security in retirement.
DSCL recorded that Mr H wanted control over what he considered was a significant 
sum of money. But I think Mr Hs desire for control over pension was overstated. 
I cant see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his 
pension funds on his own. Indeed the investment recommendation made utilised the 
services of a discretionary fund manager who would make all of the investment 
decision for him. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr H  it was 
simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Mr H may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his 
pension and the prospect of entering the PPF. But it was DSCLs role to objectively 
address those concerns. At the time of the advice, all signs pointed toward the 
BSPS2 being established. But even if not, the PPF still provided Mr H with 
guaranteed income and the option of accessing tax-free cash. Mr H was unlikely to 
improve on these benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as 
concerning as he mightve thought, and I dont think any concerns he held about this 
meant that transferring was in his best interest.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Hs best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension at this time, particularly given Mr Hs 
young age and his inability therefore to know what his future retirement and income needs 
would be. And I also havent seen anything to persuade me that Mr H wouldve insisted on 
transferring, against advice to remain in the DB scheme. DSCL has said that Mr H was 
advised to transfer by a union representative. But Ive seen nothing  to support this  in any 
event, they would not have been qualified or indeed authorised by the industry regulator to 
provide that kind of advice. Mr H had little to no investment knowledge or experience and 
nothing suggests to me that he had the requisite confidence or skill to go against the advice 
he was given. I think Mr H was concerned about what he should do in light of the recent 
announcements made by his employer and he wanted professional advice on the matter  
advice that I think he solely relied upon. So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice 
Mr H received from DSCL was unsuitable for him.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for DSCL to put Mr H, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr H would most likely 
have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable 
advice had been given. He had no retirement plans and the BSPS2 wouldve given him the 
ability to transfer out in the future, if his needs later demanded it. 
DSCL must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
DSCL should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr H and the Financial Ombudsman 
Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what DSCL 
based the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr H has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Hs 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, DSCL should:
calculate and offer Mr H redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr H before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr H receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr H accepts DSCLs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr H for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Hs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr H as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, DSCL may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Hs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require David Stock & Co 
Limited to pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
David Stock & Co Limited pays Mr H the balance.
If Mr H accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on David Stock & Co 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman