DRN-2298322
The complaint
Mr B and Ms M complain that Ageas Insurance Limited has turned down a curtailment claim 
they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr B and Ms M booked a package holiday to Italy. They took out a travel 
insurance policy at the same time, which they took out through their travel provider. The 
policy was underwritten by Ageas. They were due to fly on 9 March 2020.
Mr B and Ms M called their airline on 8 March 2020  the day before they were due to travel 
 to check whether or not their holiday would be affected by Covid-19. They said the airline 
told them that as the Foreign& Commonwealth Office (FCO) had advised that travel to Italy 
was safe, they wouldnt get a refund if they didnt fly. So they flew to Italy as planned on 9 
March 2020 and arrived that afternoon. 
However, later that evening, Italy was placed into a national lockdown. Mr B and Ms Ms 
airline arranged for return flights for them the next day, 10 March 2020. On the same day Mr 
B and Ms M flew home, the FCOs guidance changed to advise against all but essential 
travel to Italy. Mr B and Ms M had to self-isolate for two weeks after their return. They made 
a claim on their travel insurance policy for their lost accommodation costs, a taxi fare and for 
their lost earnings as a result of needing to quarantine once theyd returned home.
Ageas turned down Mr B and Ms Ms claim. It said the policy didnt cover lost earnings. And 
it said the curtailment section of the policy set out a list of insured events which it covered. 
This section didnt include a national lockdown by a government. And the policy also 
specifically excluded claims which happened because of restrictions imposed by the 
government of any country.
Mr B and Ms M were unhappy with Ageas decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr B and Ms Ms complaint should be upheld. He acknowledged 
that theyd found themselves in an unfortunate situation. But he simply didnt think the policy 
covered their situation. 
Mr B and Ms M disagreed. They said theyd phoned their airline and had been told it was 
safe to travel and that they had to travel, or theyd lose their money. No-one had told them 
about the lockdown. They had curtailment cover and they wanted their money back for their 
unused holiday. They felt the situation was a huge injustice.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for Ageas to turn down Mr B and Ms Ms claim. Ill explain 
why.
Its important that I explain that although Mr B and Ms M bought their policy through their 
travel provider, this is an entirely separate business to Ageas. Ageas role is to consider 
claims policyholders make in line with the terms of their policy. It isnt responsible for any 
information the airline mayve given Mr B and Ms M. 
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered the policy terms 
and conditions, together with the circumstances of Mr B and Ms Ms claim to decide whether 
Ageas treated them fairly.
Mr B and Ms M had to cut short their holiday because the Italian government imposed a 
national lockdown as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. This means their claim was 
correctly considered under the Cancellation and Curtailment section of the policy. This 
says:
What you are covered for
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for the unused portion of 
your travel and accommodation costs that you have paid or contracted to pay and you suffer 
a financial loss because you cannot get a full refund if you cancel before the start of your trip 
or cut your trip short and return home early during the period of insurance because of the 
following:
1. the death, bodily injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of you, 
a close relative or any person you have arranged to travel or stay with during 
your trip; or
2. you being called for jury service or as a witness in a Court of Law (but not as an 
expert witness or where your employment would normally require you to attend 
court); or
3. your redundancy, provided that you were working at your current place of 
employment for a minimum of 2 years and that you were not aware of any 
impending redundancy at the time this policy was issued or the trip was booked; 
or;
4. your home being made uninhabitable due to accidental damage, burglary, 
flooding or fire;
5. the police requesting your presence following burglary or attempted burglary at 
your home; or
6. you, or any person you intended to travel with, who is a member of the Armed 
Forces, emergency services, the nursing profession or a government employee 
being ordered to return to duty.
Ive looked carefully at each of these insured events. Changes to national travel guidance, 
or a local pandemic or epidemic simply arent included in the list of things the policy covers. 
While Mr B and Ms M self-isolated after they returned to the UK, their quarantine wasnt the 
reason they had to cut short their trip. And even though the FCO guidance changed to 
advise against all but essential travel to Italy on 10 March 2020 - the day they flew home, 
changes to FCO guidance arent included as an insured event under the cancellation or 
curtailment section either. Taking the above into account, this means that I dont think Mr B and Ms Ms claim is 
covered by the policy terms.
The cancellation and curtailment section of the policy also sets out possible cancellation or 
curtailment reasons which are specifically excluded from cover by the policy terms. The 
policy states:
What you are NOT covered for
- Claims arising from prohibitive regulations by the government of any country.
In this case, Mr B and Ms M had to return home early due to the imposition of a national 
lockdown by the Italian government as a result of Covid-19. So I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Ageas to conclude the claim fell within the scope of this exclusion clause.
Id add that even if Mr B and Ms Ms accommodation and taxi costs had been covered, their 
lost earnings wouldnt have been. Thats because policy cover for a trip ends when a 
policyholder returns to their home geographical area. So once Mr B and Ms M returned to 
their home, the policy cover finished and Ageas wouldnt have had any further liability. 
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr B and Ms Ms situation. At the time they flew out, the 
FCO hadnt advised against travelling to Italy and the Italian government hadnt imposed a 
national lockdown. Once lockdown had been imposed and the FCO guidance changed, I can 
entirely understand why Mr B and Ms M needed to return home early. They acted in line with 
the advice they were given by their airline and I can understand how frustrating and 
upsetting it mustve been for them when Ageas turned down their claim.
But their claim simply isnt covered by any section of their policy. And I dont think it would be 
fair and reasonable to direct Ageas to cover the claim in the circumstances of this case for 
the reasons Ive outlined above. So I think it was fair for Ageas to turn down Mr B and Ms 
Ms claim.
It seems that Mr B and Ms Ms holiday was booked as a package holiday by their travel 
provider. So its possible that they may be able to recover some of their accommodation 
costs from the travel provider under the Package Travel Regulations 2018. This would be 
dependent though on the terms and conditions of Mr B and Ms Ms booking with their 
provider and relevant industry guidelines. Its open to Mr B and Ms M to get in touch with 
their travel provider if they wish to look into this further. Their travel provider is a member of 
ABTA. So if theyre unhappy with their travel providers decision, they may be able to 
complain about it to ABTA.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman