DRN-1455607
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that he wasnt told when his credit card was suspended after a  payment 
wasnt received on time.
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr C says he cannot deny Nationwide acted in accordance with its terms and 
conditions and was entitled to suspend his credit card. So, I will not comment on the 
circumstances leading up to the account suspension or the actual decision to do 
so. But he remains unhappy that Nationwide didnt tell him of the suspension in 
advance as he says is required by the terms and conditions.
The terms and conditions of the account say, amongst other things, that its the 
customers responsibility to ensure payments are made on time and Nationwide may 
restrict or suspend use of the account for a number of reasons including late 
payments. They also say it will give advanced notice unless prevented from doing so 
by law or if it would not be practicable to do so.
In this case I think Nationwide effectively gave Mr C advance notice that his account 
might be suspended if a late payment was made in its terms and conditions. Its also 
said it has no process in place to warn customers by email of any potential late 
payment fees or card restrictions if a payment is missed. As a result I think it was 
therefore also impracticable for it to give advanced notice to Mr C of the actual 
suspension it applied. 
Taking everything into account Im satisfied on balance that Nationwide has acted in 
line with its terms and conditions when dealing with Mr C. 
Mr C is clearly unhappy with Nationwides procedures and he has said he would like 
it to amend them so more attention is paid to circumstances before sanctions are 
applied. But we arent a regulator, and we cant require a business to change its 
practices and procedures. General issues about how the banking industry works are 
a matter for the Financial Conduct Authority.
Taking everything into account I think Nationwide has acted fairly and in line with its 
terms and conditions. And I dont think I can reasonably require it to do anything 
more or differently, as Mr C would like.
 
For these reasons, although I recognise Mr Cs strength of feeling and frustration, I do not 
uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman