DRN-3387997
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs B complain about the unfair treatment of their claim for a crack in the flooring
and a leak, on their late fathers policy with Ageas Insurance Limited.
What happened
I sent the parties my provisional decision in February 2022, in which I set out the following 
background information to the complaint and my provisional findings. 
The late Mr S took out a policy with Ageas in 2016. In July 2018 Mr S was selling his home
and was alerted to a problem with the floor slab by a buyers structural survey report. The
report highlighted that the concrete floor slab had reacted with moisture causing bumps to
appear in the kitchen and lounge floors.
Mr Ss son (who I have referred to as Mr S throughout) reported a potential subsidence
claim. Ageas appointed loss adjusters whose subsidence and drainage experts surveyed the
property in August, September and December 2018 and later. They said the problem was
potentially due to an escape of water and described the drain as unserviceable and leaking
water when in use. They recommended excavation and repair but said this was the
responsibility of the local water authority.
The experts found no damp-proof membrane between the concrete floor and the hardcore
sub-base material. They said the expansion of sub-base material is a major factor in the
fragmentation of the concrete floor, referred to as sulphate attack. They said the source of
the water triggering the attack needed to be found and although the drains were leaking,
they decided that this wasnt a contributory factor. They described the damage as gradually
operating due to a defect in the use of the shale material withing the sub-base, but without a
damp-proof membrane.
Mr S obtained a report from a structural engineer who found that the floor slabs had cracked
as a consequence of heave from shale expansion in contact with leaking water. He also
obtained a report from his local authority in November 2018 that stated the sub-base
contained shale which is known to expand and is likely to have been a major contributory
factor in the fragmentation of the concrete base.
Ageas said although the claim was rejected it offered a cash settlement for the kitchen floor
damage under the escape of water peril in the policy. Mr S rejected this and requested the
whole floor be inspected and covered by the claim. The subsidence experts instructed by
Ageas loss adjusters reported in July 2019 that the crack to the kitchen floor tracks across
the lounge floor and so a claim for damage to the lounge would be harder to decline given
acceptance of the damage to the kitchen floor.
Mr S instructed a structural engineer who inspected and reviewed other expert reports. He
said CCTV showed the drains were leaking and theres shale present but no damp-proof
membrane. But he didnt find evidence of sulphate attack. He said a second drainage report
had found chlorides in the kitchen floor and said the damage was due to expansion of the
shale reacting with leaking water. He said the lounge floor crack was a continuation of the
kitchen floor crack and is obviously of the same cause. He recommended the complete
replacement of the ground floor slab on top of a damp-proof membrane.
Ageas loss adjusters arranged an independent report by structural engineers. The report
stated that damage to the floor slab in the kitchen and lounge was caused by sulphate attack
whereby sulphates in the sub-base reacted with the cement within the concrete expanding
and cracking the floor slab. The report states that this isnt linked to the expansion of shale.
The report states that sulphate attack is accelerated by the presence of moisture, and
increased moisture from a leak with expedite the effects. It states that, The evidence shows
that leaking drains were adding to local ground moisture, but the degree of accelerated
sulphate attack from this cannot be answered. The report recommended that if then claim
were accepted, the work needed would be removal of the sub-base, installation of a 
dampproof membrane and replacement of the concrete floor.
Ageas didnt think that a leaking drain was the cause of the damage as the levels of
sulphates in the concrete floor are high, and cracking and heave is likely to be ongoing and
progressive, even if the drain isnt leaking. It said that the recommendation for full
excavation of the ground floor, even after the drain is fixed means the primary mode of
failure is sulphate attack, not any escape of water. Ageas declined the claim saying that
theres no cover under the policy. Mr S didnt agree and complained to Ageas.
In its final response in September 2020 Ageas said it couldnt be certain about the source of
the moisture within the sub-base and so had made a partial offer of settlement. When
rejected, Ageas obtained an independent report which it said concluded that the primary
cause of damage is a latent building defect, that would cause damage even if the drains
were not leaking. Ageas rejected the claim again as no insurable event had taken place.
Mr S referred his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. She said
the expert appointed by Ageas was most qualified to diagnose the issue and their findings
were convincing that even if there wasnt a leak the sulphate attack would have occurred
anyway as the sub-base was in contact with wet ground. And she thought the damage was
due to sulphate attack rather than an escape of water. She concluded that theres no policy
cover for latent defects or a sulphate attack and so she couldnt tell Ageas to pay the claim.
Mr S disagreed with the investigator. He said chlorinated water was found in the sub-base
material and so there had been an escape of water from the drain and the claim should be
covered under this peril. He said his neighbour didnt have the same problem and so the
leak must have been the cause. Mr S requested an ombudsman review the complaint.
My provisional findings
Ive looked closely at Ageas handling of the claim to see if it acted within the terms of the
policy and treated Mr S and Mrs B fairly. This involves determining whether Ageas was fair
in deciding that the damage to the late Mr Ss home doesnt fall within an insured peril. To do
this Ive looked at the policy and the various expert reports. Im not an expert and so I have
to decide on the basis of which I think gives the most likely explanation of the causes of the
damage.
Firstly, the policy: this provides cover for damage caused by the ground moving, whether
upwards or downwards. However, cover is excluded for movement of solid floors slabs
unless the foundations are damaged at the same time and by the same cause.
The reports deal with the chemical reaction from the sub-base to the floor slab through the
agency of moisture. I havent seen a report which indicates that damage to the foundations
was also present and so I dont think the subsidence peril of the policy applies to the claim.The policy also covers damage from an escape of water from a drainage installation. And so,
the key questions are, has there been an escape of water and if so, was this the cause of
the damage to the floor slab.
Damage to the drain at the rear of the property is widely acknowledged by the experts and
has been repaired by the local water authority. And so I think it very likely that water has
been leaking from the drain into the area in and around the house.
The first part of the analysis about the failure of the floor slab appears largely to be agreed
by the experts as a sulphate attack causing the floor slab to distort and crack. The reaction
to moisture is agreed as the cause of the attack, but the source of the moisture is disputed.
From the expert reports it doesnt appear to me to be arguable that the kitchen and lounge
floor slabs have cracked for different reasons. The cracks are described as continuous and
are very likely to have been caused by the same factors, the sulphate attack. This means
that either the whole floor slab needs to be replaced under the claim, or none at all.
I think Ageas has accepted this point and its experts comment that offering a cash
settlement for only the kitchen floor repair looks anomalous. I can see that Ageas were trying
to be helpful to Mr S and reach a resolution to the claim that they felt the policy didnt
respond to, and so when Mr S decided the offer didnt go far enough they withdrew it as
contradictory to the facts of the claim. I can see Ageas has reinstated its offer.
I take Ageas position to be that the ground around the sub-base is wet due to the presence
of natural moisture and this is sufficient to trigger the sulphate attack. And so, Ageas thinks
theres no liability for it to meet a claim under the escape of water peril as this isnt required
to have caused the damage. It also thinks theres poor design due to the lack of a dampproof
membrane, which is excluded by the policy. Ageas concludes that natural moisture is
the primary cause of the damage and a leaking drain would only be a contributary factor. 
However, Mr Ss position is that the damage is due to escape of water. And since that is
covered as a peril under the policy, the claim for repairs should be met by Ageas.
Its common sense that the lack of a damp-proof membrane means the floor slab is prone to
moisture ingress. I havent seen anything to suggest that not deploying a damp-proof
membrane was in contravention of the planning rules applying when the house was built and
so I dont think policy exclusions for faulty design and materials apply. And the lack of 
dampproof membrane does not in itself appear to be self a cause of the floor slabs failure. 
Im aware that similarly designed and aged houses near to Mr Ss house apparently have no
problem with cracked floor slabs.
Ive looked at what the experts say about an escape of water and its impact on the floor slab.
Ive placed most reliance on the expertise and in-depth findings of the independent expert.
He thought the damage was due to sulphate attack and this would be accelerated by the
presence of moisture in the sub-base. He said this is commonly considered to be a latent
defect. But he said it wasnt possible to know if the leaking drain was the cause of the
problem; There is a question as to whether the floor failure can be attributed to the drain
leak, but this is not a question that can be answered by anyone.
The independent expert didnt know when the repaired drain started leaking or if there was
pre-existing damage to the floor slab. And I dont have information about this either. The
expert didnt think tests for chlorides and nitrates (as relied on in other reports and the basis
of Ageas partial offer of settlement) were of any use in determining the source of the water.
I dont think the open-minded conclusions about the causes of the damage from the
independent expert are accurately reflected by Ageas in its final response to the complaint.
Ageas concluded that the primary cause of damage is a latent building defect, that wouldcause damage even if the drains were not leaking. But I dont think thats the correct
conclusion to draw from the expert report, which is far less certain about the cause. The
independent expert is unlikely to have been exercised about not knowing when the drain
began to leak and the condition of the floor at the time if this wasnt a factor in the damage.
He said this blurs the lines on proportionality, and causality; particularly as it relates to the
increase in local ground moisture levels.
From the other reports I dont think the dampness in the sub-base is shown as occurring
independently from an escape of water and there appears to be evidence that water
escaped from the drain and entered the sub-base. I also take note of Mr Ss experts
comments that none of the adjacent/similar properties in the area have shown similar
defects. He concludes that if the drains werent broken, the floor slabs would still be in good
condition. On the balance of probabilities, Im inclined to agree. The evidence Ive seen
leads me to conclude that Ageas isnt on safe ground when it says it doesnt consider that
the leaking drain is the cause of the sulphate attack on the floor slab.
It follows from this that I dont think Ageas have acted fairly in declining this claim and I am
minded to require Ageas to accept the claim and repair the flooring. As a consequence, I
also think Ageas should be reimburse Mr S and Mrs B for the fees they incurred by use of
experts to prove this claim. And so, on production of evidence of invoice and payment I
currently think Ageas should refund expert report fees related to the claim to Mr S.
My provisional decision and the parties responses
I provisionally upheld the complaint to require Ageas to accept Mr S and Mrs Bs claim for 
damage to floor slabs under the escape of water peril in the policy. And for Ageas to 
recompense Mr S and Mrs B for the cost of expert reports in support of the claim.
Mr S and Mrs B said they agreed with the provisional decision with no further comment, and 
Ageas didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there is no further information to consider in relation to this complaint, I see no reason to 
alter my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I require 
Ageas Insurance Limited to accept Mr S and Mrs Bs claim for damage to the floor slabs at 
their late fathers property, under the escape of water peril in his policy. I also require Ageas 
Insurance Limited to recompense Mr S and Mrs B for the cost of the expert reports they paid 
for in support of his claim. If they havent already done so, Mr S and Mrs B should provide 
evidence of the costs and payment to Ageas.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs B 
and the estate of Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman