DRN-3457606
The complaint
Mr G complains that Santander UK Plc failed to refund two transactions he didnt recognise.
What happened
Mr G was interested in purchasing a large garden item which he saw advertised on a social 
media platform and contacted the business about it - Ill refer to them as P. The discussions 
didnt appear to result in any order and P didnt supply anything to Mr G. About six months 
later, Mr G noticed that two payments had been made to P from his Santander account. The 
first payment was made using Mr Gs Visa card and about a month later, a second payment 
was made to them using a bank transfer.
Mr G contacted Santander about these two payments. He explained that hed had some 
conversations with P. Mr G initially confirmed he hadnt received any goods and later said he 
hadnt provided any details of his bank account or Visa card, nor his consent for them (P) to 
take any payments. Santander advised Mr G that they couldnt challenge the Visa payment 
because timescales had been exceeded. 
Santanders fraud team were asked to look into the matter and sent Mr G a declaration form 
on two occasions but didnt receive a reply. Mr G was under the impression that Santander 
were looking into his issue and eventually complained to them. Mr G was advised that 
Santander could again look into the fraud, but it would likely be declined due to the 
timescales  which it was. 
Santander recognised that theyd given Mr G inconsistent advice about the refund of his 
disputed transactions and made two £50 payments to him. They declined to refund the two 
disputed transactions as they believed Mr G authorised them himself. Mr G remained 
unhappy with how Santander had dealt with his complaint and brought it to the Financial 
Ombudsman for an independent review. 
Mr Gs complaint was looked into by one of our investigators who asked for evidence from 
both parties. Mr G explained what had happened and confirmed that he wasnt complaining 
about a scam (where he was tricked into paying for something), rather that he denied 
authorising the two payments to P. He didnt understand how they could have obtained his 
payment details because he never gave them to P. Mr G also said he first contacted 
Santander some months earlier, which was within the timescales for a challenge using the 
Visa system. 
Santander provided audit information about the two payments and provided details of their 
contacts with Mr G and online activity, including when call handlers accessed Mr Gs Final 
account  as this is an indication that Mr G contacted Santander. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint because he thought it was more likely than 
not that both transactions were authorised by Mr G. 
Mr G disagreed and wanted a further review of his complaint which has now been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G confirmed that he hadnt authorised either payment, rather than being scammed by P. 
This is important because there are different guidelines for dealing with these issues. As Mr 
G denied authorising them, I first need to determine how the payments were made and who 
likely was responsible. 
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Santander can hold Mr G liable for the disputed payments if the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them.
Coming to the question of authorisation, this is made up of two parts. Authentication and 
consent. Authentication is usually referred to as the technical information about the 
transactions. Santander have supplied that evidence and Im satisfied it shows the disputed 
transactions were authenticated. 
Consent is a formal step in the payment process and refers to the way in which Santander 
and Mr G agreed to use the account for transactions. For example, when using the card 
details including the three-digit security number (CVV) or using the mobile banking app, 
Santander agree to accept that this is a legitimate payment instruction made by the 
cardholder or another approved user and make the payment on their behalf. 
Because the transactions in this case have been shown to be properly authenticated and 
they used the genuine card details/the genuine mobile banking app  - Im satisfied that 
consent was given, and the disputed transactions were authorised. But, there are exceptions 
where it wouldnt be appropriate for Santander to hold Mr G responsible, for example if the 
card was used without his permission, as Mr G has stated. 
There are two transactions, both for the same amount but made using different payment 
systems. The first one was using Mr Gs Visa card and required the details from the card to 
be able to make the payment, including the CVV which is only available on the actual card 
itself. 
Mr G has confirmed he didnt pass those card details to P, so its difficult to think of a 
plausible way that P could have obtained them. Mr G didnt meet anyone from P and all his 
contacts were via social media. There doesnt appear to be any way that P could have 
obtained those details without Mr Gs involvement. Its understood that Mr G was in contact 
with P because thats what hes said, so it seems more likely than not that he provided those 
details to P for them to carry out the transaction. Otherwise, how could P take the payment 
from Mr G? So, I think Mr G was responsible for supplying his card details to P to carry out 
the transaction. 
The second payment took place nearly one month later, but this time it was made using a 
faster payment. This is a means of making a payment from one bank account to another. 
Santanders records indicate it was set up using Mr Gs registered mobile phone and was 
confirmed through the use of a One Time Passcode sent to the phone. Again, it seems 
implausible that P, who Mr G said never had his details, could obtain the necessary 
information to identify Mr Gs bank details, obtain his mobile phone and manage to pass the 
inbuilt security for the phone and the banking app to be able to send a payment to 
themselves, all without Mr G being aware of what was happening. 
The use of Mr Gs mobile phone to set up and make the payment make it more likely than not that it was Mr G who made this second payment to P. I cant know what happened with P 
 but it does appear that theres been an issue with them as a business. Mr G has explained 
he tried to contact them with little success, and I appreciate this must have been frustrating. 
But the issue for me here is whether its reasonable for Santander to hold Mr G liable for the 
two disputed transactions and I think it is. 
Ive also considered how Santander dealt with Mr Gs issues. Its apparent that Santander 
themselves thought theyd let Mr G down with how they dealt with the various stages of his 
dispute and I wouldnt disagree. I think the two £50 payments is a fair and reasonable way to 
recognise this poor service and I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
Ive also examined the Visa timescales because Mr G stated that hed notified Santander 
about the problem within the 120-day time limit. Santander provided records of their contact 
with Mr G and couldnt find any call or message from him about this issue. They also 
provided an audit of the access to Mr Gs online account, which also shows when an 
employee accesses it  but no such records are present prior to Mr Gs notification some six 
months after the first transaction. I think the records from Santander show that Mr G hadnt 
notified them about his issue within the appropriate timescales and it was reasonable for 
Santander to decline to use the Visa system to challenge the payment. 
Whilst Im sure Mr G will disagree with me; I think its more likely than not that he was 
responsible for making the two disputed transactions to P and it was reasonable for 
Santander to hold him liable for them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman