DRN-3434066
The complaint
Mrs N complains about a number of problems she has had with her National Westminster 
Bank Plc (NatWest) bank accounts and how shes been treated by NatWest staff.
What happened
Mrs N had three accounts with NatWest. A basic account, a current account and a savings 
account. Mrs N complains about problems she had with these accounts. They were that:
Mrs N didnt receive statements for two years on one account and believed that the 
funds were missing. She said that branch staff were unable to locate the account.
Mrs N tried to withdraw some funds and her ID wasnt accepted as it had expired. 
She said another time a branch member of staff asked questions about why Mrs N 
was making a withdrawal which upset her. This resulted in the police being called 
and Mrs N said the police were very rough with her.  
NatWest didnt uphold the complaints. It said the money had always been in her savings 
account and statements were sent to the correct address. NatWest said its staff were 
entitled to ask further questions when withdrawals were made. It said its member of staff felt 
threatened when Mrs N became angry and this is why the police were called. NatWest has 
told us its since closed Mrs Ns account because of her behaviour. 
Once the complaint was referred to us, NatWest offered £50 compensation as a proactive 
gesture to resolve the complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs N didnt agree, and asked 
for an ombudsman to review her complaint. So, its been passed to me to consider and 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill address each of Mrs Ns complaint points separately.
Not receiving statements and missing money
NatWest has confirmed that monthly statements for Mrs Ns accounts were sent to the 
address shes provided it. If these werent received, I dont think this was the fault of 
NatWest. NatWest has also said Mrs N was able to view these accounts online as well. Ive 
seen nothing to suggest these statements werent sent as NatWest says they were. 
Mrs N has told us that the branch staff werent able to locate one of her accounts for over 
two years. From my experience, all bank accounts held by a customer are linked and would 
be showing to branch staff under one customer profile. NatWest accepts they may have 
been confusion on one occasion when an account couldnt be located. And I have no doubt 
Mrs N mightve been worried by this. But based on what Ive seen of NatWests notes, and 
the fact that Mrs N has only recently made her complaint, I dont agree that an account was 
missing or unable to be located for over two years. And, as Ive said, Mrs N shouldve been 
receiving the monthly statements and wouldve been able to access the via online banking. 
Having reviewed the statements from all three accounts, I cant see that any money has 
gone missing. When paid in, its been credited to the account. And all withdrawals seem to 
have either been transfers to the other accounts, or cash taken out by Mrs N. I cannot see 
any funds which are unaccounted for.
Problems making withdrawals
Its generally for a bank to decide what additional ID it requires when a customer wants to 
make a withdrawal. If Mrs N did provide ID which had expired, I dont think its unreasonable 
for NatWest to ask for further ID. And when large amounts are withdrawn, especially when 
its not a usual transaction for a particular account, staff will typically ask what the funds are 
for. This is not unreasonable and its something NatWest is entitled to do. I dont think its 
likely that staff did this with any intention of offending Mrs N. 
NatWest has given us further information about the time the police were called to the branch. 
Its said that its staff asked for more information about the withdrawal as it was a large 
amount and unusual for Mrs Ns account. The branch staff have provided a statement which 
says that Mrs N became very irate and refused to leave. The branch staff say they felt 
unsafe which is why the police were called. 
I dont think that branch staff wouldve taken the decision to call the police lightly. And Mrs N 
has accepted she did get angry. Based on this, and the statement provided by branch staff, I 
dont think that it was unreasonable for them to call the police in this situation. I know Mrs N 
has mentioned how the police treated her to our investigator, but this isnt something I can 
consider. 
Because of the above, I can understand why NatWest felt it may no longer be appropriate to 
continue its relationship with Mrs N. And it is entitled to close her accounts in this situation by 
providing the required notice period. I understand the accounts havent yet been closed. I 
dont know if NatWest has made a final decision on what to do about these accounts yet. 
But, as they havent yet been closed, I wont make a finding about this here. 
NatWest has offered Mrs N £50 in an attempt to resolve this matter. This is fair 
compensation for the fact that there may have been one occasion where one account 
couldnt be located. But I dont think NatWest has done anything else wrong here. So, I wont 
be making any further award. Ill leave it to Mrs N to decide whether she wishes to accept 
this amount or not. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman