DRN-2932243
The complaint
Miss C has complained about the service she received from Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) 
under her Homeserve home emergency policy when she contacted it to deal with a major 
water leak in her home. 
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
at length. 
Briefly stated, Avivas records show that Miss C first contacted it at 13.04 on 4 November 
2020 about a water leak which she couldnt stop because she couldnt turn off the internal 
stopcock. She was told that an engineer would attend before 18.00 that day. Despite follow 
up phone calls to find out when the engineer would be attending, an engineer didnt turn up 
until 6 November, nearly 48 hours after Miss C had first contacted it. No explanation was 
provided for this failure other than that there had been a breakdown in communication as to 
the urgency of the situation. The leak caused significant damage to her home and some 
contents.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for these reasons:
This would have been a very stressful experience for Miss C. She couldnt control the 
water that was extending throughout her home and causing damage. She turned to 
Aviva for emergency assistance.
Aviva says that its Homeserve Plumbing and Drainage policy is the most 
comprehensive cover we offer for water problems, covering things like blocked 
drains, burst pipes, blocked sinks, toilets... and more. So you can relax knowing 
we're on hand 24/7, keeping your life worry free so that you can focus on the things 
that matter.
Miss C was told an Aviva engineer would attend before 18.00. Despite at least one 
chasing phone call, no engineer attended until nearly 48 hours later. 
Aviva has said that as Miss Cs boyfriend had eventually been able to turn off the 
water supply at the external stopcock, the failure of an engineer to attend before 
18.00 wouldnt have made any difference. That ignores the fact that Miss C was then 
without water and was unable to turn the supply back on until a repair had been 
made. She had the inconvenience of having to find another engineer to do this.
Miss C was let down by another engineer who she contacted about getting the 
damaged pipe repaired. Her boyfriend, although not a plumber, eventually 
succeeded in making the necessary repair himself. This trouble and upset wouldnt 
have been necessary if an Aviva engineer had attended more promptly, and not 48 
hours later.
I agree that Aviva wasnt responsible for the leak or for the damage caused. Its not 
possible to say what damage mightve been avoided if an Aviva engineer had arrived 
promptly. But as the Homecare policy doesnt cover consequential damage, I dont 
consider that I can award compensation for this. This is a loss that might be covered 
by buildings and contents insurance.
Our investigator is correct in explaining that Aviva cannot be liable for loss of 
earnings as this isnt covered by the policy.
I dont consider that the £80 compensation offered by Aviva is sufficient 
compensation for the upset, distress and inconvenience Miss C suffered in not 
having the support it was reasonable for her to expect from Aviva in an emergency 
situation. This is what Aviva says its policy offers, and what she was paying her 
premiums for. 
I agree with our investigator that £250 compensation is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold Miss Cs complaint.
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Miss C £250 compensation.
I also require it to reimburse to her the cost of materials purchased to repair the broken pipe 
upon presentation of evidence of the purchase cost.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman