DRN-2188101
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy that a credit card account application with Santander UK Plc was declined 
after it had been pre-approved.
What happened
Mrs D used the credit card eligibility checker on the Santander website and was told she was 
pre-approved for an account. Mrs D then went on to complete the full application for the 
account, but it is was declined. Mrs D complained to Santander as she thought the pre-
approval was misleading and that the application would have an effect on her credit rating.
Santander told Mrs D that pre-approval was only an indicator and the full application was 
subject to standard checks, and it was these checks that led to the application being 
declined. Mrs B asked for the decline to be appealed; but again, it wasnt approved.
There were some customer service issues when Mrs D was dealing with Santander who 
awarded her £50 to apologise for the inconvenience. 
Mrs D remained unhappy so came to our service where one of our investigators looked into 
what happened.  Our investigator, whilst appreciating Mrs Ds frustrations, didnt think that 
Santander had made any errors when declining the application. Mrs D remained unhappy 
saying the pre-approval email was misleading and could be damaging to other people who 
apply. So, the complaint has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ultimately its for a lender to decide whether they want to offer credit to a customer. But its 
also important that lenders treat customers fairly in the application process.
Ive looked at the eligibility checker on the Santander website. This says: Use our checker to 
see an indication of your eligibility for credit only. At this stage youre not applying for a 
Santander credit card. 
I think its clear that being pre-approved isnt a guarantee; its an indicator of eligibility. Also, 
its clear this isnt a full application, so its fair to assume more information will be requested 
and further checks will be done. 
Ive also looked what Santander told Mrs D in the pre-approval message after she had put 
her details into the eligibility checker. This message, in part, says: When you apply, please 
use exactly the same information that you entered into the eligibility checker. Any changes to 
your circumstances may affect this pre-approval, and whether you can get a card or the 
same credit limit. It goes on to say: Well carry out a full credit check if you apply which will 
appear on your credit report.
Im happy Santander made clear that in order for the pre-approval to be valid the same 
information must be entered when making the full application. They also made clear that 
when a full application is made a credit search will be done.
In this case Mrs D changed her income when making the full application from what she had 
entered into the eligibility checker. I understand why Mrs D lowered her income, but this 
change means the pre-approval is no longer valid as the information isnt the same. 
Santander assessed the application on the lower income amount, and the account wasnt 
approved.
I know this process has been frustrating and disappointing for Mrs D who feels misled after 
being pre-approved, but Im satisfied Santander acted fairly in their processes.
There were some customer service issues when Mrs D was dealing with Santander about 
her application. Having looked at what happened, and the impact of those issues, Im 
satisfied the £50 award is reasonable for the inconvenience caused. 
Mrs D is concerned about the footprint on her credit file. I want to assure Mrs D that what 
appears on her credit file is a record of search done by Santander. This type of search 
doesnt show whether an application was approved or declined, its just a record that an 
application was made. Mrs D did make an application, so its fair that the search remains on 
her credit file as Santander explained it would, and as an accurate reflection of what 
happened.
Having looked at everything that happened Im satisfied Santander acted fairly and 
reasonably when processing Mrs Ds application. Im also happy that the £50 Santander 
awarded is a fair and reasonable amount for the customer service issues she experienced. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman