DRN-1780123
 
complaint
Mr D complains that XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited (Catlin) hasnt paid his travel 
insurance claim in full. 
background
Whilst abroad, Mr Ds daughter was involved in an accident. She was taken to a private 
hospital.
Mr D advised Catlin that his daughter needed surgery. Catlin thought she could return to the 
UK for the treatment, but also gave Mr D the option of having her transferred to a state 
facility. 
Mr D decided to go ahead with the surgery in the private hospital. Catlin therefore covered 
the initial diagnostic costs incurred at the private hospital, as well as the cost that would have 
been incurred if he and his daughter had been repatriated back to the UK - but said he was 
liable for the remaining costs. Unhappy with this, Mr D brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Catlin had been 
clear with Mr D what his options were, and the policy confirmed treatment in a private 
hospital wasnt covered unless Catlin had agreed to this.  
Mr D didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says:
If, during your trip, you become ill or sustain a bodily injury we will pay up to the amount 
shown in the summary of cover for costs incurred outside your home country that have been 
authorised by the emergency assistance company for:
1. Emergency medical and surgical treatment in the nearest appropriate hospital, including 
medical practitioner fees, hospital expenses and charges for medical transportation
And
SPECIAL CONDITIONS
This is not a private health insurance policy. We will pay for private treatment only if there is 
no appropriate reciprocal health agreement in place in existence and no public service 
available and we reserve the right to organise a transfer from a private medical facility to a 
public medical facility where appropriate.
And
What you are NOT covered for

8. costs incurred for:
a) surgery or medical treatment which in the opinion of the attending medical practitioner and 
the emergency assistance company medical practitioner can be reasonably delayed until 
your return to your home country
Mr Ds daughter was taken to a private hospital after her accident. That isnt uncommon 
outside the UK. As above, the policy confirms private treatment isnt covered. However, if Mr 
Ds daughters injury was so serious that she needed immediate surgery in that private 
hospital and wasnt well enough to be transferred to a state facility for the surgery or 
repatriated back to the UK, then Id expect Catlin to cover the cost of the surgery. 
The medical report completed by the private hospital confirmed M Ds daughters diagnosis 
and the need for surgery. However, it didnt say that she couldnt be moved to another facility 
or repatriated to the UK. I see that Catlin made it clear to Mr D that it would need evidence of 
this for it to be satisfied that his daughter had to have the surgery in the private hospital. 
However, Mr D wasnt able to provide this evidence at the time. 
Since then Mr D has provided a letter from his daughters treating doctor. This says that 
because of the nature of Mr Ds daughters injuries, an urgent operation was necessary from 
a medical point of view. The doctor also said waiting for the operation until a return to her 
home country would have made the outcome non-optimal, so the early approach was taken. 
Its not in dispute that Mr Ds daughter required surgery, but Catlins chief medical officer 
thought the nature of her injuries meant she could be repatriated back to the UK. Catlin has 
provided some information from a consultant orthopaedic surgeon which gives information 
on knee injuries, and whether they require emergency surgery. According to this information, 
Mr Ds daughters injuries didnt require emergency surgery.
I do have sympathy for Mr D. He was in a foreign country and was being advised by doctors 
that his daughter needed urgent surgery. However, based on the information available to 
Catlin at the time, I think it was reasonable for it to conclude that Mr Ds daughter could be 
repatriated back to the UK or moved to a state facility. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr D has since provided evidence which supports that the surgery 
shouldnt have been delayed until his daughters return to the UK, the doctor didnt give any 
explanation around this - other than to say it would have made the outcome non-optimal. I 
dont think this is enough detail for me to conclude that she required emergency surgery and 
couldnt be repatriated back to the UK. Its also the case that the doctor didnt say Mr Ds 
daughter couldnt have been moved to a nearby state hospital, which was the other option 
given to Mr D. 
Consequently, in the circumstances, I think it was reasonable for Catlin to refuse to pay for 
the surgery. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman