DRN-2903541
The complaint
Mr J is seeking to recover £20,200 from Metro Bank PLC (Metro), which was stolen from 
his bank account as a result of a third-party scam.
Metro says it is not liable for the loss because Mr J unwittingly authorised the payment and 
once notified of the fraud, it had acted as quickly as it could to try and recover the money 
from the payee bank. Only £4.85 remained and this was recovered, returned to Metro and 
subsequently credited to Mr Js account on 5 June 2019.
An investigator looked into the complaint and considered it should be upheld. Metro provided 
its response, disagreeing, and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
As the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Upon reading all the available evidence and arguments, I have concluded that the fair and 
reasonable outcome, in all the circumstances, would be to uphold this complaint. Ill explain 
why.
It is common ground that Mr J authorised the scam payment of £20,200. Mr J had been 
liaising with his solicitor in regard to making a payment, which was for a deposit, for the 
purchase of a property. Unbeknown to Mr J, a fraudster had intercepted the email 
correspondence. And this resulted in Mr J paying the amount via online banking on 
9 May 2019 to the details provided by the fraudster, as opposed to his genuine solicitor.
I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Mr J was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. Mr J made the payment via online banking. So, although he did not 
intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, 
and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr J is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Metro should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
For branch transactions, those steps may include following the Banking Protocol 
where appropriate.
In this case, Mr Js payment did flag on Metros systems and it was held. Metro sent Mr J a 
text asking him to call in to verify that he had authorised the payment. There was 
subsequently a call between Mr J and Metro on 20 May 2019.
In other words, Metro had been triggered by unusual or uncharacteristic activity or by the 
amount of the payment so much so that it held the payment and wanted to speak with Mr J, 
before it processed it. So accordingly, its just a question of whether Metro did enough in all 
the circumstances.
Having listened to the call between the adviser and Mr J, I dont think enough was done. Ill 
explain why. 
The adviser, after verifying he was speaking to Mr J says:
this is [the payment] being held for security reasons, we just wanted to ensure that 
it was you that initiated the payment. This payment is something that you recognise 
making, just to confirm  is that correct sir.
The call was short in its duration, and the adviser only checked to see if Mr J had made the 
payment, to which Mr J replied he had  as he was unaware that he had been the victim of 
an email intercept scam. In total, around 15 seconds was spent talking about the payment.
Banks such as Metro have actual or constructive knowledge of all the main scams, such as 
email intercept scams which Mr J was unknowingly falling victim to. So, as the payment had 
flagged on Metros security systems it could and should have done more. Had it asked Mr J 
about the payment, what is was for and how he received the details; Mr J would have said 
that it was a deposit for a property and that he was paying his solicitor and had obtained the 
account details through email and most of the correspondence had been through email. 
The adviser should have then been on alert that Mr J could possibly be at risk of financial 
harm  given its knowledge of these types of scams and the prevalence of email intercept 
scams, which can often involve transfers of large sums which are intended for conveyancing 
purposes, as was the case here. The adviser could have brought to life very simply what an 
email intercept scam would look and feel like. And to ensure that Mr J wasnt at risk of 
financial harm, to contact his solicitor on a verified number and not through any telephone 
numbers provided on emails as those numbers could well be directing Mr J back to the 
fraudster. 
Put simply, had the type of scam Mr J was at potential risk of, been explained to him, given 
the value and importance of the payment to Mr J, I believe he would have made contact with 
his solicitor and it would have come to light that the account details he had been provided 
with werent correct and had been changed. In short, the scam would have been prevented 
and Mr J would not have lost £20,200. I have also considered whether Mr J should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence and have taken into account Metros comments on this aspect. However, it is 
clear that up to and including the time of authorising the payment, Mr J genuinely believed 
that he had been liaising with his solicitor. While the email addresses were slightly different  
they werent so different that Mr J, being unaware of this type of scam, had any cause for 
concern. The fraudulent email address contained the name of the solicitors firm. 
  
I am satisfied there was no contributory negligence on this occasion. Mr J was simply the 
unwitting and blameless victim of a clever fraudster. 
In the circumstances I am satisfied Metro should fairly and reasonably reimburse Mr J for the 
loss he suffered, without any reduction, together with interest to compensate him for being 
deprived of the money he lost. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint 
about Metro Bank PLC  and I therefore require Metro Bank PLC to:
Pay Mr J £20,200 less any sums already refunded (£4.85) within 28 days of receiving 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision; plus
Pay simple interest on this amount, from the date of the loss to the date of the 
settlement. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Metro Bank PLC to take off tax from this interest. Metro Bank PLC 
must give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021. 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman