DRN-3675513
The complaint
Mr B, represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC), complains that Equitrade 
Markets Ltd gave him unsuitable advice to invest in Contracts for Differences (CFDs).
What happened
In March 2017, Mr B entered into an agreement with Equitrade to receive advice and place 
trades on his behalf. Equitrade has said that the advice wouldve been generalised unless it 
specifically said was for Mr B. Over a seven month period Mr B placed over 140 CFD trades 
through Equitrade and he suffered significant losses. Neither party has been able to provide 
evidence to show whether those trades were following advice or were made on Mr Bs own 
accord. Mr B complains that because he was retired and had limited investment experience 
Equitrade shouldnt have allowed him to trade in CFDs. He complained that it was unsuitable 
for his circumstances and didnt match his objective of preserving capital.
Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. To summarise he said:
- Whilst there isnt much evidence from Equitrade, a third party has provided 
information to show Mr B traded in CFDs for six months prior to entering into an 
agreement with Equitrade. He made over 100 trades and experienced losses. Its 
likely from this that Mr B was aware of the risks associated with CFD trading and 
wanted to proceed.
- Mr Bs objective of preserving capital wasnt recorded until after the end of his 
relationship with Equitrade and cannot be relied upon as an accurate reflection of 
when he opened his account. Its unlikely Mr Bs objective was to preserve capital 
when hed already experienced losses and wanted to continue trading CFDs.
- Mr Bs financial circumstances were completed by him so Equitrade was entitled to 
rely on the information Mr B gave it. Taking it all into account, it wasnt unsuitable for 
Equitrade to allow and advise Mr B to trade in CFDs.
Mr B disagreed with the Investigator and asked for an Ombudsman to make a decision. In 
summary his CMC felt Mr Bs previous experience shouldnt be relied upon as those trades 
were made on his behalf by a different firm. It also highlighted that a complaint against Mr 
Bs previous trading firm was upheld which demonstrated it was unsuitable for him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our Investigator for similar reasons. Our Investigator has 
comprehensively responded to each point raised by Mr Bs CMC. I dont intend to repeat that 
detail in this decision. Rather, I will address the crux of this complaint which is whether CFD 
trading was inappropriate for Mr B. Ive concluded that it was not and Ill explain why.
Mr B was retired when he entered into an agreement with Equitrade. Its recorded that he 
had an income of around £42,000 per year, had no debt, owned his property and had over 
EURO 500,000 worth of financial market instruments. Whilst Mr B disputes that this was 
actually the case, Ive not seen any evidence to show why Equitrade would have reason to 
doubt this.
Prior to engaging Equitrade, Mr B had an account with a different firm using the same 
broker. Evidence from the platform provider shows that Mr B had an account for six months 
and made over 100 CFD trades in that time. Ive carefully considered Mr Bs argument that it 
was the previous firm that made those trades on his behalf, therefore he still didnt have the 
required knowledge or experience when he was advised by Equitrade. But Im not 
persuaded this means CFD trading was inappropriate for him. Mr B had entered into an 
agreement having lost money to CFD trades. Looking at the volume of trading on his 
previous account, I think its likely he was aware of the risks involved and wanted to continue 
trading in CFDs. Possibly to attempt to recoup some of the losses hed already made.
I do appreciate that Mr B was retired, but this doesnt necessarily mean CFD trading is 
automatically inappropriate for him. It appears Mr B had sufficient finances in place, and 
given his trading history at the time he engaged Equitrade I think its likely he was aware of 
the risks and had the necessary capacity for loss. Ive seen a document Mr B has sent in 
which is titled Purpose and Scope of Account and shows Mr B wanted to preserve his 
capital. I can see this was completed some time after his relationship with Equitrade had 
come to an end. And I think its likely at that point, after Mr B had suffered some significant 
losses, hed want to preserve his capital. But I dont find this document persuasive to show 
that Mr B wasnt comfortable with the level of risk associated with CFD trading at the time he 
engaged Equitrade.
In summary, the evidence Ive seen suggests Mr B had experience of trading in CFDs and 
the capacity for loss at the point he entered into an agreement with Equitrade. I dont have 
evidence to show which trades may have been carried out with advice and which trades Mr 
B carried out on his own accord. But having considered this, and Mr Bs full circumstances, I 
dont think it was unsuitable or inappropriate for Mr B at the time to have traded in CFDs. So, 
I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman