DRN-4135481
The complaint
Mr E complains Hexagon Wealth Limited (HW) provided a poor advice service. He thinks it 
sold assets in his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) to pay account fees without his 
consent. And that it didnt contact him or respond to the SIPP provider when asked. Mr E 
feels that HWs poor service has led to a financial loss.
What happened
I understand that Mr E approached HW for retirement planning advice in 2010. He wanted to 
transfer his personal pension with one provider into a SIPP with a new provider. He then 
wanted to buy some gold bullion with some of the proceeds. And use the remaining funds to 
purchase units in a gold and general fund.
HW wrote to Mr E on 1 August 2010. The letter said it had carried out an appraisal of the 
benefits and had several conversations about the possible uses of the personal pension. 
After doing so, it had recommended leaving the personal pension where it was. This was 
predominantly to avoid the transfer penalty of around £1,500. However, it said Mr E could 
consider a transfer to a different provider, with a reduced charging structure, as this would in 
some way compensate for the transfer penalty. 
The letter stated that Mr E had still wanted to proceed to transfer to a SIPP provider and 
enact his original plan. The adviser strongly advised against this course of action for a 
number of reasons. But Mr E said he wanted to go ahead with his original plans anyway. HW 
then recommended a provider, which Ill refer to as provider A, for the new SIPP. 
The letter also stated that HWs adviser had provided Mr E with HWs client agreement and 
an illustration and a brochure from provider A. 
HW said it had charged a one-off commission of £250 to set up and execute Mr Es request 
to move to a SIPP that was able to facilitate the purchase of physical gold. The SIPP was set 
up under a Deed of Appointment dated 27 October 2010 and with a selected retirement age 
of 65. HW also said that around £29,000 of the transfer amount was used to buy one 
kilogram of physical gold. And around £5,000 of the transfer was used to buy units in a gold 
and general fund.
I understand that at some point Mr E complained to provider A about the sale of gold and/or 
other funds to cover outstanding fees payable by the SIPP. He said he hadnt authorised 
such a transaction and therefore felt that provider A should reimburse his account so that he 
was put back into the position he shouldve been in. He also felt that the fees for the 
transaction should be waived.
Provider A issued its final response to this complaint on 31 January 2020. It didnt uphold the 
complaint. It said that Mr E had agreed to be bound by the Trust Deed and Rules when hed 
signed the application form for the SIPP. And that it was entitled to charge fees and 
expenses for administering his SIPP. It also said that when it had written to Mr E in 
November 2011, it had said that it might, in certain circumstances, sell investments 
contained in the SIPP without the need for client consent. It said Mr E hadnt indicated that 
he was unhappy with the terms and conditions.
Provider A also said that it had attempted to contact both Mr E and his Independent 
Financial Adviser (IFA), using the address held on file, on a number of occasions about the 
outstanding fees payable by his SIPP. But that as it had got no response, it initiated the 
default investment strategy, which had been outlined in section 21.2 of the terms and 
conditions. It said that it had acted in line with those terms and conditions. 
Mr E complained to HW on 18 January 2022. He felt thered been a lack of communication 
from HW which had led to his funds/assets being sold and/or disposed of to cover fees. And 
that HWs failure to communicate with either him or provider A had resulted in financial 
losses, for which he wanted reimbursement. 
HW issued its final response to the complaint on 21 April 2022. It didnt uphold the 
complaint. It didnt agree that any lack of communication by it was the reason that assets 
had been disposed from his SIPP to cover fees. It said Mr E had agreed from the outset that 
provider A was entitled to use his funds/assets to cover fees. And noted that Section 5 of the 
SIPP Application Form, which Mr E had signed, stated this. 
HW also said that Mr E had been obliged, under the terms and conditions of his SIPP, to 
notify provider A that hed changed address. And that although provider A had tried on 
several occasions to contact him, it couldnt as it didnt have his new address. HW said that 
provider As terms and conditions required Mr E to tell it of such a change. It also said Mr E 
hadnt informed it of his new address. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr E brought his complaint to this service on 20 October 2022. 
He said his financial advisor didnt contact him, or respond to the SIPP provider, when asked 
to. And that HW had failed to contact him about fees. He also felt HW hadnt provided any 
general management of his pension funds and assets and that this had resulted in his 
funds/assets being sold and/or disposed of to cover fees without his knowledge or consent. 
Mr E wanted to be reimbursed for all the fees hed been charged and the assets sold, plus 
interest. He also wanted a separate compensation payment.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He felt that HW had only 
provided Mr E with one-off advice, for which itd received £250, not an ongoing service. He 
also said Mr E hadnt updated HW with his most recent contact address.  So he didnt think it 
was reasonable to expect HW to have contacted Mr E about any ongoing charges. He also 
felt that it was provider As responsibility to administer the SIPP and apply the fees.
Mr E disagreed with our investigator. He made the following points:
1. HWs final response letter didnt match our investigators key points. So either his 
conclusion was wrong or flawed.
2. He didnt think there was an agreement that stated that HW had provided him with 
one-off advice. He felt he was unqualified to manage his own investment affairs.
3. His IFA knew his mobile number. But didnt call him. He felt it wouldve been 
reasonable to expect his IFA to answer calls from provider A. 
4. He wasnt aware hed paid his IFA £250. He said the IFA didnt make him fully aware 
of this. And felt that it was the IFAs responsibility to do so. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for a review.I issued my provisional decision on 2 May 2023. It said:
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold it. But I have different reasons for coming to this 
decision from our investigator. Ill explain my decision. 
Our investigator didnt think that the complaint should be upheld for the following reasons:
-the client agreement between HW and Mr E showed that HW provided him with one-
off advice, and not any ongoing services. It had charged Mr E £250 for the transfer of 
his personal pension to his new SIPP. As such, there was no ongoing agreement 
between HW and Mr E for his investments to be reviewed regularly. Our investigator 
said he wouldnt reasonably expect HW to contact Mr E about any ongoing charges 
given it was only responsible for the transfer into the SIPP. 
-He felt that it was the SIPP providers responsibility to apply the fees, not HW.
-He also felt that Mr E hadnt updated HW with his most recent contact address, so 
even if it had tried to write to him, it wouldnt have been able to reach him. 
I acknowledge Mr Es point that HWs final response letter did address some different points 
from those considered key by our investigator. However, while I agree that some relevant 
points werent covered in our investigators view, I consider that the points he made, and his 
conclusion were correct. Ill explain why.
HWs final response letter focussed on the fact that it felt Mr E had agreed from the outset 
that provider A was entitled to use his funds/assets to cover fees. And that hed been 
obliged, under the terms and conditions of his SIPP, to notify provider A that hed changed 
address. But that as he hadnt done so, provider A hadnt been able to contact him. HW did 
also state that Mr E hadnt informed it of his new address. Effectively, HWs final response 
letter stated that it felt the complaint was a matter for Mr E and his SIPP provider to address. 
From what Ive seen, provider As terms and conditions did require Mr E to tell it about a 
change of address. Clause 13.1 states: 
You must notify Us promptly in writing (not by fax), in such format as We may require from 
time to time, of any change in the Information You have given Us, such as Your name, 
address, contact details, officers, Authorised Signatories or Accounts Operations Mandate. 
We may ask You to provide evidence of any change. 
Im satisfied that if Mr E had done so, provider A couldve contacted him. Had contact been 
made, Mr E wouldve been able to instruct provider A on how the fees should be paid. And 
the complaint couldve been avoided.
HWs final response letter didnt state that it felt Mr E hadnt been a client for several years. 
But HW made that point to this service when it provided its file on the complaint. It said it 
hadnt entered into an ongoing relationship with Mr E. It said it had simply executed his 
instruction as a standalone transaction, after which Mr E ceased to be a client of HW. It also 
said that after it had charged the one-off commission of £250 at the time of the transaction, it 
had charged no further fee at all. It said that the transactional nature of the relationship was 
further confirmed by the Terms of Business which stated that Mr E would pay by transaction 
commission only, rather than any ongoing fees.HW told this service that, as Mr E hadnt been a client for several years, any potential issue 
was between Mr E and provider A. And that as Mr E wasnt a client, his accusations that HW 
had failed to contact him, or speak to provider A about him, werent correct. 
I acknowledge that Mr E didnt think HW had provided him with one-off advice. And that he 
felt unqualified to manage his own investment affairs. But I dont agree that HW didnt inform 
him that the advice was a one-off. I say this because the client agreement between Mr E and 
HW, which he signed on 1 July 2010, stated the following, under Services to be provided:
With regard to investments which we have arranged for you, these will not be kept under 
review but we will advise you upon your request. 
I consider that this clearly stated that Mr Es investments wouldnt be reviewed by HW unless 
he asked them to. And Ive seen no evidence that he ever did.
I also acknowledge that Mr E felt that his IFA shouldve answered calls from provider A. I 
dont have a great deal of evidence on this point. However, I dont agree that HW shouldve 
been required to carry out any work on Mr Es behalf unless hed asked them to, and agreed 
the fees for that work. Therefore Im not persuaded that HW shouldve been required to 
speak to provider A about any issues with Mr E. It wasnt his financial adviser. Nor am I 
persuaded that HW shouldve been required to call Mr E if it had spoken to provider A about 
the issue. I do acknowledge that it appears from its final response letter that provider A felt 
that HW was still Mr Es financial adviser. But theres no evidence that this was actually the 
case.
I agree with our investigator that it was the SIPP providers responsibility to apply fees, not 
HW. I say this because, as noted above, Mr E was no longer HWs client, so it couldnt have 
any further responsibilities on his behalf. And because provider As terms, covered in 
Section 5 of the SIPP Application Form, which Mr E signed on 29 July 2010, required him to 
agree that provider A was entitled to use his funds/assets to cover fees. Therefore it wouldnt 
be fair or reasonable to hold HW responsible for the application of the SIPP fees.
Mr E told this service that he wasnt aware hed paid his IFA £250. He said the IFA didnt 
make him fully aware of this. And felt that it was the IFAs responsibility to do so. This didnt 
form part of Mr Es original complaint to HW which was considered in its April 2022 final 
response letter. As such, I cant fairly consider this here as it is effectively a new complaint. 
However, Mr E can, if he chooses, make a separate complaint to HW on this point. 
I can however note that the client agreement between Mr E and HW, which he signed on 1 
July 2020, shows that he opted for: Payment by commission (or product charges). And the 
client agreement also explains that the commission option could lead to a varying charge 
depending on the type of product and the amount invested. It went on to give a table which 
demonstrated its normal rates of commission. Although Ive seen no evidence within this 
document of the £250 commission HW actually received, the client agreement stated that if 
the amount to be charged was greater than the normal rates of commission shown in the 
table, written confirmation would be provided.
Overall, I dont intend to uphold this complaint. Ive no evidence that HW provided a poor 
advice service. And I dont agree that it was responsible for the sale of the assets/funds in 
Mr Es SIPP to pay account fees without his consent. I also dont consider that it failed to 
contact him or respond to the SIPP provider when asked, as it no longer had a client 
relationship with Mr E. 
Response to my provisional decisionHW said it didnt have anything further to add. 
Mr E said he didnt agree with my provisional decision. He made the following points about 
that decision:
- He said he didnt remember seeing the client agreement between HW and himself 
showing that HW provided "one-off advice" and not any ongoing services. He said in 
any event, "one-off advice" didnt mean that no further work would be done on his 
behalf. And that even if the advice had been one-off, his adviser still had a duty to 
contact him, which he hadnt done.
- He said that his adviser always had his personal mobile number even if the advice 
had been one-off, which he didnt agree it was. So he felt the adviser shouldve 
contacted him about his funds being sold. He also felt it was unacceptable that the 
adviser hadnt replied to the SIPP provider when it had contacted HW about Mr E. He 
felt that HW had a duty to contact him to inform him of the position. And that it had 
acted negligently when it had allowed his funds to be sold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I acknowledge that Mr E feels very strongly about his complaint, Im satisfied that Ive 
already addressed the points he made after I issued my provisional decision in that decision. 
As I noted in my provisional decision, the documentary evidence shows that HW didnt enter 
into an ongoing relationship with Mr E. Instead, it simply provided one-off advice for which it 
charged £250. Ive seen no evidence that Mr E had entered into an ongoing relationship with 
HW. So I cant reasonably agree that HW shouldve done any further work on Mr Es behalf 
unless he asked them to.
As no new information has come to light to change my opinion, I remain of the view I set out 
in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman