DRN-3695017
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy with Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Banks decision to 
decline her application for a credit card. 
What happened
Ms B complained to Tesco that theyd declined her applications for a credit card. Tesco 
responded to the complaint to say the application couldve been declined because they can 
see that shed put her employment down as temporary on the application. Tesco said 
theyre entitled to decide who to lend to and to apply their lending criteria. 
Ms B was unhappy with this response so referred her complaint to our service. Our 
Investigator said, in summary, he thought Tesco had treated Ms B fairly. He said he was 
satisfied Tesco had applied their lending criteria to Ms Bs application in line with their usual 
process.
 
Ms B didnt agree. She felt Tesco should consider her individual circumstances rather than 
just base their decision on the type of employment she was in. 
As Ms B didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, its a matter for financial businesses to decide who theyre prepared to lend to and 
what criteria they want to apply in deciding which applications for lending will be approved or 
declined. So Ive considered whether, in assessing Ms Bs applications  Tesco followed 
their own process and treated Ms B fairly and reasonably in doing so. 
Ms B applied for the credit card three times. The first and third applications were declined 
because Ms B didnt meet Tescos lending criteria, and the second was declined because it 
had been made very shortly after the first declined application. 
Tesco has provided evidence of their lending criteria. Im satisfied, having reviewed it, that 
Ms Bs applications didnt meet Tescos lending criteria  so I cant say theyve unfairly 
declined her applications for the card. 
I can see why Ms Bs unhappy. Tesco have declined her applications for a credit card 
because she doesnt meet their lending criteria and she would rather they take into account 
her full financial circumstances  as shes confident she can afford to repay what she intends 
to borrow on the card. And shes particularly keen to have a Tesco credit card because of 
some of the associated benefits. But, as Ive already explained, its for Tesco to decide what 
lending criteria they want to have and so I dont think they have an obligation to consider 
Ms Bs applications in the way shes suggested. 
Having considered everything, Im satisfied Tescos decision to decline Ms Bs credit card 
applications was fair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman