DRN-3861353
The complaint
Mr R complains about the advice given by Hunter Mills Limited to transfer the benefits from 
his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. He says the 
advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Rs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure
its business, including decoupling the employer DB scheme (the BSPS) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined benefit scheme (the BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a personal pension arrangement.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017, and was later extended to 22 December 2017.
Mr R was concerned about the security of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. And he wasnt 
sure what to do. So, based on what hed heard from colleagues, he contacted independent 
financial adviser Hunter Mills. In November 2017 Hunter Mills gathered information about 
Mr Rs circumstances and objectives. Hunter Mills also carried out an assessment of Mr Rs 
attitude to risk, which it deemed to be low to medium. 
On 11 December 2017 Hunter Mills provided Mr R with its suitability report, which advised 
Mr R to transfer his BSPS to a personal pension. It said this would allow Mr R to achieve his 
objectives of better death benefits for his partner and adult children, clearing or reducing his 
joint mortgage, and having control and flexibility over his retirement income. Mr R accepted 
this advice, so £821,841.97 was transferred from the BSPS to his new personal pension.
In June 2022 Mr R complained to our Service that Hunter Mills advice was unsuitable and it 
hadnt acted in his best interests. He also said the ongoing advice hed paid Hunter Mills for 
only consisted of an annual letter with no face to face contact. Our Service passed Mr Rs 
complaint to Hunter Mills. 
Hunter Mills responded to Mr Rs complaint. It said that at the time of the advice, it fully 
considered Mr Rs circumstances and available options, and explained to him the risks and 
benefits. And that at that time, the BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed and the BSPS2 retirement 
income projections hadnt been available.
Hunter Mills response also said Mr Rs new personal pension gave him many benefits, 
including flexibility and control, the option to clear or reduce his mortgage at age 55, 
mitigation of his tax liabilities, the potential for capital growth, removing his concerns about 
the BSPS, and giving Mr R the option to transfer other pensions in as well to make things 
simpler and cheaper for him. But in particular, it said Mr Rs new personal pension provided 
Mr Rs partner with death benefits she wasnt entitled to under the BSPS since they werent 
married and provided Mr Rs adult children with death benefits which they wouldnt receive 
under the BSPS either. 
In addition, Hunter Mills said it hadnt exposed Mr R to anything risky and his personal 
pension had increased significantly in value. That it had given Mr R the ongoing service hed 
agreed to pay for, and Mr R couldve contacted it at any time for advice. Hunter Mills thought 
its agent had acted in Mr Rs best interests, and said Mr R hadnt raised concerns before.
Mr R remained unhappy and asked our Service to investigate. He told us hed always hoped 
to retire early because his work caused him physical difficulties which meant he wouldnt 
have been able to carry on long term. And that he in fact retired in 2021 at age 58. Mr R said 
Hunter Mills had emphasised that a personal pension would provide his partner with better 
death benefits, and confirmed he and his partner had since married. Mr R also thought hed 
been a low risk investor and that the PPF might have been better for him.
Hunter Mills provided our Service with documents from the time of the advice.
This complaint came to me for consideration. On 18 November 2022, I issued my 
provisional decision. In summary, I said I appreciated Mr R was motivated to transfer out 
of the BSPS, and that having better death benefits for his partner and adult children, 
clearing or reducing his mortgage, and having control and flexibility over his retirement 
income through a personal pension would have sounded attractive to Mr R. But Hunter 
Mills wasnt there to simply arrange what Mr R mightve thought he wanted  it was 
instead obliged to give him an objective picture and to recommend what was in his best 
interests.
I said Hunter Mills advice to transfer was unsuitable. Because it meant Mr R was giving 
up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income, and he was likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits. And there were no reasons which would justify a transfer and 
outweigh this - Mr R shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the scheme based on 
an insubstantial wish to clear or reduce his mortgage and have control and flexibility of 
income. And the potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees 
associated with his DB scheme. 
I said Hunter Mills should have advised Mr R to opt into the BSPS2, given his particular 
circumstances and lack of certain retirement plans, and the more advantageous annual 
indexation of his pension when in payment under the BSPS2. I thought Hunter Mills 
should compensate Mr R for its unsuitable advice, using the regulator's defined benefits 
pension transfer redress methodology, and using the benefits available to Mr R through 
the BSPS2 at age 58 for comparison purposes.
Mr R accepted my provisional decision without providing any further comments or 
evidence for me to consider.
In its response to my provisional decision, Hunter Mills disagreed its advice was 
unsuitable and provided further comments. In summary, it said:
Financial security was a compelling reason for Mr R to transfer. Hunter Mills had 
assessed the BSPSs financial solvency - it had significant funding issues and 
received a cash injection by the employer, and there was no reason to think BSPS2 
would be different. And only very limited information was known about the BSPS2 at 
the time of the advice. 
At the time, Mr R wasnt married and didnt tell Hunter Mills he planned to marry, so it 
could only give advice based on what it knew. His partner and adult children would 
only receive death benefits if he transferred to a personal pension. And death benefits for spouses and dependents were given at the discretion of the BSPS trustees, which 
was risky given the BSPS difficulties. Mr Rs then-partner wouldnt have received a 
lump sum death benefit anyway. So a personal pension gave Mr R certainty that his 
partner would be left with something rather than nothing. And Mr R hadnt wanted to 
pay for life insurance into his retirement.
Mr R wouldnt have opted for BSPS2. He retired due to physical health issues hed 
not told Hunter Mills about, and likely wouldnt have been eligible for ill health 
retirement under BSPS and BSPS2 and wouldve incurred early retirement penalties. 
But under his personal pension, Mr R had flexible access to his pension benefits and 
couldve applied for an enhanced annuity.
A PPF comparison was pointless, as Mr R didnt opt for it and it would only become 
relevant if the BSPS failed. The PPF would have left Mr R with greatly restricted 
options and benefits, and was rightly portrayed more negatively than the BSPS by 
members and the trustees. So avoiding the PPF was another compelling reason for 
Mr R to transfer his DB benefits to a personal pension.
Mr R had only wanted yearly retirement income of £18,000. If hed taken the full 
pension of £42,227 at age 65 provided by his existing scheme, he wouldve had 
greater tax exposure. Whereas the flexibility of Mr Rs new personal pension offered 
him tax efficiencies.  And Mr R in fact had two other pensions, and his new personal 
pension gave him the flexibility to transfer these in to increase the funds available to 
Mr R whenever he chose to take them. 
Hunter Mills didnt agree a personal pension would give Mr R benefits of a 
substantially lower value than his DB scheme. Because the critical yields it had 
recorded had been achievable. Mr Rs personal pension had performed well, so Mr R 
hadnt suffered a financial loss here. Given recent interest rate rises, it was right for 
Mr R to clear or reduce his mortgage. And Mr Rs pension funds werent likely to run 
out before he passed away, given the mortality rates for his industry and location.
Hunter Mills disagreed Mr R wasnt an experienced investor, as hed selected funds 
and signed forms while transferring other pensions in November 2017, just before 
Hunter Mills advised him to transfer his DB benefits to a personal pension. Mr R 
chose to transfer his DB benefits to a personal pension despite warnings from Hunter 
Mills and other parties involved. And Mr R very much wanted to transfer, as shown by 
his willingness to travel to another part of the country to meet Hunter Mills.
As Ive received responses to my provisional decision, Im now in a position to make my final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Hunter Mills says Mr R hasnt previously raised concerns about its 2017 
advice. But regardless, Mr R is still entitled to raise a complaint about it.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirementsThe below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Hunter Mills actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this, the evidence in this case and Hunter Mills response to my 
provisional decision Im upholding this complaint for largely the same reasons as my 
provisional decision.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Hunter Mills 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Rs best interests. And having looked again at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied 
it was in his best interests.
Financial viability
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr R was 54 at the time of the advice. I know Mr R recently told our Service hed wanted to 
retire early due to the effect his work had on his physical health. And Hunter Mills argues this 
supported that a personal pension was more suitable for him. But I need to consider what 
was discussed at the time of the advice. And I dont think Mr R told Hunter Mills about any 
health issues, because the documents Hunter Mills have provided me with repeatedly record 
that Mr Rs health was good and that his planned retirement age was 65, with no plans to 
retire earlier than this. 
In particular, the fact find that Mr R signed on 30 November 2017 to declare it was correct 
states his target retirement age was 65. And the suitability report Hunter Mills prepared for 
Mr R on 11 December 2017 said State retirement age for you is now officially age 67 which 
is 13 years away. As far as we are aware, you have no immediate plans to retire. You intend 
to remain working and have no immediate plans to retire. And the advice the suitability 
report went on to give was clearly based on Mr R retiring at age 65. So if Hunter Mills hadnt 
correctly understood Mr Rs intended retirement age, its reasonable to think Mr R would 
have raised this with Hunter Mills at the time. But Ive seen nothing to make me think he did.
Hunter Mills may argue its advice was suitable at the time due to Mr R taking advantage of 
an enhanced CETV. But even if the CETV was enhanced at that time, the critical yield 
nonetheless required to match Mr Rs existing benefits at age 65 was 9.43% if he took a full pension and 6.58% if he took tax free cash (TFC) and a reduced pension. And the critical 
yield to match the benefits available through the PPF at age 65 was quoted as 4.03% per 
year if Mr R took a full pension and 3.53% per year if he took TFC and a reduced pension.
Hunter Mills argues that a PPF comparison is pointless, but I dont agree. I should highlight 
here that the critical yield figures Ive referred to above are based on the existing scheme 
benefits. But this wasnt helpful because remaining in the scheme wasnt an option; Mr R 
had to choose to opt into the BSPS2, move with the existing scheme to the PPF or transfer 
to a personal arrangement.
Hunter Mills says only very limited information was known about the BSPS at the time of the 
advice. But Mr R had by then received his Time to Choose pack, which wouldve explained 
the benefits hed be entitled to through the BSPS2, and given him the choice to opt into it or 
remain in the scheme and move to the PPF. And Hunter Mills would have been aware of 
this. So, I think the critical yields applicable to the BSPS2 benefits should have formed the 
basis of the advice so Mr R was able to make an informed choice. The lower annual 
increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields somewhat. But I still 
think they wouldve likely been higher than those reflecting the PPF benefits, particularly at 
age 65 because Mr Rs benefits wouldnt have been reduced by 10%.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 3.8% per year for 10 years to retirement. Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's 
projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection 
rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Rs 
low to medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. To be clear, I consider Hunter 
Mills assessment of Mr Rs attitude to risk as low to medium was reasonable, because at 
that time it was expected he had more than 10 years until retirement, so he had the capacity 
to take an element of risk to build his pension funds in between and tolerate some short-term 
losses. However, I maintain that he wasnt an experienced investor  I dont think having 
other pension contracts means he had a level of understanding and experience such that he 
was able to take a higher risk.
There would be little point in Mr R giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. Here, the 
lowest critical yield was 3.53% which was based on Mr R taking TFC and a reduced pension 
at age 65 through the PPF. The critical yield if Mr R took the same benefits through his 
existing scheme at age 65 was 6.58%. So, if Mr R were to opt into the BSPS2 and take the 
same benefits at age 65 the critical yield wouldve been somewhere between those figures, 
and likely closer to 6.58%. Hunter Mills argues critical yields of 9.43% and 6.58% were 
achievable. But past performance of funds is not a guarantee future performance. And given 
the discount rate of 3.8%, the regulators lower projection rate of 2% and middle projection 
rate of 5%, I still think Mr R was most likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than 
those provided by the PPF and the BSPS2 if he transferred to a personal pension, as a 
result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. 
Hunter Mills argues Mr Rs personal pension has performed well so hes not suffered a 
financial loss. That may be the case, but this wasnt something Hunter Mills or Mr R could 
have known in 2017, and I need to base my decision on whether the advice was suitable 
at the time. In any case, thats a matter for the redress calculation  its possible that 
because of the performance achieved this may not show a loss. But this doesnt mean 
Hunter Mills advice was suitable or that this complaint shouldnt be upheld.The documents provided by Hunter Mills include various financial analyses, and Ive 
considered these. Ive noted that after charges and inflation are taken into account, if the 
fund achieved growth in line with the lower projected growth rate, Mr R would be entitled 
to a lower TFC and annuity income than hed get through the PPF, and if he withdrew that 
same level of income his fund would be depleted by age 82. Even at the mid growth rate, 
which Im not persuaded wouldve been achievable, Mr R could obtain a bit more annuity 
income and TFC than he could achieve under the PPF. But if he withdrew that same sum 
consistently, his fund would be depleted by age 89. Hunter Mills argues Mr Rs fund wasnt 
likely to run out before he passed away, given the mortality rates for his industry and 
location. But given that I think the benefits wouldve been higher at age 65 through the 
BSPS2, I think this demonstrates further that Mr R would nonetheless be worse off in 
retirement if he wanted to try and replicate the benefits he was entitled to through the DB 
scheme. And there remained a real risk his funds would run out before he died, 
particularly if returns were lower than expected.
However, I recognise that Hunter Mills said Mr R, Doesnt require a very high income 
Prepared to sacrifice a high [guaranteed] income for easy access, flexibility and to pass 
[death] benefits] on and that he wants to decide each year what income is needed. That 
said, the fact find does go on to record that Mr R requires £18,000 of retirement income each 
year. Its evident that Mr Rs income needs would be met by either the PPF or the BSPS2, 
and he would likely receive lower overall retirement benefits by transferring out. So, for this 
reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Rs best interests. 
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as 
Hunter Mills has argued in this case. So, the issue for me to decide here is whether it was 
reasonable for Hunter Mills to advise Mr R to give up the higher benefits the PPF or the 
BSPS2 would provide him with to meet his other objectives. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
One of the reasons Hunter Mills recommended Mr R transfer to a personal pension was to 
meet his objective of having flexibility, including the option to draw funds from age 55 in 
order to clear or reduce the mortgage he held jointly with his partner. Ive considered this 
carefully, and I know Hunter Mills argues that the recent interest rate rises support this. But 
again, this wasnt something Hunter Mills or Mr R couldve known in 2017, and I need to 
base my decision on whether the advice was suitable at the time.
And at the time of the advice, I dont think Mr R required flexibility in retirement. Because 
based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Mr R had any concrete need to take 
TFC to repay his mortgage and defer taking his income, or to vary his income throughout 
retirement. In my view, this was more of a nice to have rather than a genuine objective at 
that particular time. 
I say this because before making its recommendations, Hunter Mills completed a fact find 
for Mr R and his partner, to understand their circumstances. It was recorded that Mr Rs 
annual income was £31,000, that he had cash and other personal assets totalling £9,000, 
and other pensions worth £37,000 (paid up) and £3,500 (with Mr R and his employer 
contributing a total of 13% each year) at that time. Mr R didnt have any life or other 
insurance protection. 
It was recorded that the property owned by Mr R and his partner was worth £180,000 with an 
outstanding joint mortgage of £80,000, but no detailed information was recorded about the 
mortgage term or monthly repayment amount, or about any other debts. The fact find 
recorded that Mr R had monthly net income of £2,000 and monthly expenditure of £1,400, 
leaving him with £600 disposable income each month. Therefore, theres nothing to suggest financial difficulties here or that the mortgage, the only recorded debt, was unaffordable at 
that time or was at risk of not being repaid.
Mr R may have liked the idea of paying off the mortgage at age 55, and I note he said he 
wanted to do this before interest rates rose. But I dont think there was any pressing financial 
need for him to do so. And Mr R had sufficient disposable income available to him to absorb 
any interest rate rise, if and when it happened. Alternatively, he couldve made 
overpayments to the mortgage to help repay it sooner. Overall, I dont think the idea of 
paying off the mortgage was a good enough reason for Mr R to give up a secure, 
guaranteed, escalating pension income in retirement because, as I say, Mr R was easily 
able to meet his outgoings without touching his pension and the mortgage wasnt at risk of 
not being repaid. 
Its evident that at age 65, Mr R would be entitled to take TFC far in excess of his mortgage 
balance from either the PPF or the BSPS2. And I think that also wouldve been the case if he 
decided to retire earlier than this. Either way, Im satisfied that when Mr R chose to retire, he 
wouldve been able to repay his mortgage and have sufficient income to meet his needs.
I also cant see evidence that Mr R had a strong need for variable income throughout his 
retirement. Hunter Mills recorded that Mr R wanted to decide each year what retirement 
income he needed, but that he also required income of £18,000 per year in retirement. As 
Ive said above, Im satisfied Mr R could have met this recorded retirement income need 
through the DB scheme at age 65. Because Hunter Mills recorded that under his existing 
scheme, at age 65 Mr R was entitled to an annual income of £42,227 if he took a full 
pension, or £27,985 if he took TFC and a reduced pension. And that under the PPF, at age 
65 Mr R was entitled to an annual income of £35,302.75 if he took a full pension, or 
£27,374.65 if he took TFC and a reduced pension. As Ive said, retirement income 
information shouldve been based on the BSPS2 benefits so that Mr R was able to make an 
informed choice. And I think the retirement income available through the BSPS2 wouldve 
likely been higher than that in the PPF.
So, I dont think Hunter Mills should have advised Mr R to transfer out of the BSPS to repay
affordable debts or to have flexibility that he didnt really need. Mr Rs desire to access his
pension doesnt outweigh Hunter Mills responsibility to provide him with suitable advice and 
act in his best interest. 
Death benefits
At the time of the advice, Hunter Mills recorded that a key reason it was advising Mr R to 
transfer to a personal pension was so that the remaining value of his pension could be 
passed to his partner, and then to his adult children. It said that because Mr R and his 
partner werent married, his partner wasnt likely to be entitled to the spouses pension under 
Mr Rs DB scheme or the PPF in the event of Mr Rs death. And that neither the DB scheme 
or the PPF would provide Mr Rs children with any worthwhile childrens pension benefits in 
the event of his death, because his children were age 22 and 24 at the time of the advice, 
and the childrens pension provision only went up to age 23 in any case. The suitability 
report recorded this aspect was completely dis-agreeable to Mr R. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr R. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr R might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr R about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. I dont think Hunter Mills properly explored to what extent Mr R was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
My understanding is that neither the BSPS2 nor the PPF will pay a spouses pension to an 
unmarried partner. So I accept Hunter Mills argument that its not likely that Mr Rs partner 
would have been able to receive a spouses pension under the BSPS2 or the PPF at the 
time of the advice. But if Mr R died before retirement then his partner would be entitled to a 
death in service benefit  assuming she was nominated as his beneficiary.
Given his retirement was expected to be around 10 years away, I dont think Mr Rs marital 
status was as relevant at the time the advice was given. Hunter Mills argues Mr R didnt tell it 
he and his partner intended to marry in the near future. I wouldnt expect Hunter Mills to 
recommend that Mr R and his partner should marry simply to allow her to access Mr Rs 
death benefits under his existing DB scheme. But given the very valuable spouses benefits 
offered under the DB scheme and the PPF, I think its reasonable to expect Hunter Mills to 
have explored with Mr R and his partner whether they planned to marry in the future in any 
case. But theres nothing in the documents provided by Hunter Mills to suggest it did. It 
transpires that Mr R has since married his partner. So, I think its likely at the time of the 
advice that this was envisaged in the near future and likely before retirement. So, I dont 
think the death benefits attached to the DB scheme shouldve been dismissed as they were 
by Hunter Mills.
If Mr R was married, the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful 
to his spouse if Mr R predeceased her. I dont think Hunter Mills made the value of this 
benefit clear enough to Mr R. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent 
on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension 
was. Hunter Mills modelling shows that if Mr R took TFC and a reduced pension, and 
achieved a mid growth rate of 2.44%, then his personal pension fund would be depleted by 
age 89. So while Hunter Mills argues Mr Rs fund wasnt likely to run out before he passed 
away, there still may not have been a large sum left, if any at all, to pass on when Mr R died. 
In any event, Hunter Mills should not have encouraged Mr R to prioritise the potential for 
higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr R genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his partner and his children, 
which didnt depend on his existing DB scheme, investment returns or how much of his 
pension fund remained on his death, I think Hunter Mills shouldve instead explored life 
insurance. 
Hunter Mills recorded that Mr Rs health was good so I dont think there was any reason why 
life insurance couldnt have been considered for Mr R, and he had disposable income. 
Hunter Mills argues Mr R hadnt wanted life insurance because he didnt want to pay for it 
into his retirement. But the suitability report doesnt record any discussion about life 
insurance. And Ive not seen that Hunter Mills obtained any quotes for life cover for Mr R, so 
I dont think it gave Mr R enough information on which to base a decision about whether or 
not this was something he wanted or could afford. The starting point here should have been 
for Hunter Mills to ask Mr R how much he would ideally like to leave to his partner or any 
other beneficiary, and how much he could afford to contribute. Insurance on this basis was 
likely to be available to Mr R and would have enabled him to leave a legacy without risking 
his retirement income.
Alternatively, if life insurance was discounted, then Mr R couldve looked to save any 
excess retirement income for the benefit of his children. Hunter Mills argues that it was 
recorded Mr R only needed retirement income of £18,000 per year, and he would have 
had greater tax exposure under his DB scheme if he took a full pension of £42,227. But I 
dont think that was a good enough reason to recommend Mr R transfer out of the BSPS, because I dont think it is reasonable to advise someone to give up the prospect of extra 
income just because a personal pension gives them enough to cover their necessary 
retirement income. It seems Mr R wouldve been able to save a significant sum, and given 
Mr Rs wish to leave something for his children, this couldve been placed in trust which 
would also have reduced Mr Rs tax exposure. Or Mr R couldve made use of the annual 
gift allowances. 
Im also mindful that Mr R had another personal pension he was likely to be paying into for 
another 10 years until he retired. This fund couldve been passed on to a beneficiary of his 
choice at retirement.
Overall, I dont think the death benefits available through a transfer to a personal pension 
justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr R. And I dont think that the 
alternative means of providing a legacy for his partner and children were properly explored.
Control and concerns over the financial stability of the DB scheme
The suitability report said the one of the reasons Hunter Mills recommended the transfer to a 
personal pension was to meet Mr Rs objective of having control over his pension. 
But I think Mr Rs desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Hunter Mills 
has argued that Mr R was an experienced investor, given his involvement in transferring 
other pensions shortly before the advice in question here, but I disagree. Mr R was a retail 
client with no real investment experience, and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the 
knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his own. This is supported by Mr R 
choosing to pay Hunter Mills 0.5% of the value of his new personal pension each year for 
ongoing advice  I note Mr R is unhappy about the annual reviews it provided, and Ill return 
to this. 
So, I dont think control was a genuine objective for Mr R but was simply a consequence of 
transferring away from his DB scheme. Similarly, I dont think the benefits of tax mitigation 
and the potential to make Mr Rs pension arrangements simpler and cheaper mentioned by 
Hunter Mills were genuine objectives for Mr R either. Because they are not explored in any 
detail in the documents Hunter Mills has provided from the time of the advice. Instead, I think 
they were also simply a consequence of Mr R transferring away from his DB scheme. And it 
is difficult to argue that Hunter Mills has provided Mr R with a cheaper way of managing his 
pension given there were no charges in the DB scheme.
Hunter Mills argues that financial security was a compelling reason for Mr R to transfer - 
the BSPS had significant funding issues, and there was no reason to think BSPS2 would 
be different, with only limited information known about the BSPS2. And that the PPF would 
have left Mr R with greatly restricted options and benefits, and was rightly seen more 
negatively than the BSPS. So avoiding the PPF was another compelling reason for Mr R 
to transfer his DB benefits to a personal pension. 
I accept that when Mr R met with Hunter Mills, he was concerned about the security of his 
pension and its possible Mr R was inclined to transfer out of the BSPS because of these 
concerns. However, it was Hunter Mills obligation to give Mr R an objective picture and 
recommend what was in his best interest. Mr R was concerned about the BSPS moving to 
the PPF. But as Ive said above, if Mr R transferred his DB scheme he wasnt likely to be 
able to match or improve on the benefits hed be entitled to if the scheme entered the 
PPF.
So, I think Hunter Mills ought to have reassured Mr R that the possibility of his scheme 
moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. Furthermore, the scheme moving to the PPF was only one of the outcomes; by the time Mr R sought advice  as I say, the 
details of the BSPS2 wouldve been known and he had been given the choice to opt into the 
scheme. So, Mr R being able to join the BSPS2 shouldve allayed his fears about the PPF. 
And Hunter Mills shouldve reassured him that he could meet his retirement objectives in 
either scheme regardless.
Hunter Mills may say that the BSPS2 wasnt certain to be established at the time of the 
advice, so it couldnt advise Mr R to opt-in. But I think that it was clear to all parties that the 
BSPS2 was likely to be going ahead. And in any event, if it didnt go ahead Mr R would 
move with the scheme to the PPF and I think he couldve met his genuine retirement 
objectives in this scheme.
As I say, Mr R thinks the annual reviews Hunter Mills provided him with as part of its 
ongoing service were inadequate, because each year it only sent him a letter and didnt talk 
to him face to face. But I dont think Hunter Mills did anything wrong on this point. Theres 
nothing in the documents Ive been provided with that specifies what format ongoing advice 
will take, and Mr R doesnt dispute that Hunter Mills provided him with an annual review, 
albeit by letter rather than face to face as he preferred. I also think Hunter Mills made its 
services available to Mr R in the event he wanted to contact it for advice. 
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr R. But Hunter 
Mills wasnt there to just transact what Mr R might have thought he wanted. The advisers 
role was to really understand what Mr R needed and recommend what was in his best 
interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr R was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr R was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no compelling reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr R shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just to repay debts that were affordable, and the potential for higher death benefits 
wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme. So, I think Hunter 
Mills shouldve advised Mr R not to transfer to a personal pension.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr R would've gone ahead anyway, against Hunter 
Mills advice. Hunter Mills has argued that Mr R was experienced investor, and that he still 
wanted to transfer his DB benefits to a personal pension despite warnings from Hunter 
Mills and the other parties involved, as shown by him travelling to meet Hunter Mills.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr R wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Hunter Mills advice. I say this because while 
Mr R might have recently transferred other pensions, its still the case that Mr R was a retail 
client with no real investment experience, that he had a low to medium attitude to risk, and 
that this pension accounted for the majority of his retirement provision. So, if Hunter Mills 
had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining 
why it wasnt in his best interests, I think Mr R wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Rs concerns about his mortgage, death benefits, or the BSPS 
were so great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, 
whose expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or 
in his best interests. If Hunter Mills had explained that Mr R could meet all of his objectives 
without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, 
I dont think Mr R would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.At the time of the advice, I think it was clear to all parties that BSPS2 was likely to be going 
ahead. As I say, Hunter Mills would have been aware that Mr R had received his Time to 
Choose pack by this time, giving him details of the BSPS2 and the choice to opt into it or 
remain in the scheme and move to the PPF. Given Mr Rs age at the time of the advice and 
the fact he didnt have concrete plans to retire before age 65, I don't think that it would've 
been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme 
entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early 
retirement. Also, the annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more 
advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think Hunter Mills shouldve advised Mr R to opt into 
the BSPS2.
In light of the above, I think Hunter Mills should compensate Mr R for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Hunter Mills to put Mr R, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Hunter Mills unsuitable advice. I consider Mr R 
would have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension 
if he'd been given suitable advice. So, Hunter Mills should use the benefits offered by the 
BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
Hunter Mills must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr R retired and started accessing his benefits at age 58, so this should be the 
basis for the calculations.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Rs acceptance of the decision.
Hunter Mills may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Rs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Rs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Rs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr R within 90 days of the date Hunter Mills receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Hunter Mills to pay 
Mr R.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Hunter Mills deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr R how much has been taken off. Hunter Mills should give Mr R a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr R asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr R whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance /rules to come into effect.
He didnt make a choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want 
to wait for the new guidance to come into effect. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr R. 
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Hunter Mills to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Hunter Mills Limited to 
pay Mr R the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£170,000.Where the compensation amount does not exceed £170,000, I additionally require Hunter 
Mills Limited to pay Mr R any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £170,000, I only require Hunter Mills 
Limited to pay Mr R any interest as set out above on the sum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Hunter Mills Limited pays Mr R the balance. I additionally recommend any interest calculated 
as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr R.
If Mr R accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Hunter Mills 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr R can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Hunter Mills Limited should provide details of its calculations to Mr R in a clear, simple 
format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman