DRN-3019892
The complaint
Ms L and Mr L (trading as A) have complained about the refusal of a claim under a 'Leisure 
Package insurance policy with Ageas Insurance Limited. I will refer to Mr L throughout, as 
he has led the complaint.  
Ageas uses agents to administer its policies and has also had solicitors communicating with 
Mr L. For ease, I will refer to Ageas throughout this decision. 
What happened
Mr L was employed as a publican and lived in the premises as a tenant since 2006. Mr L had 
an accident on the premises in 2009, which meant he was unable to work and he was 
evicted from the premises in 2010. Mr L has more recently been deemed to be permanently 
disabled. 
Mr L says he was told in 2010 he had no cover under this policy with Ageas for his situation 
and didnt therefore submit a claim then. He made a claim under a separate key person 
insurance policy with another insurer and I understand received a settlement in 2010. Mr L 
was unhappy that he did not have better cover and made a complaint to the broker that 
arranged the insurances. Mr L brought his complaint about the broker and mis-sale of 
insurances to us in 2019 but this was out of time. I understand Mr L has also taken legal 
proceedings against the broker and now has a large costs bill to pay. 
Mr L then submitted a claim under this policy in 2020. Ageas refused the claim. Essentially it 
says the policy it provided covered the Mr Ls business for any liability or claims made 
against it but does not cover Mr L himself, for personal injury, loss of earnings or anything 
similar. Ageas says it provided the cover Mr Ls broker applied for and that does not include 
cover for his accident. 
Ageas says the policy should have been taken out in the names of Ms L and Mr L and the 
landlord but it wasnt. However, it says it would not make any difference if it had been in all 
three names, as Mr L would not be considered to be an employee of the landlord and so his 
claim would still not be covered. Ageas says this is a standard business policy but it should 
have been obvious to the broker that Mr L would have needed some personal cover as well 
but any failure to provide that is not its fault. 
Mr L is very unhappy with this. He says the policy should cover him according to the wording 
and even if it doesnt it should have been obvious to Ageas what cover he needed and it 
should rectify that now and meet his claim. He has made a number of submissions in 
support of his complaint, which Ive summarised below: 
The policy is not clearly written and is misleading in many parts. As far as he can see 
he was covered for all eventualities which could arise. The claim under Ageass 
policy was incorrectly turned down, as he was a self-employed person and there is 
cover for such persons.
It was the landlord that was insured under the policy and he was a key holder acting 
on behalf of the landlord, and an employee of the landlord and therefore was entitled 
to claim under the employers liability cover section. 
However, he was not properly advised and insured and he should have been 
provided with cover for the situation that happened to him. 
The landlord and broker arranged the insurance, he had no input in the matter and  
didnt sign any policy documents with any provider. 
The Consumer Protection Act says that these companies should have sorted the 
mistakes and problems and any inaccuracies should be amended by them not the 
consumer. 
He is being held responsible for an incorrect policy being issued but he is a customer 
of Ageas and it should provide him with the right cover. 
If he wasnt covered for a personal accident, he shouldve been covered for loss of 
earnings.
The brokers and agents should have ensured he had cover for this situation. The 
policies he was sold were of no use and he should have had a tenant and landlord 
policy. He had multiple policies with an insured amount of up to 10 million pounds
He has paid a lot of money in premiums to these companies and they have not 
provided him with the service they should have done. 
Although the policy was sold by a broker and not directly by Ageas, the broker did so 
on behalf of Ageas and would have received commission for doing so. Between 
them, they should have made sure his insurance needs were met. 
All the broker did was arrange cover, it didnt actually sell him the policy, as he didnt 
pay them. 
He took legal proceedings against the broker, but he was refused cover under his 
legal expenses cover and it was struck out because the other underwriter had paid 
his claim under the other policy. But he was not taking legal action for that, he was 
suing the broker for negligence but it was thrown out and he was left with a 
substantial legal bill.
His pain and suffering and the stress he has been under trying to resolve this matter 
has not been given proper consideration.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. She didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld, as she was satisfied Ageas had issued the policy cover requested by Mr Ls broker 
and that the terms do not include cover for his accident. 
Mr L does not accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
Jurisdiction
Ageas initially said the complaint had been brought to us out of time and we couldnt 
therefore look into it. This was the basis that the event complained about happened more 
than six years ago and it was more than three years since the date Mr L ought to have 
known he had cause for complaint. The investigator, however, pointed out that no claim had 
been made under this policy between 2009 and 2020, as Mr L says he didnt know he had 
this policy with Ageas, and the complaint is about the refusal of the claim in 2020. Following 
this, Ageas agreed to our service investigating the merits of this complaint. 
There are a number of different businesses involved but this decision can only address 
whether Ageas has acted fairly and reasonably in relation to the claim under its policy. I 
cannot address any complaint against the broker, or any other insurer, in the context of this 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear Mr L has been through an extremely stressful ordeal since his accident. He is now 
permanently disabled and unable to work, resulting in financial difficulty. I have considered 
all the evidence provided, including Mr Ls recent emails. However, despite my considerable 
sympathy for his position, I do not uphold this complaint. I will explain why. 
Claim 
Mr L apparently held several policies relating to the pub and premises. The Leisure Package 
Insurance policy taken out in June 2009 was provided by Ageas and named Mr & Mrs L as 
the policyholders. 
The policy has seven sections of cover: the buildings; the contents; business interruption; 
business liability; loss of or damage to money; frozen food; loss of licence and book debts.
I have been provided with different versions of this policy but with one notable exception 
(which I will go into below) the wording is fundamentally the same in each version. 
Mr L thinks he should be covered under section D  Liability which provides cover in the 
event of accidental bodily injury in certain circumstances. 
This part of the policy says Ageas will cover any amount:
which the Insured shall become legally liable to pay as compensation in respect of an Event 
occurring within the Territorial Limits unless otherwise stated.
Event 1 - Employers' Liability Bodily Injury caused to an Employee.
Event 2 - Public Liability Accidental Bodily Injury to any person or accidental Damage to 
Property or obstruction trespass or nuisance.
Event 3 - Products Liability Accidental Bodily Injury to any person or accidental Damage to 
Property occurring anywhere in the world caused by any Product Supplied.
Employee is defined in this section of cover as being: 
a) any person under a contract of service or apprenticeship with the Insured.
b) i) any labour master or labour only subcontractor or person supplied or employed 
by them; 
ii) any self-employed person;
iii) any person hired or borrowed by the Insured from another employer under an
agreement by which the person is deemed to be employed by the Insured;
iv) any student or person undertaking work for the Insured under a work experience 
or similar scheme while engaged in the course of the Business. 
So while there is cover for some personal injury this is only for any amount Mr L - as the 
insured (policyholder) - is liable to pay in compensation to other people (e.g. employees or 
customers). Mr L has said he should be considered to be an employee and therefore is 
covered under this section in accordance with Event 1.  I disagree. 
Mr L was self-employed but as the section provides cover for the insureds liabilities to other 
people  this would be Mr Ls liabilities to other people - I do not think this can extend to 
himself. Mr L has also said he leased the property and so should have been treated as an employee 
of the landlord. The documents do not state the landlord is also a policyholder but even if it 
did, I am not satisfied Mr L would be reasonably considered to be an employee, as there is 
no evidence of which Im aware, of any contract of employment between him and the 
landlord. Mr L was it seems self-employed in a partnership with his partner. 
Mr L also says that the following section in Section D applies to his claim: 
Indemnity to other persons  the insurer will indemnify the following as if a separate Policy 
had been issued to each: 
b) at the request of the Insured  any director partner or Employee of the Insured while 
acting in connection with the Business in respect of liability for which the Insured would be 
entitled to indemnity under this Policy if the claim for which indemnity is being sought had 
been made against the Insured.
I do not agree that this means Mr L is covered for his injuries either. The clause extends 
cover to any other director, partner or employee that is not named in the policy as a 
policyholder but at Mr Ls request is being covered for any liability established against them, 
as if it were being made against Mr L. This does not have the effect of rendering Mr L as an 
employee. 
Mr L has provided a copy of this policy which he says was issued to him in 2009, which also 
contains the following wording under section D but which is not in the version provided by 
Ageas (this is the difference in wording referred to above): 
Injury to working partners
We will treat as an Employee any working partner or proprietor of the Business who is 
[injured]
a) in the course of the Business 
b) caused by the negligence of another working partner, proprietor or Employee.
While this says that there are circumstances where Mr L could be treated as an employee, 
this seems to only be if his injuries were caused by the negligence of another employee, 
proprietor or partner. Mr L told us he fell down the stairs that linked the pub and the living 
accommodation and theres not been suggestion Im aware of that his injuries were caused 
by any other person. 
I also understand that Mr L feels that he should be covered for loss of earnings under
Section E Money. However, I also cant agree this to be the case. I say this because the
policy states that:
The Insurers will indemnify the Insured in respect of loss of or damage to Money or any
other property as insured by any Extension under this Section by any cause occurring at the
Premises, in transit or at the private residences of any Insured Person anywhere within
Great Britain Northern Ireland the Isle of Man and the Channel Islands during the Period of
Insurance.
The policy then goes onto state in what scenarios cover will be provided. This includes theft
of money, replacement of keys, non-negotiable money (such as cheques) or assault, none of 
which apply to the circumstances of his injuries. I cant agree that he is afforded cover under 
this section of the policy for the losses he is looking to recover. This section can be extended  if requested and arranged - to also cover death or disability 
caused as a result of being assaulted during a robbery, or attempted robbery, in the course 
of employment:
Assault - personal assault benefits in accordance with the Table of Benefits hereunder in 
the event of robbery or attempted robbery of the Insured or any partner director or employee 
in the course of their employment by the Insured which directly results in death or 
disablement.
The table of benefits refers to Permanent Total Disability from usual occupation but as 
stated this has to be as a result of an assault. I do not know if cover was extended to include 
this. If it was, it would include Mr L but Mr L was not assaulted as far as I am aware. From 
the evidence I have seen, he fell down some stairs but this was not due to an assault and so 
it would still not cover the circumstances of his injuries.   
I cant see any other section of cover under this policy that would cover Mr L for his injuries 
and loss of earnings. 
Mr L also says the policy is written so unclearly that he could not have known he was not 
covered. While some parts could be clearer, I am not persuaded that this means Ageas 
should be required to disregard the policy terms and cover the claim. I think it is sufficiently 
clear that the policy was intended to be a liability policy (i.e. covering any liability Mr L 
incurred to other people) and also because he did have a separate policy with another 
insurer that covered his own personal injury. 
Key persons section of the signatures policy
 
Mr L also held a policy provided by another insurer  not Ageas  which provided cover for 
legal expenses in the event of a legal dispute relating to the business; executive incapacity 
and equipment breakdown. 
The Executive Incapacity section provided cover for the policy holder (i.e. Mr L) in the event 
of sickness or accidental injury resulting in them being unable to perform their normal duties. 
So Mr L did have cover under this policy for his injuries. (I believe this is the policy Mr L did 
successfully claim under.) However, this policy is not underwritten by Ageas but is provided 
by a different insurer. As this decision is only about the cover provided by Ageas, I cannot 
comment on that any further. 
Sale of the policies
The policies were arranged and sold to Mr L by a broker. Mr L says that as it sold the Ageas 
policy (and probably got commission for doing so) the broker was acting on Ageass behalf. 
Mr L therefore says Ageas is responsible for any failure by the broker to provide the cover he 
needed and which would have covered him for his injuries and the loss of earnings he 
suffered as a result. 
I do not agree with this. The broker was not tied to Ageas. It was acting as an independent 
intermediary, which means it was acting on Mr Ls behalf in advising him of his insurance 
needs and finding appropriate cover for him. The broker selected Ageass policy to sell to  
Mr L. The broker also advised and arranged other cover with other insurers as part of Mr Ls 
insurance package. Mr L may have paid the premium to Ageas but that was after the broker 
had selected that policy as meeting his insurance demands and needs. 
Ageas is not responsible for ensuring that Mr Ls overall insurance needs were met. Ageas 
might have known the policy was being applied for in a business name but it would not have been aware  and had no duty to find out  what other insurances Mr L might have had in 
place, or was applying for. And the policy was not fundamentally unsuitable  it provided 
cover for the premises, contents and business interruption and was, on the face of it, 
suitable for the needs of Mr Ls business. Ageas had no responsibility to check if Mr L had 
other insurance needs not met by the policy it had been asked to provide.
 Mr L feels very strongly that this should not be the case but the regulation of financial 
businesses means that an independent broker, such as acted for Mr L in this situation, is 
responsible in their own right for any errors made in the sale (or failure to sell) insurance 
policies. 
Mr L also says he never signed for the policy with Ageas. It says the broker would have done 
this on his behalf. I can see Mr L agreed to take out the policy and paid the premiums for it. 
The brokers would have completed the documentation with Ageas on his behalf. But even if 
Mr L should have signed something and didnt, this would not make a difference to the 
outcome of this claim. I therefore dont consider there is any action I can reasonably require 
of Ageas now. 
Mr L also says the landlord and the broker arranged the policy and it should have named the 
landlord as a policyholder as well. Even if the landlord had been named as a policyholder, I 
do not think it would have made a difference to the outcome of the claim. And, in any event, 
the fact the landlord was not named was not down to anything done wrong by Ageas. It 
would also have been for the broker to arrange the policy in the correct names. 
I am not persuaded Ageas should not have issued the policy it did, or that it should be 
required to meet a claim that is not provided for in the policy terms and conditions. 
It provided the cover applied for by his broker and the cover does not provide for Mr Ls 
situation. 
My final decision
Despite my great sympathy for Mr Ls situation, I do not uphold his complaint against Ageas 
Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman