DRN-4401218
The complaint
Mr S complains about how City and Commercial Ltd dealt with a claim he made on his home 
emergency cover.
City and Commercial have confirmed to our Service that they have accepted responsibility 
for this complaint as the managing agents of this policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr S and City and Commercial. In 
my decision, Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
On 5 July 2022, Mr S contacted City and Commercial to make a claim on his home 
emergency policy. He had no power within his home. City and Commercial accepted the 
claim and arranged for an engineer to visit Mr S property. After a number of appointments, 
the home emergency was resolved on 7 July 2022. 
Mr S raised a complaint as he was unhappy with the service provided and the time taken to 
resolve the home emergency. He wanted his loss of earnings to be covered by City and 
Commercial. 
City and Commercial looked into the complaint and as Mr S remained unhappy with their 
response, he referred it to our Service for an independent review. Our Investigator 
considered the complaint and didnt recommend that it be upheld. The complaint has now 
been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision only addresses those issues I consider to be materially relevant to this 
complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to either party  it simply reflects the informal 
nature of our Service. 
Having listened to the relevant call recordings, Im not persuaded that City and Commercial  
have done anything wrong  to the extent that they need to compensate Mr S for loss of 
earnings. A home emergency claim like this one is a fast moving situation. On one hand the 
insurer needs to respond promptly, but this involved liaising with various engineers in real 
time as well as keeping Mr S updated. There are then separate activities happening in the 
background such as checking whether a policy covers the necessary repairs or parts 
needed.
I completely understand Mr S frustration and its evident on many of the call recordings Ive 
listened to. This is his home and being without electricity (and heating) is unsettling for 
anyone. The impact then was compounded as he needed to be at home to allow access to 
the engineers which meant he missed out on being able to work.
When Ive considered the service City and Commercial provided when handling this claim, 
Im satisfied that they provided Mr S with accurate information where they could and whilst 
its unfortunate that things didnt go completely to plan  for example when an engineer 
wanted to turn up at 8am when theyd been booked in from 10am, overall the service they 
provided was acceptable. I appreciate Mr S has been clear it didnt meet his expectations.
There were some minor delays such as:
when City and Commercial tried their best to secure engineer availability;
when appointment times were delayed;
the separate issue with the heating system which wasnt apparent until the power 
had been restored - this wasnt foreseeable.
I did identify one issue that City and Commercial flagged to their engineering partner where 
the first engineer quoted around £500 for the fuse board/box repair. However, when Ive then 
considered the rest of the evidence and what was required to resolve the home emergency - 
Im satisfied, on balance, that this didnt unacceptably delay the overall claim.
Mr S was extremely pro-active in contacting City and Commercial and this probably resulted 
in more calls and generated more frustration than would otherwise have occurred had he left 
the communication in the hands of City and Commercial. For example, when Mr S made 
enquiries about arranging a private repair given that he felt things were taking too long and 
there were a number of occasions where City and Commercial called to update Mr S but 
there was no answer. 
Overall, I dont find that City and Commercial need to do anything here to put things right. 
They resolved the home emergency in a sufficiently timely manner. 
My decision will disappoint Mr S, but it brings to an end our Services involvement in trying to 
informally resolve his dispute with City and Commercial.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman