DRN-2758406
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the level of service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC regarding 
an issue with a cheque. Mr M also feels that a poster was deliberately obscured in branch 
and that this might be a breach of regulations, and also that a marketing message above an 
ATM machine was offensive.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr M was contacted by his landlady who advised that the cheque that he had 
provided to pay his rent had been declined. Mr M went into his local branch to try to resolve 
the issue. Whilst he was there, his landlady called him on his mobile phone, and a member 
of staff took the phone from Mr M and went into a back office where they had a conversation 
without Mr M being present. When the staff member returned, they withdrew £450 for Mr M 
from his account in order that Mr M might pay his outstanding rent.
Mr M felt that the Barclays staff hadnt acted professionally in how theyd resolved his issue 
with the declined cheque, including that they hadnt advised him to cancel the cheque held 
by the landlady so that she didnt receive the rent money twice. So, Mr M went back to 
branch a few days later to request that the cheque be cancelled. However, Mr M wasnt 
happy with the questions that Barclays staff asked him about why he wanted to cancel the 
cheque, or that there would be a fee of £12 for doing so.
Despite his misgivings, Mr M was prepared to let what happened with the declined cheque 
pass without complaint. But in May 2020, Mr M went into branch again and discovered that a 
poster displaying information about Barclays customer service results had been obstructed 
and couldnt be clearly seen. Mr M also felt that a marketing slogan placed above an ATM 
machine was offensive. So, he made a complaint about Barclays to this service.
Because Barclays hadnt had the opportunity to respond to Mr Ms complaint, the complaint 
was relayed to them by this service. Barclays looked at Mr Ms complaint, but they couldnt 
confirm Mr Ms version of events as he described them from 2019, and so they didnt feel 
that they could reasonably uphold Mr Ms complaint about the poor service he said hed 
received. However, they did thank Mr M for bringing the matter of the obscured poster to 
their attention and stated that they would ensure that the posted was unobscured as soon as 
possible.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, and confirmed that hed like his complaint to 
be considered by this service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt 
that there wasnt sufficient evidence to uphold Mr Ms complaint against Barclays for poor 
service in 2019, and they were satisfied that Barclays hadnt been deliberately offensive with 
regard to the sign above the ATM machine. Our investigator also explained that Mr Ms 
complaint about the potential breach of regulations because of the poster being obscured 
wasnt something that it was in this services remit to consider, and that matters of regulation 
fall within the remit of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So, they also didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr M feels strongly about this complaint, and Id like to thank him for the 
detailed submissions that hes made to this service outlining his position. I hope that Mr M 
wont consider it a discourtesy that I dont respond in similar detail here. As a quick informal 
dispute resolution service, our remit here is to focus on what we consider to be the key 
points of a complaint. 
This means that it isnt necessary for me to address every point that Mr M has raised, but 
instead to address those points which I feel have a material impact to the final decision I 
have arrived at. In this instance, those are the points that I have described in the preceding 
section. 
Id like to confirm to Mr M that if there is a particular aspect of his complaint that he notes I 
havent directly responded to, that this shouldnt be taken as being that I havent considered 
that point. Rather, I have considered it, but I dont feel that its necessary to respond to that 
specific point in order to arrive at a fair and reasonable outcome here.
Mr M has complained about the service that he received from Barclays when he went into 
branch in 2019. Complaints such as this pose unique challenges to this service, the most 
obvious of these being that we werent present at the event being complained about. 
This, along with a lack of direct evidence detailing what took place  such as CCTV footage 
or audio recording  means that when making a decision we have to rely on the testimonies 
of both parties. And, where these testimonies differ, as they often do, we have to base our 
decision on what we feel is, on balance, the most likely to have happened, in consideration 
of all the information and evidence we have available to us.
In this instance, Mr M has referenced the fact that when his landlady called him when he 
was in branch a member of Barclays staff took his phone into another room and had a 
conversation with her without Mr M being present. I can see how this might have been 
unsettling to Mr M, but its difficult to conclude that this was done by the staff member with 
any malicious intent. Indeed, from my review of this complaint, its difficult to draw any 
conclusion other than that the staff member was trying to assist Mr M in resolving the issue 
of the unpaid rent, and I say this because the staff member returned the phone to Mr M and 
immediately withdrew money for Mr M sufficient for him to pay the outstanding rent.
 
Mr M is unhappy that he wasnt advised at that time by that staff member to cancel the 
cheque held by his landlady, and I agree that it would have been preferable for the staff 
member to have covered this point. But again, I dont feel that there was any malicious intent 
or deliberate withholding of this information, and I note that Mr M was able to cancel the 
cheque, and while Barclays did initially charge a fee for doing this, Im pleased to note that 
this fee was subsequently reimbursed to Mr M by Barclays.
All of which means that, while I can understand that Mr Ms experience within branch wasnt 
satisfactory to him personally, and gave him cause to consider complaint against Barclays, I 
dont feel that the information that is available to me regarding what took place that day, 
including Mr Ms testimony, is sufficient to compel me to uphold this complaint on Mr Ms 
behalf. This isnt to say that Mr M didnt have a legitimate cause to complain, but only that I am unable to confirm this to any fair and reasonable degree, and this is something that I 
must be able to do, if I am to consider upholding this aspect of Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M has also stated that he felt that a marketing slogan placed above an ATM machine was 
inappropriate and offensive. Ive reviewed the content of the slogan in question, and while I 
acknowledge that Mr M may feel personally that the slogan was inappropriate, I find it 
difficult to conclude that the wording of the slogan was, in and of itself, offensive or 
derogatory in any general sense, or that Barclays in any way intended to cause offence in 
their usage or placement of that wording.
Finally, Mr M has expressed his dissatisfaction that a poster was obscured in branch and 
that this might be a breach or regulations. As our investigator explained in their view of this 
complaint, matters of regulation dont fall within the remit of this service, and this means that 
when considering this aspect of Mr Ms complaint this service is limited to considering 
whether there has been any impact on Mr M because of what happened. 
In this instance, while I can appreciate how Mr M may have felt because of the poster being 
obscured, I cant reasonably say that Mr M has been impacted such that a loss of any kind 
can be considered as having occurred, or such that any form of compensation from Barclays 
would be warranted in this instance. I note that Barclays thanked Mr M for bringing the 
matter to their attention and committed to rectifying the issue at the earliest opportunity. If Mr 
M wanted to pursue the regulatory aspect of this part of his complaint further, the relevant 
authority to contact would be the FCA.
All of which means that its difficult for me to conclude that Barclays have acted 
unreasonably or unfairly here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint 
or asking Barclays to take any further action at this time. I realise that this wont be the 
outcome that Mr M was wanting, but I hope that he can understand, considering everything I 
have explained above, why I have made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman