DRN-2631634
The complaint
Ms W complains that Vanquis Bank Limited have mis-managed her credit card debt.
What happened
In 2019, Ms W couldnt keep up with her payments and offered Vanquis affordable, reduced 
repayments instead.
Ms W told Vanquis not to call her, but they didnt pick up on this and kept trying to call her to 
discuss her offer  then found they were unable to get in touch. As such, Ms W didnt receive 
a response to her offer. Vanquis continued to chase her for the debt.
Ms W complained, and Vanquis agreed theyd got things wrong. They accepted her payment 
arrangement, refunded the interest and fees that had been charged in the meantime, froze 
interest and fees going forward, passed her case to a specialist support team, agreed not to 
call her anymore, and offered her £75 compensation.
Ms W didnt accept this. She felt Vanquis had harassed her, and had breached data 
protection laws by passing her debt to a collection agency. She explained that this had 
affected her partners wellbeing. She felt theyd dealt with her complaint poorly.
As Ms W didnt make the agreed payments, the payment arrangement fell through. 
I sent Ms W and Vanquis a provisional decision on 2 February 2021, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld in part. In that decision, I said:
I should explain first that I cannot consider Ms Ws points about the way Vanquis handled 
her complaint. Thats because Im only allowed to consider complaints about regulated 
activities  such as administering a credit card or chasing a debt. But handling complaints is 
not a regulated activity in and of itself. So Ive focused my decision on the points Im able to 
consider.
I have considered whether Vanquis harassed Ms W. But I cant see that their contact was 
excessive or unreasonable here. I will also explain that Vanquis were allowed to pass her 
debt to a collection agency  thats a normal course of action for a business to take. And so 
I dont think they did anything wrong in passing her data to the agency. 
It looks like the debt was last passed to the collection agency because Ms W never made 
the payments she offered. And Vanquis did warn Ms W they might do this. Vanquis accepted 
her previous offer and agreed to freeze interest and charges. So Ms W may want to get back 
in touch with Vanquis to set up some new affordable repayments.
I do think Vanquis got some things wrong here  I can see both sides accept that. For 
example, they phoned Ms W when shed asked them not to, they failed to respond to her 
offer at first as a consequence, and while all this was going on the account continued to rack 
up interest and fees.
I think that Vanquis have already put some of those things right. They apologised, accepted 
Ms Ws arrangement, refunded the interest and fees and froze them going forward, and 
agreed not to call her anymore.
When a business gets things wrong, we often tell them to pay compensation as well  to 
recognise their error and the impact it had. Vanquis offered Ms W £75 compensation, which 
she feels is not enough  and Im inclined to agree with her. Ms W was already in a stressful 
situation and it really wont have helped that Vanquis failed to engage with her offer for some 
time and kept phoning her when they werent supposed to. Its clear that this matter caused 
her a good deal of distress, which Vanquis need to put right.
With that said, I do need to explain that were not here to fine or punish businesses. And, as 
Ive explained above, I have not upheld all of Ms Ws complaint points. Further, Im afraid 
I cant award compensation for Ms Ws partner. I am only able to award compensation to the 
complainant  Vanquis customer here  who is Ms W, and not anyone else.
We have guidelines about what levels of compensation to award, and we need to be 
consistent. Taking everything into account, I think that Vanquis should pay Ms W £150 in 
total  or £75 more than what theyve already offered.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
2 March 2021. Both sides accepted the outcome, though Ms W also said shed like 
Vanquis to recall the debt from the collection agency and deal with her in-house.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand that Ms W would feel better about things if Vanquis recalled the debt from 
the collection agency. But as I explained in the provisional decision, they were allowed to 
pass the debt to the agency and I cant see that they did anything substantially wrong in 
doing so. So I cant fairly make them take the debt back here. But I will pass on the message 
informally. I will also pass on the message to them that she would prefer their contact to be 
by post rather than email.
Otherwise, both sides appear to have accepted the compensation amount and neither side 
have added any other new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the case, Ive 
come to the same conclusion as before.
Putting things right
I direct Vanquis Bank Limited to pay Ms W £150 compensation in total, i.e. £75 more than 
what theyve already offered.My final decision
I uphold Ms Ws complaint in part, and direct Vanquis Bank Limited to pay her £150 
compensation in total.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman