DRN-3780813
The complaint
Ms J complains that Nationwide Building Society irresponsibly granted her a loan 
she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Nationwide provided a loan of £7,500 for Ms J in February 2014. Some of the loan was 
used to clear an existing loan. The loan was to be repaid at £154 a month over five years, 
and the total owed including interest came to £9,245 (all figures rounded).
Ms J met her payments in 2014 but made token payments in early 2015, having let 
Nationwide know she was on sick leave and receiving statutory sick pay. Nationwide 
agreed a repayment plan with Ms J from May 2015 through a national debt charity. This 
continued until Nationwide accepted a reduced amount to settle the loan in 2021.
Ms J complained to Nationwide that the loan was unaffordable from the beginning and 
said that it should not have agreed to lend to her given her financial circumstances at the 
time. She said she was in financial turmoil and was desperate for credit to pay off her 
existing debt.
Nationwide didnt uphold Ms Js complaint. It said that its checks were in line with the 
regulations and explained that it accepted a settlement figure of £975 from her in 
December 2021 and wrote off an outstanding amount of £3,900 in closing the account.
Ms J referred her complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it and found that 
Nationwide should have seen from the information it had that the loan was likely to be 
unaffordable for Ms J. They recommended that Nationwide refund any payments Ms J 
made above the capital amount she borrowed and that it remove any adverse information 
relating to the loan from her credit file.
Nationwide didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for the complaint to come to 
an ombudsman to review and resolve. I issued a provisional decision on 12 October 2022 
explaining why I thought Ms Js complaint should be upheld but why I wasnt planning to  
direct Nationwide to pay her any compensation. Ms J responded to  my provisional 
decision to say that she agreed with my findings and had no new information to provide. I 
havent had any response from Nationwide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also had regard to the regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending which 
lenders, such as Nationwide, need to abide by. Nationwide will be familiar with all the 
rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when looking at a complaint 
concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont consider it necessary to 
set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to these complaints is 
set out on our website.
Having considered everything again and having no new information from either party, I 
remain of the view that Ms Js complaint should be upheld but I dont require 
Nationwide to take any action. Ill set out my reasons again in this final decision. 
Ms J told Nationwide that her monthly wages were £1,311 and it checked this against 
her payslips. Ms J said she paid £530 a month rent, and Nationwide estimated her 
monthly expenses as £490. It checked her credit file and estimated that she spent a 
further £66 a month repaying her existing debt, aside from the loan she wished to 
consolidate. This left Ms J with an estimated £225 to cover her new loan payment (of 
£154) and meet any unexpected costs.
Our investigator found that, based on this assessment, Ms J wasnt left with a sufficient 
amount to meet any unaccounted for or unexpected costs. In response, Nationwide 
said it had carried out a robust affordability assessment which included an estimate of 
non- discretionary spending including food, bills and travel, so living expenses had 
been taken into account. It said Ms J wasnt expected to live off £75 each month but 
this was an estimate of her discretionary spend only. 
Nationwide said Therefore, we have followed CONC guidance as to how we should 
conduct an affordability assessment by taking into account non-discretionary 
expenditure and debt repayments. CONC doesnt require us to include a buffer of any 
particular amount, just to assess if the loan is affordable for the member which we have 
done. The level of disposable income necessary for discretionary spend or unforeseen 
bills is a subjective amount and will be dependent on personal circumstances.
Let me begin by saying that the regulations in place at the time were set out in the Office 
of Fair Tradings Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG). The current regulators guidance 
is set out in its consumer credit handbook (CONC) though it does follow on from and 
reference the previous guidance. 
The ILG said that it may be appropriate to assume a reasonable level of domestic 
outgoings on a day to day expenditure. However, it also said that lenders needed to do 
more than solely assess whether or not a borrower could afford to repay the credit in 
question  they needed to take reasonable steps to assess a borrower's likely ability to be 
able to meet repayments under the credit agreement in a sustainable manner over the 
lifetime of the agreement, in other words while meeting existing commitments and normal 
outgoings, and without having to borrow further.
I agree with Nationwide when it says that the level of disposable income necessary for 
unforeseen bills is dependent on personal circumstances. Ive noted that Ms J didnt have 
any dependents at the time but beyond that, I dont have any information about her 
personal circumstances. However, whether or not the level of disposable income 
remaining poses a risk that a borrower might not meet repayments sustainably also 
depends on the context of the lending. Had Ms J applied for a small loan with a short term 
then it might have been reasonable to proceed on the basis of this estimate. In this case, 
Ms J was borrowing a relatively significant amount and would need to meet her 
repayments for five years. On balance, I think its likely that leaving her with this level of 
disposable income posed a risk to her of not meeting her repayments sustainably.
Had Nationwide gone further in its assessment and looked into Ms Js finances in more 
depth before lending, I think its likely it would have declined to lend to her. Ms J hasnt 
provided me with her bank statements or her credit file record (either from the time or current) so I cant say with certainty that a further review of her finances would have led to 
the loan being declined. However, Ms J has provided an income and expenditure 
assessment carried out with a national debt charity in August 2014, just six months after 
her loan began. This showed that she didnt have enough disposable income to meet her 
loan repayments and I think its more likely than not that this was the case when the loan 
was agreed. In May 2015, Nationwide accepted a repayment plan based on similar 
information from the debt charity.
Altogether, Ive concluded that Nationwide was irresponsible to have lent to Ms J on 
this occasion.
When Ms J asked to make token repayments when she was on sick leave, Nationwide 
accepted this. When she asked to set up a repayment plan via the debt charity on her 
return to work, Nationwide also accepted this, and stopped charging interest to the 
account. Nationwide continued to accept reduced payments from Ms J until late 2021, 
when it then accepted a significantly reduced final amount to settle the account. Our 
investigator recommended that Nationwide refund to Ms J any payments she made above 
the capital borrowed. I can see from the account information Nationwide provided that Ms 
J repaid significantly less than she borrowed and so in this case there isnt any refund 
owing.
Ive also noted that while Nationwide reported Ms Js account as being in arrears during 
the period of token payments in early 2015, it says it then reported her account as being 
in an arrangement to pay. I understand that this wasnt the only debt included in her debt 
management plan or the only one which was settled with a reduced amount and I 
assume these were also reported as being in arrangements to pay. Ive also assumed 
that any adverse information regarding arrears on this loan or a default (if one was 
reported) in 2015 would not now be showing on Ms Js credit file, and Ms J hasnt 
mentioned adverse impacts on her credit file in her complaint to us.
In summary, while Ive concluded that Nationwide shouldnt have agreed this loan for 
Ms J, Ive also concluded that it doesnt need to take any steps to put things right for 
her.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Ms Js complaint about Nationwide Building 
Society though I do not require it to take any action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman