DRN-2150671
The complaint
Mr A complained about TSB Bank Plc. A current account was opened in Mr As name, which 
he hadnt asked to be opened, and a debt was built up on it. Mr A wants much more 
compensation than TSB offered him.
What happened
In October 2019, Mr A received a letter from a debt collection agency. This said he had a 
debt of around £1,080 with TSB which had already been marked as defaulted. Mr A thought 
it was a scam and ignored it, but a few days later he had another letter, so he got in touch 
with TSB on 29 October. He found out that someone had opened an account in his name at 
a previous address.
TSB investigated, and by 11 November it had closed the account which had been 
fraudulently opened in Mr As name, written off the balance, and told the credit reference 
agencies to remove all credit file entries for the account. The debt collection agency wrote to 
Mr A to confirm it wouldnt be contacting him again.
Mr A complained to TSB about the account having been opened, and he asked for 
compensation. He was also unhappy because after hed got in touch with TSB, it had sent 
the complaint acknowledgement to the address which had been fraudulently set up on the 
account.
In its final response, TSB said that when processing online applications, it cross-referenced 
the application information with information from credit reference agencies and the electoral 
register. Mr A had lived at the address on the application until April 2017, around six months 
before the fraudulent account application. TSB explained that it only asked for additional 
identification in person, in a branch, if any concerns were flagged during the online checks. 
There hadnt been any reported concerns, so TSB said it hadnt made any errors when it 
opened the account. 
TSB also told Mr A that it had recorded a protective marker for him with the anti-fraud 
organisation CIFAS. It apologised for having sent the complaint acknowledgement letter to 
the address on the fraudulent account, and sent him a cheque for £250 compensation for 
this.
Mr A wasnt satisfied. He told TSB that its response hadnt taken into account the financial 
loss hed suffered as a result of the default on his credit file. He said that £250 was 
inappropriate and inadequate for the emotional, mental and financial loss hed suffered. 
Mr A contacted this service. He had researched rules about customer due diligence, and 
said TSB hadnt verified his identity by asking for any photo ID. He said that by opening an 
account with his details, TSB had confirmed his details to the fraudsters, and he was terrified 
to death at his identity having been confirmed to gangs. Hed had panic attacks and had had 
to take time off work. Mr A also said hed tried to open a special business account to allow 
hm to send mail at business rates. This had been refused because of the default on his 
credit file. Mr A said hed incurred other losses:
- £12,500 for goods hed imported to start his new business;
- £1,290 storage costs for those goods;
- £800 borrowed on a credit card, which had charged a higher rate because of his 
credit file;
- £1,800 mobile phone costs for a year;
- £4,600 for car finance as he had to pay higher interest; 
- £800 for car insurance as he had to pay more because of his credit file;
He also wanted more compensation for the mental and emotional distress caused to him.
The investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint for more compensation. She said that 
although the rules include requirements to verify someones identity, different banks had 
different processes and it wasnt essential to check photographic ID. The investigator 
explained that because of TSBs system problems in 2018, it couldnt provide the application 
which had been submitted in 2017. But TSB had done an electronic check on Mr As identity, 
including a credit check. And physical identification in person was only required if there had 
been problems. So the investigator didnt think TSB had had any way of knowing the 
account was being opened fraudulently. 
The investigator also thought that when Mr A had reported the problem on 29 October 2019, 
TSB had taken all the right actions. It had done so by 11 November, which was reasonable. 
She agreed that TSB had made a mistake by sending the complaint acknowledgement letter 
to the address where the fraudulent account had been opened. But she considered £250 
was fair compensation for that.
Mr A wasnt satisfied. He said that TSB had closed the account and cleared his credit score, 
but the damage had already been done because of TSBs negligence. He said he wanted 
TSB to provide all the personal information from the fraudulent application. And if it didnt, 
hed believe the facts were being deliberately hidden. He said all his 2019 financial 
arrangements had been affected by the bad credit score which was caused by TSB. Mr A 
said the damage to his mental state hadnt been addressed. He said that if details of the 
personal information on the account application werent available, he wanted full 
compensation for the financial and mental damage hed suffered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Mr A feels very strongly about what happened, and I understand it would 
have been shocking and upsetting to find that an account had been fraudulently opened in 
Mr As name. The person really responsible for the level of Mr As distress is of course the 
fraudster, and sadly its not within my power to put that right. My job is to look at whether 
TSB acted correctly, in opening the account and in dealing with it when Mr A had reported 
the problem. And if TSB didnt act correctly, I can consider fair and reasonable 
compensation for whatever TSB  as opposed to the fraudster  did wrong.
Opening the account
The rules about opening accounts dont say that financial organisations have to obtain 
photographic ID in person before opening an account.  TSBs policy was only to require this 
if the electronic checks indicated a possible problem, and I cant say that that was wrong. As the investigator explained, TSB doesnt have a copy of the original 2017 fraudulent online 
application because of its 2018 system problems. It often happens when considering 
complaints that we dont have all the evidence wed ideally like to have. Whenever that 
happens, I take my decision on the evidence I do have, and I consider whats most likely to 
have happened in all the circumstances. 
Here, its not disputed that some of Mr As details  for example his name and the address 
hed left a few months before - must have been submitted by the fraudster in order to open 
the account. I recognise Mr A would have liked to know what the fraudster put on the 
application form, and hes unhappy that the 2018 TSB system problems mean thats no 
longer available. But Mr A will have some protection from the fraudsters using those details 
again, because TSB recorded a protective marker for him on the anti-fraud database 
CIFAS. This means that in future, more checks would be done on anyone who tries to open 
any account with Mr As details. This will mean that accounts which Mr A himself genuinely 
opens will take a bit longer to process too, but it should provide some peace of mind about 
preventing future frauds.
What TSB did when Mr A reported the fraud
Mr A asked why he wasnt contacted until the debt collection agency got in touch in October 
2019, two years after the account had been opened. The reason for that would be that the 
fraudster had used Mr As previous address, so that was what was recorded on the account. 
So it would only have been when the debt collection agency did some detective work to 
trace Mr A, that it found him at his new, real, address. 
Ive looked at what TSB did when Mr A reported the problem on 29 October. It investigated, 
wrote off the balance, closed the account, contacted the credit reference agencies to remove 
markers about Mr A, and registered the protective marker with CIFAS. It did that by 11 
November, which I find is a reasonable timescale.
TSB shouldnt have sent the complaint acknowledgement to Mr A using his former address 
which the fraudster had used. Ive seen a copy of the letter, which didnt contain any other 
personal details for Mr A. So its unlikely that the fraudsters, if they were living at that 
address and received the letter, would have gained any more information about Mr A from 
this mistake. They already knew theyd been able to open the account with Mr As name and 
that address. So I find that £250 offered by TSB was fair compensation. 
Mr As compensation claims
Mr A has asked for significant extra compensation. But the only aspect where I consider TSB  
- as opposed to the fraudster - was at fault was in sending correspondence to the account 
address after fraud had been reported. And Ive found that £250 was fair for that.
I recognise that a default on Mr As credit file could potentially have caused him difficulties. 
But TSB didnt know the account had been opened fraudulently until Mr A reported it. So the 
default was just part of its normal process in recording a default against any named account 
holder where the debt wasnt being paid. And TSB acted promptly to remove the default 
within under a fortnight of finding out about the fraud.
As the investigator explained, I wouldnt be able to award Mr A the compensation hes 
looking for, even if I had found TSB did much more that was wrong. Thats because it would 
be necessary to prove that all the alleged losses stemmed only from any mistakes by TSB, 
rather than from any other circumstances.Mr A feels that the impact on his mental state hasnt been considered in the compensation. I 
do recognise that it would have been very shocking and upsetting for Mr A. But to award 
significant compensation for mental distress, Id need to have found that it was specifically 
TSB which had caused it. It was actually the fraudster who caused Mr A the distress, and its 
not possible for me to award compensation to be paid by the unknown fraudster. I find that 
£250 was fair for TSBs sole mistake of sending a complaint acknowledgement letter to the 
wrong address.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr As complaint for significant additional 
compensation. Its not clear to me whether or not Mr A has cashed TSBs cheque for £250. 
But if he hasnt and its out of date, I leave it to Mr A to contact TSB for a replacement if he 
wishes. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman