DRN-3630747
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr C have complained to Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) about the issues they 
encountered whilst repair works were being carried out on their property after a claim on 
their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs C and Mr C have a home insurance policy with Aviva. Following a claim, Aviva agreed 
to have the repairs carried out. Mrs C and Mr C say that the rectification works were fraught 
with problems from day one. I wont list all out the issues they had individually, as there are 
many. I will summarise below.
They say they shouldve been provided with alternative accommodation when works 
were ongoing. They could only use certain rooms, and this impacted family life, 
especially being expected to move furniture every few days and having to clean up 
after workmen on a daily basis. This was during a time when they were working from 
home and trying to accommodate returning adult children. 
They say interior decoration was slow and of a poor standard. Aviva admitted that 
two decorators shouldve been hired to complete the job.
They say there were constant issues with poor communication and no responsibility 
from Aviva.
They say jewellery was taken during from the home during rectification works.
They say this claim in total took three years to rectify. The distress and 
inconvenience suffered was substantial.
Aviva reviewed all the issues and said that in light of the extended disruption it would award 
Mrs C and Mr C £1,000 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. But 
Mrs C and Mr C feel this isnt enough and they brought their complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and thought that Aviva had done enough.   
Mrs C and Mr C disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I note that there was a previous complaint about this claim that was dealt with by our service 
and that Aviva has already paid some compensation to Mrs C and Mr C by waiving its 
excess. This is related to the earlier complaint only, although I do acknowledge its part of the 
same claim. I also know issues continued after Aviva issued its final response letter and Mr 
C has now confirmed works are complete. Im also conscious that the stolen jewellery issue 
is also being dealt with as a separate complaint. So, I wont be considering any of the above 
issues in this final decision.
Aviva has reviewed the issues raised in this specific complaint and decided to award Mrs C 
and Mr C £1,000 for the disruption, distress and inconvenience caused. Its my role to decide 
if this amount is a fair and reasonable award given the and distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
An award of over £750 and up to around £1,500 could be fair where the impact of a 
business's mistake has caused substantial distress, upset and worry  even potentially a 
serious offence or humiliation. There may have been serious disruption to daily life over a 
sustained period, with the impact felt over many months, sometimes over a year. Im 
conscious that anything running over two years would push this to the higher levels of this 
compensation range, or into a higher compensation range. 
I can see that there was a delay to the repair works starting. But Im conscious that these 
delays occurred when we were coming to an end of restrictions that were in place because 
of the Covid -19 pandemic, so delays were inevitable. But there were also delays when the 
work started, with tradesmen only coming for half days and only one decorator was ever 
contracted to do the work instead of the required two. This extended an already stressful 
period for Mrs C and Mr C who at the start were happy to stay at the property, probably in 
expectation that the timeframe would be short. But it became apparent that the work would 
take longer than expected, so I can see why there was much frustration.  I agree that the 
quotes received said repairs could be carried out on a sectional basis, so I can see why this 
decision was made. But its unlikely potential staffing issues and delays formed part of these 
quotes. 
Further to this there seems to have been a constant litany of issues. There was an issue with 
skirting and flooring. Mrs C and Mr C say clean up was light touch they even had to replace 
their vacuum cleaner. Rooms werent finished and tradesmen didnt arrive in sequence, thus 
causing delays. The alarm was incorrectly rewired and a kitchen cabinet that had been 
refitted fell off the wall. Damage was caused to the outside driveway, and a leak was 
discovered in the lower bathroom. 
Aviva doesnt address everything separately in its final response. It does note that the 
agreement was for Mrs C and Mr C to remain at the property during the rectification works. 
And it does acknowledge that the repairs were delayed, and disruption was caused to the 
family for a number of months. Looking at Mrs C and Mr Cs list of issues, its clear that they 
deserve to be compensated. There was serious disruption to daily life over a sustained 
period, with the impact felt over many months. 
Looking at what Aviva has offered I think an award of £1,000 is in line with what wed expect 
Aviva to award in these specific circumstances. I know Mrs C and Mr C are going to be 
disappointed with this outcome. But £1,000 is a fair and reasonable award, and as such I 
wont be asking Aviva to pay any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman