DRN-1854781
 
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with UK Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of his claim for legal expenses 
made under his landlord insurance policy.
Where I refer to UKI, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
The background to this complaint is lengthy and is well known to both parties. So, Ill focus 
on the details of the issue that remains to be resolved. In summary Mr K has a long running 
legal dispute with a tenant which he has been seeking to fund through his landlord insurance 
policy with UKI. An initial complaint in which UKI offered to consider the privately incurred 
costs after 9 September 2019 and to pay £250 in compensation has been accepted by Mr K.
The issue still in dispute refers to UKI declining to provide further cover for Mr Ks claim in 
January 2020. Mr K alleges that this decision was in part taken maliciously by a UKI staff 
member as a consequence of his previous complaint. UKI also didnt accept that Mr K was 
raising a new complaint and referred him to their response to his previous complaint. 
Following our investigators involvement UKI agreed to re-submit Mr Ks claim for formal 
consideration by one of their panel solicitors D. They also agreed to pay Mr K a further 
£100 compensation. 
Mr K accepted the claim issue, but he feels that £100 is insufficient. He thinks compensation 
within the range of £500 to £1,000 would be fair. Our investigator didnt think there was 
evidence to support that Mr K had been victimised by UKI and ultimately concluded that the 
further £100 was fair. As an agreement couldnt be found, the complaint has come to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to tell UKI they need pay more than £100. I know this will be 
disappointing for Mr K, so Ill explain why. For clarity I agree with our investigators 
recommendation that Mr Ks claim be resubmitted for consideration by a panel solicitor. But 
as that part of the resolution has been accepted by both parties, I wont comment further. Ill 
focus on the issue still in dispute, which is the compensation. 
Being involved in ongoing and lengthy legal proceedings will always be a stressful and 
difficult time. So, I accept Mr K has had a very difficult time and has been under stress  but 
it wouldnt be fair for me to attribute all the inconvenience and stress that Mr K has 
experienced to UKI.
UKI themselves accept that they made some errors. And I appreciate this came at a difficult 
time for Mr K in relation to short deadlines he had in relation to the ongoing court case. But 
having looked at the circumstances of this complaint I dont think there is evidence to 
support that Mr K was victimised or singled out by UKI or their staff. 
I also dont think there is evidence to support that UKIs decision was motivated by malice or 
was a deliberate attempt to frustrate Mr Ks legal action. It appears that a mistake was made 
and there was mis-understanding between UKI and the panel solicitor. In any case, it isnt 
our role to punish a business for making a mistake. I cant award compensation as a 
deterrent as Mr K suggests.
Stepping back and looking at all the circumstances as a whole, Im satisfied that the further 
£100 is a fair amount to compensate for the trouble and upset Mr K experienced as a result 
of UKIs errors. As the other aspects of the complaint have been resolved through the 
agreement of both parties, I wont be telling UKI they need to do anything else or increase 
the compensation.
Putting things right
To put things right UKI must take the actions detailed below. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Unless theyve already done so UK Insurance Limited must pay Mr K a further £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman