DRN-2953578
The complaint
Mr C complains about the service he received from Nationwide Building Society. Hes 
unhappy with the delays and the service he received when he asked Nationwide to process 
chargebacks for cancelled flights.
What happened
Mr C purchased flights using his Nationwide credit card. He purchased flights with a value of 
£85.96 with Airline1 and some more flights with Airline2 which cost £837.60. 
In March 2020, the government advised against all unnecessary foreign travel and the 
country then went in to a full national lockdown. Both airlines cancelled Mr Cs flights, so he 
contacted Nationwide in April to ask it to help him get his money back. He told us:
he eventually received a refund in connection with Airline1s cancelled tickets, but 
that Nationwide continually ignored his claim in connection with cancelled flights with 
Airline2 despite his telephone calls and emails to it;
because of his frustration with Nationwide, he closed all his accounts with the 
exception of the credit card account  he wanted to wait until everything with his 
refund claims had been settled;
Nationwide sent him new credit cards, but he cut them up and returned them, 
marking them not required;
his intention had been to use the old credit cards - he had a credit balance because 
of the airline refunds  until hed reduced the balance to zero. But his card was 
declined at his local supermarket and this caused him some embarrassment;
he contacted Nationwide but he was unsatisfied with the reason it gave for his card 
being declined;
he also contacted Nationwide about his Nationwide travel insurance. He says he 
purchased a supplementary insurance, which he could no longer benefit from now 
that the flights had been cancelled, and he asked for a refund, but Nationwide 
rejected this without explanation. But when he contacted the insurer it promptly 
arranged a refund to his credit card account;
Nationwide offered him £100 compensation, but this doesnt take into account that 
his problems with Nationwide have dragged on for several months now, with one 
mistake after another, and he asked it to pay a further £100 compensation which he 
said hed donate to charity.
Nationwide confirmed that a refund in respect of cancelled tickets for Airline1 had been 
credited in full to Mr Cs account on 23 June, and that a temporary refund in respect of 
cancelled tickets for Airline2 had been applied to his account in early August whilst it 
disputed this transaction with the merchant.
Nationwide apologised for the delays Mr C had experienced and it explained that it had 
faced a sharp increase in the number of claims received due to the effects of the pandemic. 
It acknowledged that Mr C had sent the information and evidence it had asked for on three 
separate occasions, and it apologised again for the service hed received. And it sent Mr C a 
cheque for £100 in recognition of this.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
noted that Mr C had now received full refunds in connection with the cancelled flights with 
both Airline1 and Airline2 and had been successful in his claim for a refund from the insurer 
for the supplementary insurance cover hed purchased but not been able to take advantage 
of.
He acknowledged the embarrassment Mr C wouldve experienced when his credit card was 
declined at a supermarket. But he explained that there were a number of possible reasons 
for this; several outside of Nationwides control, so he didnt think Nationwide should be held 
accountable for what happened.
Our investigator explained to Mr C that raising a claim isnt a guarantee that the claim will be 
successful, because a merchant has the opportunity to defend the claim. So, at the outset, 
Nationwide would not have been able to say whether or not Mr Cs chargebacks would be 
successful,  it simply didnt have sufficient information to make that assessment. But he went 
on to say that he thought Nationwides subsequent communications couldve been clearer, 
and the service provided couldve been better. And he recognised the frustration this 
wouldve caused Mr C.
But he also acknowledged the impact the pandemic had had on Nationwides operations and 
the operational challenges it faced during this period. And, taking all this into account, he 
thought the £100 compensation paid by Nationwide was fair and in line with what he 
wouldve recommended.
Mr C disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. Mr C says he wants further 
compensation for the delays and problems hes experienced. He says, one mistake is 
understandable, but for so many things to have suddenly gone wrong in my case seems 
rather more than a coincidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything very carefully, Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator and I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
In this particular complaint, Im only looking at the delays and the associated level of service 
that Mr C received from Nationwide. This is because although Mr C disputed payments to 
the two airlines totalling £923.56, both parties have now confirmed that this sum has now 
been credited back to Mr Cs account. And Ive also noted that Mr C successfully obtained 
the insurance refund himself when he contacted the insurer directly.
Declined credit card
Mr C also complained about his credit card being declined at the supermarket and Ive 
considered this very carefully. I need to explain that my role isnt to punish businesses for 
their performance or behaviour  thats the role of the regulator. My role is to look at 
problems that a consumer may have experienced and see if the business, in this case 
Nationwide, has done anything wrong. If it has, I seek to put the consumer  Mr C  back in 
the position he wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened.Like our investigator, Im satisfied that there couldve been a number of very different 
reasons that Mr Cs card was declined. The investigator highlighted some of the common 
ones weve come across:
The card machine not working
Wear and tear on the card
Issued with the stores internet connection at the time
Too many transactions being processed at once in the store
And, although Mr C says the supermarkets systems cant have been at fault  he says he 
was able to successfully use an alternative credit card immediately  I dont think this means 
that I can conclude the problem was caused by Nationwide or that I can hold it responsible. 
But in any event, as Mr C was able to use an alternative card immediately, I dont think he 
lost out.
Service and delays
Next, Ive looked at the service Mr C received when he asked Nationwide to process 
chargebacks for cancelled flights. It might be helpful if I explain that in some cases, a bank 
may be able to request a refund from the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a 
way in which payment settlement disputes are resolved between card holders and 
suppliers/merchants. They are dealt with under the relevant card scheme rules and in this 
case thats Mastercards.
In certain circumstances the process provides a way for Nationwide to ask for payments 
Mr C made to be refunded. Those circumstances include where goods or services arent 
supplied by the company Mr C paid or they werent as described by the supplier.
Theres no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one.
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists
and there is reasonable chance of success.
In this case, it appears that Mr C has ultimately not been provided with the goods and 
services that he originally paid for  the airline flights. And in normal circumstances, it would 
seem reasonable to expect Nationwide to raise a chargeback for him, as Im satisfied that 
this scenario is one that is covered within Mastercards chargeback rules.
Its not unusual for a chargeback to take some time to process. It can take time for a bank to 
gather the correct and necessary information needed to raise the claim, and the chargeback 
rules also require banks to give suppliers time  usually around a month - to respond to any 
chargeback raised, in case they want to dispute it. But even so, in normal circumstances, Id 
have expected Nationwide to have resolved this chargeback sooner than it did.
On 1 May 2020, Nationwide had all the information it needed about the flights Mr C had 
purchased with both airlines. And although it progressed his claim about Airline1s cancelled 
flights and Mr C received a refund for these on 23 June, Nationwide omitted to take any 
action in connection the claim for Airline2s cancelled flights  and Mr C had to wait a further 
six weeks until 3 August before his account was credited with temporary refunds for these 
flights.
I dont doubt for a moment that this whole experience was worrying and stressful for Mr C. 
Hed booked and paid a considerable sum for flights, and from what hes told us, his 
experience wouldve understandably caused him some anxiety. But I cant hold Nationwide responsible for any of this because the initial problems were 
caused by the airlines, and then compounded by the pandemic.
I also need to take into account that these werent normal circumstances. It was an 
unprecedented and unusual time for the banks, when Mr C first contacted Nationwide, 
dealing with significant numbers of enquires from consumers looking to get money back as 
the global pandemic unfolded. Many of these claims will have brought up issues which were 
relatively novel, and the banks were having to digest new information, rules and guidance at 
a very unusual time. And many firms faced operational challenges during this period.
Ive noted that Nationwide has already paid Mr C £100 in recognition of the mistakes it made 
when he first contacted it and the failings in the service it provided. And although I wouldve 
expected Nationwide to identify vulnerable customers who may need more immediate 
support and help, from the information I have, I dont think Mr C fell into this category. 
Ive also noted that once Nationwide realised it had omitted to look into Mr Cs claim in 
respect of Airline2s flights, Mr Cs chargebacks were processed within the timescales that 
Nationwide was reasonably able to offer its customer and which I consider to be reasonable 
in the given circumstances. So, for the reasons Ive given, I think £100 compensation is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and I dont think Nationwide needs 
to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman