DRN-2260541
The complaint
Miss A has complained about Legal and General Assurance Society Limiteds (L&G) 
decision to terminate her claim.
What happened
Miss A has a group income protection policy via her employer, underwritten by L&G. This 
pays a benefit if Miss A is unable to work due to illness or injury. In 2016, Miss A became 
absent from work due to severe anxiety and depression. And so L&G accepted Miss As 
claim and paid her a benefit. L&G regularly reviewed Miss As claim through occupational 
health reviews. But in September 2019, L&G decided to terminate the claim as it said Miss A 
no longer satisfied the terms and conditions of the policy.
Unhappy with its decision, Miss A complained and referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think L&G had done anything wrong as it 
had explained why it felt Miss A no longer met the definition of incapacity. 
Miss A disagreed and so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Miss As complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The policy defines incapacity as follows:
Own occupation
Means the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that prevents him 
from performing the essential duties of his occupation immediately before the start of 
the deferred period
The policy also says:
We will immediately end payment of benefitif the insured member ceases to be a 
disabled member
A disabled member is defined as a member who meets the incapacity definition as set out 
above. 
Ive considered the key medical evidence to decide whether L&Gs actions in terminating 
Miss As claim were reasonable.
Between 2017 and 2019, Miss A attended a number of occupational health review 
appointments in which her therapists continued to conclude that she wasnt fit to return to 
work due to psychological symptoms. Miss A had also been seeing a psychotherapist.
In May 2019, Miss A attended a review by telephone with an occupational health therapist. 
The report concluded that Miss A had reported no improvement in her symptoms and 
considered she had regressed. And she was experiencing clinical psychological symptoms 
of moderate/severe depression and severe anxiety. He commented the focus of these 
issues surrounded the perceived workplace stressors. And if the workplace stressors were 
resolved, it was likely that with some focused support, a return to work could be achieved. 
However at this point, Miss A was unfit to return to work due to the impact of her symptoms 
on her activities of daily living. And a further review had been arranged to discuss the 
progress of her communication with her employer  and a return to work plan. 
In July 2019, Miss A attended a review by telephone with an occupational health therapist. 
He concluded that Miss A was fit to return to work as the focus of her symptoms remained to 
be about perceived work place stressors. Miss A had reported to be asymptomatic of anxiety 
for one week whilst abroad on holiday. And a phased return to work had been agreed. The 
report concluded that if the perceived work place stressors were removed, it was likely a 
return to work could be achieved. 
In August 2019, Miss A attended a review by telephone with an occupational health 
therapist. He concluded that Miss A was fit to return to work as although she was 
experiencing mental health symptoms, these appeared to be linked to work place stressors. 
If the work place stressors were resolved, it was likely a return to work could be achieved. 
Miss A wasnt receiving any active treatment for her mental health symptoms and hadnt 
seen her GP since the beginning of July. A rehabilitation review had been arranged for 20 
August 2019. 
As a result of the above, L&G decided to terminate the claim on the basis that Miss A no 
longer met the definition of incapacity  as the evidence showed that her anxiety related to 
work-place issues. 
In October 2019, an occupational health physician completed a telephone review with Miss 
A and said she didnt think Miss A was ready to return to work for another 2-3 months.  She 
said she believed Miss As anxiety was related to issues surrounding events at work and the 
management of her sickness absence. 
L&G reviewed the above information and said Miss As primary barrier for her absence from 
work was her perceived concerns about work - and with support, she should be able to carry 
out the essential duties of her insured occupation. And so this further information didnt 
change its decision. It said it was unable to resolve issues surrounding work-related 
concerns and that was something which needed to be addressed between Miss A and her 
employer. 
In December 2019, Miss As GP wrote a letter which confirmed that she had been suffering 
with severe anxiety which was triggered initially by a bad experience at work. However, this 
had developed into depression and generalised anxiety disorder  she was suffering at 
home and when out and not just when she was thinking about work. 
Miss A says her mental health issues started with work and continued and increased as time 
progressed but her issues outside of work were more significant and she was managing 
work related issues much better. She says her primary barrier was mental health issues and 
ongoing work related issues impacted this  with the secondary barrier being workplace 
issues. Having considered all of the above, Im sorry to disappoint Miss A but I dont think L&G has 
unfairly terminated her claim. L&G based its decision on the reports from July and August 
2019 both of which concluded that Miss A could return to work. L&G explained that work-
related matters werent something that could be resolved by it and there wasnt any evidence 
that Miss A had been receiving any active treatment in August 2019. Furthermore, L&G did 
review a further report in October 2019 which confirmed that Miss As barrier to work related 
to her workplace issues rather than personal stressors. 
Although Miss A was still suffering from anxiety, that on its own wouldnt be enough to satisfy 
the terms of the policy. The medical evidence has to show that the illness would prevent her 
from performing the essential duties of her role. In Miss As case, the evidence shows it was 
the perceived workplace problems which were preventing her from returning to work in 
July/August 2019 and so I dont think it was unfair of L&G to terminate the claim from 
September 2019.
 
Miss A sent a further letter from her GP to this service  but L&G hadnt seen this. The letter 
confirms Miss As condition but doesnt explain how her illness prevented her from returning 
to work in July and August 2019 when she had reported improvements and was no longer 
receiving any active treatment. And so Im not persuaded that L&Gs decision to terminate 
the claim was unfair or unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman