DRN-2257499
The complaint
Mr H is complaining Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has said hes at fault for an accident 
after a claim was made on his car insurance policy. 
What happened
In February 2019 Mr H was involved in an accident with a third party. Both parties think the 
other party was at fault for the accident. Mr H says he was driving down a road, but other 
cars were coming from the other direction. He says he noticed a large gap in the parked cars 
behind him, so started to safely reverse into this space  having checked it was safe to do so 
 but he says he suddenly heard a noise and saw another car had reversed into him. The 
third party says theyd started to reverse, stopped when they saw Mr H but Mr H hit their car.
Mr H says he discussed the matter with the third party at the scene, but the third partys 
neighbour came out and spoke to the third party at length. He said at that point the 
neighbour said hed witnessed the accident and said the third party was stationary. Mr H 
said at this point the third party changed their stance and said they were stationary.
Mr H reported the incident to Aviva. The third party also looked to recover their losses off 
Mr Hs insurance policy. Mr H explained to Aviva he considered the third party was fully at 
fault for the accident.
Aviva reviewed the matter and thought it was likely Mr H would be found at fault for the 
accident. It said the neighbour had given a witness statement saying the third party was 
stationary. It also thought the damage supported the third partys version of events. Mr H 
didnt agree with Aviva and said the damage supported his version of events. He said hed 
referred this matter to a Doctor of Physics who said the damage clearly supported Mr Hs 
version of events. He set out that the damage to his car was to the side and he said the side 
of his car could not have impacted the back of a stationary vehicle.
Aviva still thought Mr H would be held at fault and said it had referred the matter to its liability 
expert who also thought a court would find Mr H at fault for the accident. So Mr H referred 
this matter to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said this service wasnt able to say who was 
at fault for an accident, but we look to see whether an insurer has acted fairly  namely 
whether it had considered all the evidence and come to a reasonable conclusion. And the 
investigator was satisfied Aviva had taken everything Mr H had said into account when 
coming to the conclusion it did.
Mr H didnt accept the investigators opinion. He queried how the investigator could say he 
was at fault for the accident given the weight of evidence hed provided and he asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint.
Since this, Mr H has provided a video which he says sets out how the accident occurred, 
setting how he thinks the damage occurred and why he thinks it supports his version of 
events. He also set out why he thinks the third partys version of events wasnt plausible.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Its clear Mr H feels strongly that he wasnt at fault for the accident and hes set out in 
significant detail about why he says he wasnt at fault for the accident. But I should first 
explain that it isnt this services role to say whos at fault for causing an accident, as that is 
the responsibility of the courts. Mr H has queried in response to our investigators opinion 
how the investigator could say Mr H was at fault for the accident. But this service doesnt 
look at whether Mr H was or was not at fault for the accident. Our role is to look at whether 
Aviva has carried out a fair investigation, reviewed all the evidence it has and come to a 
reasonable decision.
Mr Hs policy, like all other car insurance policies, allowed Aviva to take over and conduct in 
the name of the person claiming under the policy the defence or settlement of any claim. 
The terms also say Aviva shall have full discretion in the conduct of any proceedings or the 
settlement of any claim. So it was entitled to settle the claim, on the best terms it thought fit. 
And it had the ultimate and final say in how to settle a claim  including in deciding whether 
to defend a third partys claim or not. But it needed to exercise this right fairly and 
reasonably, taking into account everything both parties had provided.
So the issue for me to decide in this decision is whether Im satisfied Aviva did take 
everything Mr H has provided into consideration. Mr H doesnt agree with Avivas decision 
for the following reasons:
1. He thinks the damage inflicted to both cars clearly supports his version of events as he 
said there couldnt be the damage to his car if the third partys car was stationary as 
alleged by the third party. And he says this has been corroborated by a Doctor of 
Physics.
2. He doesnt agree the witness the third party has provided is independent. He says the 
third party and the witness spoke extensively at the scene of the accident. So he doesnt 
think its fair that Aviva has relied upon the witnesss evidence.
Ive reviewed Avivas internal communication to understand why its conceded liability in this 
case. And I note its referred this matter to its liability dispute team whove said the following:
The witness is a neighbour of the third partys but claims to hardly know the third party 
having never really spoken before. The Court is likely to accept his evidence. He alleges, as 
does the third party, that the third party reversed into the road but became stationary due to 
the traffic, when our insured has reversed into the third party. The insured on the
other hand alleges that he was reversing when the third party reversed into the side of him 
and then he continued to reverse causing damage along the side of his vehicle. We could 
dispute the witness but I suspect he would be accepted, but more telling still the damage 
photographs, which cannot be biased support the third party in my opinion. 
The damage to the third party vehicle is some scuffing to the rear right bumper. The damage 
to the insureds vehicle starts at the back of the front wheel arch and continues with the 
same depth of damage along the door panels and ends at the front of the rear wheel arch. 
Had the damage have occurred as the insured had alleged then I would expect the damage 
to have been a bump into the side of the insureds vehicle with the trailing scrape along the 
rest of the side of his vehicle. Instead the damage is consistent with the third partys version of events that she was stationary as the vehicle just caught the rear of the wheel arch which 
would stick out more than the front and the damage remained a consistent depth as the 
insured drove along not realising that damage was being caused. Hence the damage to me 
supports the third partys version of events, and so that coupled with the witness statement 
is likely to be compelling to any judge were we to try and defend the claim.
I appreciate Mr H strongly disagrees with Avivas interpretation of the evidence. And I have 
watched and considered the video hes provided. But, ultimately, as I said above, its not for 
me to say which version of events is correct but whether Aviva has taken everything Mr H 
has said into account. And I think it has done so and I dont think its come to an 
unreasonable decision. 
I want to reiterate that Im not saying Mr H is at fault for the accident. But Aviva is entitled to 
take into account what it thinks the likely outcome would be if this matter proceeded to court. 
And I think its acted fairly in this respect. Im also conscious that its settled the claim on a 
without prejudice basis. So Mr H is free to pursue his claim through the courts if he wishes to 
do so.
Ultimately, I think it was fair for Aviva to choose to settle the third partys claim and I havent 
seen anything to say its treated Mr H unfairly in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman