DRN-4097333
Complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) didnt take reimburse him after he fell 
victim to a scam.
Background
In December 2021, Mr B fell victim to a scam. He was interested in buying a luxury watch. 
He found the model he wanted to buy on a trusted third-party website. It was on sale for 
$19,200. The seller of the watch had a long-established account on this website and 
consistently positive feedback from other buyers.
The seller demonstrated his legitimacy by showing Mr B a copy of his driving licence and 
positive testimonials hed received from other customers. Mr B was happy to go ahead with 
the purchase. He transferred the funds using his account with Wise. Unfortunately, the 
person Mr B was in contact with wasnt a legitimate seller of watches, but a fraudster. As I 
understand it, they had managed to take over the account of a historically trustworthy seller. 
This enabled them to take advantage of that sellers goodwill and exploit the opportunity to 
defraud potential purchasers.
Mr B realised what had happened quite quickly and took action. The seller was based in the 
United States. Mr B contacted the local police department in the sellers area. He also 
contacted the receiving bank  that is, the bank that provided the account to the fraudster. 
He says that an employee of the receiving bank told him it would freeze the fraudsters funds 
if it received a request from Wise.
Mr B complained to Wise, but it didnt agree to uphold his complaint.
It issued a final response on 6 January 2022 and said:
Wise cannot be made liable for any circumstances beyond our control, such as 
when a loss occurs as a result of fraudulent behaviour on behalf of the recipient 
following a payment made to them. 
[]
Once we were made aware of this recipient bank account possibly being used for 
scam purposes, we took the appropriate actions to prevent further transfers through 
our service. We will cooperate with any further requests made from your bank and/or 
judicial authorities should they contact us to assist in their investigations. However, 
as we dont have a business relationship with the recipient, we arent able to compel 
them to return the funds to us in order to process a refund to you.
Our team did request a recall from the recipient bank on 15th December once we 
obtained details of the incident. However, to date we have not received a response 
from the receiving bank or recovered any funds.
Mr B was unhappy with the response he received from Wise and so he referred his 
complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who upheld it. The Investigator 
said that the payment was sufficiently out of character that Wise ought to have queried it with 
Mr B before allowing it to be processed. If it had done so, she was persuaded that the fraud 
wouldve been prevented. 
Wise disagreed. It didnt think that the payment was out of character and it thought that, 
even if it had queried the payment with Mr B, he wouldnt have been persuaded to cancel it.   
Since Wise disagreed with the Investigators view, the complaint was passed to me to 
consider and come to a final decision. 
My initial findings were that the complaint should not be upheld. I emailed Mr B to 
summarise my reasons for that conclusion.
although I agree with what the Investigator has said about this payment being 
unusual and out of character, Im not completely convinced that Wise Payments 
couldve prevented the scam given how persuasive it was and the checks that youd 
already carried out yourself. I wanted to explain my thinking on that point and give 
you the chance to respond or provide new evidence that might change my mind.
[]
The payment was out of character when considered alongside the other activity on 
your account. Before it processed the payment, it shouldve made contact with you to 
satisfy itself that you werent at risk of fraud. 
However, it wouldnt be expected to carry out anything other than basic due diligence 
itself. The expectation would be for it to spot the risk of fraud and bring that risk to the 
customers attention. If Wise had handled things as it shouldve done, it wouldve 
contacted you an explained that the payment was higher than normal and asked you 
some questions about it.
Youd have been able to reassure it that youd carried out a range of checks and that 
you were buying through a reputable and trustworthy channel.
I wouldnt expect it to check the authenticity of US driving licence number. It would 
also most likely find it difficult to get confirmation about the owner of the receiving 
account. At most, it couldve suggested that you make enquiries to check who the 
account holder was. But given the checks youd already carried out, Im not 
convinced it wouldve persuaded you to act differently.
Mr B disagreed with my provisional findings. In his response, he said:
The fact that Wise allowed this payment to be processed without any checks clearly 
shows it failed in its duty of care.
He asked whether, under the Confirmation of Payee process, Wise shouldve been 
able to check the name of the account holder at the beneficiary bank.
His contract with Wise says that it is liable to him for foreseeable loss and damage 
caused by us. If we do not reasonably meet our commitments to you, we are 
responsible for loss or damage you suffer that is a foreseeable result of our breaking 
this contract or our failing to use reasonable care and skill. We are not responsible 
for any loss or damage that is not foreseeable  Loss or damage is foreseeable if it 
is obvious it will happen  Mr B argues that this provision in his contract with Wise means that it should be 
obliged to reimburse him. It was plainly foreseeable that, if it didnt attempt to freeze 
the funds held at the receiving bank in a timely fashion, those funds could be 
dispersed. 
Mr B cited a final decision against Wise that was issued by another ombudsman. He 
said that this decision shows that it has had historic findings that it has failed to carry 
out appropriate due diligence on potentially fraudulent payments before allowing 
them to be processed. The fact that it did so again in Mr Bs case and hadnt 
improved its systems showed that it fell below the standards expected of it.
I responded to Mr B in the following terms:
Once a firm has identified that there is a greater than normal fraud risk associated 
with a particular payment, it needs to intervene in some way. Typically, this means 
that they should temporarily pause the payment, contact the customer and talk to 
them to see if those concerns about fraud are justified.
In the vast majority of cases, the firm wont know that a payment is fraudulent  just 
that the risk of fraud is above the baseline level of risk. It should encourage the 
customer to carry out further checks to protect themselves against the risk of fraud. 
The reason Im minded to change the outcome that [the investigator] reached on your 
case is that its not clear to me what it couldve said during that interaction or what 
checks you couldve carried out to bring to light that the person you thought you were 
buying the watch from was really a fraudster. 
There may be other information which you can share with me that changes my mind 
on that. But it seems likely that, if theyd had a conversation with you about the 
purchase, youd have explained the steps youd taken to protect yourself from fraud.
You asked about the Confirmation of Payee service. Unfortunately, this service is 
only supported if the receiving account is located in the UK and so wont have been 
applicable to this transaction.
I've also taken a look at the issue regarding recovery of funds. When receiving a 
notification of fraud, Wises main obligation would be to ensure that the message 
gets passed on to the receiving bank. The receiving bank can then choose how to 
act, subject to the rules of the jurisdiction its operating in. It looks as if you reported 
the scam to Wise at around 15:00 GMT on December 14th. The evidence it shared 
with us shows it contacted the intermediary bank at 09:45 on 15 December. The 
notification it sent to the intermediary made it clear that you'd fallen victim to a scam 
and provided an outline of the basic events that had taken place. Once that allegation 
was passed on to [the receiving bank], it would be for them to decide what to do in 
the light of that information. 
Youve mentioned that the Wise customer agreement says that it will be liable for any 
foreseeable loss or damage it causes. I agree that dispersal of fraudulently acquired 
funds is a foreseeable consequence of failing to freeze the receiving account. 
However, the freezing of the account was outside of its control and so I dont think it 
can be said to be the cause of the loss.
Mr B didnt agree with my conclusions. In an email sent to a senior colleague, he set out his 
concerns:
He raised the issue of the earlier decision issued against Wise and noted that I hadnt addressed his questions about this in my earlier email correspondence.
He said that I had cited his due diligence as the basis for not upholding his complaint 
 essentially, that he has been disadvantaged for being too careful.
He noted the fact that Wise showed us it had contacted the intermediary bank and 
shared the allegation of fraud. Mr B questioned whether Wise only made this request 
once, whether it received any response to its notification and, if it didnt, why it didnt 
send multiple requests to ensure that action was taken.
Because Mr B disagreed with the conclusions Id set out by email, Ive reconsidered all of the 
available evidence afresh to come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, I am required 
to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Mr B has complained about two separate shortcomings on the part of Wise. Hes alleged 
that it didnt take adequate steps to:
protect him from or prevent the fraud; and
assist him with attempts to recover his money once the fraud came to light. 
Ive dealt with each of these arguments separately.
Prevention of the fraud
It is common ground that Mr B authorised the payment. Under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, he is presumed liable for the loss at first instance. However, this is not the 
end of the story. Wise is an electronic money issuer. The regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA), has confirmed that all e-money issuers must comply with legal 
requirements to deter and detect financial crime, which includes money laundering and 
terrorist financing.  The nature and extent of those obligations have been set out in many 
final decisions issued by other ombudsmen and I shared with Mr B an illustrative example of 
these. 
Broadly summarised, the obligations on Wise at the material time were to:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In order to find in Mr Bs favour on the issue of fraud prevention, Id need to be persuaded of 
two things - first, that Wise failed to meet the standards described in the paragraphs above 
and second, that that failure was the cause of Mr Bs loss. Ill deal with each point in turn.
1. Did Wise fail to meet the standards expected of it?
Im persuaded that Wise should have recognised that there was an enhanced risk of 
financial harm due to fraud when Mr B asked it to make this payment. It was a large 
payment, international and made to a new payee. It shouldnt have been processed until 
Wise first contacted Mr B to satisfy itself that there wasnt a risk that he was falling victim to a 
scam.
In practice, it processed the payment without posing any further questions. For these 
reasons, Im satisfied that it didnt act when it should have done and that it therefore fell 
below the standards expected of it.
2. Did this failing cause Mr Bs loss?
As I explained above, I cant ask Wise to reimburse Mr B unless I can reasonably conclude 
that its error was the cause of his loss. 
I have to take into account the law on this point. That means I need to be able to 
affirmatively answer the following question  would the damage or loss which Mr B has 
complained about have occurred but for the failings of the respondent? In other words, is 
there sufficiently strong evidence to show that its more likely than not that, but for the 
failing on the part of Wise, the relevant loss would not have occurred? If the loss would have 
occurred in any event, the conduct of Wise is not a but for cause. 
To reach a conclusion on this point, I need to consider what would have happened if Wise 
had handled things differently. It ought to have contacted Mr B and asked him about the 
payment. It should also have given him general guidance about the prevalence and risk of 
fraud and scams. I recognise (as Mr B has argued) that I cant know with certainty what he 
would have done if this had happened. At the point of making the payment, I can see that he 
had taken great care to ensure that he wasnt falling victim to a scam. He was buying 
through a reputable and trusted channel and had carried out some checks on the person 
who purported to be the seller. 
Mr B has speculated that, if Wise had paused the payment, the fraudster might have been 
alarmed and broken off contact earlier than they did. This wouldve prevented the scam. I 
cant rule that out, but I dont find it very likely. An appropriate intervention by Wise would 
most likely only have resulted, at most, in a short delay for a telephone conversation to take 
place. A long delay might cause a fraudster to abandon an attempted scam. However, given 
the information that wouldve been available to Wise if it had intervened, I dont think such a 
long delay wouldve been an appropriate response.
Mr B has also said that he might have carried out further due diligence or looked at other 
payment options. If there were straightforward additional checks that he could have carried 
out that might have revealed that this was a scam, then he may have turned to these on 
being warned by Wise about the potential risks. However, in the correspondence Ive had 
with Mr B, he hasnt highlighted any specific additional checks he couldve carried out but 
didnt.Mr B has argued that its unreasonable to say that he shouldnt be reimbursed simply 
because he went to reasonable lengths to protect himself and that this means the extent of 
his due diligence is being held against him. Its entirely understandable that he feels that 
way, but it isnt an accurate reflection of my argument. The checks that he carried out before 
making the payment and the lack of any other clear steps he couldve taken to verify whether 
the seller was legitimate are relevant factors in determining whether these failings on the 
part of Wise were the cause of his loss. Overall, my conclusion on this point is that, even if 
Wise had handled this risk in the way that was required of it, its more likely than not that 
Mr B wouldve fallen victim to this scam anyway.
Recovery of funds
Mr B is also unhappy that Wise didnt do more to assist with the recovery of his money from 
the receiving account. Good industry practice required that Wise notify the receiving bank 
promptly after becoming aware that Mr B had fallen victim to the scam. The relevant dates 
and times are set out in the background section of this decision. Im satisfied that it complied 
with that requirement.
Its message to the intermediary bank communicated that a scam had taken place and what 
the basic details of that scam were. It made it clear that the recipient had ceased contact 
with Mr B and that Mr B had discovered the driving license used as proof of identity was 
forged. The message contained enough information for the receiving bank to be able to 
assess how it ought to respond. Once that information was communicated, it was for the 
receiving bank to decide whether it was legally required to freeze or restrict the account, 
subject to local laws and regulations.
As far as I can see, Wise didnt send any follow up messages after its initial notification. 
Strictly speaking, it wasnt obliged to do so (although I can understand why Mr B wouldve 
wanted them to) and theres no compelling evidence to suggest it wouldve led to them 
successfully recovering more of his funds. Fundamentally, if the receiving bank considered 
that it was required to return the funds to Mr B, it couldve responded to Wise via the 
interbank messaging system, but it didnt do so.
Other issues
Mr B has referred to a final decision published on this services website. This decision was 
issued by another ombudsman but was a complaint against Wise and it was upheld. This 
decision related to a scam that took place over a year before the one Mr B fell victim to. Hes 
said that Wise shouldve improved its fraud detection and prevention methods in the 
intervening period.
Ive read the decision hes referred to carefully and I dont think theres anything in it that 
affects the outcome in this case. I dont know what steps Wise has taken since 2020 to 
improve its fraud detection systems. But as I set out above, Ive already made a finding that 
it didnt intervene despite a clear indication of the fraud risk. The difficulty is that I also need 
to be persuaded that the evidence shows that this failing was the cause of Mr Bs loss. For 
the reasons Ive already explained, Im not persuaded that it was. Mr B has also pointed to the failure by Wise to contact him during this process. Hes 
criticised the fact that it failed to communicate with him, even though hed suffered such a 
significant loss and was in contact daily. I dont think theres any evidence to suggest that 
this lack of contact caused him any financial loss. Nonetheless, I agree that he received poor 
customer service and that this caused him distress and inconvenience. However, I can see 
that Wise offered him £100 in recognition of that. I think thats an appropriate sum and hes 
free to accept it if he wants to do so.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman