DRN-4192100
The complaint
Mrs B complains Tesco Personal Finance Plc (Tesco) acted irresponsibly when it provided a 
credit card facility to her.
What happened
Mrs B says when she applied for a credit card in October 2017, Tesco approved a credit 
card limit of £5,800 although she already had considerable external finance which she was 
struggling to cope with. Mrs B says Tescos didnt undertake reasonable and proportionate 
checks before agreeing to the credit card account and their actions have contributed to her 
financial difficulties. Mrs B says she is now in a debt management plan and her credit card 
account has since been defaulted. 
Mrs B says she wants Tesco to refund the capital balance outstanding, refund all interest 
and charges with 8% simple interest and remove any negative information from her credit 
file. 
Tesco says it undertook reasonable checks before agreeing to the credit card facility. Tesco 
says the credit card account was maintained well and within the limit agreed up until it 
defaulted. Tesco says it received a request to enter into a payment plan and that is why it 
defaulted the credit card account. Tesco says it has done nothing wrong. 
Mrs B wasnt happy with Tescos response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld the complaint. The 
investigator felt Tescos should have carried out more checks than it did before approving 
the credit limit of £5,800. The investigator felt Tescos assessment of Mrs Bs net disposable 
income was incorrect as it  hadnt fully considered the sustainability of both her existing 
external indebtedness, with the level of the credit limit it approved. The investigator felt 
Tescos should have based its affordability on the assumption that Mrs B would fully draw 
the £5,800 credit limit it offered her and not base this on what she actually used. 
The investigator requested Tesco to refund all interest and charges charged to the credit 
card account and reduce any capital sum outstanding by this sum. The investigator 
suggested if that course of action led to a positive balance then 8% simple interest should be 
added to that sum and refunded to Mrs B. The investigator requested that any adverse credit 
information should be removed once the capital sum had been repaid in full. 
Tesco didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said :
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different outcome to that of the investigator and I will 
explain how I have come to my decision. 
I can see Mrs B has gone through a difficult time financially and it must be a worrying time 
for her. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Tesco acted irresponsibly when it provided 
the credit card facility to Mrs B and if its actions here contributed to her financial difficulties. 
Mrs Bs complaint centres around the fact Tescos didnt carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks before it approved a credit card account for her in November 2017 and 
this was a direct contributing factor to her financial difficulties. Mrs B has explained she is 
now in a debt management plan. 
While I understand the points Mrs B makes and those of the investigator in his view, Im not 
fully persuaded by the arguments here. Its worth saying theres no set rules as to what 
checks a bank like Tesco must undertake when considering a credit application, only that 
these are reasonable and proportionate taking into account the level of debt and term for 
example. 
So here, from the information I have seen while Mrs B did have access to other borrowing at 
the time she applied for the Tesco credit card, theres no evidence to suggest from her credit 
file she was under any financial pressure. I can also see Tescos carried out its own internal 
debt modelling, used the information from Mrs Bs application, undertook affordability 
checks, used industry data and its own internal credit scoring. That said there is an 
argument here given the level of external borrowing available to Mrs B, Tesco could have 
considered a deeper dive into Mrs Bs true income and expenditure, before approving the 
credit card account. 
But thats not the full picture here, whats important is that I have to consider whether or not, 
by Tesco providing the credit facilities it did, that directly contributed to Mrs Bs financial 
difficulties and whether the borrowing it provided was detrimental to her but Im not 
persuaded it was.  
I say this because from the information I have seen and from what Mrs B has told this 
service, she only ever used the credit card facility provided by Tesco, to replace an existing 
credit card debt which was at a higher interest rate. In fact, Mrs B only used around £1,300 
of the £5,800 facility provided to her in November 2017 for a balance transfer at 0% until 
February 2019.
In fact, its reasonable to say Mrs B financially benefitted from the use of the credit card 
facility Tesco provided, as it meant for the next 15 months or so she didnt pay any interest 
on her credit card account, which she would have if the facility hadnt been approved. Its 
also reasonable to say that if Mrs B hadnt made use of the credit card facility Tesco 
approved, there was a likelihood in all probability of Mrs B defaulting on her existing debt 
sooner with all the consequences that would bring. 
With that in mind and while I have some sympathy with Mrs B, I cant say Tescos actions 
have been a major factor to her financial difficulties, after all what happened here was she 
simply replaced an existing credit card debt at a higher interest rate to a card with Tesco with 
interest initially set at 0%. So, while Mrs B may not agree there was no obvious financial 
detriment to her, nor can I say she has been financially disadvantaged as a result of Tescos 
lending decision. 
While Mrs B will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Tesco. I gave both Mrs B and Tesco until 15 June 2023 to accept or reject my provisional decision. 
So, the case has now been passed back to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco havent responded to my provisional decision, but Mrs B has said she has nothing 
further to add. So, with that in mind I see no reason to change or alter my provisional 
decision and so my final decision remains the same. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman