DRN-2401288
The complaint
Mr S complains about the settlement offered by Society of Lloyds (SoL) under a property 
insurance claim.
What happened
When Mr S discovered squatters in his property, he began legal proceedings to have them 
evicted. After theyd left the property, Mr S made a claim under the policy for damage theyd 
caused and some other issues. 
Eventually, SoL offered Mr S £15,000 to settle the claim. Mr S was unhappy with this 
amount, and that SoL had applied four separate excess charges. He was also unhappy that 
SoL had refused to reimburse his legal fees. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought the items that 
hadnt been included in the settlement hadnt been damaged maliciously or accidentally, and 
so SoL didnt need to cover the damage. She also didnt think SoL needed to reimburse 
Mr S for his legal fees.  
Mr S didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Items not included in the settlement
The policy covers a number of insured events. One of those is malicious damage. 
The policy also provides some additional cover to the insured events. One of those is 
accidental damage. The policy defines this as:
physical damage caused suddenly and accidentally, and not through wear and tear, 
breakdown or malfunction.
The policy also excludes:
any loss or damage caused by or in part through misuse, poor maintenance or wear and 
tear at the premises.
The property had been renovated to a high standard before the squatters moved in, but 
required redecoration after theyd moved out. SoL has refused to pay for this, as well as 
several other damaged items that were listed by the investigator.
I understand that over a dozen adults and children were living in the property. Mr S confirms 
the property was only suitable for habitation by four people.
The policy doesnt define what is meant by malicious, but this service takes the view that 
damage is malicious if the person/s causing the damage intended to cause harm. 
Ive looked at the photos of the property and I see it was quite dirty and there were scuff 
marks and some pen marks. Taking into account the sort of damage, and the amount of 
people living at the property, I agree with our investigator that this damage was likely due to 
wear and tear.
Wirth regards to the specific items that were listed by our investigator as damaged (such as 
shower valves needing to be replaced, and the gas hob not working), the nature of the 
damage doesnt suggest that it was done deliberately or maliciously. I also havent seen any 
evidence to support that the damage happened suddenly and accidentally, and so it also 
doesnt fall under accidental damage.
There was also a rodent infestation at the property. The policy excludes loss or damage from 
vermin. In terms of removing the rodents themselves, that isnt an insured event under the 
policy. I dont agree with Mr S that a rodent infestation would be considered malicious 
damage.
I therefore dont require SoL to increase the settlement.
Excesses
The policy defines excess as:
the amount you will have to pay towards each separate claim.
The policy schedule confirms the standard policy excess is £100. 
SoL has applied four excess amounts, and thats for each section of cover the claim has 
been accepted under - theft, malicious damage, fly tipping, and accidental damage. 
If all the damage happened at the same time (for example, when the squatters left the 
property), then Id expect SoL to only apply one excess as itd be reasonable to say all the 
damage happened as one event. However, taking into account the damage that fell under 
the various sections of cover, I think its reasonable to say that this likely happened at 
different times and therefore it was appropriate for SoL to treat them as separate claims and 
apply the different excesses.
Legal costs
Mr S paid legal fees to have the squatters evicted.
The policy includes additional cover for additional expenses. It says this is:
any necessary expenses you may incur following loss or damage which is covered by an 
Insured Event for:
architects, surveyors, consulting/structural engineers and legal fees.
I think this means the legal fees would need to be a necessary expense in relation to 
damage thats covered by an insured event. However, the legal fees incurred by Mr S were for a separate matter  which was to evict the 
squatters. I therefore find that it was reasonable for SoL to turn down this aspect of Mr Ss 
claim. 
I note that Mr S could have taken out cover which would have covered the costs to remove 
the squatters, but he chose not to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman