DRN-3043122
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1991 and again in 2003. Mr and Mrs R say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them PPI. On each 
occasion they were arranging credit and took out a policy that protection each of them for 
50% of the benefit amount.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Rs circumstances at the times of the sales as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator upheld the sale of PPI in 1991 and did not uphold the complaint about the 
sale in 2003. Lloyds agreed with the adjudicator and offered to pay redress for the 1991 
policy in 2018. Mr and Mrs Rs representatives did not agree with the outcome reached by 
the adjudicator  they didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated the same 
complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision. 
It is not clear whether payment has been made yet for the policy sold in 1991. So, I include 
the sale in this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Rs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Rs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint about the sale in 1991. And Ive 
decided not to uphold the PPI sold in 2003. I explain why below. 
the 1991 sale
So, the questions I need to consider are whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs R information that 
was clear, fair and not misleading in order to put them in a position where they could make 
an informed choice about the insurance they were buying. And whether in giving any advice 
or recommendation, Lloyds took adequate steps to ensure the product it recommended was 
suitable for their needs. 
Because Lloyds cant identify how it sold the policy in 1991, it has assumed it was sold in 
branch and that they made a personal recommendation to Mr and Mrs R to buy the PPI. So, 
Lloyds had to make sure that the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs R. 
Mr R was self-employed at the time of the sale. We have seen a policy document that 
applied in 1991. The policy document says that the policy benefit will not be payable for,
Unemployment of any self-employed Insured Borrower unless resulting from compulsory 
liquidation or bankruptcy of his business.
I consider this was a significant limitation in this particular policy because for self-employed 
people to be able to make a successful claim for unemployment, they had to demonstrate 
that their business was insolvent. This effectively means a self-employed person would have 
to wait until their business had failed before making a claim. I think this is an onerous term. 
And I think that this made the policy unsuitable for Mr R.  
I think that if Mr Consumer knew about the terms that applied for a self-employed person 
claiming unemployment, he wouldve thought he was only likely to benefit from the other 
parts of the policy and wouldve thought the policy expensive because of that. So, I dont 
think they wouldve taken it out. 
I think that the policy was mis-sold and Lloyds needs to do something to put things right. 
what Lloyds should do to put things right
Lloyds should put Mr and Mrs R in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Lloyds should:
Pay Mr and Mrs R the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year. 
If Mr and Mrs R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Lloyds can take off 
what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr and Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
the 2003 sale
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons for this conclusion 
below:
 
I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr and Mrs R didnt have to take out the PPI and 
they chose to take it out. I say this because to get the cover Mr and Mrs R had to 
complete an application form for it. And the application was separate to the 
application they were making for credit at that time.Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs R, so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances at the time, 
shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For 
example, Mr and Mrs R were eligible for the cover and they had a need of the cover. 
I say that because Mr R and Mrs R told us that Mr R had no sick pay and the policy 
could have paid out in addition to Mrs Rs sick pay and for longer than her employer 
would have paid her at her full rate of pay. And Mr and Mrs R told us that they didnt 
have any other means to fall back on, so they had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr and Mrs Rs employment or occupation which would 
have made it difficult for them to claim. The limitation for self-employed people 
claiming unemployment cover that existed in 1991 didnt exist in the 2003 policy. And 
Mr and Mrs R havent told us about any pre-existing medical conditions that could 
affect their ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for 
mental health and/or back problems.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs R 
as I concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were 
buying from the information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it 
seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of 
this I dont think Mr and Mrs R would have declined the cover had Lloyds done 
anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs R would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Rs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Rs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Rs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Rs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
non-disclosure of commission
Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  
and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Lloyds didnt need to disclose the commission it received, so 
Lloyds doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs R paid. My reasons are 
set out below.
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin 
v Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who make the 
rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses to 
follow when theyre looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses will sometimes 
need to give consumers back some of the commission paid on certain PPI policies.
But this only applies to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements 
taken out before then which were still running on 6 April 2008. From the information Ive 
seen, the credit agreement in this case doesnt fit into these dates - and so I dont think 
Lloyds have to refund any of the commission paid on the PPI policy.
  
Putting things right
Ive explained above how Lloyds should put things right about the sale of PPI from 1991, in 
the section called, what Lloyds should do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am upholding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint about the PPI 
policy sold in 1991 and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr and Mrs R compensation in 
accordance with the calculation set out above, if it hasnt done so already. If Lloyds Bank 
PLC has already made payment of compensation for the policy sold in 1991, then I do not 
consider that Lloyds Bank PLC should do anything more.
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I 
have set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint about the policy sold in 2003 
 so I make no award for that policy.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman