DRN-3546052
The complaint
Ms Z complains that Revolut Ltd didnt do enough to protect her when she was the victim of 
a cryptocurrency investment scam. Ms Z lost her life savings of £50,200. She wants her 
money back.
Ms Z is being supported by a representative, but for ease, Ill refer to Ms Z throughout this 
decision. 
What happened
In early April 2021 Ms Z saw an advert on social media about investing in cryptocurrency. 
She completed the necessary forms and was contacted by an agent, who she believed to be 
from a legitimate cryptocurrency investment company, who helped her set up a Revolut 
account and an account with an online cryptocurrency exchange (which Ill refer to here as 
B) to facilitate the investment. Both accounts were in Ms Zs name. With the help of the 
scammer, Ms Z transferred money from another bank account (the originating bank) to her 
newly opened Revolut account. Between 2 April and 24 May 2021 Ms Z transferred eight 
payments from her Revolut account to B - ranging from £800 to £10,000. The money was 
then forwarded from B to the scammers. 
Upon becoming suspicious, Ms Z contacted Revolut on 7 July 2021. It contacted B on 7 
March 2022 to try and recover the funds on Ms Zs behalf. But it received no response. 
Ms Z complained to Revolut. It didnt think it had done anything wrong  and in particular, it 
said no fraud had taken place on Ms Zs Revolut account as the money was transferred to 
another account in her name B. Revolut accepted it had stopped the first payment of 
£10,000 due to its size and because it cleared Ms Zs account. Revolut didnt think any 
further intervention wouldve made a difference, given Ms Z continued to make payments to 
B. 
Ms Z remained unhappy and so referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Our 
Investigator considered the complaint and upheld it. She didnt think Revolut had acted fairly 
and reasonably in the circumstances. In essence, she said the warning Revolut issued in 
respect of the first payment wasnt sufficient, and if it had contacted Ms Z, she thought the 
scam wouldve been uncovered and the loss avoided. 
Revolut didnt agree. It wasnt persuaded that Ms Z was at any time pressured into making 
these payments  so had time to consider any warnings given before deciding to proceed. 
And that she couldve carried out due diligence at any time during the course of the eight 
payments if she had any concerns her money was at risk. So essentially, Revolut didnt think 
any warning it provided to Ms Z wouldve made a difference. 
Revolut added that if it had contacted Ms Z about the first payment, she wouldve said the 
payment was going to her own account with B. Revolut said it wouldve considered this as a 
legitimate payment  given B is a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange platform. Revolut 
added that:
It is the customers right to send as much money as they see fit to that platform. In fact, 
Revolut accounts are often used for precisely that purpose. Revolut could not have known 
what the funds would be used for after they had been sent to the customers [B] account, 
and it is not our job to question that.
Revolut said the fraud only took place when funds were transferred from B to the scammer. 
It said it shouldnt be held accountable for Ms Z loss, and that B should refund the money. 
As we have been unable to resolve matters, the case has been passed to me to consider. 
As part of my review, I put my initial thoughts on the case to Revolut for its comments. In 
summary, it didnt think it was liable for Ms Zs loss, arguing that no fraud took place at the 
point Ms Zs funds left her Revolut account. It maintained that B should be held accountable 
as it was from this account the funds were transferred to the scammer. 
Whilst Revolut accepted my view that it should be doing more to investigate payments that 
are flagged on its systems, it questioned whether Ms Zs payment of £10,000 shouldve 
flagged at all given there was no payment history for her and she was making the payment 
to an account in her own name. With that in mind, Revolut thought Ms Zs originating bank 
from where she transferred the £10,000 to Revolut should also be held accountable for her 
loss. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. And for largely the same reasons as our 
Investigator. I want to assure Revolut that Ive thought carefully about the further points its 
put to me as part of my review. But I cant say its treated Ms Z fairly. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome. 
Is Revolut accountable for Ms Zs loss?
Revoluts main point is whether it should be accountable in any way for Ms Zs loss. I 
recognise the losses occurred later than the transfer from Revolut, involved other financial 
institutions, and possibly required further action by Ms Z. But I dont have the power to 
consider a complaint about B in respect of this complaint. And Ms Z hasnt raised a 
complaint about the originating bank. 
Revolut had an obligation to protect Ms Z from financial harm, irrespective of where the 
money came from or what happened to it after if left her Revolut account. And so, Im 
considering Ms Zs complaint about Revolut on that basis. 
Is Revolut responsible for Ms Zs loss?
I accept the transactions Ms Z made were authorised payments, even though she was the 
victim of a sophisticated investment scam. So, although she didnt intend the money to go to 
the scammer, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions 
of her account, Ms Z is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.  However, taking into account what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time, I consider Revolut should fairly and reasonably:
 Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
 Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
 In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Revolut identified the first transaction of £10,000 as suspicious. I accept the account was 
only recently opened, so there was no history to compare this transaction to. And I recognise 
that Revolut accounts are often used for one-off high value transfers. But this was a high 
value transfer to a cryptocurrency exchange after the account was recently opened.  These 
are all common indicators of cryptocurrency scams. So, I think that this combination of 
factors, alongside the fact the transaction did flag as part of Revoluts own fraud systems, 
suggests to me that Revolut ought to have intervened.  
Revolut has since questioned whether the payment shouldve flagged at all given Ms Z was 
making the payment to an account in her own name. Even though its the case that with 
cryptocurrency scams the first payment is often made to accounts in the customers name, in 
almost all cases were satisfied firms wouldnt have known this  so the usual triggers apply 
in terms of out of character or unusual payments. Revolut has told us this isnt true. It says 
B will only accept deposits from accounts in the customers name. But, even in those cases, 
a financial institution wont know the circumstances surrounding a payment. So, if a 
transaction stands out as being remarkable, as I think the £10,000 should have, an 
intervention should still normally take place.
Revolut also said the fact someone would empty their account by sending money to a 
cryptocurrency exchange platform would seem like an obvious scam pattern if we were 
talking about a normal bank account. But it said that in the case of Revolut, this is a common 
occurrence, as many customers use their Revolut accounts as a safe intermediary between 
their savings and their various investment attempts. I would argue that by this logic, Revolut 
ought to be more up to date with common investment scams than many banks  including 
cryptocurrency scams - and it ought to be informed enough to provide meaningful warnings 
to its customers.
And I would argue also that Revolut should be assessing the risk to each customer on the 
specific merits of the payments that are made and whether they flag as suspicious, as it did 
in the case of Ms Z  rather than applying an approach based on the how its accounts are 
used more generally.
So, as Ive outlined above, I think Revolut was right to flag the £10,000 payment as 
suspicious. What Ive gone on to consider is whether Revolut did enough in response to the 
risk it identified.
Did Revolut do enough when it identified the risk?
Revolut has explained that it blocked the first payment and displayed a message which said:
Review transferOur systems have identified your transaction as highly suspicious. We declined it to 
protect you.
If you decide to make the payment again anyway, you can, and we wont decline it. 
As we have warned you this payment is highly suspicious and to not make the 
payment, if the person you pay turns out to be a fraudster, you may lose all you your 
money and never get it back.
You can learn more about how to assess this payment and protect yourself from this 
link: https://takefive-stopfraud.org.uk/
Revolut has accepted it should do more to investigate the circumstances surrounding the 
payments it flags as suspicious. But this didnt happen in Ms Zs case. And as a matter of 
good industry practice, I think Revolut ought fairly and reasonably to have done more here.
While I appreciate Revolut is generally expected to follow payment instructions, that isnt an 
unfettered duty. Reasonable checks and balances are also required as part of the broad 
regulatory landscape to treat customers fairly and to safeguard against the risk of fraud or 
financial harm. I accept theres a limit to what can reasonably be done. But in this case, Im 
conscious that Revolut had already disrupted the payment journey by blocking the payment 
 regardless of the fact it is now saying the payment shouldnt have been stopped. And Im 
not persuaded that the subsequent action it took was enough to meet its obligations to 
protect Ms Z from financial harm from fraud. 
I appreciate that Revolut warned Ms Z that it considered the transactions to be highly 
suspicious. But it didnt give any further information about why the payment appeared 
suspicious  or any information about the type of scam Ms Z was at risk from (or really any 
scams). Without that information, Ms Z couldnt be expected, from this warning alone, to 
understand why the payment was suspicious or that a scammer might be involved. Yet 
Revolut allowed her to re-make the blocked transaction immediately afterwards, despite 
knowing nothing more about the purpose of the payment or the circumstances surrounding 
it. 
I think Revolut should have done more in relation to the risk it identified. For example, after 
blocking the payment, it wouldve been more appropriate to contact Ms Z or require her to 
get in touch, so it could make further enquiries before deciding how to proceed. 
Would appropriate intervention have made a difference?
Revolut doesnt think any more interaction with Ms Z when the first payment was blocked 
wouldve made a difference. And that its not obliged to question a customer on why theyre 
sending funds to a legitimate exchange platform in their own name. 
Im afraid I dont agree. Even if intervention between Revolut and Ms Z wouldve identified 
that the payment was going to her own account for the purposes of a cryptocurrency 
investment, the conversation shouldnt have stopped there on the basis that the money 
appeared to be going somewhere safe and within her control. This is because by January 
2019, we think firms had, or ought to have had, a good enough understanding of how these 
scams work  including that the consumer often moves money to an account in their own 
name before moving it on again to the scammer - to have been able to identify the risk of 
harm from fraud. 
In these scenarios, wed have expected firms to ask additional questions. While it is not up 
to us to dictate which questions firms should ask, they couldve, for example, asked how the 
customer had been contacted, whether theyd parted with personal details in order to open a 
trading account, whether they were being helped by any third parties e.g. a broker, whether the investment opportunity was linked to a prominent individual, advertised on social media 
etc. These are typical features of cryptocurrency scams. 
Ms Z wasnt an experienced investor and hadnt invested in cryptocurrency before. Shed 
seen the advert enticing her to invest on social media and been advised by the scammer to 
set up both a Revolut account and an account with B to facilitate the investment. This was 
all done by the scammer having taken control of Ms Zs computer, using documentation hed 
asked her to provide to him. She was also never provided with a contact number for the 
scammer and was guaranteed she could invest without losing any money. Nor was she 
provided with a cover story by the scammer in the event she was asked about the reason for 
the transfer. 
So, taking all this into account, if Revolut had responded appropriately to the risk it identified 
from the first transfer by contacting Ms Z, I think its more than likely she wouldve told 
Revolut exactly what the scammer had told her to do and what shed been promised. At that 
point the scam wouldve been revealed, and the first payment, along with all subsequent 
payments, wouldnt have happened. I therefore believe appropriate action by Revolut 
wouldve prevented Ms Zs entire loss.
Should Ms Z hold some responsibility for her loss?
Ive considered carefully whether Ms Z should hold some responsibility for her loss by way of 
contributory negligence. I think a reasonable person, having spoken to who she thought was 
an experienced cryptocurrency investor, might be persuaded that the investment was 
legitimate. Particularly bearing in mind the social engineering and persuasion tactics used by 
the scammer (coaching her through the process, assuring her of his investment experience 
and speaking to her in her native language). All of which would make it hard for Ms Z to 
identify and reflect on any warning signs or carry out any checks before deciding to invest. I 
dont think Ms Z acted unreasonably here.
Ms Z continued to make payments over a period of time  but she was unaware her money 
was at risk. She was in constant contact with the scammer, who called her regularly about 
her investment, advising her on what to do and reassuring her of the gains she could make. 
And the scammer used a particular type of software that allowed Ms Z to physically see her 
investment and the gains she was making. She was completely caught up in the scam, and I 
dont think she ought to have reasonably known she was being scammed or alerted to 
anything that would have prompted her to carry out any due diligence checks whilst the 
payments were being made. It was only at the point she wanted access to her gains, and 
was asked for more money to facilitate this, that she became suspicious. 
For the reasons Ive set out above, I also dont think the warning  with no details about why 
the first payment was suspicious or about the scam  would have reasonably alerted Ms Z to 
the risk. Considering her circumstances and the tactics of the scammer, I consider it 
reasonable that she was still persuaded that the payment was legitimate  and so went on to 
make another seven payments oblivious to the scam. 
In all the circumstances, I dont think there was contributory negligence here. Ms Z was 
simply a victim of a sophisticated cryptocurrency investment scam and wasnt partly to 
blame for what happened.
Putting things right
Revolut should have done more to protect Ms Z from the risk of financial harm from fraud. 
So, it should refund her £50,200, and pay her interest at the rate she was receiving on her account with the originating bank (0.1%) from the date of the first payment to the date of 
settlement.  
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint is upheld. Revolut Ltd should:
 Refund the £50,200 Ms Z transferred to the scammer.
 Pay 0.1% interest (the account interest from the originating bank) on this amount, per 
year, from the date the first payment left the account (2 April 2021) to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman