DRN-2906312
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy with Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limiteds (Red Sands) 
decision to decline a claim she made under her pet insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2021, Ms C contacted Red Sands to make a claim under her pet insurance 
policy, for an operation her dog, who Ill call C, needed. The operation was for the removal of 
a mass  known as a Lipoma.
Red Sands considered the claim and declined it. It said it had looked at Cs clinical history, 
and this showed that signs of the problem were first noted by a vet in May 2018. And the 
policy Ms C had taken out only covered an illness or condition for 365 days from when it was 
first noted by the policyholder or a vet. 
It said as Ms C was making a claim for Lipoma removal in February 2021, the 365 days 
cover under the policy had passed  this would have been exhausted in May 2019.
Ms C didnt consider this to be fair, and she raised this with Red Sands. She said that to 
have decided to operate on C prior to February 2021 would have been against veterinary 
advice. So, she felt it was unreasonable for Red Sands to suggest she should have gone 
against this advice and claimed earlier than she did. Ms C also said, if she had decided to 
remove the lump earlier, this would have been considered as elective surgery under the 
policy  and then she wouldnt have been covered because of this either. 
Red Sands responded to Ms Cs complaint and maintained its position. It said that given 
information on when the condition was first noted, there was no cover under the policy  as 
the policy was time limited. It also confirmed that it had acted correctly by imposing an 
exclusion under the policy for all future Lipomas and resulting conditions.
As Ms C remained dissatisfied, she referred her complaint to this service for an independent 
review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She thought 
that Red Sands had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, by saying the 
365 days cover under the policy ended in May 2019, given the medical information seen. 
And she thought Red Sands had acted reasonably in applying the exclusion noted above, 
given Lipoma was no longer something the policy could respond to. 
Ms C didnt agree. She reiterated that she acted in line in veterinary advice. And she thought 
the 365-day time limit on the policy should start from February 2021, when she was advised 
Cs lump should be removed. Therefore, meaning the claim would be covered.
Because Ms C didnt agree, her case has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment to Ms C. But I have explained my reasoning for this below.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of the policy purchased by Ms C. On doing this, I can 
see the policy is a time limited one. And that the documents provided for the policy explains 
what this means. Ms Cs policy schedule notes that claims are limited to 12 months in 
duration. And the insurance product information document (IPID), which sets out the keys 
facts of the cover says;
Our Time Limited pet insurance policies offer cover from accidents, illnesses and 
conditions. Your pet will be covered for 365 days after the condition is first noted by yourself 
or your vet, so this could mean when symptoms first arose or when an accident happened.
The above is also noted in the policy summary, contained in the full policy booklet. Given 
this, Im satisfied that Red Sands have made it clear that cover for under the policy for an 
illness, accident or condition (such as a Lipoma), will only be covered for 365 days from the 
date the issue was first noted.
With this in mind, Ive needed to think about when the lump C had was first noted by Ms C or 
the vet. To consider this Ive reviewed the notes completed by the vet when Ms C and her 
dog C visited the veterinary practice.
The clinic notes first note the presence of a lump in May 2018. This says;
Soft s/c mass right lateral thorax/axilla region, owner says very slow growing and doesn't 
seem to bother C, most likely lipoma but would need FNA to confirm.
Following this, there are regular notes from vet visits which mention the lump. In May 2019 
the notes say that Ms C thought the lump had grown, and therefore the vet recommended 
further investigations. These investigations came back, noting the lump was most consistent 
with a Lipoma. In November 2019 the vet noted that the lump had probably doubled in size 
over the time it had been growing. And in February 2021 the vet recommended removal of 
the Lipoma, given concerns that it could inhibit movement.
Given the above, Im satisfied the illness or condition in this case, was first noted by a vet in 
May 2018. Therefore, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, which I consider to 
be clear, the 365 days cover started from May 2018, running to May 2019, not from February 
2021 as Ms C has suggested. This means that when Ms C made a claim in February 2021, 
the loss was no longer covered. 
Ms C has explained that her vet didnt advise the removal of the mass when the issue was 
first noted, and in fact said there was no need to remove the lump as it wasnt causing C any 
problems. I dont doubt what Ms C has said here  Ive seen comments in the clinical notes 
completed by the vet to reflect this. And I appreciate what Ms C has said about acting in line 
with this advice. But this doesnt change the fact that the policy doesnt cover the issue after 
the 365-day period explained above. And the vet is unlikely to have known this. It would be 
for Ms C to be aware of the terms of the policy she had chosen and navigate the matter from 
there.
Ive thought about Ms Cs point that if she had raised a claim earlier then February 2021 
when the vet advised surgery, her claim would have been declined then too  because the 
surgery would have been elective. And elective treatment is excluded under the policy. Red 
Sands has said this wouldnt have been elective  as the claim was to deal with a medical condition  rather than a choice  for example dew claw removal when there were no clinical 
signs to confirm a condition. Ms C didnt make a claim earlier than February 2021  and so 
Im satisfied this point doesnt make a difference to the outcome of this complaint. But I cant 
see anything to suggest the claim would have been declined at an earlier point for being 
considered as elective surgery anyway. 
Due to the above, I dont think Red Sands has acted unfairly in declining the claim.
Red Sands has now also placed an exclusion on the policy to say that it wont cover 
Lipomas or resulting conditions. Im also satisfied this is fair. It is clear from the above 
policy wording that it was never Red Sands intention to cover a condition after the initial 365 
days  and this exclusion is just another piece of information that highlights this. Red Sands 
has provided evidence to me to show that if a pet had a Lipoma, it would add an exclusion to 
the policy for this, and any resulting conditions. So, Im satisfied applying this term is in line 
with how Red Sands would treat other customers in the same situation. And so, I dont 
require it to do anything differently here.
My final decision
In light of the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. And so I dont 
require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited, to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman