DRN-1659108
The complaint
Miss M says Skipton Building Society mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Miss M took out a PPI covering her mortgage in 1987. She paid a monthly amount for the 
policy. 
Skipton said the PPI wasn't mis-sold and that the regulator's rules on undisclosed high levels 
of commission and profit share didn't apply because the mortgage was redeemed (paid off) 
in 1991. 
Our adjudicator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. Miss M disagreed, so I've been 
asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasn't mis-sold because I think Skipton made it clear that Miss M 
didn't have to take out the PPI, and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why 
he cant remember this.
Skipton recommended the PPI to Miss M so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, she wasn't affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Skipton gave Miss M about the PPI wasn't as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take it out  so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like 
it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover. 
This means Skipton doesn't have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Skipton has paid back some cost of the PPI to Miss M because it got a high level of 
commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  so it should have told 
Miss M about that. Because Skipton didn't tell Miss M, that was unfair. To put that right, 
Skipton has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of the 
PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss M has said. But these points dont change my decision.My final decision
The PPI policy wasn'tmis-sold  so Skipton Building Society does not have to pay back all 
the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Skipton Building Society does have to pay back to Miss M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman