DRN-4459392
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Zurich Assurance Ltd declined a claim he made on his life insurance 
policy and cancelled the policy.
What happened
Mr B was diagnosed with cancer in 2022 and claimed on his life insurance policy. 
The claim was declined because Zurich said hed answered the question it asked about 
smoking incorrectly. And it considered this to be a deliberate or reckless qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to decline the claim and cancel the policy. Zurich 
refunded the premiums to Mr B. 
Mr B said he had been a smoker but had given up. He said that the seller of the policy, 
which is a separate business to Zurich, had some responsibility. And, when he received the 
policy documentation it referred to non-smoker which was accurate at the relevant time. 
Mr B complained to Zurich, but they maintained their decision. So, Mr B complained to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and upheld Mr Bs complaint. He thought that 
even if the answers to the application questions had captured that Mr B had never smoked 
the policy documentation wouldnt have made this clear to Mr B as it referred to non-
smoker. He recommended that Zurich reinstated the policy and reassessed the claim. He 
said that if the claim was accepted then Zurich should settle the claim proportionately to 
reflect the additional premiums Mr B should have paid and that they could deduct the 
premiums theyd refunded from the settlement. He also recommended £150 compensation 
for distress and inconvenience. 
Zurich didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary, they 
said the questions asked werent ambiguous and the answer taken was in good faith. They 
said this was replayed to Mr B in the Personal Details Confirmation (PDC). They referred to 
the relevant Code of insurers and said that they thought the investigators opinion conflicted 
with it. 
So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Zurich thinks Mr B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation was asked 
about his tobacco and nicotine usage. He was asked to select one of the following options: 
Regular, occasional or social use
Completely stopped within 12 months
Completely stopped between 1 and 3 years ago
Completely stopped between 2 and 5 years ago
Completely stopped more than 5 years ago
Never used.
The answer never used was recorded. Theres no dispute that this information was 
incorrect. Mr B had previously smoked but had given up in 2018. Thats confirmed by the 
medical information provided by Mr Bs GP. So, I think Mr B failed to take reasonable care 
when answering the question. 
Zurich has provided evidence that if theyd been aware Mr B had given up smoking, theyd 
have charged him a higher premium. That means Im satisfied Mr Bs misrepresentation was 
a qualifying one. 
The key issue in dispute is whether Zurich has fairly concluded that the misrepresentation 
was deliberate or reckless. Im not persuaded that it was for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
I think, on balance, its fair and reasonable to conclude that the misrepresentation was 
careless. 
Mr B was sent a policy schedule and a PDC. The policy schedule referred to Mr B as a 
non smoker. The PDC had a table which said, Tobacco and Nicotine usage and next to 
this it says, never used. Mr B has made the point that at the time of the application that 
information was correct  he wasnt smoking, and he never used nicotine or tobacco 
products. So, I dont think this would have highlighted to him that hed given the wrong 
answer during the application process and needed to change it. 
Ive also considered that Mr B had a previous policy with Zurich and had fully disclosed his 
smoking history. I wouldnt expect Zurich to check that application form against the more 
recent one. But it seems unlikely to me that hed have chosen not to disclose it on this 
occasion on purpose or that he realised that the answers hed given were incorrect. I find it 
more likely that there was a careless error when completing the original application, which 
was completed using a dropdown menu, as opposed to a deliberate or reckless one. And, I 
dont think the schedule or PDC would have highlighted to Mr B that there was an error with 
the answer he provided during the application process. 
In reaching this conclusion Ive considered the Association of British Insurers code of practice that Zurich has referred to. That includes section 7.4.4 which says:
Lifestyle information  since lifestyle information is usually more familiar and easier 
for customers to understand, it follows that customers should give a particularly 
credible and convincing explanation for clearly evidenced misrepresentation not to be 
classified as deliberate or reckless. 
I think Mr B has given a credible and convincing explanation for the reasons Ive explained 
above. That includes, but isnt limited to, the consistency of his testimony, the way in which 
the application process was completed and the available documentation. On balance, I think 
it most likely that this was a misrepresentation because of insufficient care or an inadvertent 
mistake. 
Zurich have also referred to a previous case considered by the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. But every case is different and turns on its own facts. I think there are important 
differences between the factual and overall circumstances of the case Zurich has referred to. 
So, this point hasnt changed my thoughts about the overall outcome of this complaint.
As Im satisfied that Mr Bs misrepresentation should be treated as careless Ive looked at 
the actions Zurich can take in accordance with CIDRA. If Mr B had disclosed his history of 
smoking accurately Zurich would have charged him an additional premium. Mr B has paid 
71.6% of the premium he should have done. I think Zurich should therefore reinstate the 
policy, reassess the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and settle the claim 
proportionately if its accepted.
Mr B has been caused a lot of worry and upset because his claim was declined, and the 
policy was cancelled. This all took place at a time when he was dealing with a cancer 
diagnosis and was concerned about his health including his ability to work and to provide for 
his family. So, I think £150 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused.    
Putting things right
Zurich needs to put things right by: 
Reinstating Mr Bs Decreasing Life Cover and Critical Illness policy and reconsidering 
his critical illness claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
If the claim is accepted, Zurich settling the claim proportionally by paying 71.6% of 
the sum payable based upon the premium Mr B paid against what should have been 
paid. As the premiums have been refunded Zurich would be entitled to deduct the 
already refunded premiums from the proportionate settlement.
Paying £150 to recognise the worry and upset caused in having the policy avoided at 
a time where he was experiencing a significant change in health and was concerned 
about his finances.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Bs complaint and direct Zurich Assurance Limited to put things right in the 
way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman