DRN-2865773
The complaint
Mr B complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC gave him incorrect information about how long
a payment arrangement for his personal loan would show on his credit file for.
What happened
In 2017 Mr B took out a Tesco personal loan with contractual monthly repayments of 
£157.22.
In November 2019, Mr B called Tesco to ask what his repayment options were after recently 
becoming unemployed. Various options were discussed, but it was agreed Mr Bs monthly 
repayments would reduce to £50 for a short time. Tesco sent Mr B a letter confirming this.
By around April 2020, Mr Bs monthly repayments had returned to normal and hed repaid 
his arrears. But Mr B says he was later unable to get a credit card and mortgage he wanted 
because the repayment arrangement was still showing on his credit file. Mr B thought Tesco 
had told him in the November 2019 call that his credit file would return to normal once hed 
repaid his loan arrears. So he complained to Tesco.
Tesco said that when Mr B called, it had explained the options and told him a repayment 
arrangement would show on his credit file. And it was right to report the arrangement to 
credit reference agencies. But Tesco said there might have been confusion when Mr B 
asked for clarification about how the arrangement would show on his credit file, because 
Tesco had meant it wouldn't continue to report arrears on the arrangement once the account 
was up to date. It seems Tesco offered Mr B £25 compensation for that.
Mr B remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service. After looking into it, our 
investigator thought Tesco could have been clearer in the call and that £100 was fairer 
compensation.
Mr B disagreed. He said he only agreed to the repayment arrangement because Tesco told 
him it wouldnt show on his credit file once the arrears were cleared. And if Tesco had told 
him the correct information, he would have used his savings to pay his contractual monthly 
repayments. Instead, Tescos incorrect information left him unable to get the credit card and 
mortgage he wanted, so hed paid more interest on these than he should have. And he 
explained this had caused him distress and worry.
As Mr B disagreed, his complaint was passed to me for consideration. I shared my initial 
thoughts with Mr B and Tesco. I said Tesco could have asked Mr B if he had savings when 
he called. And that it had incorrectly said his credit file would return to normal once his 
arrears were cleared. If not for this, I thought Mr B wouldnt have agreed to an arrangement 
and wouldve used his savings to make payments so it wouldnt have been recorded on his 
credit file. I said Tesco should put things right by removing the arrangement information on 
Mr Bs credit file, recalculating Mr Bs loan as if hed paid his usual monthly repayments and 
refunding Mr B if hed paid too much interest, and by paying Mr B £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience its errors caused him. But I said Id not seen enough evidence of 
Mr Bs financial loss in relation to the credit card and mortgage to award compensation for 
that.
Mr B provided further evidence to support his argument that Tesco had caused him a 
financial loss, including a statement from his mortgage adviser, a mortgage completion 
statement, credit card statements, and online credit card application information.
Tesco agreed with my initial thoughts and confirmed Mr B hadnt been charged any 
additional interest. But it said asking Mr B if he had savings could be considered as giving 
financial advice, which it's not regulated to provide. And that while it would remove the 
arrangement data from Mr Bs credit file and ensure his loan repayments show as being 
received correctly, it might not be able to edit the payment amounts for this period since it 
has a duty to record data accurately.
On 28 April 2021 I issued my provisional decision. In it, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Bs complaint is that Tesco incorrectly advised him that a repayment 
arrangement would only affect his credit file up to the point the arrears were cleared. Mr B 
has since found out thats not the case  hes told us he had mortgage and credit card 
applications rejected and so has paid more interest for these than he should have.
Ive listened to Mr Bs call with Tesco. Mr B said hed become unemployed about three 
weeks ago, expected it to be a short term situation since he was looking for work, and had 
attended interviews he was waiting to hear back from. Mr B said he was ok in the short term 
but was thinking ahead in case the situation didnt resolve soon, because he was hoping to 
apply for a mortgage and wanted to avoid missing payments and damaging his credit file.
Tesco talked to Mr B about his circumstances, as Id expect. But it didnt ask whether Mr B 
had any savings that he could use. I think its reasonable to expect Tesco to have explored 
this with Mr B, given what Mr B had already told it and because Mr Bs usual monthly 
repayments were relatively low at £157.22. I know Tesco says this could be considered as 
giving financial advice which it's not regulated to provide. But Im satisfied that asking Mr B if 
he had savings as part of a conversation about his circumstances at that time doesnt 
amount to providing financial advice.
Instead, breathing space and reduced monthly payments were discussed. Mr B didnt want 
breathing space because Tesco said the missed payment would show on his credit file. 
Tesco correctly said a reduced monthly repayment arrangement would also show on Mr Bs 
credit file. But when Mr B sought clarification about this, Tesco said once those arrears are 
cleared, then your credit file will just go back to normal again. That wasnt correct, so Im 
satisfied that was an error on Tescos part.
Tesco did send Mr B a letter afterwards confirming the repayment arrangement. And the 
letter does say the arrangement will be reported to credit reference agencies and that Mr B 
may find his ability to obtain further credit is affected. But it didnt say anything about how 
long Mr Bs credit file would be affected for. And Tesco had already incorrectly told Mr B that 
once his arrears were cleared, his credit file would return to normal.
Mr B says if Tesco hadnt incorrectly told him this, hed have used his savings to cover his 
normal monthly loan repayments. Having a good credit file was clearly very important to 
Mr B and hes provided evidence of his savings at around that time. Given this, I think its 
more likely than not that Mr B would have used his savings to cover his usual monthly repayments, had Tesco given him the correct information. Therefore, it follows Mr B wouldnt 
have agreed to a repayment arrangement and so wouldnt have it recorded on his credit file. 
Tesco has confirmed Mr B hasnt paid more interest than he should have because of this 
arrangement. But Tesco will still need to remove the repayment arrangement information it 
added to Mr Bs credit file.
Mr B says having the repayment arrangement on his credit file means he couldnt get the 
credit card and mortgage he wanted and so hes paid more interest than he should. And hes 
provided evidence in support of this. Ive considered this evidence carefully. But I cant safely 
conclude Mr B would have been able to get better credit card and mortgage interest rates 
but for this arrangement being recorded on his credit file. I know this will be very 
disappointing to Mr B, but Ill explain why.
Im mindful that lenders, particularly for mortgages, take many factors into account. They will 
consider the consumers credit file. But they will also consider their own lending criteria, and 
this criteria will be based on many factors, including the lenders own appetite for risk and 
wider economic conditions at a given time.
In addition, lenders will also often consider how long a consumer has been employed for. Im 
aware Mr B unfortunately became unemployed in around October 2019 before starting new 
employment in around December 2019. As Mr B started new employment less than a year 
before he started having difficulties getting a new credit card (May 2020) and a new 
mortgage (September 2020), its likely Mr Bs length of employment may have affected what 
lending he was offered.
Mr Bs mortgage adviser says that without this repayment arrangement on his file, Mr B and 
his partner would have been able to apply for mortgages with better rates. But even if Mr B 
had been eligible to apply for these mortgages, he would still have needed to go through the 
application process. And given the various lending factors Ive already mentioned, I cant say 
for sure what the outcome of that application process would have been. Taking all this into 
account, I cant fairly say Tesco is responsible for causing Mr B a financial loss.
But Mr B was very upset and disappointed to discover that the arrangement had in fact 
stayed on his credit file, despite him taking care to try and make sure his credit file wouldnt 
be adversely affected. And I can understand Mr B would be very distressed to think this had 
prevented him from at least having the opportunity of being considered for better mortgage 
deals. This distress has already continued for an extended period of time. And I think Mr B 
is, at times and to at least some degree, likely to be left feeling the unfairness of this loss of 
opportunity over the remaining years of the five year fixed mortgage he took out. Tescos 
error also caused Mr B unnecessary inconvenience in trying to arrange a mortgage, which 
hes told us caused him additional unnecessary distress at an already difficult time.
Given this, Im intending to ask Tesco to pay Mr B more compensation that the £100 I 
suggested in my initial thoughts. Instead, I think £800 is fairer compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience Tescos errors caused Mr B.
Mr B responded to say I was incorrect that length of employment is a lending factor, as he 
was only asked for three months of payslips when he applied for his mortgage and his 
partner was only employed since May 2020. And that Tesco itself said its error affected his 
ability to obtain future credit and I quoted this in my provisional decision. Mr B said £800 
went some way towards compensating him for his distress and inconvenience, but I hadnt 
addressed the financial impact. And that had Tesco properly dealt with his complaint in May 
2020 and removed the mark on his credit file, he wouldnt be in this position. 
Tesco didnt respond to my provisional decision. Ive now gone on to make my final decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not departing from my provisional decision. I realise this will be very 
disappointing to Mr B, but Ill explain why and address the further comments hes provided.
Mr B says it was incorrect of me to say length of employment is a lending factor, and he 
would like me to award compensation for his financial loss. I explained in my provisional 
decision that lenders will also often consider how long a consumer has been employed 
for. Whilst Mr B may not agree with me, this is correct.  I also explained that they take many 
other factors into account too. And that even if Mr B had been eligible to apply for mortgages 
on better rates, he would still have needed to go through the application process  and given 
the various lending factors, I couldnt be certain what the outcome of that application process 
would have been. So while Mr B may only have been asked to provide three months of 
payslips and his partner only employed since May 2020, this doesnt mean length of 
employment wasnt taken into account. Nor does it mean that Mr B definitely would have 
been approved for other mortgages if it had not been for Tescos mistake. Therefore I cant 
conclude Tesco is responsible for causing Mr B a financial loss, so I wont be awarding 
compensation for that. 
Mr B says Tesco said its error affected his ability to obtain future credit and that I quoted this 
in my provisional decision. What I think Mr B is referring to here is where I said Tesco did 
send Mr B a letter afterwards confirming the repayment arrangement. And the letter does 
say the arrangement will be reported to credit reference agencies and that Mr B may find his 
ability to obtain further credit is affected. But this letter only says Mr Bs ability to obtain 
further credit may be affected, not that it will be affected. And as Ive explained, I cant safely 
conclude Tesco caused Mr B a financial loss.
Mr B says he wouldnt be in this position if Tesco had properly dealt with his complaint in 
May 2020 and removed the mark on his credit file. I cant safely conclude Tesco has caused 
Mr B a financial loss. But as I set out in my provisional decision, I think Mr B wouldnt have 
agreed to a repayment arrangement and so wouldnt have it recorded on his credit file. 
Therefore I agree Mr B shouldnt have had the arrangement recorded on his credit file in the 
first place. Thats why my provisional decision said Tesco should remove it from Mr Bs 
credit file, and its partly why I said Tesco should also pay Mr B £800 compensation.  
Putting things right
Tesco should remove the repayment arrangement information it added to Mr Bs credit file 
and ensure it doesnt have an adverse effect on his credit file. And Tesco should pay Mr B a 
total of £800 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its errors have caused him.  My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
should remove the repayment arrangement information it added to Mr Bs credit file and 
ensure it doesnt have an adverse effect on his credit file. And it should pay Mr B a total of 
£800 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its errors have caused him.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman