DRN-2730194
The complaint
Mr E complains that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint last month. In that decision I explained why 
I thought that part of the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a copy of 
that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from my decision below. 
I said;
Mr E was given three loans by Loans 2 Go. The final two loans were used, in part, to 
refinance his earlier borrowing. At the time he made the complaint, Mr E was facing 
problems repaying the final loan and a balance remained outstanding. A summary of 
Mr Es borrowing from Loans 2 Go is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
AmountTerm 
(Months)
1 03/08/2018 Refinanced £ 300 18
2 24/10/2018 Refinanced £ 500 18
3 08/01/2019 - £ 1,000 18
The rules and regulations at the time Loans 2 Go gave these loans to Mr E required it 
to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to 
repay what he owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes 
referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about 
whether repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse 
consequences for Mr E. In practice this meant that Loans 2 Go had to ensure that 
making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr E undue difficulty or adverse 
consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about 
the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr E.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan 
application. In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be 
dependent upon a number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular 
circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and 
outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / 
type / cost of credit they are seeking.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate 
check shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any 
indications of borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future 
circumstances. Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go 
did what it needed to before agreeing to lend to Mr E.
Loans 2 Go gathered some information from Mr E before it agreed each loan. It 
asked him for details of his income, and his normal expenditure. And it checked his 
credit file to assess how much he was repaying to other creditors and how hed 
managed credit in the past.
Mr E was entering into significant commitments with Loans 2 Go. He would need to 
make monthly repayments for periods of 18 months. So I think it was right that Loans 
2 Go wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about 
Mr Es financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks 
Loans 2 Go did before each loan were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs 
to react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial 
situation. Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan 
application outright.
In response to our adjudicators assessment Loans 2 Go has agreed that it shouldnt 
have given loans 2 and 3 to Mr E. So I dont need to spend much time considering 
those loans. But for completeness I will note that I agree with our adjudicators 
conclusions that the information returned by Loans 2 Gos credit checks, and that 
Mr E was using the loans to refinance his previous borrowing, should have been 
indicators that he was facing problems managing his money. I agree with our 
adjudicator that Loans 2 Go shouldnt have given these two loans to Mr E, and I will 
direct it to pay him some compensation.
But as I said earlier, Loans 2 Go doesnt agree with the adjudicators conclusions in 
relation to the first loan. And below I set out why I am reaching a different conclusion 
to our adjudicator and intending to decide that the loan wasnt lent irresponsibly.
Ive looked carefully at the information Loans 2 Gos checks showed before the first 
loan was agreed. That loan was relatively small, and as a result the amount Mr E 
needed to pay each month was relatively small too. But he was making a 
commitment to make those repayments for a relatively long period of time. So it was 
right that Loans 2 Gos checks independently verified some information about Mr Es 
finances.I dont think the results of the checks before loan 1 suggested that Mr E was facing 
any serious problems with his finances. He hadnt always managed his credit well  
his credit file showed a county court judgement from around 18 months before, and a 
number of defaults that had been added around two years earlier. But in the lead up 
to the loan being agreed Mr E appeared to have got his finances back on track.
I have seen that Mr Es credit cards were around their credit limit  but in mitigation 
two of those credit limits were fairly small. But he had generally maintained the 
repayments that he needed to on those accounts. Mr E was also not making much 
use of credit from other lenders at that time. His credit file showed his only other 
borrowing to be on utility accounts. So although the credit card balances might have 
caused some concern to Loans 2 Go, I dont think that would be sufficient for me, or 
the lender, to conclude that Mr Es application for the loan should have been 
declined.
So in summary I think the checks Loans 2 Go did before each of the loans were 
proportionate. I dont think those checks suggested it was unlikely that Mr E would be 
unable to repay the first loan in a sustainable manner. But I think by the time of the 
second loan Mr Es financial situation had deteriorated and Loans 2 Go should have 
declined his application for that, and the third, loan. So Loans 2 Go needs to put 
things right for Mr E.
I asked both parties to let me have any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Both Mr E and Loans 2 Go said that they accepted my provisional 
conclusions and had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that both parties have accepted the findings in my provisional decision and not 
provided me with any new evidence I see no reason to alter the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision.
So, in summary, I think that the checks Loans 2 Go did before each of the loans were 
proportionate. I dont think those checks suggested it was unlikely that Mr E would be unable 
to repay the first loan in a sustainable manner. But I think by the time of the second loan Mr 
Es financial situation had deteriorated and Loans 2 Go should have declined his application 
for that, and the third, loan. So Loans 2 Go needs to put things right for Mr E.
  
Putting things rightI dont think Loans 2 Go should have agreed to lend to Mr E in October 2018 (loan 2) or in 
January 2019 (loan 3). So Loans 2 Go should;
refund all the interest and charges Mr E paid on loan 2
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 3 and treat all the 
payments Mr E made towards this loan as payments towards the capital
if reworking Mr Es loan 3 account as Ive directed results in Mr E effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement.
if reworking Mr Es loan 3 account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
Loans 2 Go can use any refund for loan 2 (after the deduction of tax) to offset this. 
And if there is still an outstanding capital balance then I remind Loans 2 Go that it 
should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr E
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Es credit file in relation to loans 2 
and 3
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, is that I uphold 
part of Mr Es complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to put things right as detailed above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman