DRN-2586640
The complaint
Mr B has complained about Inter Partner Assistance SAs (IPA) handling of a claim on his 
breakdown recovery policy.
Reference to IPA includes its agents.
 
What happened
Mr B was abroad when his truck broke-down on the motorway. Local authorities towed him 
off the motorway, which Mr B had to pay for. IPA arranged for Mr Bs truck to be taken to a 
garage abroad and provided hotel accommodation for Mr B and his two companions as well 
as paying for taxis and some other expenses.
A garage abroad said that it would cost around €7,000 to repair Mr Bs truck. And, as that 
was more than its value, IPA said his policy didn't cover him for the costs of returning the 
truck back to the UK. Mr B said he would return it himself. IPA told Mr B it would reimburse 
him for some of his other costs abroad if he claimed for those when he returned home.
When Mr B returned to the UK IPA reimbursed him for towing costs and the costs of a hire 
vehicle abroad, coming to around £415. But it didn't cover Mr Bs costs for bringing his truck 
home.
Mr B complained to IPA about its service. IPA acknowledged that it hadn't got everything 
right. And it paid him £300 to address his distress and inconvenience because of that. Mr B 
didn't think that went far enough and brought his complaint to us. 
Before I considered the complaint I asked IPA for some further information including 
confirming that the policy documents it had sent to us matched the cover it provided for 
Mr B. IPA said it couldn't supply the appropriate policy documents, which is extremely 
unhelpful. And I can confirm that the documents it has sent to us dont refer to Mr Bs policy 
for the truck involved in this claim, but instead are for another car and motorbike Mr B also 
insures with IPA.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 January 2021. For ease Ive copied the relevant extract 
below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In bringing this complaint Mr Bs made a number of detailed points. And while I've 
considered everything hes said I don't intend to address every point raised but instead will 
focus on what I see as being the key issues at the heart of Mr Bs complaint.
Having had the benefit of reading IPAs file its clear that not everything went smoothly for 
Mr B. He had issues with the accommodation IPA found for him and he was also very 
unhappy that it didn't always arrange tow trucks or taxis promptly. And this led to him being 
left hanging around, without refreshment, sometimes for hours at a time. I can understand 
that must have been a very unpleasant experience for him. That said, I can see that IPA did 
respond to some of Mr Bs concerns, for example by finding a second bedroom in the hotel 
so that he and his two companions didn't have to share one room.
Mr B also complained that IPA misadvised him about the likely costs to repair his truck. And 
because of this it said it wouldn't pay to bring it back to the UK. Im aware that the garage 
abroad said Mr Bs truck would need a new engine; that it could take weeks to source and 
replace; and the cost for doing so would be in the region of €7,000.
IPA said Mr Bs policy says that if the costs of repairing his truck are more than the costs to 
repair and return it to the UK then it won't cover the costs to bring it home. And, as Mr Bs 
truck was worth considerably less than €7,000, I can understand why IPA said that his policy 
didn't cover him to bring it home. That left Mr B in an awkward situation as essentially he had 
the choice of paying more than the car was worth to repair it, scrap it, or pay to bring it home 
himself.
I'm aware Mr B contacted a garage in the UK which, he says, told him repairs would be less 
than £900. And on that basis he paid to bring the car home himself. I noted Mr B had told 
IPA that, potentially, the costs of repair would be far less than the garage abroad had quoted 
and asked it if it had considered this. But I can't see that IPA ever responded to that point 
while Mr B was abroad. That said, the foreign garage had the truck in its possession when it 
diagnosed it. Whereas the garage in the UK was relying on what Mr B had told it when it 
gave him an estimate for the cost of repairs. So, I don't find it unreasonable that, at that time, 
IPA would rely on the foreign garages diagnosis of the problem.
But, after Mr B had his truck repaired in the UK, he sent IPA the bill for the repair, which was 
around £1,400. He also sent it his invoice to return the truck to the UK, which was about 
£1,044. A total of around £2,444. That sum is less than Mr Bs truck was worth. So as the 
actual costs to repair and return Mr Bs truck was less than its value, the policy should have 
covered the costs of bringing Mr Bs truck back. So it seems to me that, unless that cost was 
excluded for other reasons Im not aware of, Mr B had a valid claim for the repatriation of the 
truck. I asked IPA for its comment on that point. In reply it said it was:
unable to locate any physical evidence to suggest the repatriation costs were issued 
to us and in turn that we declined to cover the repat [sic] costs. Furthermore that the 
discussion regarding the repatriation was made.
But that reply is plainly wrong and I can only assume IPA arrived at it without actually looking 
at its file. That's because, when IPA sent us its file that clearly included Mr Bs invoice for the 
cost of bringing his truck back to the UK. He also included the bill for repairing it, which when 
added together were around £2,440. And Mr B said he was claiming for that sum together 
with a figure totalling €460 (£415) for his other expenses. IPA paid the claim for the £415 
expenses, but I can't see that it ever considered the claim for the costs Mr B incurred in 
bringing his truck home. And from the information I do have, it seems Mr Bs claim for the 
costs of returning his truck to the UK should be covered, subject to the remaining terms, 
excess and limits of Mr Bs policy. So I think IPA should assess that claim now.
Mr Bs told us he paid the repatriation costs on his credit card and he is still making the 
repayments. So if IPA settles the claim for the repatriation costs, it should reimburse Mr B 
the costs of credit card interest he is able to evidence paying on that sum. If Mr B is unable 
to evidence the credit card interest then IPA need not cover those costs. Instead it should 
add simple interest to its settlement, at a rate of 8% a year, from the date IPA received 
Mr Bs claim to the date it makes payment to him.Mr Bs also claimed for the costs to repair his truck in the UK. But I understand thats not 
something his policy covers. [And Mr B thinks the foreign garages estimate increased the 
amount he had to pay for repair in the UK] IPA isn't responsible for the actions of the garage 
abroad. The foreign garage isnt IPAs agent and wasn't acting for IPA when it made its 
diagnosis. So the impact of that incorrect diagnosis isn't IPAs responsibility.
Mr Bs also said IPA should cover some of his other expenses. For example, he said he had 
accommodation abroad booked including meals. But because his truck broke-down he 
couldn't use that accommodation and had to pay for meals himself. But I don't think Mr Bs 
policy covers the cost of meals. And it wasn't IPAs fault that he couldn't make his initial hotel 
booking, that happened because his truck broke-down. So I don't think IPA needs to 
reimburse him for the extra sums he had to pay for meals.
That said, as I've indicated above, I'm aware that not everything went smoothly. IPA had 
previously paid Mr B £300 compensation for the impact of some if its service on him. And I 
think thats a reasonable amount as it's in line with awards we make in cases of similar 
seriousness. But that payment didn't consider that IPA hadn't dealt fairly with Mr Bs claim for 
his repatriation costs. And I can understand that's been a source of distress and 
inconvenience for him. To address that I think IPA should pay Mr B a further £200 
compensation.
Mr B accepted my provisional decision; IPA didn't reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr B nor IPA objected to my provisional decision I see no reason to change it.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I partly uphold this complaint. I require Inter Partner 
Assistance SA to:
Reconsider Mr Bs claim for the costs to repatriate his truck, factoring in that the 
actual costs for that and its repairs were less than the trucks value.
If IPA settles any part of Mr Bs claim for the repatriation of his truck IPA should 
reimburse Mr B the costs of credit card interest he is able to evidence paying on that 
sum. If Mr B is unable to evidence the credit card interest he paid then IPA should 
add simple interest to its settlement, at a rate of 8% a year, from the date IPA 
received Mr Bs claim to the date it makes payment to him1.
Make a further compensation payment of £200 to address Mr Bs distress and 
inconvenience because of IPAs handling of the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman
1 If IPA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.