DRN-1458325
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy because he says that Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited 
(AAISL) mis-sold him a roadside assistance policy.
What happened
Mr B bought a roadside assistance policy over the phone. He says that he wasnt told that he 
couldnt claim within the first 14 days. He then tried to make a claim which was rejected 
because it was made within the first 14 days. Mr B complained to AAISL because he said he 
didnt have the chance to read his documents and this limitation wasnt explained to him. 
AAISL didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint and said that Mr B was told about this limitation in the 
policy before he purchased it. Unhappy, Mr B complained to our service.  
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. She 
thought that Mr B had been told more than once about this limitation in the policy, had 
looked at the terms and conditions online before deciding to purchase it and had been 
emailed a copy of the terms and conditions after the sale. 
Mr B asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. In summary, he says that the 
information was confusing and contradictory. He told us that he didnt receive the policy 
terms via email and that due to his depression and panic attacks he sometimes finds it 
difficult to understand things properly when talking. So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AAISL needed to ensure that it gave Mr B enough information about the policy to decide if it 
was right for him. 
The policy terms and conditions contain an exclusion which says that the insurer will not 
cover:
Any claim, which occurs within 14 days of Your Policy Start Date or within 14 days 
from the date You notify the AA of a change or addition of a Nominated Vehicle.
Im not upholding this complaint as I think AAISL did draw this limitation in the policy to Mr 
Bs attention before he took out the policy. 
Ive listened to the two calls Mr B made to AAISL. During the first call he was told that he 
wouldnt be able to make a claim within the first 14 days, even though cover would start the 
following day. Mr B queried this and the advisor explained how this part of the policy worked 
again. The advisor also directed Mr B to their website where he could access the full terms 
and conditions. Mr B decided thats what he wanted to do and said hed call back.  
During the second call Mr B was again told about that the cover would start 24 hours after 
the payment but that no claims could be made on the parts and labour cover for the first 14 
days. Mr B and the advisor went through this a couple of times.   
Ive seen a copy of the email that Mr B was sent after the sale took place which included the 
policy documents. But, in any event, Mr B had received information about where he could 
access the terms and conditions and been told about the relevant limitation on more than 
one occasion. 
Ive taken into account what Mr B has said about his anxiety and depression. I can 
appreciate hed had a frustrating time during the initial part of the second call and he did 
mention that he had anxiety. But the advisor did explain that he could take his time and 
discussed the cooling off period. So, I dont think AAISL treated Mr B unfairly. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman