DRN-2403007
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car he acquired with the assistance of finance from MotoNovo 
Finance Limited (MotoNovo) was misrepresented to him and he wants to end the 
agreement.
What happened
Mr S acquired a used Mercedes in February 2019 from a dealership. The car cost £12,899. 
Mr G paid £6,000 deposit and a further amount of £229 for leather and paintwork treatment. 
The rest was financed by way of a Hire Purchase agreement with MotoNovo.  
Mr S said that it was a key requirement that the car had leather seats. He explained that he 
travelled a long distance to look at this specific car which was advertised with leather seats. 
He says that he bought the car, and paid for additional leather protection treatment based on 
the advertisement and the confirmation given at the dealership that the seats were genuine 
leather.
In April 2020 Mr S found out that the seats were not genuine leather and he complained to 
MotoNovo that the car had been misrepresented to him. Mr S said he wanted real leather 
seats put into the car. In its final response letter MotoNovo stated that although it accepted 
that the seats were not genuine leather as advertised it was not able to source leather seats 
given the age of the car. MotoNovo offered a payment of £795 which was the cost of real 
leather seats if they had been included at manufacture. MotoNovo also offered a payment of 
£200 to reflect the upset caused by the misrepresentation. Mr S didnt accept this and said 
that he wanted real leather seats and so he brought his complaint to this service.
An adjudicator considered the complaint and initially said that MotoNovos offer to pay the 
cost difference of £795 and £200 for inconvenience was fair but it should also refund a 
proportion of the £229 paid for the leather and paint care as well. The adjudicator thought 
that the leather seats would have been only one part of the specification and they couldnt be 
sure that Mr S would not have purchased the car if he had known they were not leather. 
Neither Mr S nor MotoNovo accepted this view and upon further consideration the 
adjudicator thought that the cost differential payment of £795 should be halved to take 
account of the age of the car. Mr S asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
Before the complaint was allocated a different adjudicator reviewed the complaint and 
concluded that the misrepresentation was material. That adjudicator thought that the leather 
seats were a very important aspect to Mr S and he wouldnt have bought the car if hed 
known. The adjudicator recommended that the agreement should be unwound, and Mr S put 
back in the position he would have been in if he had never bought the car. The adjudicator 
considered that it was fair for MotoNovo to keep all of the monthly payments to reflect Mr Ss 
usage of the car.
MotoNovo didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary it 
said that the leather seats did not affect Mr Ss use of the car or his decision to buy it in the 
first place and the offer it had made was fair and reasonable to cover the misrepresentation. 
MotoNovo said it would not be fair for Mr S to have a full refund of his deposit, especially 
when the condition of the car was unknown. 
As the complaint hasnt been resolved it has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reviewing everything, where some of the evidence is incomplete, unsubstantiated or 
contradictory as some of it is here, I have based my decision on what I think is more likely to 
have happened taking into account the surrounding information.
Mr Ss complaint is about misrepresentation. A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact 
which induces a consumer to rely on it, and in the circumstances of this case, to buy a car. 
Although I dont apply the law directly in the same way as a court might, I do take it into 
account. Under the law MotoNovo, as the provider of finance is equally responsible if there 
has been any misrepresentation by the dealership.
It isnt disputed that there was a misrepresentation. The car was advertised as having 
leather seats and Mr S says he was specifically told by the salesman at the dealership that 
the seats were leather and that these could crack, which is why he was advised to buy the 
leather treatment. MotoNovo dont disagree but it says that this was not a material 
misrepresentation and so Mr S shouldnt be able to unwind the agreement.
I consider that the leather seats were very important to Mr S and were a significant factor in 
his decision to buy the car. I say this for the following reasons:
Mr S had travelled a significant distance to view this particular car, and only this car;
Mr S asked the salesman about the leather seats and there was a discussion about 
keeping them in good condition, hence the decision to purchase the leather 
treatment;
Mr S followed up the discussion to seek confirmation that the seats had been treated 
as agreed and as per the package paid for;
Mr S immediately complained to both the dealership and MotoNovo when he 
discovered the true situation;
Mr S has been consistent that he wanted the leather seats he bargained for to be 
fitted into his car. 
I dont think that Mr S would have proceeded to buy this car if he had known that the seats 
were not genuine leather. I think it is more likely that Mr S would have continued his search 
for a car with the specification, including the leather seats he was originally looking for. The 
messages between Mr S and the dealership suggest that Mr S had researched his 
requirements and was looking for a full leather interior which he stated was best in class. 
Mr S has been consistent about his requirements and his disappointment when he 
discovered the true situation. For these reasons I think that the misrepresentation was 
material and was a key feature in Mr Ss decision to purchase that particular car.
The way to put things right for misrepresentation is to try to put the person back into the 
position they would have been in if the misrepresentation hadnt happened. There is no way 
to retro-fit real leather seats and so Mr S cant have the car he bargained for. Although Mr S has had the car for some time he did raise the issue as soon as he found out and has 
been clear what he wanted to put matters right, so I dont think its fair to say that because of 
the time that has now passed he shouldnt be able to unwind the agreement.
I think that it is fair that Mr S should pay for the use hes had of the car. I agree with the 
adjudicator that MotoNovo can keep the monthly payments to reflect fair usage. I have taken 
into account that Mr S has been paying for a car that he has now lost enjoyment with and 
that he will be put to the trouble and upset of sourcing a new car. I agree that £200 is a fair 
amount of compensation for this together with a full refund of the deposit. Mr S has provided 
evidence that he has continued to take care of and service the car and so I dont consider 
that there should be any further deduction for fair usage other than the monthly instalments. 
I dont think that Mr S would have paid for the leather and paintwork treatment as he 
wouldnt have gone ahead with the purchase and so it follows that I think this should be 
refunded in full. Mr Ss credit file should also be updated to reflect that this agreement should 
never have been made.  
Putting things right
In order to put things right MotoNovo should arrange to do the following:
1. Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay;
2. Remove all information relating to the agreement from Mr Ss credit file;
3. Collect the car at no cost to Mr S and at a time convenient to both parties;
4. Refund Mr S the deposit of £6000 together with 8% simple interest calculated from 
the date of payment until the date Mr S gets it back;
5. Refund Mr S the £229 paid for the leather and paintwork treatment together with 8% 
simple interest calculated from the date of payment until the date Mr S gets it back;
6. Pay Mr S £200 for trouble and upset;  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. MotoNovo Finance Limited should put things 
right by doing what I have set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman