DRN-2857493
The complaint and what happened
Mr K is complaining that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (Cashplus) wont reimburse 
transactions he didnt make or otherwise authorise.
 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
In July 2020, Mr K received a call from someone pretending to be from a bank. When 
Mr K informed them he didnt use this bank, they said this bank worked closely with 
Cashplus. But Mr K didnt believe them. Cashplus later confirmed it didnt have a 
working relationship with that particular bank. 
A few days later on 24 July 2020, after he had been to the dentist and whilst feeling 
groggy, Mr K received two calls from separate people claiming to be from Cashplus. 
They told him there was fraud on his account and hed need to follow their 
instructions to prevent it. This included sharing personal details and passwords. 
The calls took place from approximately 11.30 am to around 1.16 pm. During the 
time Mr K was sent numerous messages from Cashplus about memorable questions 
being changed, adding new devices to the account, and contact details being 
changed. There were also two confirmed payments of £1,670.64 (at 1.01 pm) and 
£1,600 (1.16 pm). I understand a further payment was also made of £500. I 
understand the payments were taken from a business and a personal account. 
Mr K realised almost immediately that he had been scammed when he saw that 
payments had been made from his accounts. Cashpluss records show he called it at 
1.16 pm to notify it his account had been compromised, as he hadnt changed his 
mobile number and didnt make the aforementioned transactions. Cashplus sent an 
email to the recipient bank within about 30 minutes, but it was later confirmed that no 
funds remained.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator, for the following 
reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr K isnt liable for 
payments he didnt authorise, unless he failed with gross negligence or intent to 
comply with the terms of the account or keep his personalised security details safe. 
Ive considered whether Mr K authorised the transactions that have been disputed  
and so, in line with the PSRs, whether he completed the agreed steps to make the 
payments or gave consent for someone else to complete these steps. 
The terms and conditions have very limited information about how it is agreed for 
payments to be made, and thats only by card, which isnt applicable here. The 
investigator made a reasonable assumption that the details of the destination 
account would be required - such as the name, sort code and account number - 
along with entering the amount needed. Cashplus hasnt disputed this and so I 
proceed on the same basis, although I am aware that Cashplus will usually send a 
one-time pass code if a new beneficiary is set up. I dont know if that happened here. 
It doesnt appear in dispute that Mr K shared his personal details, including 
passwords. But I havent been presented with any evidence or arguments that it was 
Mr K that completed the steps, such as inputting account details and amounts, in 
order for the payments to be made, or that he consented to someone else doing so. 
Although I understand one-time pass codes are usually sent for new beneficiaries, 
the fraudsters had updated Mr Ks contact details and so he is unlikely to have 
received these. That said, I understand Mr K would have been sent a one-time pass 
code to change his mobile number, so it would appear he did forward that on. 
Im not satisfied Mr K completed all the agreed steps to make the payments from his 
accounts; and I dont think he consented to someone else making the payments 
either. I therefore find the payments were unauthorised. 
I dont find that Mr K failed with intent to keep his security details safe  he believed 
the instructions he was following were necessary to stop fraud on his accounts. 
I also dont find he failed with gross negligence. Mr K believed he was speaking with 
staff from Cashplus. Mr K has existing mental health conditions and other health 
concerns. And at the time of the call, he had just left the dentist and was feeling 
groggy. I think it fair to say he probably wasnt at his most alert. I also dont think he 
would have found a call from Cashplus about stopping fraud to be unusual, given 
only a matter of days before attempts had been made to trick him. 
Mr K says during the calls he was sent messages that looked like previous messages 
he had received from Cashplus. I have considered the content of the messages 
(although Mr K hasnt provided a copy of texts he said he received) and these appear 
to be genuine messages from Cashplus, rather than fakes. And I can see the content 
of the various messages range from memorable questions being updated, to contact 
details being changed. I accept these messages tell Mr K to contact Cashplus if it 
wasnt him making the changes. It also appears the fraudsters changed the mobile 
number connected to the account and added a new device to be trusted. I consider it 
likely therefore that Mr K forwarded on at least one one-time pass code, which I 
understand is necessary to change a mobile number, and clicked on the link to add a 
device, even if he now doesnt recall doing so. But I dont think this means Mr K 
seriously disregarded an obvious risk and, therefore, failed with gross negligence.  
Mr K has told us he shared the information he did as that was what he was told to do 
to protect his account. And although messages were coming through on his phone, 
as he was also speaking with the fraudsters on the phone, he wasnt able to properly 
review what he was being sent. Hes added getting messages from Cashplus 
reassured him he was genuinely speaking with it at the time. In the heat of the 
moment, thinking he was talking to Cashplus and being believing his money was at 
risk, I can see how Mr K was led to believe sharing the information he did was 
necessary to stop fraud. I think a lot of people would have been fooled into doing the 
same or something similar. 
I have considered that Cashpluss records show Mr K was asked to share security 
information in 2019. And Cashplus told him it would never ask him to share this. Mr K 
has told us he doesnt recall this conversation, which isnt surprising given how long 
ago it was. And in a time of likely panic, during the calls, I dont think he would have 
recalled it then either.
I dont think Mr Ks actions fell so far below what a reasonable person would have 
done that it amounts to gross negligence. So I conclude Mr K isnt liable for the 
transactions in dispute and Cashplus needs to put things right  by refunding the 
losses from the unauthorised transactions alongside interest to compensate him for 
the time he has lost the use of those funds. 
Cashplus ought to have refunded this much sooner. Mr K has been without these 
funds for a considerable time and he has had to borrow money from relatives in order to get by. Mr K has also told us, and I accept, that this situation has exacerbated his 
mental health conditions. Whilst the fraudsters are responsible in part, I also find the 
way Cashplus handled this to have had an impact which he should be fairly 
compensated for. I find the amount recommended by the investigator - £750  fairly 
reflects Mr Ks non-financial losses. 
I note that Mr Ks business account had been closed. And he says money is still held 
in it. I dont know if thats still the case. But if it is, Mr K will need to take that up with 
Cashplus as it isnt clear it has considered a complaint about that before. Mr K is able 
to refer the matter to us, if he remains unhappy with any response. 
Finally, Mr K says he requested for a password to be used as an additional security 
measure, but this wasnt used on two occasions following the fraud. Cashplus has 
explained the password couldnt be set up until an enhanced security check had 
taken place. I accept Cashplus explanation that it would take some time for this to be 
put in place. The calls Mr K referred to happened before that happened and so the 
additional password would not have formed part of the process at the time. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Advanced 
Payment Solutions Limited to:
Pay Mr K the total of the unauthorised transactions (£3,770.64), less any amount 
already returned, if any; and
Pay 8% simple interest per annum of that amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Pay £750 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman