DRN-1649835
 The complaint
Mrs R complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy alongside a credit card.
What happened
In 1996 Mrs R took out a credit card with BOS. At the same time she took out a PPI policy to 
protect her repayments. A successful claim on the policy could have made repayments to 
the outstanding balance for periods of time if Mrs R lost her job or if she was unable to work 
due to accident or sickness.
Mrs R has now complained to BOS that the policy was mis-sold but it didnt agree that was 
the case. BOS also considered if any excess commissions and profit share, which was part 
of the premiums, should be refunded but said no refund for excess commission was due in 
the circumstances of this account.
As BOS refused to uphold her complaint Mrs R brought her concerns to this service. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs R disagreed and asked for 
an ombudsman to look at her complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Rs complaint.
Mrs R has complained she was mis-sold the PPI as she says she never agreed to take it out 
and was unaware she had it on her account. She says she didnt speak to anyone about the 
PPI and had no idea what she was signing up for or if she was affected by any of the terms 
and conditions. Mrs R says she had cover for all her circumstances and would not have 
taken out the PPI if everything had been made clear to her.
Mrs R applied for her credit card by post in August 1996. BOS has been able to provide a 
copy of the application form Mrs R completed and sent back.
Mrs R completed this application form herself at home. There is a section on the application 
form which requires Mrs R to indicate some choices about her application. She could choose 
more than one credit card, different types of credit card and also choose whether to take out 
what is called on the form credit card insurance cover.
PPI is called different things by different businesses, but it has become known as the generic 
PPI term and on this form it is called credit card insurance cover. Mrs R clearly ticked the 
box to indicate she wanted this insurance cover applying to her account. She also selected 
one of the other boxes in the section to choose the type of account card she wanted. I think the way the application form was set out did indicate to Mrs R she had a choice 
whether or not to take out the PPI. She clearly read all the boxes as she selected two of the 
four that could be ticked. If she didnt understand what the insurance was at the time, then I 
dont think she would have ticked the box to take it out. This took place almost 25 years ago 
and memories can fade so Mrs R may not fully recall what she actually read at the time.
So, I think Mrs R knew she had a choice and she chose to take out the insurance cover 
which was indicated as providing help with her repayments if necessary. At the time she met 
all the eligibility criteria, such as age and being in employment, so there was no issue with 
her having the policy on that basis.
I would also add that the charge for the PPI would have appeared on Mrs Rs statement 
each month. So, if she had any issues about what it was for she could have questioned that 
and cancelled the policy at any time.
I accept full information about the costs, benefits and the terms and conditions may not have 
been clear when Mrs R agreed to take out the PPI. So, I need to consider if I think she would 
still have chosen to take out the PPI at the time if she had known all the details.
The cost of the cover was 69p for every £100 of the balance on the account. The benefits 
included repayment of 10% of the outstanding balance each month for up to 12 months in 
any one claim. So the cost was reasonable when taking account of the benefits that could be 
paid for a successful claim. And I have seen nothing to indicate the policy wasnt affordable. 
As I have already said the premium appeared on the monthly statements so Mrs R could 
have cancelled the policy at any time if unhappy with the cost. 
At the time of completing the application form Mrs R may not have been made fully aware of 
all of the restrictions that applied to the PPI. But Ive not seen anything to suggest she would 
have been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. 
I note Mrs R had good employment benefits. But the policy would have paid out in addition 
to any work benefits she would have received, so allowing the income from her work benefits 
to pay for other household expenses. 
Mrs R says she only had a small amount of savings, but her family would have helped if she 
had problems. However everyones circumstances can change, including those of family, 
and this policy would have paid her credit card, allowing use of savings or other support for 
other living expenses if she wasnt able to work. So I think the policy would have provided a 
useful benefit to Mrs R if she had needed to claim.
I note Mrs R now says she would not have taken out the policy if she had been given full 
information. But at the time the fact she independently selected to have the cover indicates it 
was something she thought may be useful to her. And as she wouldnt have been affected 
by any restrictions on claims, for example relating to pre-existing medical conditions, I 
cannot see that further information about the restrictions at the time, would have affected her 
decision that she wanted the policy. 
Overall, based on the evidence I have seen, I think Mrs R chose to take out the insurance 
and it would have provided a useful benefit if she had needed to claim. It follows that I dont 
think the policy was mis-sold and Im not upholding this complaint.
Ive also considered if any commission and profit share that would have been part of the PPI 
premiums would need to be refunded by BOS. However, the rules and guidance put in place 
by the Financial Conduct Authority relating to this only affect credit taken out after 6 April 
2007 or if taken out before this date, then still running on 6 April 2008. It appears Mrs Rs credit card is not caught by these dates therefore these rules do not apply and no excess 
commission or profit share is due to be refunded.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out Im not upholding this complaint as I dont think the PPI policy 
was mis-sold by the Bank of Scotland Plc to Mrs R.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman