DRN-2198437
The complaint
Mr D says PDL Finance Limited (trading as trading as Mr Lender) lent to him irresponsibly.
  
What happened
Mr D took out one three-month instalment loan with Mr Lender in October 2018. The loan 
was for £200. The monthly instalments were £111.46, then £96.35 and finally £81.51. 
An adjudicator considered Mr Ds complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr D didnt 
accept this. He said his employment and living arrangements at the time meant he shouldnt 
have been given this loan. As there was no agreement, Mr Ds complaint was passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay his loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Before it lent to Mr D, I can see that Mr Lender asked him to provide some information about 
his income and expenditure. It seems Mr Lender recorded Mr Ds net monthly income as 
£655 and his total monthly expenditure as £401. Mr Lender therefore recorded a disposable 
income of £254 per month. As the largest monthly instalment was £111.46, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Mr Lender to think the loan was affordable, even when taking into 
account Mr Ds relatively low income.
I can understand why Mr D disagrees with this. Mr D has placed a lot of emphasis on his 
employment circumstances and living arrangements. To preserve Mr Ds privacy, I wont set 
these out in detail. Put briefly, Mr Ds employment was through an agency and he says he 
wasnt guaranteed work. Mr D also says he was of no fixed abode at the time.
I can see Mr Lender was clearly aware of Mr Ds employment status. It said:
Mr [D] informed us that he was working for an agency, however [he] did not disclose
that he was not guaranteed work, we received [one month] of weekly payslips in
order to verify his employment. Furthermore, we also contacted the agency who confirmed 
Mr [D] was working through them.
I dont think that working through an agency ought generally to be considered a bar to 
responsible lending. Its not an uncommon practice and by obtaining payslips 
Mr Lender ensured Mr D was in receipt of an income. Given the relatively small size of the 
loan, I wouldnt have expected Mr Lender to do additional checks on Mr Ds income.
Perhaps the more serious matter is Mr Ds living circumstances. Clearly being of no fixed 
abode suggests a difficult set of circumstances  and I hope Mr D can accept Im not 
disregarding this fact. But at the same time, taking into account that this was Mr Ds first (and 
only) loan with Mr Lender, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr Lender to largely rely on 
its automated checks. 
In respect of Mr Ds address, Mr Lender has said it checked that Mr Ds debit card was 
registered to the address Mr D provided  and that its check confirmed it was. So I think its 
unlikely Mr Ds address would have been flagged as a matter of concern. I can see from the 
address printed on Mr Ds credit agreement that the address is clearly not an ordinary 
residence. But without a human eye cast over the agreement, I think its unlikely this would 
have been spotted. And I dont think there were good reasons to flag or investigate this in 
Mr Ds circumstances.
I realise this will be disappointing for Mr D but for the reasons given above, I do not uphold 
his complaint. This brings to an end what this service can do to help Mr D.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman