DRN-2706363
The complaint
Mr A complains that Admiral Financial Services Ltd (Admiral) have treated him unfairly by 
recording information about a repayment plan on his credit file. 
What happened
Mr A had an existing loan with Admiral. In January 2021 he contacted them to explain that 
his financial situation had changed due to ill-health, and he couldnt afford his monthly 
repayment. 
Admiral agreed to accept a reduced payment of £20 per month for three months and 
suspend any interest on the loan for that period. They also said they would be prepared to 
extend this agreement if Mr A completed an income and expenditure assessment with them 
so they could see what was affordable for him.
In late February 2021, Mr A discovered that that these reduced payments had been 
recorded as missed payments on his credit file which was affecting his credit score. So he 
contacted Admiral to complain as hed made the payments as agreed and he felt they were 
acting illegally and hadnt taken his health into consideration. So he wanted them to remove 
this from his credit file.  
Admiral didnt uphold the complaint. They said that they had reported Mr As arrangement to 
pay to the credit reference agencies in February 2021, and that theyd checked his credit file, 
and this was reporting correctly. They apologised that Mr A wasnt aware that this would 
reflect on his credit file. 
But they said it was explained in his loan agreement, that not making full repayments on 
their due date could impact his credit file. They also said that as a lender they were obliged 
to accurately report his loan status each month. Mr A didnt agree and asked this service to 
look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. She thought that Admiral had 
treated Mr A fairly by making amendments to his loan whilst he was in financial difficulty. 
She thought that Admiral had reported this correctly on Mr As credit file as the reduced 
payments were showing as an arrangement, not missed payments.
Mr A didnt agree. He didnt think Admiral had treated him fairly by reporting the arrangement 
on his credit file, as another lender he had an agreement with hadnt done so. So he asked 
for an ombudsman to review his complaint and the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mr A has told us that he feels Admiral have treated him unfairly and not considered his ill-
health when recording the payment arrangement he made with them on his credit file. But I 
dont agree. 
The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section 7.3.2 say that When dealing with 
customers in default or arrears difficulties a firm should pay due regard to its obligations 
under Principle 6 (Customers interests) to treat its customers fairly. 
CONC 7.3.5 also says, Examples of treating a customer with forbearance would include 
the firm doing one or more of the following, as may be relevant in the circumstances:
1) considering suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest or 
charges (for example, when a customer provides evidence of financial difficulties and 
is unable to meet repayments as they fall due or is only able to make 
token repayments, where in either case the level of debt would continue to rise if 
interest and charges continue to be applied);
Ive looked at the steps that Admiral took to help Mr A and Im satisfied that theyve acted in 
line with what wed expect. I say this because, I can see that the initially asked Mr A to 
complete an income and expenditure form so they could assess his finances. However Mr A 
told Admiral that he wasnt able to provide that information due to the medication he was 
taking, so Admiral arranged for a three-month payment reduction and suspended the interest 
payable straight away based on the information Mr A had already provided. 
Ive also seen that Admiral have told Mr A that if he feels hell need longer than the three 
months on the payment arrangement, they will look to extend this once Mr A completes an 
income and expenditure form. 
I recognise Mr A has said he feels Admiral arent taking his health into consideration as he 
wanted the arrangement to continue at this level for the foreseeable future. However, the 
CONC rules Ive mentioned above mean that Admiral cant do this without reviewing Mr As 
circumstances in more detail as this may not be in his best interests. It may be that there are 
other options that Admiral can offer. So I cant say Admiral have acted unreasonably here.  
Mr A has also said Admiral have reported the payment arrangement incorrectly. Hes 
provided a screen shot from a credit reference agency showing that his credit file will be 
reporting a missed payment from March 2021. However, Ive looked at a copy of Mr As 
credit file which Admiral have provided from a widely recognised credit reference agency, 
and Ive seen that it is showing as I which means In an arrangement to pay. And based 
Mr As agreed payment arrangement with Admiral, this would be correct. So I cant 
reasonably say Admiral have made a mistake here.
CONC 7.13.2 says A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that it maintains accurate 
and adequate data (including in respect of debt and repayment history). This is so that both 
the individuals and outstanding debt balances in relation to an agreement are recorded 
correctly. 
I recognise that Mr A is unhappy that the arrangement to pay has been reflected on his 
credit file, and I acknowledge Mr As comments about other lenders not reporting similar 
arrangements. But I cant comment on what actions other businesses have chosen to take. I 
can only look at the actions Admiral have taken in relation to this complaint. And based on 
both the terms of loan agreement that Mr A has with Admiral - which says they may report 
adverse credit information - and their obligations as a responsible lender I think Admiral have 
acted in the way that wed expect and dont think theyve treated Mr A unfairly. I recognise that my decision will be very disappointing for Mr A as its not the outcome he 
was hoping for. However whilst I acknowledge Mr As comments about his ill-health, based 
on the evidence Ive seen I dont think Admiral have treated him unfairly and not taken this 
into account, so I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman