DRN-4262393
The complaint
A company Ill call C complains that Zotto Limited (Zotto) blocked its account and withheld 
the balance of £42,926.78 and €119.30, before deducting £31,873.80 when it eventually 
returned the money, saying the difference represented fines it had incurred because of C.
To put things right, C wants Zotto to return the full balance of its account.
What happened
In or around June 2020, Zotto entered into a contract with C to provide payment processing 
services. It had told C that it provides accounts for wholesalers and retailers of a particular 
product that Ill refer to as P, and it offered C an incentive to join Zotto, because of the nature 
of Cs business.
On or around 25 August 2021, Zotto blocked Cs account, while it carried out an 
investigation. It asked various questions of C, which C answered, and Zotto lifted the block 
on 1 September 2021. It said it had reviewed a chargeback C had received in the sum of 
€1,155, which it was satisfied C had resolved quickly. And that it had read reviews of Cs 
business on various platforms, which Zotto described as very impressive.
However, it retained the balance held in Cs account. It said it would release payments to C 
incrementally over the course of several weeks, but only once C had started using Zottos 
platform to take payments again (C had reverted to its old provider because of the issues 
with Zotto).
C wasnt happy with Zottos actions, so it asked Zotto why it had blocked Cs account in the 
first place. Zotto said the account was suspended for a serious breach of its card schemes 
rules and anti-money laundering regulations, including use of Zottos payment services on a 
website not approved by Zotto, sales of products online in areas where they are considered 
illegal, and because of a high ratio of chargebacks.
C disputed Zottos claims and asked it to clarify its concerns and demonstrate that C was in 
breach of its terms of business. But Zotto didnt comply and instead issued a notice to close 
Cs account on 4 October 2021, which said:
We have terminated your account and blocked all your outstanding funds for the 
next 180 working days, allowing us time to submit our account termination report to 
the FCA & NCB and ensuring that no additional chargebacks are claimed by any of 
your customers.
C challenged Zottos right to withhold its money, but Zotto again maintained its position and 
declined to release the account balance until 180 days had expired. 
C reluctantly accepted Zottos position and waited for the 180 days to pass. In March 2022, 
C wrote to Zotto about the release of its funds, as the 180-day period was due to end the 
following month. Zotto responded on 22 March 2022 saying it had returned £11,052.98 and 
€119.30 to C, but that it had deducted $42,050, representing fines it had incurred that C was 
liable to indemnify Zotto for, in accordance with its Merchant Agreement.
Zotto didnt specify what section of its Merchant Agreement it was seeking to rely on, nor did 
it explain what the fines were for or provide any evidence to demonstrate that the fines had 
been incurred because of Cs actions.
C sought to challenge Zotto, but ultimately wasnt able to reach a resolution, so it asked for 
our service to investigate.
Zotto told our service it began receiving an inordinate volume of chargebacks for 
substantial amounts, but only provided details of one chargeback (the €1,155 it had 
previously told C it was satisfied with). Zotto said its merchant acquirer (MA) had terminated 
its agreement with Zotto owing to the high volume of chargebacks Zotto had received 
because of C, and that it had incurred a penalty of $42,050 as a result of this.
To evidence the fines, Zotto sent our service a letter it had received from its MA. That letter 
was dated 18 March 2021 and stated that the merchant acquirer had terminated its 
agreement with Zotto on 18 August 2020. It set out details of the fine Zotto was seeking to 
hold C liable for, which was broken down as a $32,050 fine from a card providing service Ill 
call M, the cost of Zottos MAs investigation at $5,000, and liquidated damages of a further 
$5,000.
Enclosed with the letter dated 18 March 2021 was a letter from M to Zottos MA dated 25 
September 2020, that set out the reasons for the fine of $32,050. M said the fine related to 
actions of a third-party company Ill call H, which was a wesbsite based outside of the UK, 
and the letter made no reference to C whatsoever. When Zotto sent these letters to our 
service, it made no attempt to demonstrate a link between H and C.
Our investigator sent Zotto a copy of the email C had received from Zotto before joining, in 
which Zotto had offered C an incentive, and in which it said it was looking for retailers of P. 
She asked Zotto for its comments given Zottos concerns appeared to be connected with 
what C was selling. And she asked for evidence of the chargebacks Zotto said it had 
received from Cs customers.
When Zotto replied, it said that the representations made to C before it became a customer 
didnt represent Zottos acceptance policy for customers such as C, and that it had 
terminated the employment of the representative who sent the email to C, because of that 
misrepresentation. Zotto said it excluded merchants who sold P as a rule, and that C had 
been accepted as a test case.
It did provide evidence of more chargebacks, but only demonstrated a further six, the total of 
which was £520.41.
Our investigator looked at the evidence and information Zotto had provided, but she didnt 
accept it. She said the correspondence Zotto submitted as evidence of Cs liability for the 
fines only showed that Zotto, not C, was liable, that they made no reference to C and that 
one of the letters was issued in September 2020, suggesting Zotto was aware of the issue 
long before it chose to take any action.
Zotto said it would obtain evidence to show C was liable for the fine but when it failed to do 
so, our investigator issued her findings, upholding Cs complaint. She accepted Zotto was 
entitled to block Cs account and withhold the funds for 180 days. But she wasnt satisfied it 
was entitled to offset its fine against Cs account balance.She said Zotto should refund C the $42,050 it had deducted from its closing balance, pay 
8% simple interest on that balance from 22 March 22 until the date the funds are returned, 
and pay a further £150 to compensate C for any inconvenience it had experienced as a 
result of Zottos mistakes.
Both parties accepted our findings, but Zotto failed to make payment. When our service 
contacted Zotto to chase settlement, it said it had scheduled the settlement to be paid in 
June, but again that payment failed to materialise. Our service attempted to contact Zotto to 
arrange payment on several further occasions, but it didnt reply to our requests.
Because Zotto didnt comply with our investigators findings, the matter was referred to me to 
issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator is right to say that Zotto is entitled to block an account while it carries out a 
review of the activity on that account. And I accept Zotto was complying with its legal and 
regulatory obligations when it did so on this occasion.
However, if a financial business intends to withhold a customers account balance, it must 
demonstrate that doing so was reasonable in all of the circumstances. Zotto showed our 
service that it had received six chargebacks totalling £520.41 that it wasnt happy with. And it 
gave further reasons in support of its decision.
Zotto didnt provide context of the volume and value of chargebacks against the volume and 
value of uncontested transactions though. So, its not possible for me to properly assess 
whether the chargebacks Zotto received were a high ratio of Cs transactions. And Zotto 
didnt provide any evidence to show further chargebacks had been received after the block. 
Based on the account balance, I can estimate that the chargeback ratio was no higher than 
approximately 1%, but I would need more information to determine the correct figure. 
Although it is worth noting that Zotto ultimately released Cs balance without making further 
deductions in respect of chargebacks. And I note it wrote to C after 169 days (and only after 
C had contacted Zotto for an update) to confirm the outcome, with no explanation of the 
shortened period.
With that being said, I havent investigated the above in further detail, so I cant say whether 
or not Zotto acted reasonably in withholding the funds for 180 days. I contacted Cs legal 
representative to discuss the point of the 180-day block, and C agreed not to pursue that 
point in the interest of bringing this matter to a close more expeditiously. So, I make no 
finding on the point of whether or not Zotto was entitled to retain Cs funds for the period it 
did.
I have, though, looked at Zottos decision to deduct a fine of $42,050 from Cs account 
balance when it returned Cs funds. The evidence Zotto submitted in support of its actions 
doesnt demonstrate that Zotto was fined because of activity on Cs account. As Ive said 
above, the letter from Zottos MA to Zotto dated 18 March 2021 states that the MAs 
agreement with Zotto had been terminated effective 18 August 2020, some 12 months 
before Zotto blocked Cs account. And the letter from M to Zottos MA confirming details of 
the breach that led to the fine was dated 25 September 2020, meaning that it must have 
related to activity before that date.That timeline alone suggests the fine wasnt connected to payments received by C. Zottos 
contract with C only commenced in June 2020, so there was a period of approximately two 
months during which C was contracted to Zotto and its MA. Zotto hasnt submitted any 
evidence to show the fine related to payments made to C during that period. In fact, it hasnt 
submitted any evidence to show it was taking payments on behalf of C during that period, 
and the earliest chargeback it has evidenced related to a payment dated 18 July 2021.
The letter from M to Zottos MA sets out the basis of the fine of $32,050, but it refers to the 
actions of a third-party website (H), not C. Our investigator asked Zotto to provide evidence 
to show that the fine was incurred as a result of actions on Cs part, but Zotto didnt provide 
anything, then it accepted our investigators findings that the fine was not related to C.
For the reasons Ive set out above, Im not persuaded that Zotto was fined because of 
actions on the part of C, and Ive seen no basis on which Zotto can reasonably hold C liable 
for the fine it incurred. It follows then that Zotto should refund Cs account balance in full, and 
without further deductions.
And because Zotto unfairly deprived C of access to its money, I find that Zotto must also pay 
C simple interest at the rate of 8% from the day it should have released Cs funds up to the 
date it makes payment. Because C has agreed not to contest the 180-day period, the start 
date of the interest is 22 March 2022, i.e. the date Zotto told C it would be returning Cs 
account balance.
Before Zotto accepted our investigators findings, it asked her to reconsider the award of 
interest on the basis it had acted in good faith. However, Zotto hasnt provided any evidence 
to demonstrate it was acting in good faith. And in any event, Im persuaded that Zotto 
unfairly deprived C of its money, without justification. So, interest at the rate of 8% 
represents fair compensation in my view in recognition of the fact that C was unfairly 
deprived of its funds, and so wasnt able to make use of those funds.
Finally, I turn to the matter of compensation for inconvenience C experienced as a result of 
Zottos mistakes. 
Our service can award compensation for distress and inconvenience customers experience 
as a result of a financial businesss mistake. However, because C is a limited company, I 
can only make an award for inconvenience and not distress. Zottos customer is C, not Cs 
director, Mr C, so I cant make an award for any distress Mr C has experienced personally. 
And of course, a limited company cannot feel distress. However, I can make an award for 
any inconvenience C experienced as a result of Zottos error, such as C having its directors 
attention diverted away from his regular business duties. 
And in this case, I accept that this issue would have caused C a significant degree of 
inconvenience. Its directors attention was taken away from his usual duties for an extended 
period of time in order to pursue return of Cs funds that should have been returned without 
dispute.
Further, that inconvenience was compounded by Zottos actions after accepting our 
investigators findings. It told our service it would arrange payment twice, then failed to do so 
and our service chased Zotto several further times without reply. C was kept apprised of 
developments and Mr Cs attention was diverted further because of Zottos delays and lack 
of communication.
Before I issued this decision, I wrote to Zotto twice, saying I would consider awarding 
additional compensation if it was necessary to issue a final decision, but it didnt reply with any representations. With that being the case, and for the reasons Ive set out above, Im 
awarding £300 in recognition of the inconvenience its actions caused C.
My final decision
My final decision is that Zotto Limited must pay C:
1. £31,873.80, representing the missing account balance it should have returned to C;
2. Simple interest on the above sum at the rate of 8% from 22 March 2022 until the date 
of payment; and
3. £300 for the inconvenience it caused C.
Zotto Limited must make the above payment in full within 14 days of the date C accepts this 
final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman