DRN-4108010
The complaint
Ms W complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct), trading as 
Very, irresponsibly granted her a catalogue shopping account she says she couldnt afford to 
repay. 
What happened
In November 2018 Ms W entered into an agreement with Shop Direct to have access to 
credit by way of a Very catalogue shopping account with an opening credit limit of £500. The 
credit limit was increased six times between June 2019 and June 2022. 
Ms W says that Shop Direct didnt complete adequate affordability checks and the opening 
credit limit, followed by the subsequent credit limit increases, were too high and so worsened 
her financial situation. 
Shop Direct said it shouldnt have given Ms W a further credit limit increase in March 2021 
when the credit limit was increased from £1,600 to £2,100. So it made an offer to settle her 
complaint for all the interest and fees she was charged when her level of credit usage went 
above £1,600. The total redress is £174.06 which I understand has been applied to her 
account to help reduce her existing balance. 
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint and thought Shop Directs offer was fair. 
Ms W wasnt happy with this outcome and so requested that her complaint be passed to an 
ombudsman for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shop Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Before providing the credit for Ms W, Shop Direct says it carried out a check using a credit 
reference agency, in addition to the information Ms W provided in her application. Ive 
seen from the results of that check that Ms Ws recent credit history didnt raise any 
concerns. 
Its possible that Shop Directs checks werent sufficient. But even if the checks were 
perhaps not as good as they should have been, I dont think better enquiries would 
have caused it to think the opening credit limit was unaffordable. I say this because 
Shop Direct gave Ms W an initial credit limit of £500 which, even if the whole credit 
was used, would require relatively modest monthly repayments, which from what Ive 
seen were likely to have been affordable for her. There was no evidence from the 
checks of previous financial difficulties in relation to credit such as defaulted accounts 
or county court judgments. Taking all of this into consideration, I dont think that better 
checks at this point would have led Shop Direct to decline the opening credit.
I also need to consider the information that Shop Direct would likely have seen at the time. 
I think it would have been proportionate for Shop Direct to have verified Ms Ws financial 
circumstances in some way. In the absence of anything else, Ive seen copies of bank 
statements covering six months from the card opening and also the last three months of 
2019. So that covers much of the period prior to when Shop Direct has already offered to 
refund all fees and charges. 
The statements show details of Ms Ws regular income which for the most part consisted of 
state benefits. Ive seen that there was a slight variation in this from month to month, with the 
total income generally averaging out at about £1,600, although there were months when the 
total figure was £3-400 higher. Ive then looked at her committed expenditure such as 
housing costs, travel and food costs and other credit. Broadly speaking, Ive seen that this 
tended to match Ms Ws level of income each month. Ms W also appeared to be managing 
her account well and did not make use of her overdraft. Ive seen there were occasional 
payments from family members but I dont think these were either so frequent or at such a 
level that Ms W could be said to be dependent on them.
So I think all of this demonstrates that Ms W appears to have had enough disposable 
income each month to make regular, sustainable repayments towards her existing credit. 
Had Shop Direct completed proportionate checks, I think its likely it would have discovered 
this too. I think it follows that it didnt act unfairly by increasing the credit limit after 
March 2021. 
I also dont think Shop Direct has acted unfairly in making an offer to compensate Ms W 
by refunding all interest and charges added to her account from when her credit limit was 
increased from £1,600 to £2,100 in March 2021. I say this having seen that Ms W had 
generally managed her account well and often made payments that were over the 
minimum required. Ive also noted that she started to incur late payment fees in October 
2020 and March 2021. And having seen that Ms W began making use of the buy now pay 
later facility twice in early 2022, I think its likely that her financial position was becoming 
increasingly stretched by that point. Ive also seen that Miss M later started using much 
more of her available credit, from April 2022. By September 2022 shed got into a cycle of 
sustained arrears which led to her available credit limit being reduced in October 2022 and 
then again in November 2022. 
It follows that I think Shop Directs offer is fair. So, aside from the figure Shop Direct has 
refunded, no further interest or other sums are payable as its my understanding that 
Ms Ws account is still in arrears. 
I therefore dont make any further award as I dont think Ms W has been caused any 
additional loss or material distress or inconvenience as a result of Shop Directs actions. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023. Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman