DRN-4417825
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the cancellation fee U Drive Cover Ltd charged when it 
cancelled his car insurance policy with the insurer. 
What happened
Mr H bought a car insurance policy through a broker U Drive to provide cover from March 
2023. U Drive discovered that there were difference in the details of a previous incident Mr H 
had disclosed. And Mr H had said he had a number of No Claims Discount (NCD) years - 
but he was using this discount for another vehicle, so he couldnt use it for the policy with U 
Drive. 
Because of these differences, the original insurer of the policy was no longer able to offer a 
policy for Mr H. So U Drive obtained a quote from another insurer for a replacement policy 
as this policy had to be cancelled. The quotes for a replacement policy was a much higher. 
Mr H decided not to proceed with a replacement policy through U Drive. When U Drive 
arranged the cancellation of the policy, it charged a £75 cancellation fee which Mr H didnt 
think was fair. He raised a complaint. But U Drive didnt uphold it. 
Our Investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. Although he could see U Drive had 
set out what it would charge on cancellation before Mr H applied for the policy, he thought it 
wasnt clear enough, or proportionate. So he recommended U Drive provide a refund of the 
£75 fee and pay interest from the date of cancellation to the date it refunds Mr H.
Mr H agreed with the Investigators view. U Drive didnt agree. 
I issued a provisional decision on 23 October 2023. I thought U Drive hadnt acted 
unreasonably in applying a cancellation fee. 
Both parties have replied. U Drive accepted my provisional decision. Mr H didnt agree. Ive 
addressed his comments in my findings below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the question Mr H was asked when he applied for the policy in relation to his 
NCD on a comparison website. U Drive has provided a screenshot. It reads:
How many years of No Claims Discount (NCD) do you have?
Directly underneath the question, it reads:
You build NCD for each year you hold a policy in your name, without making a 
claim. It can only be used on one vehicle at a time and not all providers will accept 
NCD on a van or bike.
I understand Mr H declared 18 years NCD when he applied for a policy through U Drive, 
which he was using under another vehicle. From the call recording provided, Mr H said he 
wasnt told he couldnt use his NCB. But I think clear information was provided online to help 
Mr H answer this question correctly: that any NCD can only be used on one vehicle at a 
time. 
In response to my provisional decision, Mr H says the NCD he had earned was under a multi 
discount policy so it was one persons discount being used for more than one vehicle. He 
said the website question didnt cover this. 
Additional help notes attached to this question read:
If you are unsure whether your NCD is applicable, please check with your chosen 
provider before purchasing.
In any event this doesnt change the fact that I think the question was clear and the onus is 
on Mr H to answer the question correctly when applying for a policy. 
I think the agent Mr H spoke to when he was unhappy about the policy being cancelled could 
have been clearer about this. But it doesnt change the fact that the insurer of the policy 
could no longer offer cover based on the correct number of NCD years for Mr H. The policy 
was set up based on NCD information Mr H provided, which wasnt correct. U Drive has 
provided a screenshot to show that the insurer wasnt able to offer cover based on the 
correct NCD years Mr H held. 
Where a cancellation occurs due to misrepresentation, we dont think it unfair for a broker to 
charge a reasonable cancellation fee to cover its administration costs, provided it set out its 
cancellation fees to a customer before buying a policy. A broker has made the arrangements 
to set up a policy through a panel of insurers, provided policy documents, dealt with any 
inconsistencies in the validation information provided, and looked for alternative cover before 
dealing with the cancellation. 
In response to my provisional decision, Mr H says because the policy hadnt yet started, he 
hadnt received any policy documents and so he doesnt agree any work had been done by 
the broker. He says at this stage it was only a quote. But I dont agree. There have inevitably 
been overheads to arrange and administer the set up of the policy, to request validation 
documents and to discuss the policy with Mr H on the phone. 
Mr H says the fees were hidden when he applied for the policy. And that he was unable to 
access the terms as the link provided wasnt working. But I think U Drive clearly set out its 
cancellation fees which Mr H agreed to before applying for the policy under its Terms and 
Conditions. And before buying the policy, Mr H needed to agree to a number of statements 
including that hed read the Terms and Conditions - and that he would be liable for a 
cancellation fee if any of the information he provided was incorrect which resulted in a policy 
being cancelled. If Mr H was unable to view key information before agreeing to buy the 
policy, I think this is something Mr H needed to make U Drive aware of if he had concerns 
before proceeding with the policy.
So in this case, Im satisfied that as a broker, U Drive is entitled to charge its cancellation fee 
of £75. This means in line with my provisional decision, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman