DRN-3325090
The complaint
Mr E complains that Nationwide Building Society unfairly declined his credit card 
applications. 
What happened
In October 2021 Mr E made two applications for a credit card with Nationwide. Mr E says 
that, despite having a good credit score, both applications were unfairly declined by 
Nationwide. 
Mr E complained about Nationwides decision to decline his credit card applications and it 
sent him a final response. The final response said Nationwide had carried out a soft credit 
search (meaning there was no trace left on Mr Es credit file) and declined the applications 
on an affordability basis. Nationwide said it also took information found on Mr Es credit file 
into account when considering his applications. 
Mr E referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They said 
Nationwide had applied its lending criteria and that its decision to decline Mr Es applications 
was reasonable. Mr E didnt accept the investigators view so his complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say Nationwide had to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Mr E could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. 
These affordability checks needed to be focused on the borrowers circumstances. The 
nature of whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on various 
factors like: 
- The amount of credit;
- The total sum repayable and the size of regular repayments;
- The duration of the agreement;
- The costs of the credit; and 
- The consumers individual circumstances. 
That means theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to 
consider the above points when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate. 
Nationwide says it used the information Mr E supplied in his applications, checked his credit 
file and took account of his outgoings and circumstances when considering whether to lend. 
Nationwide has told us it assessed Mr Es applications in line with its standard lending 
criteria. Ive looked at the information provided in the application as well as the supporting 
information Nationwide took into account. 
Nationwide carried out a credit search so it could get a picture of Mr Es existing financial 
commitments. Nationwide also asked Mr E for information about his income. Figures for 
commitments such as utilities, living expenses and regular outgoings were also factored into 
Nationwides assessment. Nationwide says Mr Es applications were correctly declined on 
an affordability basis. That means, Nationwide didnt think Mr E was in a position to 
sustainably repay a credit card debt. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr E, but I havent found any evidence to show Nationwide made 
a mistake when it declined his applications. I understand that Mr E met the initial qualifying 
criteria as set out by Nationwide. He was a member of the Society, met the age 
requirements and had a regular income in excess of the minimum allowed. But the criteria 
Mr E highlighted to the investigator is the minimum required by Nationwide to assess an 
application. I think its fair to say Nationwide didnt offer any guarantees an application would 
be successful. I also think its fair to say it would be impractical for Nationwide to publish its 
full lending criteria which is commercially sensitive. 
So whilst I dont doubt Mr E met the criteria for making an application, Im satisfied 
Nationwide offered no guarantee it would approve a credit card. The credit card was always 
subject to a full application and approval from Nationwide. And Nationwide has confirmed 
that when it considered the detail of Mr Es applications it found they couldnt be approved. 
Im satisfied that was a reasonable decision for Nationwide to make. 
Mr E has told us some very personal information about his circumstances at the time of 
making the applications and says Nationwide failed to make reasonable adjustments when 
considering his complaint. Im not going to repeat the detail here as all parties are aware of 
the background to Mr Es complaint. But I want to ensure Mr E knows Ive taken what hes 
told us into account while considering his complaint. 
I understand Mr E feels Nationwide shouldve used benefit income hes guaranteed to 
receive going forward and failed to make reasonable adjustments for him. But Nationwide 
didnt decline his application on the basis of Mr E being in receipt of benefit income or where 
he lived. Nationwides told us it declined his applications because if felt a credit card was 
unaffordable. Whilst I agree its important for Nationwide to make reasonable adjustments, it 
still has to ensure it lends responsibly.  
Im satisfied Nationwide was entitled to decide whether to approve or decline Mr Es 
applications having considered the information available. I understand my decision is likely 
to come as a disappointment to Mr E, but we cant force a business to lend where an 
application doesnt meet its lending criteria. And Im satisfied thats the case here. I havent 
found that Nationwide treated Mr E unfairly when it declined his credit card applications.
Based on all the available information, Im satisfied Nationwide dealt with Mr Es complaint 
fairly so Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Marco ManenteOmbudsman