DRN-3514795
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) acted irresponsibly by giving 
him a loan that he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
On 15 May 2019 Halifax approved Mr Cs application for a £5,000 loan. This was to be 
repaid in 24 monthly instalments of £270.10.
Although his wages were paid into his Halifax current account each month, Mr C thinks they 
should have noticed that most of it was immediately transferred out. He says hed been 
consistently over his overdraft limit for several months - and that hed also reached the limit 
on the credit card he held with them.
Mr C feels Halifax should have asked him further questions about where his money went 
each month. He says if theyd asked to see his other account statements, theyd have seen 
a series of gambling transactions, that hed also reached the limit on another credit card, and 
that hed applied for several payday loans. 
Mr C complained to Halifax that theyd acted irresponsibly by lending to him. But they said 
theyd agreed the loan correctly. 
Our investigator thought Halifax had followed the requirements expected of them when 
deciding to grant the loan  and that they hadnt acted unfairly. He felt theyd carried out 
proportionate checks, which hadnt revealed anything that suggested it would be unfair for 
Halifax to lend to Mr C.
Mr C disagreed. He felt hed provided enough evidence showing Halifax would have been 
able to see that he couldnt afford this loan. And that they should have considered whether 
the payments would be sustainable for him, as well as completing an affordability 
calculation. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
In my recent provision decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out rules and guidance for lenders to follow, 
which can be found in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Ive reviewed what this 
required Halifax to do before approving Mr Cs loan application. 
Halifax were required to carry out a creditworthiness assessment, and to have proper regard 
to what that showed about whether the loan was affordable for Mr C. This wasnt just about 
how likely it was that theyd get their money back - they had to focus on whether the 
repayments would adversely affect Mr Cs financial situation. This meant satisfying 
themselves hed be able to afford to make the repayments in a way that he could sustain 
throughout the 24-month loan period.
There was no set list of checks to be carried out, but Halifax had to make sure the checks 
they completed were reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances. CONC listed a 
number of factors that might affect how extensive the checks needed to be, such as the type 
and amount of credit, the monthly repayment amount, and the length of the agreement. 
CONC said businesses had to make sure theyd got enough information to enable a 
reasonable assessment to be carried out. This could include information they were aware of 
at the time. But it might be appropriate to obtain more from Mr C, or from a credit reference 
agency. Ive reviewed the checks Halifax carried out with these requirements in mind.
Ive seen a copy of the information Mr C provided in his online application. He declared his 
salary to have been £1,680 per month. He didnt declare any financial commitments, such as 
rent or other regular monthly payments. I note that Mr Cs application didnt say what he 
wanted the loan for.
Halifax have told us that they estimated Mr Cs housing costs to be £262 per month and his 
essential living costs to be £374 per month. Theyve said these figures were based on 
statistical data taken from the Office for National Statistics and their own transactional 
records. Their assessment showed that, after paying his essential living costs, Mr C was 
likely to have over £1,000 available to spend each month. 
Halifax said they were satisfied that their assessment showed the loan was affordable for Mr 
C. And that, as the credit reference agency information they obtained showed no defaults, 
county court judgments or bankruptcy recorded against him, the loan was approved. 
But Im not persuaded that Halifax properly considered all the information they were aware of 
at the time. Mr C already held other Halifax accounts. Ive seen copies of statements for his 
Halifax current account, savings account and credit card covering the three month period 
before he applied for the loan. Ive reviewed these in detail.
The evidence Ive seen shows Mr C opened the credit card account on 4 March 2019 and 
reached the credit limit in less than two weeks. Despite making payments, I cant see that he 
was making any real progress towards reducing the outstanding balance. Before receiving 
the loan funds on 15 May 2019, he was very close to his credit card limit.
The current account statements confirm Mr C was receiving at least the amount of salary 
hed declared in his application. But the account was overdrawn and incurring daily fees 
throughout the three-month period I looked at. I saw only one external direct debit 
instruction, relating to a phone provider. In March 2019 that direct debit instruction bounced 
back because there were insufficient funds to cover a payment of £20.36. Other than 
payments to his phone provider and Halifax credit card, all other transactions were transfers 
to accounts held by Mr C. I was unable to see where his money was being spent.
Similarly, almost all of the transactions on the savings account were to and from other 
accounts in Mr Cs name. Again, I was unable to see what he was spending his money on. 
I appreciate Halifaxs affordability assessment showed Mr C should have over £1,000 
available to spend each month. But I dont consider that to be consistent with the account 
information they held. Over the three-month period I reviewed, the amount of money paid 
into Mr Cs current and savings accounts almost exactly matched the amount of money paid 
out. So, before Halifax decided he could sustainably afford to pay an additional £270.10 each month, I think reasonable and proportionate checks should have included asking Mr C 
for more information to show where his salary was going. 
Ive reviewed what Halifax would have discovered if theyd asked to see a recent statement 
for Mr Cs other bank account. At the time of the loan application, the most recent statement 
would have covered the period from 22 March to 18 April 2019. Mr C has provided a copy of 
this.
The statement shows large numbers of gambling transactions on a daily basis. On 25 March 
2019 Mr C transferred over £2,000 into the account. But just two days later this was gone - 
and his account was overdrawn by nearly £200. It remained overdrawn for the rest of the 
statement period, despite high-cost short-term loans being paid into the account on 1, 11, 15 
and 17 April 2019. 
Based on the information Ive seen so far, Im not persuaded that Halifax carried out 
adequate checks before granting this loan. If theyd asked for more information to show 
where Mr Cs money was going, I think it would have been very clear that he had problems 
with gambling  and that he was borrowing more money than he could afford to repay. In 
those circumstances, I dont consider Halifax to have acted fairly by lending Mr C more 
money. Ive gone on to consider what they should do to put things right.
Ive thought about how Mr C spent the money, and his current financial situation. I dont think 
his circumstances suggest it would be unfair for him to repay the £5,000 he borrowed from 
Halifax. But I think they should refund all the interest and charges applied to the loan 
account from the outset. And I think Halifax should remove any adverse information about 
this account from Mr Cs credit file. 
I intend to uphold this complaint and direct Halifax to:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset;
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
any outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mr C along with 8% simple interest from the date the overpayments were 
made to the date of settlement;
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file in respect of this 
account.
I invited both parties to send me any further information or comments theyd like me to 
consider. Both parties responded, saying they accepted my provisional findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of 
Scotland plc to:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset;
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being any outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mr C along with 8% simple interest from the date the overpayments were 
made to the date of settlement;
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file in respect of this 
account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman