DRN-3551814
The complaint
Mr Z is unhappy that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) wouldnt allow a money transfer he 
instructed.
Whats happened?
Mr Z says that he ordered an item from an electronics retailer and tried to pay for it via Wise. 
Hed ordered from the same retailer and paid via Wise previously, but this time Wise refused 
to process the money transfer and it hasnt explained why. Mr Z has said that he had to pay 
for his order via alternative means and hes incurred additional fees as a result. 
Wise has said that it was unable to allow payments to the relevant recipient at the time or 
provide Mr Z with an explanation for the reasoning behind this decision. Its referred to 
section 12.10 of the Wise Customer Agreement, which says:
12.10 Refusal of your payment order. If we are unable to complete your payment order, 
we will let you know and, if possible, the reasons for the refusal and an explanation of how to 
correct any factual errors. However, we are not required to notify you if such notification 
would be unlawful.
Our investigator looked into this matter but didnt uphold Mr Zs complaint. He thought that 
Wise had made a commercial decision it was entitled to make in refusing to process the 
money transfer in question, and he didnt think that Wise was obliged to share its reasons for 
that decision with Mr Z.
Mr Z didnt agree with our investigators conclusions, so his complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is my role to decide whether Wise has done anything wrong in this matter and, if it has, 
what it should do to put things right.
I appreciate Mr Zs frustration, but Wise doesnt have to explain the reasons why it refused to 
process his money transfer to him. It has explained itself to our Service and, looking at 
everything, Im satisfied that the actions Wise has taken are in line with its customer 
agreement and demonstrate a legitimate exercise of its commercial judgement.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Wise has done anything wrong that it needs to put right in 
this case.
Wise has confirmed that Mr Z will be able to send funds to this particular recipient in future.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman