DRN-1628451
The complaint
Mr G complains that CIS General Insurance Limited unfairly avoided his motor insurance 
policies on the basis that he hadnt disclosed relevant details to it from the outset.
What happened
Mr G took out a policy with CIS in September 2016. He renewed the policy in 2017 and 
2018. In June 2019 his car was stolen. In dealing with the claim, CIS found that in 2016, hed 
declared a claim from May 2016 but hadnt mentioned a vandalism claim from December 
2015. It said had it known his full claims history within the previous five years, it wouldnt 
have offered Mr G cover in 2016. It avoided the 2016 policy and both of the renewed 
policies, so the 2019 theft claim wasnt covered. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Gs complaint about the policies avoidance. He 
thought CIS had acted reasonably. He said it had shown it wouldnt have offered cover had it 
known all the facts, which Mr G had misrepresented. But Mr G said CIS had a duty of care 
towards him and shouldnt have renewed his policy twice without checking his claims history. 
The investigator said it was Mr Gs responsibility as a consumer to ensure the right details 
were given when applying for (or renewing) a policy. Mr G still thought CIS should have 
queried the facts earlier.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). It requires a consumer to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies, provided the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer must show that it would only have offered the policy 
on different terms - or not at all - if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out several considerations for deciding whether a consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or just careless. 
If the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless  and an insurer can show it would at 
least only have offered the policy on different terms  its entitled to avoid the consumers 
policy. If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it wont have to deal with any claims under 
it. But if the qualifying misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer 
must show that it wouldnt have offered the policy at all, but for the misrepresentation. 
In this case, Mr G had a duty to take reasonable care when he bought the policy in 2016 - 
and at each renewal. The question he was asked in 2016 was: In the last five years have 
you had or caused any accidents, claims or damage involving any motor vehicle..even if 
no claim was made and regardless of blame?   
I think that was a clear question. Mr G disclosed a claim in May 2016 (although he declared 
it in error as non-fault, said it was vandalism rather than theft, and gave the wrong date for 
it). He didnt disclose a second fault claim (for vandalism) made in December 2015. 
In 2019, when asked about the missing claim, Mr G told CIS hed forgotten about it at the 
time, yet it was made only nine months before the policy was bought. The question Mr G 
was asked when buying the policy required him to think about all claims and incidents in the 
previous five years. So I dont think he took reasonable care in replying to it. As a result, he 
misrepresented the facts to CIS. 
CIS has shown that its underwriting criteria wouldnt have allowed it to offer a policy to Mr G 
at all had it known in 2016 about the claims made in the previous five years. That means his  
misrepresentation in 2016 was a qualifying one under CIDRA. 
At each renewal, Mr G took out a new contract with CIS. It hasnt been able to provide 
evidence of the question he was asked at renewal, but it says consumers are normally 
asked whether there have been any changes during the last year. As thats a standard 
question when a policys renewed, I think its more likely than not that Mr G was asked that 
question. And he was then sent the renewed policy details for checking. 
As Mr G didnt correct the record held by CIS from 2016 at the renewal in 2017, or at the 
2018 renewal, I think both renewed policies were based on the misrepresentation originally 
made in 2016. 
CISs underwriting criteria for 2017 and 2018 shows that in both years, CIS would not have 
offered Mr G cover had it known his full claims history. So, as Mr G didnt correct the record 
at either renewal, I think he made two further qualifying misrepresentations. 
CIS would have avoided the 2016 policy - and it wouldnt have offered Mr G further cover in 
2017 - had he corrected the record at that point. The same applies to the 2018 renewal, as it 
would have been declined. In these circumstances, I think it was reasonable for CIS to avoid 
those policies as well. Unfortunately, it follows that the claim made in 2019 wasnt covered. 
As CIS thought Mr Gs misrepresentation was careless, not deliberate or reckless, it returned 
all his premiums, in line with CIDRA. I think it acted reasonably in doing so. 
Mr G thinks CIS had a duty to establish what his claims record was when he took out and 
renewed the policies, but I dont think an insurer is obliged to do that. The onus is on a 
consumer to take reasonable care to answer an insurers questions about his or her claims 
history, on the basis that the consumer should know what claims have been made. 
Consumers can always check with their previous insurers if theyre not sure. In my opinion, 
insurers are entitled to rely on the details a consumer provides at inception and renewal. 
Databases are usually checked if a claim is made, and I dont think it was wrong for CIS not 
to do that until it started to validate the 2019 claim.
I know Mr G will be disappointed with my decision, as his loss on the 2019 claim is 
substantial. I do sympathise with the position hes found himself in, but as I dont think CIS 
has acted unreasonably, I cant uphold his complaint.        My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman