DRN-2889376
The complaint
Ms R complained that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) acted irresponsibly when they 
provided her with a credit card, increased its limit on two occasions and agreed to provide 
her a loan.
What happened
Ms R applied online to Aqua for a credit card in July 2016. Aqua agreed her application and 
provided a credit limit of £250.
On 27 February 2017, Aqua wrote to Ms R to say that theyd like to increase her credit limit 
to £500. The new limit was made effective in April 2017.
On 27 April 2018, Aqua wrote to Ms R again to say that theyd like to increase her credit limit 
to £1,300. This new limit was made effective in May 2018.
On 6 August 2018, Ms R applied to Aqua for a loan of £7,500 over 24 months. Aqua agreed 
to provide the loan as requested.
In November 2018, Ms R contacted Aqua to explain that she was experiencing financial 
difficulties. She wanted to agree a fixed repayment for her credit card account. Aqua sent an 
income and expenditure form to Ms R for her to complete and return. They also placed her 
account on hold for 30 days. Aqua didnt receive the completed form back from Ms R.
Also, in November 2018, Aqua agreed to a payment arrangement of £100 per month in 
respect of the loan Ms R had taken with them. In February 2019, Aqua transferred the 
outstanding loan to an external debt collection company.
In June 2019, Ms R contacted Aqua again to explain that she was experiencing financial 
difficulties. They agreed a payment arrangement for the credit card debt of £34 per month. 
They also stopped charging interest on this. The payment amount was increased to £40 in 
April 2020 and continued at this amount thereafter.
Ms R discussed her financial situation with a third party. She believed that Aqua had acted 
irresponsibly. She said that she couldnt afford the credit card and loan. She also said that at 
the time, she was increasing her debt to meet day to day expenditure and repayments on 
other debts she owed. 
So, Ms R complained to Aqua. She wanted them to refund all interest and charges and to 
wipe off any remaining debt and pay statutory interest. She also wanted them to remove any 
adverse information that theyd recorded on her credit file.
Aqua replied to Ms Rs complaint in February 2020. They didnt agree with Ms R. They said 
that they hadnt done anything wrong. Ms R didnt agree so she referred her complaint to this 
service.
One of our investigators looked into Ms Rs complaint. He didnt think that Aqua had done 
anything wrong when they agreed to provide Ms R with a credit card and increase her credit 
limit to £500. But he did think that Aqua had been irresponsible to increase Ms Rs credit 
limit to £1,300. He also thought that Aqua had been irresponsible to agree to provide Ms R 
with the loan of £7,500.
To put things right, he said that Aqua should refund all interest and charges on Ms Rs credit 
card account for any balance owed above the first £500. He also said that Aqua should 
agree a suitable repayment plan with Ms R for any residual balance owed. Alternatively, if 
the refunds resulted in a balance being owed to Ms R, they should refund this together with 
8% simple interest. 
As regards the loan, our investigator thought that Aqua should refund any and all charges 
and interest and deduct any payments made by Ms R from the loan balance. He also 
thought that Aqua should the agree a repayment plan with Ms R for any remaining amount 
owed.
In both cases, our investigator thought that Aqua should backdate any of the entries on Ms 
Rs credit file to reflect these changes.
Aqua didnt agree with our investigators findings. So, they asked for Ms Rs complaint to be 
reviewed by an Ombudsman for a final decision.
Having reviewed Ms Rs complaint, I reached a different outcome to that of our investigator. 
Because of that, I issued a provisional decision on 8 June 2021  giving both Ms R and 
Aqua the opportunity to respond to my findings below, before I reach a final decision.
In that decision, I said:
Aqua have provided the details used to assess Ms Rs original credit card 
application. This shows information provided by Ms R and also obtained from credit 
reference agencies. Ms Rs application shows that she had gross income of £21,000 
per annum. It also says that there was additional household income of £21,000. 
Credit file information suggests there was no recent adverse public information. It 
does show that Ms R had two defaults totalling £100 but there had been nothing 
within the preceding two years. There was nothing to suggest that Ms R was 
experiencing any financial difficulties at the time of her application.
Aqua say that their credit card is aimed at customers who are trying to rebuild and 
improve their credit rating. They say that it isnt unusual to see customers with a poor 
or absent credit history. This is their choice, but it is important that in each case, 
Aqua follow the rules and guidance laid down in CONC 5.2A when assessing an 
application.
Given the information available, I believe that Aquas decision to provide Ms R with a 
credit card and a small starting limit was reasonable. The checks that Aqua 
completed appear proportionate to the facility requested and level agreed. So, I dont 
think that Aqua did anything wrong here.
Following the agreement, Ms R used her card and Aquas records show that she 
exceeded the agreed limit in September and October 2016. She was also late with a 
payment. Aqua charged fees for these.
Aqua state that its their policy to exclude customers for limit increase offers if they 
are over their limit at the time of the increase. Also, where they have incurred an over 
limit fee for three of the three months prior to the increase. They adopt a similar 
policy where their customers are late with their credit card payments.
Looking at Aquas records, Ms R hadnt exceeded her limit for five months before the 
increase to £500 in April 2017. She also hadnt been late with any payments for six 
months before. So, this appears to meet Aquas policy. However, I also note that Ms 
Rs credit file shows that she was late with payments on other debts in five of the 
eight months following Aquas original agreement. This included the three months 
prior to Aqua increasing Miss Rs credit card limit to £500. March 2017 records show 
that she was two months late with a payment.It appears that Ms Rs account with Aqua hadnt breached their policy above. But 
there was clear evidence that she had been late with other debt payments 
immediately prior to Aqua increasing her limit. This information was available to 
Aqua. So, on balance, I believe that the proportionate response wouldve been for 
Aqua to undertake additional detailed tests and checks to better understand Ms Rs 
financial situation at the time. I cant see that Aqua did that here. Had they, I believe 
that they wouldve established a better understanding of her financial situation. I also 
believe that it is more likely, than not, that a responsible lender wouldnt have offered 
to increase Miss Os limit here. I dont think that Aqua wouldve offered a limit 
increase if the late payments had related to Ms Rs account with them.
At the point where Aqua offered to increase Ms Rs credit limit to £1,300, her account 
appeared to meet their policy previously mentioned. But during the 12 months 
following the increase to £500, credit file records show that Ms Rs debts had 
increased from £3,841 to a peak of £10,633. Shed also exceeded her Aqua card 
limit on six occasions and incurred two late payment fees. I can also see that Ms R 
had used her card to make cash withdrawals in eight of the 12 months. The UK 
Cards Association best practice guideline suggests that frequent cash withdrawals 
using a credit card is a potential risk indicator of financial difficulty.
So, once again, I believe that the proportionate response here wouldve been for 
Aqua to undertake further detailed tests and checks to better understand Ms Rs 
financial situation. But again, I cant see that Aqua did this. If checks had been made, 
I believe that it is more likely, than not, that a responsible lender wouldnt have 
offered to increase Miss Os limit to £1,300.
Following this, Aqua agreed to provide a loan of £7,500 to Ms R. This was only three 
months after the credit limit increase to £1,300. Given my findings above, I believe 
that it was important that Aqua completed further detailed checks and assessments 
before agreeing to further borrowing.
Aqua have said that their decision to agree the loan was based upon information 
provided by Ms R together with information held at the credit reference agencies and 
their own internal risk strategies. Having already established that there were warning 
signs that should reasonably have prompted Aqua to undertake more detailed 
assessments, I would expect the same to apply here.
Aqua did provide details of a calculation for Ms Rs surplus income. However, they 
later said that this wasnt used to assess Ms Rs suitability for this loan. Aqua also 
said that theyd obtained evidence of Ms Rs income at the time of the application. 
They offered to provide copies of this. Unfortunately, they have been unable to trace 
it although their notes suggest that theyd requested a wage slip.
Its worth me saying here that I accept that Aqua likely followed its own processes 
and procedures in making their assessment of affordability. But, as with any system 
or process that doesnt involve direct interaction with a customer  there will be 
occasions where this results in an unfair outcome in individual circumstances. Given 
what Ive already established, thats what I think happened here. I think that some of 
the factors that CONC outlines could only be reliably and proportionately assessed 
as a result of some more direct interaction with Ms R. But I cant see that this 
happened. I believe that such interaction was likely to have revealed more than the 
data and statistical information used in this case and wouldve been a proportionate 
step to take in all the circumstances here.
Taking all of this into account, I dont believe that a responsible lender wouldve 
agreed Ms Rs loan if more detailed checks and assessments had been completed. 
So, I agree with our investigator and think that Aqua need to put things right. But 
unlike our investigator, I dont believe that Aqua acted responsibly when agreeing the first credit card limit increase to £500. So, I will be looking for them to address that 
too.
I think that Aqua should put things right by calculating the interest and charges 
specifically applied to the limit increases on and after the increase to £500 in April 
2017 and refund this amount. If after recalculating the account in line with the above, 
this results in a credit balance being due to Ms R in relation to her credit card debt 
with them  then 8% simple interest should be payable on that amount.
As regards the loan, I believe that Aqua should refund all interest and charges 
applied from when the loan was first taken to date. The amount remaining should 
equate to £7,500 less any repayments already made by Ms R.
Ms R wants Aqua to wipe off any remaining debt. Whilst I appreciate that Ms R will 
be disappointed, I cant agree. She has received benefit from the money borrowed 
so, she will remain liable for any remaining amount outstanding. 
Ms R also wants Aqua to remove any adverse information that theyve recorded on 
her credit file. I think its fair to say that the position with this account on her credit file 
is accurate, in that it represents that Ms R owes the outstanding amounts and has 
entered into repayment plans for the outstanding amounts. So, for this reason, I shall 
only be asking Aqua to amend and backdate any records on Ms Rs credit file to 
reflect the interest and charges refunded and ensure that any outstanding amounts 
are correctly reported.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I asked both parties to respond with any new information or 
comments they wanted me to consider. Ive now received both parties comments.
I was pleased that Ms R has confirmed that she does now understand that she will have to 
repay the money that she borrowed. But she has asked that I consider whether the default 
can be removed from her credit history. She believes this wouldnt have arisen had she not 
been offered the loan.
While I do understand and appreciate Ms Rs view here, where a payment arrangement is 
agreed in place of the original lending agreement, it means that the original agreement has 
effectively defaulted. An individuals credit reference file must be an accurate reflection of 
what actually happened. This is important as the information may be referred to and used by 
other lenders as part of any future application assessments. While its fair to say that a 
default may not have occurred, had Aqua not lent to Ms R, the reality is that they did. Ms R 
received benefit and ultimately defaulted under the original agreement. So, its important that 
her credit file reflects this accurately here. So, while I know that Ms R will be disappointed, I 
cant agree to her request.
Aqua responded in relation to my comments about the first credit card limit increase to £500, 
They said that they do not obtain evidence of income and expenditure and we are not 
required to do so. This isnt standard industry practice. They say theres no exhaustive list 
of what reasonable checks should be They suggest that the kind of things one would 
expect to be considered include, but are not limited to; the type and amount of credit, the 
borrowers income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well the 
consumers personal circumstances. All of which have been evidenced. 
I agree with Aqua that there is no prescribed requirement to obtain evidence of income and 
expenditure. But where theres sufficient cause to justify additional tests and checks, its important that these are completed. Including, where appropriate, information from the 
customer. Aqua havent provided anything to suggest that they did that here. 
Aqua say that the external arrears werent present at the time of the increase. They say that 
this short period of external arrearsalone would not be sufficient grounds to withdraw the 
increase that became available.
Unfortunately, I dont agree with Aqua here. Their own policy says that they will not offer a 
limit increase where there have been either late payments or limit excesses in three of the 
three months on a customers Aqua account prior to any increase. Theyve provided copies 
all the information available to them at the time. Ms Rs credit history shows late payments to 
other credit providers in three of the three months prior to the increase to £500. While these 
dont relate to Ms Rs Aqua account, I remain of the opinion that this provides sufficient 
cause to undertake further checks before offering an increase. I cant see that Aqua did that 
here.
In relation to my comments about the increase to £1,300, Aqua say that it is unrealistic and 
unreasonable to consider information after the increase had taken affect. 
My comments relate to Ms Rs 12- month account and credit history before Aqua increased 
her limit to £1,300. I can see that this information was available to Aqua. Im of the opinion 
that the combination of limit excesses, late payments and regular cash withdrawals against a 
backdrop of rising external debt was sufficient to prompt Aqua to undertake further tests and 
checks. But Aqua havent provided anything to suggest that they did that here.
Having considered everything that Ms R and Aqua have said, following my provisional 
decision, Ive not seen anything that persuades me to change my mind here. So, my 
decision will remain as detailed in my provisional decision of 8 June 2021.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I require NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) to:
calculate and refund all interest and charges, other than those that would have been 
incurred, had the limit not been increased to £500 in April 2017,
pay 8% interest on any credit balance that may end up being due to Miss O as a 
result of this,
calculate and refund all charges and interest applied to Ms Rs loan ensuring that the 
remaining balance reflects the original principal amount of £7,500 less any payments 
already made by Ms R to date, 
amend any previous credit file records reported to reflect any debt balance reduction 
from all interest and charges refunded.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman