DRN-3958313
The complaint
Mr K complains that following identity theft, Equifax Limited didnt help him get the linked 
addresses that were linked to the fraudster removed from his credit file. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
In August 2021 Mr K was contacted by a company Ill call IM, to repay an account thatd 
fallen into arrears. He said he hadnt taken out the account. Mr K later became aware links to 
different addresses were recorded on his credit file. He says he raised 14 disputes and two 
complaints with Equifax in order to get the information removed.
Equifax said when Mr K first got in touch, they raised disputes with two lenders who were 
showing the disputed addresses. One of those lenders replied and asked that Mr K confirm 
which was the correct address. At this point, IM had replied and accepted the addresses 
were incorrect  so Equifax said they then raised disputes with the other lenders who had 
recorded the incorrect addresses on Mr Ks credit file.
Equifax explained they added a Notice of Disassociation (NoD) following IMs information. 
They said this ensures the other partys information is removed from Mr Ks information and 
prevents any reoccurrence of this. But, this removed all accounts Mr K had  and when they 
removed the NoD to fix that issue, it put the disputed accounts / addresses back on Mr Ks 
credit file. They said theyd raised disputes with the lenders, and once theyd authorised the 
removal of the links then they could load the NoD again. They added they dont own the data 
they report, its provided by the lenders  so when a dispute is raised they have to check it 
with the lenders. Overall, for the issues with the NoD they offered to pay Mr K £100 
compensation.
This was Equifaxs first response, and it was issued on 10 March 2022. Between then and 
3 April 2022 I can see Mr K raised a number of further disputes. And on 3 April 2022 when 
raising his second complaint he asked Equifax to load the NoD as soon as possible  
explaining the lenders had provided all the evidence he felt Equifax needed. 
The matter wasnt resolved at this point, and Ive seen records of Mr K continuing to raise 
disputes for several months after this. On 5 September 2022 a new credit report was 
produced  and Mr K has confirmed this is correct. Having been complaining to Equifax for 
some time, Mr K asked us to look into things. Hed also raised a complaint against IM, which 
one of our Investigators didnt uphold.
For this complaint, our Investigator said Equifax arent responsible for the data thats 
reported to them  the owners of the data are (such as banks, building societies, mortgage 
companies and so on). Because of this, agreement is needed from the owner of the data to 
remove any incorrect information. Overall, our Investigator didnt think Equifax had acted 
unfairly.
Mr K didnt agree with this, in summary he said:
He was the victim of a crime and these issues need sorting out
An owner of some data might still be reporting incorrect addresses, but theyre 
nothing to do with him and need to be removed.
Because Mr K didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
Before finalising matters I arranged for us to ask for further information from Mr K, Equifax 
and IM to help me decide the outcome. I had some further questions which were put to 
Equifax on 7 December 2022, but as at the date of this decision theyve not replied. In the 
absence of a reply, Ive gone ahead and provisionally decided this case.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. I say this as Im aware Ive summarised 
Mr Ks complaint in considerably less detail than he has. If Ive not reflected something thats 
been said its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux of 
the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless I 
think its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
The crux of this complaint is whether Equifax did enough to support Mr K in resolving the 
issues he was having with different lenders. For reasons Ill go on to explain, I think they 
could have done more.
As a starting point I need to explain, as our Investigator correctly said, Equifax arent 
responsible for the incorrect data appearing on Mr Ks credit file. Sadly, it appears Mr K was 
the victim of identity theft which is what led to the issues in the beginning. In situations where 
an individual disputes the data on their credit file, the usual process is for Equifax to contact 
the relevant lender to raise the dispute.
Often, those lenders will ask the person who contacted Equifax to get in touch with them  
particularly in the case of identity theft its important for all parties to make sure theyre 
dealing with the right parties.
So, initially, when Mr K raised his concerns, Equifax did what Id expect  which is raise his 
concerns to the lenders involved and then relayed their messages. These messages said 
that either that the details would be changed, or that Mr K needed to get in touch with the 
lenders directly.
The first evidence I have of Mr K contacting Equifax is in August 2021  the same month IM 
contacted him regarding an account. 
Because IM had done a trace to find the account owner, this created additional address links 
on Mr Ks credit file. The two main problematic ones Ill refer to as B Av and M Rd.
As part of his complaint to IM, they said theyd arranged for Equifax to remove the address 
links thatd been created to B Av and M Rd.This was 12 November 2021, and IM instructed Equifax to remove any links between Mr Ks 
correct address, and both of the above addresses. When IM sent this request through, 
Equifax have shown they returned a result of not found. 
I felt this was ambiguous about what it meant  so we put this to IM who said they 
understood this to mean Equifax couldnt see any linked addresses. So, they understood the 
incorrect linked addresses were no longeron Mr Ks credit file meaning they didnt need to do 
anything more.
Equifax said not found actually meant they couldnt do what theyd been asked. We went 
back to Equifax for an explanation of how a lender such as IM would know what not found, 
which was the only detail sent back to the lender, meant. To date no reply has been 
received. So, given what I consider is an ambiguous reply and IMs reasonable interpretation 
of the reply they received  I think Equifax didnt share clear information about what was 
going on.
In addition, Equifax have said they didnt receive any instruction to remove the link created 
between B Av and M Rd on Mr Ks credit file. While I understand Equifaxs point, I think its 
reasonable if a lender is asking for links to the correct address be removed from two different 
erroneous addresses that any link between those erroneous addresses would be removed 
also. It was a surprise to me that Equifaxs systems didnt identify this. Ultimately, its not for 
me to necessarily recommend changes in Equifaxs systems, but here I do think theyve had 
a negative impact on how quickly this matter got resolved for Mr K. And that is something I 
can consider.
On this point then, it seems IM did everything it should have done, and the reason those 
addresses stayed longer than they should have is due to Equifaxs handling of matters.
Mr K was then regularly raising disputes about two other lenders, one Ill refer to as L, and 
another Ill refer to as B.
The dispute with L seems to have got resolved relatively quickly so I wont mention them 
again, but Bs dispute took many more months than I think was needed for it to be resolved.
Mr K continued to raise disputes about the information recorded, and in March 2022 B 
issued an outcome explaining they accepted the account they were reporting was fraudulent, 
so would close the account down.
Ive seen evidence showing Mr K provided Equifax with a copy of this letter when raising his 
disputes with B. Each time though, B replied with messaging asking Mr K to contact them 
and provide his 16-digit card number even though the account in question wasnt a credit 
card.
I can see on 11 April Mr K asked why B were saying this, can Equifax not give him a phone 
number, whats the reference to a 16-digit card number as the account isnt a credit card  
and various other questions. These questions werent answered, and Equifax simply 
repeated what B had told them which I find particularly unhelpful given how long this matter 
had been going on for at this point. And, frustratingly for Mr K, the matter continued for 
several months more after this time with him continuing to try and get matters resolved  
leading to an hour-long phone call on 2 June 2022 which still didnt resolve things.
Each time B replied Equifax simply passed on the message. Even though at this point 
Equifax had been sent Bs letter confirming the account was fraudulent, and the answer 
through their usual dispute process was the same which clearly wasnt helping. Equifax have 
confirmed they have the option to escalate matters with data providers, and Ive seen no 
evidence they did so with B when I think they should have.Overall while I understand Equifax will generally follow their processes, here I think given the 
circumstances of the incorrect information Mr K was reporting, along with the evidence he 
sent them and the length of time this took, they could have done more to help Mr K resolve 
the issues he was having.
Im aware following issues with the NoD deleting all of Mr Ks data Equifax offered him £100. 
Taking into account my findings above, I think total compensation of around £350 would be a 
fairer reflection of the distress caused to Mr K. Ive factored into this Equifax werent 
responsible for the initial situation occurring. If Equifax have already paid Mr K £100, then 
they can reduce the remaining compensation payment to £250.
Responses to my provisional decision
Equifax said they didnt think they were responsible for the link being created by the lender. 
But, having read my findings they thought they could have done more for Mr K. They said 
they could have raised another dispute with the lender, and a screenshot of the link that 
needed to be removed. So, for these reasons, plus the NoD removing Mr Ks details, they 
agreed to the £350 compensation.
Equifax also provided their responses to the information Id requested on the same day as 
confirming they accepted the overall outcome Id reached.
Mr K was made aware of the response from Equifax and said £350 is nowhere near enough 
to compensate him for the distress caused by Equifax. He said he was the innocent party 
that was left with a system that didnt work. He added the process was needlessly complex, 
the resolution took a long time to reach, and hed be happier with a figure nearer £3,500.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Equifax accepted the outcome I reached while providing some more information. Ive 
considered that information, but because theyve accepted my outcome I dont find it 
necessary to comment on the new evidence provided.
In relation to Mr Ks comments, I do understand his immense frustration at the processes he 
was subjected to. As Ive set out above, I agree Equifax simply didnt do enough to resolve 
the matter for him. 
I did carefully consider the impact on Mr K before reaching my decision that £350 was fair. In 
deciding that, I factored in that Equifax werent responsible for this situation occurring 
originally. I realise Mr K will be disappointed by this, but overall I remain of the opinion £350 
is a fair amount and in line with the kinds of awards our service would make in this situation.
My final decision
I require Equifax Limited to pay Mr K a total of £350 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Jon PearceOmbudsman