DRN-3787564
The complaint
Mr C complains he was mis-sold an investment bond by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd) 
an appointed representative of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited (Gallium). He says the 
bond was mis-sold to him and he has lost all of his money as a result of poor performance 
of the investment. Mr C also says that he understood investment was asset backed and 
that it had Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) protection.
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
Mr C invested in a B&G Plc 4 Year Compounding High-Yield Bond. Sales of this bond were 
dealt with by BG Ltd, a separate business from Basset & Gold Plc (B&G plc), the issuer of 
the bond. BG Ltd arranged applications for investments in the bond, through a website it 
operated. And it was responsible for advertising/marketing the bond. Potential investors 
were also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss the bond.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium. B&G Plc and BG Ltd 
were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Mr Cs investment in the bond
Mr C visited BG Ltds website in October 2017 after he searched online to find a product that 
would give him a good rate of interest for his savings. He says he then made contact with 
BG Ltd and spoke to a representative who became his dedicated relationship manager.
Mr C says at the time of investment he was approaching retirement and was looking for a 
good rate of interest for his savings. He held other small value investments so had some 
previous investment experience.
Mr C says he completed the application online. In total he applied to invest £20,000 in the 
bond (out of total savings of £120,000). The bond he invested in offered an interest rate 
7.72% per year and the invested capital was to be returned after four years.
When Mr C referred his complaint to us, we asked for copies of any call recordings BG Ltd 
held. We were provided with copies of some call recordings, but we have not been provided 
with recordings relevant to any conversations Mr C had with BG Ltd before or during the 
bond application. As such, Ive not referred to them in my decision.
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of      
BG Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact 
that nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay 
day lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
Uncle Buck went into administration in March 2020  and B&G Plc went into administration 
shortly afterwards. As a result, Mr C has not had his invested capital returned to him.
The application process
Mr C says he applied for the bond online in October 2017 and was also helped over the 
phone by BG Ltd. A separate spreadsheet we received from the administrators on behalf of 
BG Ltd confirmed BG Ltd received and accepted Mr Cs application form on 31 October 
2017.
Having reviewed the available evidence, I think it is most likely that Mr C did initially 
complete an online application. While he does appear to have had some telephone contact 
with BG Ltd, from what Ive seen I think he would have still been required to apply online 
first. So, Ive examined the online application process to help me reach my decision.  
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the online application process. These show the 
application journey that Mr C underwent. This consisted of two stages, designed to meet the 
rules restricting who the bond could be promoted to and on how to test whether the 
investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was certification, where Mr C 
was categorised as Self-Certified Sophisticated Investor. The second was the 
appropriateness test. 
Galliums response to Mr Cs complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said Mr C had been given sufficient information 
and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions once Mr Cs 
complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also 
considered what Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out general 
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mr Cs complaint and concluded it should be upheld. 
They said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Mr C as a Self-Certified 
Sophisticated Investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bond for 
him was inconsistent with the FCAs rules or guidance, and didnt gather sufficient 
information to comply with the FCAs rules.

Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so, Mr C wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have 
concluded that it shouldnt allow Mr C to invest. For these reasons, both cumulatively 
and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium to compensate  
Mr C for the loss he has suffered.

Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary: 
Our findings went beyond the scope of Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C certified that he met the requirements of Self-Certified Sophisticated Investor. 
It was reasonable for it to rely on the declaration.
The appropriateness test answers, and these confirmations were sufficient for 
Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the 
relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Mr C made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it and did 
not chose to surrender it when receiving the email in 2019 which warned of the 
concentration risk. So, he would have proceeded with the investment regardless. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on 
behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bond. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system              
(PRIN 1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with 
clients) are relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
As mentioned, the bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting 
who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the 
potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I 
have considered the relevant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered 
these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for the same reasons. In summary:
Mr C invested £20,000 out of his £120,000 savings.
Mr C couldnt remember exactly which category of investor he ticked. But he felt as 
he was searching for the products online and had done his own research he may 
have chosen Self-Certified Sophisticated Investor for this reason. But on reflection 
(and after discussing the declaration with our investigator) doesnt consider it applied 
to him.
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Mr C into certifying himself as belonging 
within a category of investor to which he did not belong as Mr C didnt qualify for any 
of the investor type descriptions.The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet 
the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the 
bond was not an appropriate investment for Mr C. In the circumstances Mr C would 
either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have 
concluded it should not promote the bond to Mr C.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Mr Cs complaint 
should be upheld. I am also satisfied Mr C would either not have proceeded to make the 
investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably 
to meet its regulatory obligations. And so, I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to 
compensate Mr C for his loss.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put     
Mr C as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not invested in the 
bond.
I take the view that Mr C would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr C's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mr C fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mr C's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
It is also clear that Mr C has been caused some distress and inconvenience by 
the loss of his investment. Given his circumstances, this is money Mr C cannot 
afford to lose, nor is it money he is able to replace. I do not believe Mr C foresaw 
such a drastic loss and I recognise the considerable worry he will have felt when 
B&G Plc failed. I consider a payment of £350 is fair compensation for the upset 
caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
B&G Plc 
Bond
(BG25410)Still exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr C agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the investment if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take ownership, 
then it may request an undertaking from Mr C that he repays to Gallium any amount he 
may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr C wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr C's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr C would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr C in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman