DRN-2063878
The complaint
Ms M complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to her alongside a store purchase in 1997. 
I know that Ms M took this cover out in an electrical store. However, AXA is responsible for 
complaints like this. So to keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA for the rest of this decision. 
What happened
The total amount of PPI that Ms M paid in respect of this matter is £67.76. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.  Through her representatives, 
Ms M disagreed with that decision. She said that if AXA had told her everything it should 
have done about the cover, she wouldnt have taken it out. She also said the cover wasnt 
presented as optional. When she was applying for the PPI, she crossed the relevant box on 
where she was told by the AXA representative.  
As Ms M disagreed with what our adjudicator said, the matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  
Im sorry to disappoint Ms M, but Im afraid I havent upheld her complaint. Ill explain why 
below. 
As set out above, Ms M bought PPI in shop. I cant know for certain what Ms M was told 
during the sale. So to help me decide whats most likely to have happened, Ive looked at 
what Ms M remembers about it. And Ive also considered the application form thats 
available from that time. 
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Ms M would have known PPI was optional and 
she didnt have to take it out if she didnt want it. 
I dont doubt that what Ms M told us is what she honestly recalls about the sale. But I also 
have to bear in mind that its difficult to remember precisely what happened over 20 years 
ago when this policy was sold. Theres a bit of a contradiction in what Ms M told us. On the 
one hand she says that she was told insurance would be automatically added. Later, she 
said she selected PPI because she was told where to sign. 
Its not entirely clear to me why Ms M would have thought she had to select a PPI policy if it 
would be automatically added. And so on that basis, I cant reasonably say that Ms Ms 
recollection is accurate  and as I said thats not surprising given the cover was sold so long 
ago. 
I think that if Ms M knew she had to select PPI, it would have been reasonably clear that if 
she didnt want the cover, she could have not marked the relevant part on the application 
form. 
When it sold PPI to Ms M, AXA had to give her enough information about the cover so she 
could decide for herself whether it was a good fit for her needs. That information had to be 
clear, fair and not misleading. 
I accept its possible that Ms M wasnt told everything she should have been when the cover 
was sold. But that doesnt mean I can automatically uphold the complaint. I have to consider 
objectively what Ms M would have done if AXA had given her all of the relevant information. 
To help me decide on that point, Ive looked at what we know about the terms and conditions 
of the cover. And Ive also thought carefully about what Ms M told us about her personal 
circumstances. 
I can see that if shed had to make a claim on the cover, Ms Ms repayments would have 
been covered for up to 12 months if she lost her job or she was too unwell to work. Ms M 
told us she would have had six months full pay and six months half pay if she was off sick. 
So it follows that I think the PPI would have lasted for longer than her full pay from work. 
Ms M also stressed that she would have had redundancy cover from her job. However, I 
note that she had been in her job for around three years and so it appears to me very 
unlikely that she would have received a redundancy payment that was the equivalent of 12 
months salary  the length of cover the PPI offered. 
Ms M told us she was in good health when the cover was sold. So I dont think shed have 
been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. And I havent seen 
anything unusual about her wider employment circumstances that would have stopped her 
from being able to make a claim if she needed to. 
Overall, I can see how PPI could have been helpful to Ms M at what would have no doubt 
been a very stressful time for her if she was out of work. It follows then that I dont think she 
would have acted differently even if AXA had told her everything it should have done. I think 
she would have still bought the cover. I cant say PPI was mis-sold.
I am sorry to disappoint Ms M, but for the reasons set out above, I havent upheld her 
complaint. I dont need to tell AXA to take any further action in respect of it. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about AXA France IARD. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman