DRN-3892839
The complaint
Mr K complains that Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money, have provided 
insufficient information to reassure him that his loan settlement figure is accurate. Also, that 
they sent him the personal details of another customer.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 12 December 2022. This is what I said: 
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to partially uphold it, so there will be a different
outcome to what our investigator proposed. Before I issue my final decision, I wanted to give 
everyone a chance to reply Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 9 
January 2023. But unless the information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be 
along the following lines.
The complaint
Mr K complains that Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money, have provided
insufficient information to reassure him that his loan settlement figure is accurate. Also, that
they sent him the personal details of another customer.
What happened
Mr K took out a 3-year loan with 118 118 Money in September 2021 and contacted them at
the beginning of 2022 to obtain an early settlement figure.
Mr K was unhappy with 118 118 Moneys settlement figures, as he thought it had been
calculated incorrectly. Also, when Mr K received settlement information, the letter from 118
118 Money detailed another persons name. Mr K was concerned about whether his details
couldve also have been shared with another customer.
Mr K complained to 118 118 Money about both the letter error and settlement information. In
addition, he requested an amortisation statement to help him understand the rebate and
settlement figure.
Mr K was dissatisfied with 118 118 Moneys response. This is because the amortisation
statement didnt match the figure he had been given and he thought he had been sent
incorrect information about the calculation equation. In addition, Mr K expressed
dissatisfaction over 118 118 Moneys service, as he found it necessary to request payment
details and struggled with their phone service.
118 118 Money apologised for the letter error and tried to reassure Mr K that it wasnt a data
breach and his information was secure.
As Mr K thought there was a settlement error and couldnt understand 118 118 Moneys
calculation, he proposed a lower amount based on their interest information. However, 118
118 Money reiterated the settlement amount was correct and, despite being dissatisfied, Mr
K paid this.
Mr K complained to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He said this
was because he couldnt see supporting evidence that 118 118 Money had incorrectly
calculated Mr Ks early settlement figure. Also, he didnt consider that 118 118 Money had
breached data protection and he considered their apology to be sufficient for the service
error.
As Mr K remains dissatisfied this complaint has been passed to me to look at.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different view to the investigator, and I intend to partially
uphold this complaint.
I first considered the settlement information that 118 118 Money provided to Mr K and, taking
into consideration the 58-day interest charge which is within the agreed terms and
conditions, I couldnt see that they have made an error. And, Im satisfied they have applied
the correct formula, which is the one contained within The Consumer Credit (Early
Settlement) Regulations 2004.
However, although I cant see any evidence that 118 118 Money made an error when
calculating Mr Ks settlement figure and, the repayment amount appears to be correct, I can
see why Mr K is unclear and believes 118 118 Money may have made an error. This is
because, despite Mr Ks query, 118 118 Money didnt explain that the formula they sent Mr
K, which on appearance looks incomplete and confusing, is the formula contained within
The Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004. Also, as the formula is complex,
it can only be understood by visiting the regulation and viewing the examples contained
within.
From reviewing correspondence, I think 118 118 Money shouldve explained this to Mr K.
Also, although it may not be standard practice and reference was made to examples, as the
formula is complex and Mr K had queries and didnt fully understand the settlement figure, I
think it would have been reasonable for 118 118 Money to share their formula calculations
with Mr K. This wouldve enabled Mr K to undertake or request analysis from an actuary or
accountant if he chose to do so.
So, although 118 118 Money provided Mr K with an amortisation statement, as this is a
complex calculation and Mr K was clear he required more than the high-level figures
provided, I think 118 118 Moneys response shouldve been clearer and more detailed. Had
118 118 Money done this, I dont think Mr K wouldve come up with his own calculation or
spent time requesting clarity, so I can understand Mr Ks frustration here.
I then considered the 118 118 Money error in which they quoted another persons name on
the early settlement letter.
Its not the role of this service to directly investigate alleged data breaches as that is the
responsibility of the Information Commissioners Office. And the alleged data breach which
Mr K complains about relates to a third party and not to him. Whilst its understandable that
Mr K might have lost faith in 118 118 Money, theres no information to show that his personal
details have been disclosed without his consent. However, Im satisfied this error caused Mr
K some concern and inconvenience, so I think 118 118 Money should provide Mr K with
some compensation.Finally, I looked at Mr Ks complaints about 118 118 Moneys call answering service and
delay in communicating payment details. I agree with the investigator that, although these
customer service issues have added to Mr Ks frustration, they arent sufficiently onerous for
a trouble and upset award.
So, having considered all the information from both sides here, I require 118 118 Money to
issue Mr K with their calculation of the amount of rebate as detailed in The Consumer
Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004. And, to issue it in the prescribed format, and
where possible, display it in a similar way to the examples used in the schedule (examples
illustrating use of formula for calculating rebate).
In addition, as I think 118 118 Moneys actions have caused Mr K both concern and
inconvenience, 118 118 Money should provide Mr K with £100 compensation.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, I plan to partially uphold this complaint.
I require Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money, to issue Mr K with their
calculation of the amount of rebate as detailed in The Consumer Credit (Early Settlement)
Regulations 2004. And, to issue it in the prescribed format, and where possible, display it in
a similar way to the examples used in the schedule (examples illustrating use of formula for
calculating rebate).
I also require Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money to pay Mr K £100
compensation.
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 9 January 2023.
Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set out
above.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments or evidence before the 
deadline.
118 118 Money replied and said the following sentence in the above provisional decision is 
incorrect:
118 118 Money didnt explain that the formula they sent Mr K, which on appearance
looks incomplete and confusing, is the formula contained within The Consumer 
Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004
They explained this is because:
Our final response that was sent on 01/03/2022 explains the following  I can 
confirm that the full settlement figure of £3048.92 is correct and in line with the terms 
of your agreement and also in conjunction with The Consumer Credit (Early 
Settlement) Regulations 2004  more information can be found here. 
With the word here being hyperlinked to the specific page in the regulations.
118 118 Money added:
We are currently working on the calculation and hope to be able to share this with 
you before the 09th. 
However, no additional information has yet been provided.Mr K said he had nothing to add but asked to be sighted on any response from 118 118 
Money. When Mr K saw the response from 118 118 Money, he said:
I am surprised the business have not provided this further explanation at the same 
time as responding to your service but this again further shows my disappointing 
experience with this business in general that information is always provided much 
later than when it is actually needed so have nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Thinking about everything again and, in light of the comments received after my provisional 
decision, I further reviewed the file.
In the absence of a detailed calculation, I cant see that 118 118 Money have made an error. 
However, Mr K isnt yet in a position to fully understand or check his rebate and settlement 
figure. So, Im pleased to see that 118 118 Money are working on the calculation for Mr K.
Further to 118 118 Moneys response, I did notice there was a hyperlink. But, I still think the 
correspondence is unclear and this lack of clarity caused Mr K both inconvenience and 
frustration. This is because the hyperlink was in a different section of the letter and, in the 
section where 118 118 Money pasted the formula, they werent explicit about the complex 
formula. Also, the formula was directly below the following sentence which makes it both 
confusing and appear incomplete:
I also appreciate that you would like to understand how the full settlement figure is 
calculated and therefore I have provided the below calculation for your reference 
which demonstrates how the rebate figure is established
In addition, it is clear from Mr Ks correspondence including requests and calculations, that 
he didnt understand how the rebate had been calculated, and I cant see 118 118 Money 
picked up on Mr K requirements here - which was a) clarification on the complex formula 
applied, and b) calculations after applying the complex formula. So, although I appreciate it 
may not be standard practice, with the latter still outstanding Mr K cant undertake or request 
analysis from an actuary or accountant if he chose to do so. 
So, having considered all the information from both sides here, Im still partially upholding 
this complaint.
I require 118 118 Money to issue Mr K with their calculation of the amount of rebate as 
detailed in The Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004. And, to issue it in the 
prescribed format, and where possible, display it in a similar way to the examples used in the 
schedule (examples illustrating use of formula for calculating rebate). 
118 118 Money should provide their calculation of the amount of rebate within 28 days of a 
final decision being accepted Mr K. 
In addition, as I think 118 118 Moneys actions have caused Mr K concern and 
inconvenience, 118 118 Money should provide Mr K with £100 compensation. My final decision
My final decision is that Im partially upholding this complaint. 
I require Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money, to issue Mr K with their 
calculation of the amount of rebate as detailed in The Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) 
Regulations 2004. And, to issue it in the prescribed format within 28 days of this decision 
being accepted, and where possible, display it in a similar way to the examples used in the 
schedule (examples illustrating use of formula for calculating rebate). 
Also, I require Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money to pay Mr K £100 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman