DRN-1378490
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained about the way in which Nationwide Building Society dealt 
with their mortgage redemption. They are asking Nationwide to compensate them for the 
stress and upset they have been caused.
What happened
The details of what happened are set out in depth in emails between our investigator, Mr and 
Mrs D and Nationwide, in particular the investigators email of 16 December 2019, so I wont 
repeat all the background here. There are two reasons for this; whats happened isnt really 
in dispute, only how things should be put right. Im also conscious that our decisions are 
published, and so I must ensure that I dont say anything that might lead to Mr and Mrs D 
being identified. So for those reasons, Ill keep my summary of what happened brief.
Mr and Mrs D had a mortgage with Nationwide that they were paying off by remortgaging to 
a new lender. The remortgage was due to complete on 3 June 2019. A redemption 
statement was issued on 30 May 2019, calculated to 3 June 2019, and assuming that the 
payment for June 2019 would be made. 
But Mr and Mrs D had already cancelled the direct debit (DD) and so the direct debit taken 
on 3 June 2019 was returned unpaid by Mr and Mrs Ds bank on 5 June 2019. This meant 
that Mr and Mrs D still owed Nationwide just over £1,400 in order to close the mortgage 
account.
Mrs D spoke to Nationwide on 4 June 2019 to check whether the mortgage had been paid 
off. Mrs D was told the mortgage account had been closed and they owed nothing more by 
one adviser. But after transferring Mrs D to another department which dealt with DDs, Mrs D 
was told that there might still be a balance to pay if her DD for June 2019 was returned.
Nationwide said it would write to Mr and Mrs D to let them know if this was the case, or if 
there was a surplus due to them. Mrs D confirmed shed leave the money in her account 
pending receipt of this information. Nationwide wrote to Mr and Mrs Ds solicitors on 14 June 
2019 to confirm there was a shortfall due of about £1,400.
When Mr and Mrs D learned that they still owed this final payment, they were very unhappy 
and so they have complained to Nationwide. They argue that, as they were told by 
Nationwide that the mortgage had been paid off, they should not have to make any further 
payment.
In its final response, Nationwide acknowledged that it had given Mrs D incorrect information 
on 4 June 2019. But Nationwide also noted that, during that call Mrs D was transferred to the 
mortgage service department where it was explained that the direct debit wasnt showing as 
having been rejected, but that if it was, then Mr and Mrs D would need to make up the 
shortfall on the account. The agent said that, although the account was showing as closed, if 
the payment had been returned, it wouldnt show on the account until the following day, 
5 June 2019. (That is, in fact, the day when the DD was returned unpaid.)  Mrs D said shed 
leave the money in her account just in case.
Nationwide said it had had to write to Mr and Mrs Ds solicitors three times  on 18 June 
2019, 2 July 2019 and 24 July 2019  requesting payment of the shortfall. 
Accepting Mr and Mrs D had been given incorrect information initially, Nationwide offered 
compensation of £150 and said it would remove any adverse information from Mr and 
Mrs Ds credit files. Mr and Mrs D didnt think this was enough and so brought their 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An investigator looked at the complaint and was satisfied that the compensation Nationwide 
had offered was fair and reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree. They say that Nationwide has left them in a vulnerable position. 
They are also unhappy that it took Nationwide until 18 June 2019 to tell them how much was 
still owed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I confirm Ive listened to the telephone calls between Mrs D and Nationwide. Having done 
so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for largely the same reasons.
I appreciate there was an initial error by Nationwide in saying that the mortgage account had 
been closed. But the information given by Nationwide was qualified after the call was 
transferred to another staff member, who explained to Mrs D that there might be a further 
payment due, and Mrs D acknowledged this by saying shed keep the money in her account 
until she heard from Nationwide. 
I note Mr and Mrs D say that Nationwide has left them in a vulnerable position, but they 
havent really clarified why they believe this to be the case. If Mr and Mrs D assumed they 
didnt owe any further payment and spent the £1,400, I cant hold Nationwide responsible for 
this. I say this because Nationwide made it clear that it would write to Mr and Mrs D with a 
closing balance, and did so within a fortnight. I dont think this is an unreasonable amount of 
time.
Im glad to note that Nationwide has removed any adverse credit information from Mr and 
Mrs Ds credit files. I think this is the right thing to do in the circumstances. 
Overall, I think the offer of compensation of £150 is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances to compensate Mr and Mrs D for the initial incorrect information they were 
given on 4 June 2019. I dont think any further payment is warranted, because Im satisfied 
that Nationwide also explained on 4 June 2019 that the DD might be returned. Given this, 
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs D were aware that they might still owe one final payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Im satisfied the compensation 
of £150 offered by Nationwide Building Society, and its removal of any adverse information 
from Mr and Mrs Ds credit files, is fair and reasonable. I simply leave it to Mr and Mrs D to 
decide if they want to accept it in full and final settlement of their complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman