DRN-3838543
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that AWP P&C SA has turned down a medical expenses claim they 
made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P have travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged bank account.
Mr and Mrs P were abroad on holiday in a country Ill call S. They were due to return to the 
UK on 4 March 2022. But on 1 March 2022, Mr P tested positive for Covid-19 using a lateral 
flow test (LFT). And a couple of days later, Mrs P tested positive for the virus too. Under S 
rules, they were required to self-isolate in their accommodation and they werent able to take 
their pre-booked flight back to the UK. They had to extend their accommodation booking 
until they both received negative LFT results. They were able to return to the UK on 15 
March 2022. So Mr and Mrs P made a claim on their travel insurance policy for the additional 
expenses theyd incurred.
AWP considered Mr and Mrs Ps claim under the emergency medical and associated 
expenses section of the policy. But it decided to turn the claim down. Thats because it said 
that positive LFT results werent sufficient evidence to show that Mr and Mrs P had a valid 
claim on the policy. It told them that it would need evidence of a positive PCR test result, or a 
medical report from a doctor before it would accept the claim.
Mr and Mrs P were unhappy with AWPs response. They said theyd called AWP on 2 March 
2022. But AWPs call handler hadnt told them theyd need to undergo a PCR test or obtain a 
formal medical diagnosis. Mr and Mrs P said the call handler had simply told them to comply 
with S quarantine requirements and to keep a log of their LFT results. They asked us to look 
into their complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Ps complaint should be partly upheld. She didnt think 
that Mr and Mrs Ps claim was strictly covered by the terms and conditions of the policy. But 
she didnt think it was fair and reasonable for AWP to turn down the claim. Thats firstly 
because she felt S quarantine requirements wouldve made it very difficult for Mr and Mrs P 
to obtain a medical report from a doctor. And she didnt think the policy required a 
policyholder to undergo PCR testing in order to make a valid claim. She noted Mr and Mrs P 
had provided photos of their positive LFT tests, together with evidence from the 
accommodation provider that their booking had been extended. So she thought Mr and Mrs 
P had provided reasonable evidence in support of their claim. And she recommended that 
AWP treat part of Mr and Mrs Ps claim as covered under the medical expenses section of 
the policy, although she didnt think it needed to pay confinement benefit.
AWP didnt respond to the investigators assessment.
Mr and Mrs P didnt think the investigators recommendation went far enough. They thought 
AWP should cover their claim for confinement benefit under the policy terms. And they also 
considered that AWP should pay compensation for the inconvenience and time its handling 
of the claim had caused them.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 November 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I didnt think AWP had treated Mr and Mrs P fairly. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. The regulators Principles for Business 
also say that financial businesses must pay due regard to the interests of their customers 
and treat them fairly. Ive considered then, amongst other things, AWPs regulatory 
obligations; the policy terms and the available evidence, to decide whether AWP treated Mr 
and Mrs P fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr and Mrs 
Ps contract with AWP. Mr and Mrs P claimed that they were delayed abroad as a result of 
contracting a virus, so I think it was appropriate for AWP to assess the claim in line with the 
emergency medical and associated expenses section of the policy. Ive set out a list of what 
I think are the main heads of cover which might apply to Mr and Mrs Ps claim, given the 
costs Mr and Mrs P have claimed for, although I havent set out the full terms here:
We will pay you up to £10 million for the following expenses which are necessarily incurred 
within 12 months of the incident as a result of your suffering unforeseen bodily injury, illness, 
disease and/or compulsory quarantine (including being diagnosed with an epidemic or 
pandemic disease, such as Covid-19.)
Emergency medical, surgical, hospital, ambulance and nursing fees and charges incurred 
outside of your home country.
A medical confinement benefit of £50 a day (up to a maximum of £1,000) for every complete 
period of 24 hours you are admitted to hospital as an in-patient or are confined to your 
accommodation outside of your home country, on the advice of a treating doctor.
Reasonable additional transport or accommodation expenses incurred, up to the standard of 
your original booking, if it is medically necessary for you to stay beyond your scheduled 
return date. This includes, with our prior authorisation, reasonable additional transport or 
accommodation expenses for a friend or relative to remain with you or travel to you from 
your home country or escort you and additional travel expenses to return you to your home if 
you are unable to use the return ticket.
This section of the policy also includes the following claims condition:
In addition to the General claims information required shown under the Making a claim 
section on page 19, where appropriate, you must also provide us with: written confirmation 
from the treating doctor of the dates and reason you have to be confined on medical advice 
to a hospital or your trip accommodation.
I think the policy terms make it clear that AWP will cover medical expenses claims if a 
policyholder suffers an illness while theyre abroad. In this case, Mr and Mrs Ps claim arose 
because they say they were diagnosed with Covid-19. Its a general principle of insurance 
that its for a policyholder to provide enough evidence to show, on balance, that they have a 
valid claim on their policy. AWP didnt think Mr and Mrs P had provided sufficient evidence to 
show theyd been diagnosed with Covid-19 whilst abroad. So Ive next thought about 
whether this was a fair conclusion for AWP to draw.
Its important I point out that there is no policy term which requires policyholders make 
Covid-19 related claims to provide evidence in the form of a PCR test. This simply isnt a 
term of the contract. AWP drafted the contract terms and it was open to it to include such a 
requirement if it wished to do so. But I dont think it can reasonably decline a claim on the grounds of a requirement which isnt set out in the contract between the parties.
Mr and Mrs P have provided photographs of their positive LFTs, which theyve told us were 
taken during their period of isolation at their accommodation. Theyve consistently told us the 
accommodation had to be extended to allow them to isolate in line with S governments 
rules. I find the photos persuasive evidence that Mr and Mrs P contracted the virus whilst 
they were abroad.
I note Mr P has sent us an email, dated 16 August 2022, from the accommodation provider, 
which says:
Mr and Mrs P were staying (at the resort) from 1/29/22 until 3/4/22 at the end of their 
vacation they tested positive for covid so they had to extend their days until 3/15/22 when 
they tested negative so they could go home.
In my view, this is compelling, independent evidence that Mr and Mrs informed the provider 
that theyd tested positive for Covid-19 before their planned return date. And I think its clear 
evidence that they accordingly extended their accommodation stay in order to carry out 
mandatory self-isolation. Mr P has also sent us a copy of an email he sent to the Foreign, 
Commonwealth & Development Office on 4 March 2022, which refers to his diagnosis and 
which requests assistance.
Ive seen a copy of S governments Covid-19 checklist which appears to have applied at 
the relevant time. This clearly states that those suffering symptoms of Covid-19 needed to 
self-isolate, as did the people they lived with. It stated too that patients should self-treat if 
they were suffering from a mild infection. There was simply no suggestion that a patient 
should seek medical advice unless they were suffering from more serious symptoms. Ive 
seen no evidence that Mr and Mrs P suffered from serious symptoms, which meant they 
needed to see a doctor. So its difficult for me to say that they should or could reasonably 
have obtained a medical report to certify their illness or their need to be confined to their 
accommodation.
In my opinion, the Covid-19 checklist is akin to medical advice that confinement to a patients 
home or accommodation was necessary in cases of Covid-19. Id add too that by this time, 
self-isolation for mild cases of Covid-19 was established medical practice, at least in the UK, 
as was the acceptance by the NHS and relevant authorities of positive LFT results without 
the need for a PCR test. And I think AWP ought to have reasonably known that Mr and Mrs 
P were unlikely to be able to provide a medical report to confirm their diagnosis.
Mr P says he first received a positive test result on 1 March 2022. Hes consistently told us 
that he called AWP the following day and was told to follow S quarantine rules and keep a 
log of LFT results. Mr P has provided a call log which clearly shows that he contacted AWPs 
claims team on 2 March 2022. This call lasted around 11 minutes. Despite requests, neither 
this call, nor a record of a call note, have been sent to us. So I cant listen to exactly what 
was actually discussed or refer to a summary of the call. In the absence of such evidence, I 
currently think Mr Ps testimony on this point is plausible and persuasive. And it seems clear 
to me that Mr and Mrs P tried to take reasonable steps to alert AWP to their situation. If 
AWPs claims procedure required a PCR test before it would accept Mr and Mrs Ps claim 
(despite the lack of such a policy term), I think AWPs call handler ought to have pointed this 
out to them during the call. Had they done so, I think its most likely Mr and Mrs P wouldve 
been able to undergo a PCR test and send AWP their results.
Overall, I currently think that the evidence Mr and Mrs P provided to AWP from the start was 
sufficient to demonstrate that they had a valid claim on their policy. This means I dont think 
AWP acted fairly or reasonably when it decided to turn down their claim  especially given it relied on a requirement which simply didnt form part of its contract terms. Im satisfied that 
Mr and Mrs P were required to self-isolate in S as a result of contracting Covid-19. So I 
currently find that the fair outcome to this complaint is for AWP to treat Mr and Mrs Ps claim 
as covered under the emergency medical and associated expenses section of the policy and 
to assess their full claim in line with the applicable policy terms.
Our investigator didnt think it would be fair to ask AWP to pay compensation to Mr and     
Mrs P for its handling of their claim. I disagree. As Ive set out above, I think AWP had 
enough evidence from the outset to accept this claim. Instead, its put Mr and Mrs P to 
unnecessary time and inconvenience, as it failed to answer their queries or provide 
information theyd asked for in a reasonable timeframe, meaning they needed to chase up 
AWP. And I dont doubt that these delays, together with the unfair decline of their claim, 
caused Mr and Mrs P avoidable trouble and upset. So I currently think it would be fair and 
reasonable for AWP to pay Mr and Mrs P £200 compensation to recognise the impact its 
handling of the claim had on them.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or information they wanted me to 
consider.
Neither Mr and Mrs P nor AWP had any further points to make in regard to my provisional 
findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has provided any further substantive points, I see no 
reason to change my provisional findings.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.
I direct AWP P&C SA to:
- Treat Mr and Mrs Ps claim as covered under the emergency medical and associated 
expenses section of the policy and to assess the claim in line with the applicable 
terms and conditions of the contract;
- Pay Mr and Mrs P £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman