DRN-3370003
The complaint
Miss D complains TSB Bank plc wont refund her for transactions made from her account.
What happened
Miss D tried to make a payment, which she says was declined. Miss D checked her account 
and saw transactions she didnt recognise.
Miss D spoke to TSB to tell it there were several transactions on her account she hadnt 
made. Miss D said any transactions not carried out using her smart watch werent her.
TSB investigated Miss Ds fraud claim but felt she should be liable for the transactions. TSB 
said it couldnt see how someone had been able to take her card without her knowing. And 
Miss D told TSB shed written the personal identification number (PIN) on her card.
TSB also said some transactions had been made soon after Miss D transferred money from 
another account. And finally, TSB said the transactions didnt look like they were made by an 
opportunistic fraudster as Miss Ds account wasnt emptied of money.
Miss D brought her complaint to this service and an investigator looked into things. The 
investigator didnt think Miss Ds complaint should be upheld, they thought Miss D had 
authorised the transactions.
Unhappy with this answer, Miss D asked for an ombudsman to resolve things for her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, TSB can hold Miss D liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests 
she authorised them. The disputed transactions on Miss Ds accounts were made by Chip 
and PIN, contactless (using the physical card) and card not present (telephone or online  
using the cards details).
Im satisfied the transactions carried out with the card were made using the physical card 
Miss D was sent. And Im satisfied the correct details on this card were used to make any 
online or telephone payments.
Miss D told TSB, in her initial call, she didnt have the card. Miss D wasnt very consistent 
with her answers, but, overall, Im satisfied she told TSB she no longer had possession of 
the card, and she didnt know when shed last used it.
Miss D told TSB she hadnt used the physical card for some time, instead shed used her 
smart watch to pay. Miss D disputed transactions with the physical card carried out over, 
roughly, a two-week period.
I dont intend to consider authorisation on each payment. Instead, Ive focussed my decision 
on one particular payment, for £1,600. This is one of the last payments Miss D disputed and 
by far the largest.
Miss Ds mobile application was accessed at 12.40pm. TSB has records to show this access 
was made on Miss Ds phone, Im satisfied the access was made on Miss Ds genuine 
device. Miss D transferred £1,600 from her linked savings account to her current account. 
Miss D hasnt disputed this transfer.
On the same day, at 12.48pm, Miss Ds card was used to carry out a Chip and PIN 
authorised payment for £1,600.
This payment couldnt have been made without the transfer made eight minutes before. At 
12.39pm Miss Ds balance was £231.74, and Miss D didnt have an arranged overdraft. After 
the £1,600 transfer in, Miss Ds balance was £1,831.74.
Miss D hasnt said her phone was missing at any point, or anyone else accessed, or has 
access to, her mobile application.
Later the same day, Miss D made a further transfer from her savings account using her 
mobile application. At 4.24pm £1,050 was transferred. At 4.25pm a faster payment of £900 
was made to another of Miss Ds accounts at another bank. Miss D hasnt disputed either of 
these payments.
I think Miss D authorised the transfer between her accounts at 12.40pm. When Miss D 
accessed her mobile application at 4.24pm she would have expected to still have the £1,600 
in her account  she says she didnt make the Chip and PIN payment that used this money.
Instead, to allow her to move £900 to another account, she made a second transfer.
I also think Miss D would have seen the £1,600 transfer on her mobile application when she 
made the £1,050 transfer. If Miss D hadnt made the earlier transfer, Id expect her to raise 
this with TSB immediately. But Miss D didnt call TSB until five days later to dispute the 
transactions.
Miss D told TSB shed written the PIN on her card. Although Miss D told TSB it was written 
in very small numbers on the card, it was still readable. Miss D has told this service she has 
memory problems, which is why the PIN was written down.
Ive thought carefully about this, but I still believe Miss D should have noticed the £1,600 
transfer, even if she didnt remember making it. And if Miss D hadnt remembered making 
the £1,600 transfer, I would expect her to speak to TSB  it would have been clear the 
money was no longer in her account.
Id also expect Miss D to tell TSB if she couldnt find her card, regardless of whether she 
doesnt use it often. Miss D knew shed written the PIN on the card, so there was a 
significant risk of misuse of this card, but Miss D didnt tell TSB.
Overall, Im satisfied Miss D authorised the £1,600 Chip and PIN payment. 
Im also satisfied Miss D authorised the other disputed transactions on her account. This is 
because I think Miss D had possession of the card when the £1,600 payment was made. So, 
I also think Miss D had possession of the card when the earlier transactions were made.There were some transactions made after the £1,600 payment. While its possible Miss D 
didnt have possession of the card immediately following the £1,600 payment, I think this is 
unlikely. On balance, I think Miss D authorised these later payments too.
I think TSB can fairly hold Miss D liable for the transactions shes disputed, I think she 
authorised them. And because of this I dont think TSB needs to refund any of the payments 
Miss D has disputed.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June 2022. 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman