DRN-2691101
The complaint
Mr D complains that National Westminster Bank PLC wont refund disputed withdrawals 
made from his account. 
What happened
Mr D says that fraudulent cash machine withdrawals totalling over £10,000 were made from 
his NatWest current account between December 2019 and the 13 May 2020. 
Mr D explains that on the 13 May 2020 he discovered large sums of money had been 
withdrawn from his account without his knowledge. The first disputed transaction occurred in 
December 2019, and then between April 2020 and May 2020 cash withdrawals were made 
on an almost daily basis until Mr Ds complaint on the 13 May 2020. On the 13 May 2020 
Mr D explains he went home and asked his son to check his online banking for him  at 
which point he identified all of the disputed withdrawals. 
Mr Ds explained that he hasnt allowed anyone else to use his card or shared his PIN. He 
explained he keeps his card in his phone case, lives on his own and receives quarterly 
statements. In fact hes confident that at the time of the disputed withdrawals the card was in 
his possession  and he thinks his card must have been cloned. 
Mr D complained to NatWest but they didnt uphold it. In summary the bank concluded that 
its more likely than not Mr D carried out or authorised the transactions. They said this 
because:
All the withdrawals were carried out within a mile of Mr Ds home address
Theres no evidence of a PIN compromise  Mr Ds had the same PIN since 
August 2018
Mr D didnt accept NatWests conclusion so brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ds complaint but didnt uphold his complaint. In 
conclusion they said that theyd seen evidence that Mr Ds genuine card and PIN had been 
used, and as Mr D maintained that the card was on him at all times there was no plausible 
explanation for how a fraudster could have carried them out. 
Mr D didnt accept our investigators conclusion. In summary he said:
The card must have been cloned.
Hes unhappy that the bank didnt contact him because of the large number of cash 
withdrawals on the same day.
He would have noticed if his card was missing for a month.
Why would he carry out withdrawals that are charged £1.99.
As Mr D didnt accept our investigators conclusion its been referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons. 
Generally, NatWest can hold Mr D liable for the disputed withdrawals if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Ds genuine card and PIN were used 
to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, 
on its own, enough to enable NatWest to hold him liable. So I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr D consented to the 
withdrawals being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for NatWest to conclude that Mr D 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
To carry out the disputed withdrawals a fraudster would have needed to access to 
Mr Ds debit card and to take and replace it on a high number of occasions, without 
Mr Ds knowledge. Mr Ds explained that he always had his card on him. On some 
occasions Mr Ds carried out genuine transactions within minutes of disputed 
withdrawals  this leaves a fraudster with a very small window to gain access to the 
card. Ive also considered that Mr Ds told our service he lives on his own and doesnt 
have any regular visitors  meaning its not plausible for a third party to have gained 
access to his card, and returned it, without his knowledge on so many occasions. 
A fraudster would also have needed access to Mr Ds PIN. Mr Ds explained that he 
hasnt written his PIN down anywhere or shared it with anyone. Hes also not indicated 
that he regularly carried out transactions in the presence of a friend or family member 
therefore enabling them to shoulder surf or learn his PIN. For this reason, I havent 
seen a plausible explanation for a PIN compromise. 
Mr Ds suggested that his card might have been cloned. I understand this will 
disappoint Mr D, but our service hasnt seen any examples of cases where a Chip in a 
card has been successfully cloned. And the evidence the bank has provided shows that 
the Chip was successfully read on Mr Ds card. This means I can rule out the possibility 
of a cloned card. 
Ive considered Mr Ds point about NatWests responsibilities in monitoring his account 
activity. Its true that a large percentage of Mr Ds balance was spent between the April 2020 
and May 2020 and the size and frequency of the cash withdrawals were unusual for Mr D. 
However I need to consider whether the transactions were large and unusual enough for me 
to expect NatWest to contact Mr D. Im satisfied that although it was a change in account 
activity, throughout the fraudulent transactions there were only two incorrect PIN entries  
which werent consecutive  and the transactions werent sufficiently large enough on their 
own for me to expect the bank to intervene. Ive also thought about whether NatWest 
contacting Mr D would have made a difference. And I understand Mr D feels strongly about 
this  but Im afraid as Ive concluded theres no plausible explanation for how the 
transactions could have been carried out without Mr Ds knowledge, I cant safely conclude 
NatWest contacting him would have led to the transactions not being carried out. I understand this will disappoint Mr D but for the reasons Ive outlined above I think on 
balance Mr D authorised the disputed transactions. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman