DRN-1805974
The complaint
Miss W complains that MYJAR Limited lent irresponsibly to her. 
What happened
Between December 2017 and July 2018, Miss W borrowed two loans from MYJAR. The 
lending history is set out below. 
Loan 
numberDate taken Date repaid Planned 
instalmentsAmount 
borrowedHighest 
repayment
1 03/12/2017 19/12/2017 3 £200.00 £97.55
2 08/07/2018 outstanding 12 £725.00 £107.43
Miss W said MYJAR didnt make appropriate enquiries into her financial situation and took 
what she said about her income and expenditure at face value. She said it would have seen 
she wouldnt have been able to afford the repayments if they had searched her credit file. 
She believes it would have shown other borrowing. She thought MYJAR should have asked 
for proof of her financial situation.
 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think there was 
anything in the information MYJAR had about Miss Ws circumstances that would have 
caused it to think the loans werent affordable. 
Miss W disagreed with what our adjudicator said. She said that her income had been 
reduced as she had been on maternity leave. She also said she had a default on her 
account and she thinks MYJAR recorded this incorrectly. Miss W told us that MYJAR had 
applied the default after two clear months of missed payments and she thought they could 
only do so after three to six months of missed payments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss 
W could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Having said that, I can see in this case that MYJAR did verify some of the information Miss 
W provided through a credit reference agency. And so I would expect it to take account of 
the information it discovered in doing so. 
In considering this case, Ive looked initially at whether MYJAR was irresponsible to agree 
the borrowing. Following that, Ive considered what it did in respect of the default on Miss 
Ws credit file. 
The loans
I can see that there was a break of over six months in between loans 1 and 2. So, I think our 
adjudicator was right to say there were effectively two chains of borrowing in this case. That 
means MYJAR was entitled to treat each loan as an entirely new application. 
Loan 1 
When Miss W applied for loan 1, I can see that she told MYJAR that she earned £2,000 per 
month and that her monthly expenditure was £950, constituting £600 in rent, £300 in other 
expenses and £50 in credit repayments. 
When Miss W applied for loan 1, MYJAR undertook verification checks.  The credit reference 
agency told it that it was relatively confident her income was as she declared.  However, it 
did show that her credit repayments were more likely to be in the region of £180 per month, 
rather than the £50 Miss W declared. The checks revealed that Miss W had not opened any 
new credit accounts in the preceding 3 months and that her account balance had increased 
in respect of only one account during the same time period. 
As this was the first loan Miss W had applied for with MYJAR, I think the checks it undertook 
in respect of her income and expenditure were proportionate. It also verified that income and 
found out some basic information about her credit history. From the information it obtained, I 
think MYJAR should have increased Miss Ws credit expenditure to £180 per month, but 
even if it had done so, I dont think its decision to lend would have been different. The loan 
would still have appeared to be sustainably affordable. 
Loan 2
I understand that when Miss W applied for loan 2, she was on maternity leave and therefore 
had a reduced income. She provided payslips to that effect. 
However, when Miss W applied for loan 2, she did not tell MYJAR that her income had gone 
down. She told it that her income and expenditure was the same as when she applied for 
loan 1. 
Again, MYJAR undertook some verification checks. The credit reference agency told MYJAR 
it was fairly confident that Miss Ws income was £2,000 as she stated. Whilst I appreciate 
that this wasnt the case, I think MYJAR acted reasonably in seeking external verification. 
Although Miss Ws income was actually lower than she declared, I dont think MYJAR would 
have reasonably known that at the time. I also dont think it had reached the point where 
MYJAR needed to ask Miss W to provide evidence of her income. 
I can see from the checks MYJAR undertook that Miss W had opened four new credit 
accounts in the preceding three months and that her balance had increased on 8 accounts. 
Whilst I think MYJAR would have seen that Miss Ws indebtedness was increasing, its check 
as to her credit repayments showed that she was paying £360 a month towards her debts, rather than the £50 declared. I think MYJAR could have reasonably concluded that the 
increase in her repayments accounted for the increased indebtedness. 
Based upon the information it obtained, I think MYJAR should have amended its calculation 
of Miss Ws expenditure to take account of the £360 in credit repayments revealed by the 
credit checks. If it had done so, I think it would have still concluded that loan 2 was 
sustainably affordable  and thats because it wasnt aware of Miss Ws actual income. 
I appreciate that if MYJAR had been aware of Miss Ws true financial situation, it is unlikely it 
would have concluded that loan 2 was sustainably affordable. But Miss W didnt tell it she 
had a reduced income and the credit reference checks didnt show this either. At such an 
early stage in the relationship, I dont think it would have been proportionate for MYJAR to 
undertake a full review of Miss Ws finances. I think the checks it did undertake were 
reasonable based upon the information it had. 
Overall, I cant reasonably say that MYJAR was irresponsible to lend loans 1 and 2 to 
Miss W. 
Default 
Miss W told us that she was not happy that MYJAR had applied a default to her credit file. In 
considering the information before me, it appears that the default relates only to loan 2. 
I can see that Miss Ws first repayment for this loan was due on 31 July 2018 and it was 
received by MYJAR on or around 7 August 2018. In September, Miss W contacted MYJAR 
to say she was in financial difficulty. She agreed a repayment plan to pay £30 on the 20th 
day of each month.  She agreed to make a final payment of £514.21 on 20 April 2019. 
Miss W kept to the arrangement save for one missed payment in November 2018. However, 
she didnt make the final repayment of £514.21. I can see that Miss W contacted MYJAR 
again in April 2019 to try and set up another repayment plan. MYJAR says it sent an income 
and expenditure form to Miss W at that time, but I cannot see any further communication 
between the parties until Miss W contacted MYJAR again on 28 June 2018. I cannot see 
that any further payments were made towards the account.  
In the meantime, a default notice on 4 June 2019 in which MYJAR said Miss W had to pay  
£1,029.67  the full amount that was outstanding. 
I do appreciate that the parties agreed a payment arrangement and that up to March 2019, 
Miss W stuck to that arrangement, apart from one missed payment. Despite that, MYJAR 
was entitled to calculate arrears in accordance with the contracted terms in the original 
agreement. And where it has agreed to a temporary arrangement, it can file a default as 
soon as a payment is missed in that arrangement, as long as the account is three months in 
arrears  those arrears being calculated in accordance with the original terms. 
So in this case, Miss W first missed a payment in respect of the new arrangement in 
November 2018. But by this time, she wasnt three months behind with the contractual 
repayments and so it wouldnt have been fair to issue a default notice at that point. However, 
by the time Miss W missed the payment arrangement in April 2019 and no payment was 
made in May 2019, she was more than three months behind with her contractual 
repayments. And so I cant say MYJAR was wrong to apply the default when it did. 
I am sorry to disappoint Miss W. I appreciate that when she took out loan 2 that things were 
hard for her. But looking at what MYJAR knew about her circumstances at the relevant time, 
I cant say it was irresponsible to agree the loans. I can also see Miss Ws frustration that a default has been marked on her credit file. I have considered that matter very carefully and 
having done so, I cant say MYJAR was wrong to record the default when it did. 
I can see there is a balance outstanding in respect of loan 2. If Miss W and MYJAR do agree 
a repayment plan, I remind MYJAR of its obligations to treat her fairly.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about MYJAR Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman