DRN-2057494
The complaint
Mr P complains that he didnt receive TSB Bank plcs (TSB) response to a complaint he 
made.
What happened
In April 2018, TSB experienced significant IT problems which affected service to many of 
their customers. Mr P tried to make several payments using internet banking, but these were 
not completed. Mr P complained to TSB about this. 
TSB responded to Mr P on 4 December 2018. They apologised for the IT issues and for the 
length of time it had taken to deal with Mr Ps complaint. They paid £100 in compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused, and an additional £50 for expenses Mr P may have 
incurred.
Mr P complained that he didnt receive TSBs final response letter.
He brought his complaint to the service in March 2020. Our investigator said it was 
unfortunate that TSB had let Mr P down when its IT systems failed. She said that she had 
seen TSBs letter and it appeared to have been correctly addressed. It may have gone 
astray in the post. She offered to send Mr P a copy of the letter. TSB had apologised and 
paid compensation of £150 and she felt that they had acted reasonably.
Mr P asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at the correspondence and contact with Mr P. Its clear that he feels strongly 
about this complaint, together with several other issues which have been dealt with by TSB 
and this service. I appreciate that completely. I also want to say that I have fully reviewed all 
the information Mr P and TSB have provided us and Ive had regard for everything Mr P has 
told us too.
Looking at Mr Ps complaint, TSB have shown us the letter which was sent. It appears to 
have been correctly addressed, as it was sent to the same address that Mr P gave to this 
service. It is unfortunate that occasionally, post goes missing, and this may have been what 
happened in this case. But TSB have, in my view, showed that this response was more likely 
than not sent in the circumstances here. That being the case, I dont think I can fairly say 
that TSB were responsible for it not reaching Mr P.
Looking at TSBs response to Mr Ps original complaint, I think that they dealt with the matter 
reasonable and fairly. They apologised for the IT problems that had affected Mr P, and paid 
compensation of £150. TSB also offered to pay for any additional expenses this had led to 
for Mr P if he could show that he had incurred any  but Mr P didnt tell them about anything 
else. That is a fair response to the complaint in my view.
So, while I know that Mr P will be frustrated here and no doubt unhappy with my decision - I 
think TSB dealt with Mr Ps complaint fairly and reasonably. So I do not think there is any 
more for TSB to do here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman