DRN-2144252
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Acromas Insurance Limited (Acromas) have unfairly declined a claim 
for lost jewellery items on her building and contents policy. She would like an apology and 
the claim paid.
What happened
Mrs J says she several jewellery items, threaded on a necklace, were lost whilst she was out 
of her home. She contacted Acromas, who appointed specialists to assess the claim, but Ill 
just refer to Acromas in this decision. Mrs J says she was asked how long she had owned 
the items and to describe them in detail. She felt she was being quizzed with technical 
questions most people wouldnt know the answers to. And says she was made to feel she 
had done something wrong and was stupid for losing the items. 
Acromas asked for proof of ownership and Mrs J sent receipts and photographs by email. 
Acromas raised queries about how long she had owned the items and asked for original 
receipts. Mrs J says these were provided, but Acromas says they werent. Acromas said 
there were inconsistencies in what Mrs J had said about the items, when she acquired them 
and that values were overstated. It said one of the receipts provided was for a different item 
than claimed for. Another receipt had been altered to increase the purchase price by £1,000. 
It asked for further evidence or for the claim to be withdrawn. 
Mrs J says she was shocked by this. She says she realised a receipt for another item which 
hadnt been lost had been provided in error. She says her husband admitted he had altered 
the other receipt as he couldnt find the correct one. Mrs J says she wasnt aware of this as 
her husband had sent the information to Acromas for her whilst she was in hospital. 
Acromas decided to interview Mrs J and her husband about the claim. They said what had 
been purchased with the altered receipt was a gift for their daughter, which had closely 
resembled one of Mrs Js lost items. The item claimed for had been bought at a different 
shop, but the receipt couldnt be located. Acromas said these explanations were implausible. 
It rejected the claim, referring to a clause of the policy which said:
If you or anyone acting on your behalf makes any claim or
statement knowing it to be false or fraudulent as regards, amount or 
otherwise, or if any loss or damage is caused by your wilful act or 
with your connivance, we will not pay the claim and all cover under 
this policy will cease and you will lose all premiums you have paid for 
this policy.
Mrs J complained to Acromas about the rejection of the claim. It said the claim had been 
fairly declined because of many inconsistencies as well as the fraudulent alteration of the 
receipt. Acromas says it didnt terminate the policy at that point but didnt offer renewal terms 
at the anniversary. 
Mrs J referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. Mrs J said shed 
been under stress because of health concerns when she made the claim. She said Acromas 
had recorded incorrect dates about when she had acquired items. But says she had clarified 
these and provided photographs from social media showing her wearing them. She said a 
genuine mistake had been made over sending the wrong receipt, but it was being held 
against her, but mistakes made by Acromas over dates were disregarded. 
She said her husband had been wrong to alter the receipt. And hed only done so because 
the maximum cover under the policy was less than the combined value of the items in any 
case. She said receipts couldnt always be found and that it wasnt reasonable for Acromas 
to reject the whole claim because of concerns over some of the items.
Our investigator said Acromas accepted that receipts werent always retained and that it had 
quoted incorrect dates in one of its letters, for which it had apologised. He said there were 
too many inconsistencies about the claim and whilst Mrs J hadnt altered the receipt herself, 
she accepted that it had been altered. So, it wasnt unreasonable for Acromas to have 
rejected the whole claim as fraudulent.
As Mrs J doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
I know my decision will disappoint Mrs J and I understand she was having difficult time when 
the loss occurred and was reported to Acromas. But based on the evidence I have seen I 
dont think Acromas has treated her unfairly. 
Policyholders need to show they have a valid claim and it isnt unreasonable for an insurer to 
seek evidence of both ownership and the value of items claimed for.  The law in respect of 
false or exaggerated claims comes from the Insurance Act 2015. If a claim is false or 
exaggerated an insurer can reject the whole claim including any parts of it that might be 
genuine as Acromas has done here.
I dont think Acromas were unreasonable in seeking additional evidence from Mrs J as there 
were inconsistencies with what was initially provided. In querying these it gave Mrs J 
opportunity to clarify and to provide further evidence, so I think it acted fairly. As what had 
been provided was inconsistent or altered, I think it was reasonable for Acromas to want to 
see definitive evidence in support of the claim. Unfortunately, Mrs J couldnt provide actual 
receipts or other proof of purchase of the disputed items to show that the claim wasnt 
exaggerated or false.
Mrs J has said the altered receipt didnt change anything as her losses exceeded the limit of 
cover provided by the policy, so this shouldnt prevent the other items being covered. But 
without alternative proof of ownership and value, the altered receipt does suggest the claim 
was exaggerated. So, I dont think Acromas has acted unfairly or unreasonably in deciding to 
decline the entire claim as it is entitled to do under the law.  It could also have cancelled the 
policy and Mrs J would need to declare this in future, greatly adding to the cost of future 
cover. By not doing this I think it treated her reasonably and I wont be asking to do anything 
further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I that I do not uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman