DRN-1593388
 
The complaint
Ms C says Home Retail Group Insurance Services Limited (HRG) mis-sold her a store card 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2007.  
What happened
Ms C took out a PPI policy which primarily helped to protect her monthly store card 
repayments in the event of disability or unemployment. It also included life and critical illness 
cover.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Ms C didnt agree with the 
adjudicator, so the case was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Cs case.
Having done so, I dont consider that the PPI was mis-sold because:
Ive seen a copy of the internet screens Ms C likely saw when the PPI was sold. It 
appears HRG made her aware that she had a choice about adding PPI and that she 
chose to take it by checking a box for it. I think she subsequently confirmed that 
choice when she signed her application form (which made it clear PPI had been 
added) and signed separately for PPI on her credit agreement. 
I dont consider that HRG recommended the PPI to Ms C. So, it didnt have to check 
if the PPI was right for her. But HRG should have given her the information she 
needed to decide for herself if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information HRG gave Ms C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But I think she chose to take out the PPI  so it looks like she 
wanted this type of cover. And I can see why as Ive seen nothing to suggest she 
was entitled to enhanced sick pay for more than a limited time, whereas the PPI 
benefits were considerable and could potentially have paid out until the account 
balance was paid off. They covered her for unemployment too. And Ms C had no 
other means of meeting the monthly card repayments if she wasnt working. 
Based on what Ive seen of Ms Cs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
shed have been significantly affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the 
PPI cover. So, it would have been useful to her if something went wrong. And I cant 
see anything to indicate shed have found the regular premium unaffordable. 
 Taking everything into account, I dont believe Ms Cs lost out because of how HRG sold her 
the PPI.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman