DRN-3944472
The complaint
This complaint has been brought on behalf of the estate of Ms J by the executor, who Ill 
refer to as Mr E. Mr E says Santander UK Plc has been unfair in the way its dealt with the 
mortgage account. He asks that Santander accepts repayment of the mortgage from him 
and pays compensation for the costs of legal advice.  
What happened
Ms J had a mortgage with Santander. The mortgage was taken out about 30 years ago in 
joint names with Ms Js partner at the time (who Ill refer to as Mr P). Mr E says they 
separated some years ago and Ms J made all of the mortgage payments. Mr E says Ms J 
tried to transfer the mortgage and property title into her sole name, but had difficulty locating 
Mr P.
Ms J died in 2021. Theres a dispute over ownership of the property which will be dealt with 
by the courts. Mr E says Santander has been unfair in the way its dealt with him. In 
particular, that it accepted and then returned his payments to redeem the mortgage.
Our investigator said it was reasonable for Santander to wait for the outcome of the legal 
dispute about the ownership of the property. She said it wasnt reasonable to ask Santander 
to compensate Mr E for his legal costs.
Mr E didnt agree. He said Santander had accepted the redemption money and confirmed 
the mortgage was redeemed. He said the legal case theyd submitted to the court was on 
the basis the mortgage was repaid, and Santander returning the payment had caused 
problems and increased their legal costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Ive read and taken what Mr E has told us into account, I wont describe the 
circumstances here in any more detail than necessary. I do appreciate how upsetting this 
has been for Mr E and Ms Js family. 
Title to the security property was held by Ms J and Mr P as joint tenants. Where this is the 
case and one of the parties to the mortgage dies, Santanders usual process is to remove 
them from the mortgage account. It removed Ms J from the account in January 2022. 
Mr E told Santander in mid-February 2022 that Mr P had separated from Ms J many years 
previously and couldnt be traced. He said he was concerned about payments being missed 
and had funds available to repay the balance. 
Santander added Ms Js name back onto the mortgage account. It issued a redemption 
statement to Mr E, who made payments to repay the mortgage on 5 April 2022. 
Santander returned the payments on 14 April 2022. It had become aware of Mr Ps 
whereabouts and that there was a dispute related to the property. It removed Ms Js name 
from the account. Santander says it wont take action to redeem the mortgage until the 
dispute about the ownership is resolved. It says it cant get involved in the dispute.
Mr E says Santander returning the funds caused problems with their legal case, which had 
been submitted to court on the basis hed repaid the mortgage. He says Santander shouldnt 
have allowed him to make the payment and then backtrack as this made matters more 
difficult and increased legal costs.
Im sorry this caused additional difficulties for Mr E, at an already difficult time. But I dont 
think Santander acted unfairly. It acted on the information it was given by Mr E by in mid-
February 2022, that Mr P couldnt be traced, and didnt have any reason not to accept this as 
correct. Once it had contact details for Mr P and was aware of the dispute about the property 
title, it put the account into the position it would have been in if it had known this at the 
outset: it returned the payments Mr E had made and removed Ms Js name from the 
account.
Santander doesnt know what the outcome of the dispute about the property will be. Thats 
for the court to decide. I think its reasonable for Santander to wait for the courts decision 
before taking further action. 
I appreciate how upsetting it is for Ms Js family to be involved in a dispute over the 
ownership of the property. But I dont think its fair to say that Santander is responsible for 
the dispute, or the basis on which Mr E disputed Mr Ps claim to the property. 
I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require Santander to accept 
payments from Mr E to repay the mortgage or pay compensation for his legal costs. 
Santander offered £250 for delays in logging the complaint and for distress and 
inconvenience caused. I dont think the delays with logging the complaint affected the 
underlying problem being resolved: Santander had already returned Mr Es payments and 
set out its position. The outcome of the complaint didnt change this. However, this is a 
difficult and upsetting situation, and its understandable that Mr E wanted the complaint to be 
investigated to ensure the right steps had been taken. In the circumstances, I think £250 is 
fair and reasonable compensation for the additional upset and inconvenience caused by 
these delays.
My final decision
My decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay £250 to the estate of Ms J.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms J 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman