DRN-1661041
The complaint
Ms P is unhappy with the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) handled a claim 
under her home insurance policy for an escape of water.
What happened
In December 2018 Ms P made a claim to RSA after a water leak damaged her bathroom, 
kitchen, stairs and landing. RSA accepted the claim and arranged for the property to be 
dried. The property was certified dry on 22 January 2019.
In March 2019 Ms P complained about the lack of progress with repairs and the lack of 
updates. RSA paid £150 compensation for that and a further £25 for not sending the original 
compensation promptly.
RSAs contractor started repairs in mid-April. Ms P wasnt happy with the quality of the work. 
RSA offered to pay £200 for the outstanding snagging issues.
In October 2019 Ms P reported a further leak from the same source as the original leak. 
She thought that was RSAs fault. She paid an emergency plumber £247 to repair it. 
RSA didnt agree that the leak had been caused by its contractor. But it said it would 
reimburse the invoice by treating the damage as a new home emergency claim. 
As Ms P was still unhappy, in November 2019 she brought her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator upheld it. He thought RSA should pay Ms P an additional £500 compensation for 
delays and poor workmanship. He also thought it should issue the final payment of £200 for 
snagging. Lastly he thought it was reasonable for RSA to treat the further leak as a new 
claim.
As Ms P didnt agree, the matter has now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Awards of compensation arent intended to fine or punish a business  thats the job of the 
regulator. All insurance claims come with a level of inconvenience and a degree of trouble 
attached to them. Some more than others. But when this service considers how much 
compensation to award, were looking at what trouble and upset the insurer has caused to its 
policy holder above and beyond that which wed normally expect to see associated with a 
claim of this type.
After the property had been certified dry, in my opinion it shouldnt have taken almost three 
months before repairs started. After theyd finished, Ms P had to negotiate with RSA for it to 
pay to have her home cleaned after the contractors left. I dont think that should have been 
necessary.
Then there were various problems caused by RSAs contractor. I can see from the photos 
supplied that although RSAs contractor came back to remedy some of the original poor 
workmanship, there are a number of snagging issues still outstanding over a year later. RSA 
has classed these as minor. Looking at them individually that may well be true. But the 
amount of touching up and repainting that needs to be done in several rooms means that 
overall Ms P couldnt help but be constantly reminded of the poor workmanship. The 
contractor damaged an external door which RSA has since had repaired. It also used her 
stepladder and left it covered with paint marks. Even though these things can be or have 
been put right at RSAs expense, I can understand that it would have been upsetting to see 
the sub-standard work and avoidable damage. 
Having taken all the circumstances into account I think that compensation of £675 in total is 
fair and reasonable for the trouble and upset RSA caused Ms P by its delays and poor 
workmanship in particular. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Ms P but Ive 
thought about this services approach to awards made in similar circumstances and I dont 
think I can fairly award any more. 
If the sum of £200 for the outstanding snagging work hasnt already been paid, RSA should 
do this as soon as possible. Since I havent seen any estimates to show that the outstanding 
works would cost more than this to put right, I dont propose to require RSA to pay any more 
in respect of this.
RSA said its contractor never disturbed the pipe which developed the second leak. In the 
absence of conclusive evidence that this leak was likely to have been caused by RSA, I think 
it acted fairly in agreeing to pay Ms Ps emergency plumbers costs as part of a second 
claim. I hope that RSA will pay Ms P the agreed amount shortly if it hasnt already done so.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay Ms P an 
additional £500 compensation for trouble and upset on top of the £175 that has already been 
paid. It should also issue the final payment of £200 for the snagging works.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman