DRN-2429528
The complaint
Mrs C says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mrs C took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1991. Mrs C paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered her in case she was off work sick 
or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs case. 
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was nearly three decades ago, and the accounts involved have long since closed. 
So I think its completely understandable that neither side still have the original documents 
from the sale. Indeed, under data protection rules Halifax were required to dispose of 
Mrs Cs data rather than hold onto it for too long. Mrs C doesnt remember being sold PPI, 
and I also think thats understandable given that buying insurance is not often memorable 
and this sale was particularly long ago. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have 
happened based on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for Halifax to have misled Mrs C into buying PPI. 
And I have no evidence which shows thats what Halifax did here. Nor have I seen any wider 
problems with its sales process from the time. And this particular sale was far too long ago 
for me to reasonably expect Halifax to be able to produce documents from the time to 
defend itself now. So I dont have a fair basis on which to conclude that Halifax did 
something wrong here. I think its more likely that it followed a relatively normal sales 
process, offering Mrs C a choice, and that she chose PPI at the time  though I can 
understand if she no longer recalls doing so after such a long time.
Its not clear whether Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs C, or not. The requirements were 
stricter on Halifax if it did recommend it  so to be fair to Mrs C, Ive assumed it did. That 
means Halifax had to check the policy was right for her  and based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time, I think it was.
For example, it looks like Mrs C was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its 
main exclusions or limitations. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of Mrs Cs sick pay and 
covered her for much longer. It also meant she could effectively protect her savings and use 
them for other things instead of potentially having to sacrifice one asset to save another. And 
while I understand Mrs C felt secure in her role, accidents, illnesses, and redundancies can 
and do happen, even when someone is in a job that feels secure. Ultimately, its worth 
bearing in mind that if Mrs C fell behind on her mortgage she couldve lost her home. So the 
PPI could have really been useful for her in protecting her home and providing some peace 
of mind.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave Mrs C about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. But as I explained above, Mrs C wasnt affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for her in case something went wrong. 
And the policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. Overall, 
I dont think that better information was likely to have put her off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman