DRN-2118582
The complaint 
Mr and Mrs W complain that Bank of Scotland Plc, (trading as Halifax), mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out a monthly-premium MPPI policy with their mortgage during a meeting 
in 2001. The policy only covered Mr W. The initial premiums for this insurance were about 
£40 a month. And, following a successful claim, it would initially have paid out about £600 a 
month for up to 24 months had Mr W not been able to work because of accident, sickness or 
involuntary unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr and Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. As
they disagreed, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about payment protection insurance on
our website. Ive taken this into account in reaching my decision.
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs W, but Ive decided not to
uphold this complaint. I explain why below.
Mr and Mrs W say that they were not aware that they MPPI. They say that they cant 
recall being given any information about it or taking it out. But I think that they knew that 
it was optional, and they chose to take it. I say this because Ive seen their signed 
mortgage application. This has a section in it dealing with the insurance. It says that 
Halifax recommends that the applicant considers its MPPI scheme. Mr and Mrs W have 
both signed this section to say they would like to take advantage of the insurance.
Ive also seen a letter from Halifax to Mr and Mrs W which confirms that MPPI was one 
of the matters discussed with them during the meeting with its advisor. 
Because of the time that has passed I can understand why Mr and Mrs W can no longer 
remember this;
Halifax says that it advised Mr and Mrs W to take out the policy. This means that it had to 
take reasonable steps to ensure that it was suitable for them. Halifax also had to give 
them clear, fair and not-misleading information so that they could make an informed 
decision whether they wanted to take the insurance or not, in the light of their 
circumstances at the time.
I cant be sure what steps Halifax took to check the suitability of the MPPI. But, knowing 
what I do about the terms and conditions of the policy, and Mr and Mrs Ws 
circumstances I find that it was suitable because:
oMr W was eligible for the policy;
oI havent seen anything to suggest that Mr W would have been caught by any of 
the MPPSs main restrictions and limitations  such as those affecting someone 
who had a pre-existing medical condition;
oFrom the information recorded on the confidential questionnaire signed by Mr and 
Mrs W, I can see that Mr Ws income was almost double that of Mrs W at the time 
of the sale. So I cant see that the decision to take the policy in Mr Ws sole name 
was unreasonable;
oIm satisfied that the policy was reasonably priced by reference to other policies 
available in the market at the time. And it offered reasonable benefits. And I 
havent seen anything to make me think that Mr and Mrs W couldnt afford the 
premiums. Anyway, because it was paid for monthly, had they later thought that 
they couldnt afford the MPPI, or no longer wanted it, they could have cancelled it 
at any time without further cost. 
oMr W may have been entitled to sick pay from his employment and he and Mrs W 
may have had some savings. But, following a successful claim, the MPPI would 
have paid out in addition to these, leaving his employment benefit and any 
savings available to help meet other expenses while he was unable to work;
So I find that the policy could have been of use to Mr and Mrs W. I say this 
particularly bearing in mind the serious consequences that could have arisen had 
Mr and Mrs W been unable to make their mortgage repayments, which were secured 
on their home;
Its possible that Halifax didnt tell Mr and Mrs W everything that it ought to have 
about the policy when it sold it to them. But, as Ive concluded above that it was 
suitable for them and they seem to have wanted this type of cover, I think that they 
would still have taken it had Halifax given them clearer information.
As Ive said, Ive considered everything Mr and Mrs W have told us, including that Bank of 
Scotland upheld another of their complaints relating to payment protection insurance. But 
that has no bearing on this complaint which I have to decide on its own facts and 
surrounding circumstances. 
From all the above I conclude that Mr and Mrs W havent lost out because of anything that 
may have been wrong with Halifax sales process. So theres nothing I require Halifax to put 
right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 January 2021. 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman