DRN-3626809
The complaint
Mr L complains about the advice given by CST Wealth Management Limited (CST) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-
invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes 
this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ls employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms 
of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement 
said that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, 
a new pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ls employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to 
BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices 
was 11 December (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). Mr L opted to join the 
BSPS2 ahead of receiving advice so that he didnt lose the opportunity to join this 
scheme.
Mr L met with CST in September 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. He also 
had concerns around the situation with his employer and his DB pension scheme. 
CST completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ls circumstances and objectives. 
This showed that:
He was aged 46, married and had four children.   
Had been employed by British Steel for 28 years and was now employed by Tata 
Steel.
He had an annual salary of around £40,000 and was a member of his employers new 
defined contribution (DC) scheme.   
Mrs L was employed with an annual salary of £6,000. She was also a member of her 
employers DB scheme. 
They rented their home. 
They had loans of around £17,000 and no savings or investments. 
CST also carried out an assessment of Mr Ls attitude to risk, which it said was low. It said 
his capacity for loss was low medium for this pension transfer. 
On 2 November 2017, CST advised Mr L to transfer his pension benefits into a SIPP and 
invest the proceeds using a discretionary fund manager (DFM). It recommended investing in 
one of the DFMs lower risk portfolios. The transfer value was £315,738.62. The suitability 
report said the reasons for this recommendation, in summary, were: 
The potential to retire early, or to take some tax free cash at age 55, and continue to 
work. It was noted that Mr L expected to retire at age 65. 
Flexibility and access to his funds so he could clear any debts and withdraw his 
pension when he needed it, perhaps to help his family. 
Improved death benefits for his wife and children. His pension fund would become a 
substantial family asset.
Mr L wanted to break ties with his employer and he was concerned about going into 
the PPF. 
The SIPP offered improved tax efficiency.  
Transfer values were high at the time of advice. 
Mr L complained in 2021 to CST about the suitability of the transfer advice because he felt 
that the DB pension he gave up wouldnt be matched by the new SIPP. He said that 
because of this the transfer wasnt suitable for him
CST didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. It said that the advice was suitable for him. In broad 
terms it said that Mr L was likely be able to meet his income needs from his state pension 
entitlement and the new employers DC scheme. So, he could afford to take a small amount 
of risk with the DB scheme. It also better met his needs for flexibility. Added to this was that 
the transfer could provide a greater lump sum which would potentially allow him to purchase 
a property. He could still receive a pension that was above what he needed, even with 
moderate growth rates from the transfer. It said there was no possibility that Mr L could be 
worse off due to the DB transfer.  
Mr L referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended that CST pay compensation. Our Investigator said that, due to the required 
investment return, Mr L was almost certain to receive lower retirement benefits due to the 
transfer. That is if he invested in line with his lower attitude to risk. He didnt think that the 
increased flexibility, or greater death benefits that the transfer potentially offered, were 
enough to outweigh this. He also said that Mr L didnt need to invest via a DFM. 
CST disagreed, saying:
The industry regulator has reviewed its processes in respect of BSPS transfers and 
found that there were no problems. And the Financial Ombudsman upholds a 
significant number of similar cases which may not be right. 
The BSPS2 pension wouldnt form the majority of Mr Ls retirement income. The 
state pension, and his employers new scheme, would provide greater benefits. It 
was a minor, and probably superfluous, part of his retirement provision. 
Mr L did not require a guaranteed income. 
It did not have to rely on critical yields and look at discount rates when giving advice, 
these are blunt tools and too much weight shouldnt be put on them. Mr L didnt want 
a fixed income anyway. The Financial Ombudsman has focused disproportionately 
on this kind of analysis. 
Mr L did want to increase the tax free cash he could receive to possibly purchase a 
property at retirement. 
The BSPS2 was not guaranteed to proceed, and Mr L may have lost his option to 
transfer if he ultimately joined it. The PPF also wasnt right for Mr L It couldnt have provided advice about the BSPS2 as it wasnt certain that it would 
proceed.
Mr L made a fully informed decision to transfer. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, I can see there was some further 
correspondence, but no material new issues were raised.  So, the complaint has been 
referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
Below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time of 
the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of CST's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
CST says that its adviser was only required to take reasonable steps to ensure the advice 
was suitable for Mr L. I agree that under the FCAs Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(COBS) CST was required to take reasonable steps to ensure that its personal 
recommendation to Mr L was suitable for him (COBS 9.2.1). However, additional regulations 
apply to advising on transferring out of DB schemes. These additional regulations say that 
the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. And that a 
business should only have considered a transfer out of the scheme if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ls best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked 
at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests. Ill explain why.
Financial viability CST carried out a transfer value analysis report (TVAS) - as required by the regulator - 
showing how much Mr Ls pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide 
the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
CST has said that it wasnt able to give advice on the BSPS2 at the time as it wasnt 
confirmed. But the TVAS and the suitability letter refer to the BSPS2, and the suitability letter 
says that it had been confirmed. The comparisons CST provided at the time of sale were 
based partly on the BSPS2. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr L was 46 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire at 65. The critical yield, based on 
the BSPS2, required to match Mr Ls benefits at age 65 was 6.44% if he took a full pension 
and 5.24% if he took tax free cash and a reduced pension. The critical yield to match the 
benefits available through the PPF at age 65 was quoted as 5.12% per year if Mr L took a 
full pension and 4.8% per year if he took tax free cash and a reduced pension.
It would have been helpful if CST had looked at the situation if Mr L had retired earlier. That 
said, 65 was the time when Mr L realistically thought he would retire. 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, was 
4.7% per year for 19 years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection 
rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ls 
low attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr L giving 
up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the 
same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield was 4.8%, 
I think Mr L was likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than the DB scheme at 
retirement, as a result of investing in line with his low attitude to risk. And this is especially 
the case if he moved over to the BSPS2 as he had elected to do. In this case he needed to 
receive of returns somewhere at, or above, a medium risk investment. 
And the TVAS did provide a good illustration of the cost of this. It showed that. on the day of 
the transfer, Mr L would need an increased fund vale of £102,000 to provide the benefits he 
had just given up. 
I note this was acknowledged to some degree in the suitability report which said in our 
opinion these critical yields are not guaranteed to be achievable year on year. And it 
acknowledged that if Mr L wanted to take a fixed income from his funds, along the same 
lines, the DB scheme was best placed to do this. But overall, I think its clear Mr L was giving 
up a significant benefit that he was unlikely to be able to replicate in the SIPP. 
CST has provided cashflow models which it says shows Mr L wouldve been able to meet his 
needs despite the high critical yields. Ive considered these, but the information about CSTs 
models that was included in the suitability letter show that if Mr L withdrew the similar 
amount as the DB scheme, and using a 3% rate of growth, the fund would run out between his ages 94 to 101. The sustainable income from the fund was less than the DB scheme. So 
if the fund had period of poor performance, or Mr L lived for a long time, there may not be a 
lot left in his fund. 
Also, as CST will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and so I 
consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in 
this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over 
such a long period of time.
CST says that the critical yields are of limited relevance as Mr L didnt want to use his funds 
on the same basis as the benefits provided by the DB scheme. Essentially CST is saying 
Mr L didnt want an annuity, it said he wanted to take his benefits flexibly. But the regulator 
required CST to consider the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to 
replicate the benefits being given up. So, it needed to provide an analysis based on the 
critical yield and I do think it is a relevant consideration here.
And Mr L wasnt realistically expecting to retire for about another 20 years. Aside from the 
state pension his only other pension was a money purchase arrangement, so that was 
already subject to investment risk. So, I think its entirely possible that Mr L would want at 
least some guaranteed income in retirement (which he could achieve by taking benefits from 
the DB scheme). 
CST has questioned the use of the discount rate as a means of considering whether the 
critical yields were achievable. But under COBS 19.1.2 the regulator required businesses to 
compare the benefits likely to be paid under a DB scheme with those payable under a 
personal pension by using reasonable assumptions. So, businesses were free to use the 
discount rate as this would be considered a reasonable assumption of the likely returns. And 
in any event, this has been considered in tandem with the regulators published projection 
rates, which providers were required to refer to. And it is this combination, along with Mr Ls 
attitude to risk, which leads me to be believe hed likely be worse off in retirement if he 
transferred out of the DB scheme.
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ls best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as CST has 
said in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite providing overall lower benefits. 
CST has said that Mr L didnt want, or need a fixed income from this pension, and he wanted 
to take his benefits flexibly.  He was also concerned about the future of the DB scheme and 
what form it would take going forward. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
One of the main reasons that CST recommended this transfer was for the flexibility and 
control it said it offered Mr L. But having considered the evidence, I dont think Mr L needed 
to transfer his DB scheme to a SIPP in order to have flexibility in retirement.
It's evident that Mr L could not take his DB scheme benefits flexibly. Although he could 
choose to take tax-free cash and a reduced annual pension, Mr L had to take those benefits 
at the same time. But Im not persuaded that Mr L had any concrete need to take tax-free 
cash and defer taking his income, or to vary his income throughout retirement. This doesnt 
seem to have been really discussed in any detail at the time of sale. 
The suitability letter was clear that Mr L was expecting to retire at age 65. Of course, he 
mightve wanted to retire earlier, but most people would express a preference for this, and it seems the discussions didnt go much beyond this. There was no detailed analysis of Mr Ls 
retirement needs either in the fact find or the suitability letter. This is understandable given 
how remote his actual retirement was. But it does make it difficult to say what Mr L really 
needed. 
It was recorded that the DB scheme would provide an income of just over £12,000 at the 
date of leaving. This would be revalued up to just under £18,000 a year within the BSPS2. 
Mr L would also receive his state pension of around £9,000. It was estimated that his new 
employers DC scheme would have a value of just over £260,000 at age 65. Mrs L also had 
some private provision herself and she would also receive her state pension. 
There is a file note of a conversation Mr L had with CST at the time of sale that shows it was 
discussed that Mr and Mrs L wanted around £30,000 a year at retirement. It said his DB 
scheme provision would fall short of this as it would only provide £12,000 and so he had a 
potential shortfall in his income. But looking at the amounts above, this doesnt seem to have 
taken into account the revaluation of the DB scheme and his other potential provisions. So, I 
dont think this analysis was correct. 
Even though the information recorded at the time of sale is sparse. I think its reasonable to 
say that its very unlikely that Mr L would have an income shortfall at retirement. But even if 
he did, then making a transfer which would reduce his income would be the wrong thing to 
do. 
And, in contrast to this in its final response to the complaint, CST said that Mr L would 
probably have too much income in retirement. So, the DB scheme would be surplus to his 
requirements. Obviously, both cant be correct.
But the advice was given on the basis that the money from the DB transfer could potentially 
be used flexibly to enable Mr L to retire early.  But Mr L already potentially had this flexibility. 
He could use his DC scheme benefits to top up any income he would receive from the DB 
scheme to meet his needs if he wanted to retire early or until the state pension became 
payable. Or he could use the lump sums for something else if this was not needed. 
And if Mr L did have surplus income, he could put this to one side for his family, for example 
using a tax efficient trust arrangement. And use this income he had to enjoy his retirement 
fully. 
CST has said that Mr L wanted to maximise the amount of tax free cash he could obtain. 
And I agree that the transfer to a SIPP could potentially do this. It said that Mr L may have 
wanted to purchase a property at his retirement. 
I cant see that this was discussed at the time of sale, and it didnt form part of the 
recommendation made in the suitability letter. And its not clear that any other method of 
house purchase, at any other time, was discussed. But even so Mr L would have access to a 
significant amount of cash at retirement if he needed to repay any debts or make a 
significant purchase. I dont agree that transfer was needed for this reason.
Overall, I think the transfer reduced his flexibility as he could have used his DB scheme to 
provide a strong foundation for his income needs. This option is now not available to him. 
Mr L could also have waited until nearer retirement and properly assessed how he could 
fund his early retirement if this is what he wanted to do.  And attempting to achieve his 
retirement objectives by transferring out of the scheme meant Mr L would be taking on all the 
investment risk, when he didnt need to. His existing arrangements already met his identified 
needs, vague though these were. As Ive set out above, Mr L was unlikely to obtain benefits of the same value at retirement if 
he transferred his funds to a personal pension. So, I still think Mr L had a better chance of 
achieving his retirement aims by opting into the BSPS2 (the benefits under which were 
guaranteed and escalated) rather than relying on investment growth in a personal pension. 
Overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think Mr L had a genuine need to alter the 
arrangements he already had in place. 
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a SIPP were likely an attractive feature to Mr L. Its clear that Mr L did want to 
provide for his family by giving them potential access to his pension fund while he was still 
alive and after his death. 
That said I note he was not overly concerned with leaving a legacy. And the fact that his 
pension fund would pass to his family on his death in the SIPP was described at the time of 
sale as a no cost added benefit. His family would get four times his salary on death from the 
new DC scheme which it was noted may have met his life cover needs anyway. 
And whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr L might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, 
the priority here was to advise Mr L about what was best for his retirement provisions. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think CST explored 
to what extent Mr L was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for 
higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr L 
was married and all of his children were noted as being dependent, although two were older 
and one was past the age where the DB scheme would pay a pension to them on his death. 
But even so, the spouses and dependents pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve 
been useful to his dependents if Mr L predeceased them. I dont think CST made the value 
of this benefit clear enough to Mr L. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not 
dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal 
pension was. And as the cashflow analysis shows, the fund may have been depleted 
particularly if Mr L lived a long life.  In any event, CST should not have encouraged Mr L to 
prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security 
in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr L genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family, which didnt depend 
on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think CST 
shouldve instead explored life insurance in more detail. But, as I said earlier, this seems to 
have been quite far down the list of Mr Ls priorities. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr L. 
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
Its clear that Mr L, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme, and he 
was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. Hed clearly heard negative things about the PPF. A note from the discussions Mr L had about this show that he was deeply 
concerned about the situation with his employer and the DB scheme.  
So, its quite possible that Mr L was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and his negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was CSTs obligation to give Mr L an objective picture and recommend what was in his best 
interests.
As Ive explained, by this point details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going ahead. Mr L had opted to join the BSPS2. So, this shouldve alleviated Mr Ls 
concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF.
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that CST shouldve 
reassured Mr L that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. The 
income available to Mr L through the PPF wouldve still provided a reasonable portion of the 
income he thought he needed at retirement, and he was unlikely to be able to exceed this by 
transferring out. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income 
was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. And if Mr L took tax free 
cash, it couldve actually produced a better outcome for him. 
I recognise that CST noted in the suitability report that Mr L wanted to break ties with his 
employer. But its evident that he still worked for the same employer. And he hadnt 
suggested he intended to find alternative employment. He was also a member of the new 
DC pension scheme via his employer. So, he wasnt going to be able to break ties with it by 
transferring, as he would remain tied to the employer in other respects. I think it also 
shouldve been mentioned that his employer and the BSPS2 trustees were not entirely one 
and the same.
So, I dont think that these concerns shouldve led to CST recommending Mr L transfer out of 
the DB scheme altogether.
Use of DFM 
CST recommended that Mr L use a DFM to manage his pension funds. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr L, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is 
because Mr L should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the DFM would 
not have had the opportunity to manage his funds if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr L. But CST 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr L might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was 
to really understand what Mr L needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr L was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr L was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this.  Mr L shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just to perhaps increase his flexibility or death benefits. Im not persuaded he had a 
shortfall in the amount of income he would receive in comparison to his retirement needs. 
I appreciate that there was perhaps some uncertainty around the  BSPS2 when the advice 
was given, but I think it was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead as CST in fact said. Mr L had around 20 years before he expected to retire and his plans were not 
concrete. So, I don't think that it would've been in his interests to accept the reduction in 
benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the 
more favourable reduction for very early retirement. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr L 
wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he 
needed to. 
Also, Mr L was married, and his wifes pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the 
date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr 
L chose to do so). The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more 
advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think CST shouldve advised Mr L to opt into the 
BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr L would've gone ahead anyway, against CST's 
advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr L wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against CSTs advice. I say this because Mr L was an 
inexperienced investor with a low attitude to risk and this pension accounted for the majority 
of Mr Ls retirement provision so far. So, if CST had provided him with clear advice against 
transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he 
wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ls concerns about his employer and the scheme were so great 
that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. If CST had explained that Mr L could meet all of his objectives without risking 
his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr L 
would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme and he would have ultimately 
joined the BSPS2. 
In light of the above, I think CST should compensate Mr L for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.Weve previously asked Mr L whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance /rules to come into effect.
He has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. I 
am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr L. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr L, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for CSTs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr L would have 
most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
CST must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr L has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ls acceptance of the decision.
CST may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ls 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ls SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ls pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr L as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr L within 90 days of the date CST receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes CST to pay Mr L.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect CST to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require CST Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr L the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
CST Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr L any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require CST 
Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr L any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
CST Wealth Management Limited pays Mr L the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr L.
If Mr L accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on CST Wealth 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr L can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr L may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman