DRN-2372660
The complaint
Mr C complains that a member of National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) staff promised 
to remove charges from his debt and write it off, but didnt do this.
What happened
Mr C had an overdraft with NatWest that he took out due to the rates on this account at that 
time. However, some time later the terms changed and Mr C determined the account was no 
longer beneficial and was actually costing him money, as he potentially shouldve transferred 
the account over to another type of account. He contacted NatWest about the charges hed  
had applied to his account and said he wanted his debt written off.
The first evidence Ive seen of these concerns is from 2009, with further correspondence in 
2013. In 2014, a formal complaint was raised and Mr C was refunded some interest charges 
that were applied to the account. However at this time he was told he still needed to repay 
the principle debt. Mr C says that he was discussing this debt with a Relationship Manager 
at NatWest, G, so he didnt make any payments towards the overdrawn balance on the 
account.
In 2019, Mr C raised a formal complaint about G and how they hadnt resolved his complaint 
about the debt. He said G had promised he would sort out the debt and have the charges 
removed and the debt written off. But that G hadnt done this, despite Mr C discussing it with 
him a number of times between 2014 and 2019. Mr C did also complain that G didnt contact 
him between 2014 and 2018, which is what led him to take no action on the debt, as he was 
waiting for G to resolve the issue, as promised. NatWest issued two Final Responses on this 
issue, one in December 2019 and one in November 2020. Both didnt uphold the principle 
complaint about G.
Mr C brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into his concerns but said 
there was no material evidence that G had made the commitment Mr C was saying. And she 
didnt think Mr C had done enough to mitigate his losses, considering he had received a 
formal response from NatWest in 2014 and further correspondence in April 2015, saying it 
wouldnt be refunding the charges or writing off the debt. Mr C disagreed, so the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C says that G told him for four years from 2014 that they would sort out this account. But 
that nothing happened. He says that all the charges and interest from this time should be 
refunded as G promised him they would be sorted.
As Mr C is aware, in 2018 our service looked into his complaint about the interest and 
charges on this account  he complained that he was told theyd be written off in 2014 and 
the account closed, but this didnt happen. We said there was no evidence Mr C was told 
this and we relied on a letter NatWest sent him in October 2014, which stated that he was 
liable for the remaining debt, so the complaint wasnt upheld. I cant review this matter again, 
so I can now only look at whether G told him  and continued to tell him  that they would 
sort out his account.
Mr C accepts hes got no evidence showing G promised to resolve his issues with the 
account. Hes been able to provide emails he sent to G from 2013 to 2018  but hes told us 
none of these were replied to. In his original complaint to NatWest he said he didnt hear 
from G between 2014 to 2018. But then hes also said the account was discussed with G 
over this time, as he spoke to them on a number of occasions due to another banking 
relationship.
G has provided testimony in response to this complaint. But they dont agree they said any 
charges or interest shouldve been refunded or the debt cleared. And NatWest has set out 
that G wouldnt have had this authority on Mr Cs personal accounts. While I accept what 
Mr C has told us, he hasnt been able to provide any contemporaneous evidence from G that 
he did make this promise. So I cant safely say this is what happened  especially because it 
would mean Id be saying G was acting outside his role and against what his employer had 
decided for this account.
In cases like this I also have to consider what Mr C did to mitigate his losses. I can see from 
his initial complaint to us that he first raised concerns about the interest rate on his account 
in 2009. And following a formal complaint in 2014, NatWest issued him with a Final 
Response confirming he still owed the outstanding debt. I appreciate G did correspond with 
Mr C after this letter and at one point he said he would see if anything more could be done  
but Mr C has told us G didnt come back to him with any resolution for the matter.
I accept that Mr C may have trusted G at the beginning to resolve this matter for him. But 
there becomes a point when the matter either needs to be escalated or accepted. It seems, 
if Mr Cs testimony is accepted, that hes been waiting for G to resolve this matter since 
2009. And that between 2014 and 2018, he was simply relying on Gs word that he was 
looking into things, with a view to resolve the matter in Mr Cs favour. I cant say it was 
reasonable for Mr C to wait four years to make another complaint about the account  and 
then a further year to complain about G personally. So I think he couldve done more to 
mitigate the situation hes now in.
Mr C says he wasnt just letting the account grow by the charges and not doing anything 
about it  as he was waiting on G. But, he had already been formally told why the charges 
had happened and that he owed the remaining debt by this point. So while he may have 
hoped or wanted a different outcome, I think he shouldve been aware this may not happen. 
And, considering Gs lack of responses or progress, he shouldve dealt with the account 
sooner.
Mr C has told us that if G had told him nothing more could be done, then he wouldve paid 
off the debt  when the balance was less than £2,000. Due to this Ive looked at Mr Cs 
correspondence with NatWest about this debt, to see if this supports his view that G replying 
to him wouldve made a difference. Mr Cs debt went above £2,000 in June 2015, so it 
seems hes saying he wouldve cleared the debt before this time.
On 3 March 2015, Mr C emailed a different person at NatWest and told her that if the bank 
is trying to wear me down in the hope that I will give up and pay off the outstanding balance, 
rest assured that wont happen. NatWest says it issued further correspondence to Mr C in 
April 2015, not changing its stance. And in 2018, Mr C wrote to G  in relation to the debt on 
this account  and said It wont be a problem for me but it will be for the bank. So this 
doesnt suggest to me he did intend to accept NatWest stance and clear the debt, as hes now suggesting. And instead that he intended to continue to fight it  after all, before June 
2015 NatWest had made its stance on the debt clear twice, despite Mr Cs continued 
disagreement, but he didnt pay off the debt.
While I accept it is possible G and Mr C discussed this account due to their other banking 
relationship, I havent seen any persuasive evidence that G committed to removing the 
charges on this debt and writing it off. And in any event, I cant say its reasonable for Mr C 
to have waited as long as he did to escalate matters when, by his own testimony, G then did 
nothing. Im aware the Collections department began contacting Mr C during this time and 
asked for him to get in touch, but he didnt contact them and then instead contacted G again 
 receiving no response. I cant agree this was the correct action by Mr C  especially as his 
other relationship with G had come to an end by this time and so G no longer dealt with him 
as a customer.
I appreciate this outcome will be disappointing for Mr C, as I understand he feels very 
strongly about this compliant and the promises he says G made to him. But I cant safely say 
this is what happened  or that hes taken reasonable actions to mitigate his losses when G 
didnt take the further actions Mr C says he was expecting.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman