DRN-3622917
The complaint
Mr G complains American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) hasnt dealt fairly with 
his requests for help with a disputed transaction to an airline on his credit card.
What happened
Mr G booked return flights for himself and two other individuals with an airline (U) in June 
2019. He paid £56.22 for each return ticket. The flights were due to take place in May 2020 
between the UK and Ukraine. 
U emailed Mr G on 6 May 2020 to inform him that it had cancelled the flights due to the 
decision of the Ukrainian Government to implement a quarantine and close passenger 
flights. U invited Mr G to exchange unused tickets for a promotional code, valid for two 
years, which could be used to book new flights up to 125% of the price of the original flights, 
or to fill in a special form to change the date of the flights during the ticket validity [period].
Mr G filled in the form to change the flights, selecting similar dates for May 2021. U 
contacted him shortly after to say that this wasnt possible as the validity period of the tickets 
was one year from when they were issued in June 2019, meaning he could not rebook for 
2021. U offered Mr G the option of the promotional code mentioned above, or a refund. Mr G 
was dissatisfied with this response, replying that it was not in line with EU regulations around 
re-routing of passengers whose flights had been cancelled.
There then followed some further correspondence with U over the issue, but it would not 
change its position and, in an email of 9 June 2020, said it would not refund him now for the 
flights either. Mr G then sought the involvement of the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA), which 
appeared to agree with Mr Gs position. It contacted U to remind it of its obligations. The 
airline however remained steadfast, and in June 2021 the CAA said it could do nothing 
further. It suggested Mr G explore taking U to court.
Mr G initially approached Amex in April 2021 to dispute the payment made for the tickets. At 
this point he was still dealing with the CAA and he didnt take it any further. He then returned 
to Amex in July 2021 to pursue the dispute. Amex said it couldnt dispute the payment as a 
dispute chargeback as the time limit to do so, which had been 120 days, had expired. 
Amex considered it had not provided very good customer service to Mr G during this process 
and paid him £50 compensation in respect of this.
Amex also considered a claim from Mr G under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA). It concluded that the purchase did not meet the criteria for protection under section 
75 and declined Mr Gs claim. 
Mr G complained to Amex, but it stood by its position, so Mr G referred the matter to this 
service for an independent assessment.
One of our investigators recently looked into the case. He came to the following conclusions:
Chargebacks, which were a way of claiming back money paid on a debit or credit 
card, were subject to time limits set by the card network. It was likely the time limit for 
a chargeback to be attempted in this case was 120 days from the date of the return 
flight. 
According to Amexs system notes, Mr G hadnt contacted it about the dispute until 
14 April 2021, which was more than 120 days after the date of the return flight. As 
Mr G was already too late by this point, if Amex hadnt specifically advised him of the 
time limits when he said he was going to persevere with the CAA, this wouldnt have 
changed the outcome as far as the chargeback was concerned. Amex had ultimately 
not acted unfairly in declining to proceed with a chargeback, due to it being too late to 
try this.
The £50 compensation paid in relation to customer service was broadly in line with 
what the Financial Ombudsman Service would recommend for this.
Section 75 of the CCA was another way in which Mr G could have obtained a refund 
from Amex. However, there were certain criteria that needed to be met for section 75 
protection to apply to a purchase. One of the criteria was that the cash price of the 
goods or service needed to be more than £100 but no more than £30,000.
Mr G had filled out an Amex claim form which warned about these criteria, so Amex 
had informed him about potential issues before hed submitted the claim. 
Unfortunately, because each ticket Mr G had purchased cost £56.22, section 75 
protection didnt apply and Amex had not been wrong to decline the claim.
Mr G was unhappy with our investigators assessment and there was some follow-up 
correspondence between them. Ultimately no agreement could be reached and so the case 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a person pays for goods or services using a credit card, their credit card provider may 
be able to help them if there is a dispute over the purchase. There are two avenues via 
which a credit card provider can assist: chargeback and claims brought under section 75 of 
the CCA.
Section 75
Mr G hasnt seriously challenged our investigators assessment of whether Amex acted fairly 
in declining his section 75 claim, so I havent focused on this aspect of the complaint in 
detail. Section 75, where it applies, allows a consumer to claim against their credit card 
provider in respect of breaches of contract or misrepresentations by a supplier of goods or 
services they have paid using the card.
Our investigator was correct to say that in order for section 75 protection to apply to Mr Gs 
ticket purchase, the price of the single items being purchased would need to be over £100. 
However, the single items in Mr Gs case would be each passengers return ticket, priced 
at £56.22, meaning section 75 does not apply to any of them. 
This means I have to conclude Amex did not act unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mr Gs 
section 75 claim. In addition, the information Amex gave on the claim form Mr G completed 
was not misleading. In my view it signalled quite clearly that a claim in relation to items costing £100 or less would be unsuccessful.
Chargeback
Chargeback is a mechanism via which a card issuer can dispute payments made on a card 
on behalf of its customer, for reasons specified in the rules of the relevant card scheme. A 
consumer cannot demand a chargeback as of right, but my view is that a card issuer should 
attempt a chargeback if its customer requests one, so long as it would have a reasonable 
prospect of being successful. Its worth noting that the other side to the chargeback (the 
merchant/supplier) can challenge a chargeback if they consider it to be without merit or not 
compliant with the rules.
Among the rules set by the card schemes are stipulations as to time. In other words, 
chargebacks must be made within certain time limits or they will not be successful. In this 
case the card was an Amex card, so the relevant rules were set by another entity within the 
Amex group of companies.
The rules say that Mr G would have had 120 days to raise a chargeback from whichever was 
the sooner of:
The date the service was meant to have been provided (25 May 2020  the return 
flight).
The date he became aware the service would not be provided (6 May 2020  the 
cancellation email from U).
Its common ground that Mr G didnt enquire about raising a dispute with Amex until April 
2021, which was unfortunately far too late for a chargeback to be raised. I appreciate Mr G 
was unaware of the time limits which applied but that doesnt change the fact he was too 
late. As I mentioned above, Id only expect a card issuer to raise a chargeback if it had a 
reasonable prospect of success, so Amex did not act unfairly or unreasonably in refusing to 
take one forward here. If it had done so I cant see how it could have been successful given 
it would not have been compliant with the rules.
I also cant see that Mr G approaching Amex too late was the fault of Amex. It didnt mislead 
him into putting things off until it was too late, in the belief that there was no time limit, or a 
longer time limit. Mr G has pointed out that Amex doesnt publicise the time limits. But 
ultimately, they are not required to.
I dont lack in sympathy for Mr G. As he says, hes not done anything wrong. He argued his 
case with U and the CAA in the hope of achieving a resolution but without success. The 
CAAs view was that U was in the wrong, so he may well have a genuine complaint about U. 
But my role is to decide if Amex has done something wrong. For the reasons Ive explained 
above, I dont think they have. 
Amex has accepted there were some communication failings. I understand it is referring to 
the fact it reopened the dispute when this wouldnt have made a difference seeing as it had 
been brought too late. The £50 compensation it paid for this error is fair in my view for the 
loss of expectation it caused.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman