DRN-2281370
The complaint
Mrs G has complained that she was mis-sold a finance agreement by Lookers Motor 
Group Limited.
What happened
In April 2017, Mrs G entered into a finance agreement for a car. This was arranged by 
Lookers. Shes explained that she was told shed be able to hand the car back after two 
years, without any further liability. However, when she then tried to do this, she was told 
she could not, without paying further sums. This was because the finance agreement 
stated that she needed to pay off half of the finance, before she could hand the car back.
Mrs G has explained that this wasnt what the sales representative told her. She feels 
she was pressurised and that she was wrongly told shed be in a worse financial position 
if she didnt enter into this agreement.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. Having done so, she didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. This was because Mrs G had signed the finance 
agreement, which clearly set out the financial position.
Mrs G disagreed. In summary, she feels Lookers misled her and has left her in a 
worse position than she would have been. Her complaints now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered all of the submissions, including Mrs Gs response to the 
investigators view. I know this will be very disappointing, but Im not upholding 
her complaint. Ill explain why.
I dont doubt Mrs Gs recollection of what she remembers being told at the dealership. 
That said, its not possible for me to know exactly what was said, and if there may have 
been a misunderstanding. But Ive looked at the finance agreement, and it clearly sets out 
the correct position. Specifically, that half of the finance needs to be repaid before the 
agreement can be terminated. It says:
You have a right to end this agreement. To do so, you should write to the person you make 
your payments to. They will then be entitled to the return of the goods and to half the total 
amount payable under this agreement, that is £12,482.58. If you have already paid at least 
this amount plus any overdue instalments and have taken reasonable care of the goods, 
you will not have to pay any more.
Im satisfied that this is clear and unambiguous. Mrs G signed the agreement, and in so 
doing, agreed to its terms. I understand that she felt under pressure, but I think she could 
have asked for time to think, and clarification, if the terms were different from what shed 
understood. I have no evidence that Lookers prevented her from reading the document. 
Im satisfied she had the opportunity to do so.
Although I accept that Mrs G was not aware that half of the finance needed to be repaid, I 
think she had the opportunity to read the document she signed, and raise any queries. It 
was then up to her to decide whether this was an agreement she wanted to go ahead with.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman