DRN-3842972
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about the amount by which Allianz Insurance plc (Allianz) has 
increased the premiums for her pet insurance policy, and that the increased premiums were 
taken without prior notification.
References to Allianz include its agents and administrators.
What happened
Mrs B took out a lifetime pet insurance policy with Allianz in December 2019 to insure her 
pet dog who Ill refer to as D. She says she was informed in a telephone call with Allianz 
before she took it out that her premium would only increase in circumstances where more 
advanced and expensive treatments became widely available.
Over the period December 2019 to January 2022, when the policy was cancelled, Mrs Bs 
premium increased from £34.22 to £45.74 a month. Mrs B says she didnt receive any 
advance notification of this increase which mightve enabled her to research the market for a 
better priced policy. She says she doesnt have access to the account from which premiums 
were taken, and the increase was made without her informed consent. Shes obtained a 
quote from another provided that will insure D from 2022 for almost the same premium that 
Allianz charged at policy inception despite Allianzs introductory discount, which she says 
demonstrates that Allianzs premiums are grossly excessive, and that shes been 
financially penalized by remaining loyal to Allianz.
In response to Mrs Bs complaint, Allianz explained that the increase in premium reflected 
the cover it provided for D and was primarily driven by general insurance increases which 
take into account a dogs age, the cost of local veterinary fees, out of hours services and 
specialist referral centres. It disagreed with Mrs Bs statement that her premium had 
increased by 33% and said it was fair and reasonable taking into account the general 
increases in the cost of insurance. It also said that it reflected the fact that Mrs B had 
benefitted from a 10% introductory discount. It offered her £50 as compensation for failing to 
carry out her request to have documents sent to her by post and for not providing her with a 
breakdown of the payments shed made. Mrs B has declined this.
As she wasnt satisfied with Allianzs response to her complaint, she brought it to this 
service. Our investigator was unable to find that Allianz had done anything wrong. It had 
issued policy documents on policy inception which explained how the premiums could 
increase and that at each renewal Mrs B couldve raised a query about the new premium.
Mrs B doesnt agree with our investigators view and has asked that her complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman. Its therefore been referred to me for a final decision from this 
service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
With lifetime pet insurance policies, premiums can often increase significantly over their 
duration and we take the view that the potential for significant premium increases should be 
made clear to customers so they can make informed decisions. 
Mrs B has said that she was aware from its website that Allianz doesnt increase premiums 
because a claim had been made. She also says she agreed to enter into her contract with 
Allianz in reliance on having been told in a telephone conversation before she took out the 
policy that the only circumstances that would lead to an increase in her premium would be 
as a consequence of treatment becoming more expensive due to scientific advances. 
Ive listened to the telephone conversation that Mrs B had with Allianz on 16 December 2019 
when she provided further information about Ds medical history, and when she agreed to 
take out the policy. There was no mention in that conversation about the circumstances in 
which premiums could increase. Mrs B may have intended to refer to an earlier conversation 
which I havent heard. Following this conversation her policy documents were sent to her.
Ive considered whether the potential for increases in premiums was made sufficiently clear 
to Mrs B.
Ive looked at the online purchase process and the various policy documents and these 
make it clear that premiums can increase for a number of reasons. I refer to the following:
1. During the online purchase journey that Mrs B made on 30 November 2019, the 
following statement appears:
How your premium can change
[Allianz] will never increase your premium because of a claim. However, other 
factors will increase your premium over time, e.g. your pets age, higher veterinary 
costs and advancements in veterinary medicine.
2. Mrs Bs Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) contains the following:
Are there any restrictions on cover?
Changes we can make at renewal  at renewal of your policy we can change the 
premium, the excesses and the Terms and Conditions of your policy. We can also 
limit or remove Third Party Liability cover.
! How your premium can change  your pets age, increasing veterinary costs and 
advancements in veterinary medicine can all affect the premium you pay. These 
mean your premium will increase over the lifetime of your policy. Your premium 
may also change if you move address. However, [Allianz] will not increase your 
premium as a direct result of any claim you make.
The IPID was available to view online prior to purchase and was contained within other 
policy documents that were sent to Mrs B on 16 December 2019 when the policy was 
purchased. It was also provided with the 2020 and 2021 renewal documents.
Having received her policy documents including the IPID, Mrs B had the opportunity to 
read these and if she decided that she didnt like its terms, she had the opportunity to 
cancel the policy.
3. On the first page of Mrs Bs 2020 and 2021 renewal documents the following statement is 
made:Whilst treatments are improving, theyre also now more expensive. And, as you 
are more likely to claim on your pet insurance than your home or motor policy*, its 
crucial to have reliable cover in place to protect your pet.
Unlike some other providers, [Allianz] will not increase your premium as a direct 
result of any claim you make. However, your pet's age, increasing veterinary costs 
and advancement in veterinary medicine will affect the premium you pay. These 
mean your premium will increase over the lifetime of your policy, so please check 
your documentation carefully.
The 2020 renewal invitation was sent to Mrs B by email on 14 November 2020. It wasnt 
sent by post, contrary to Mrs Bs request. She says she didnt receive it. However 
Allianz has provided evidence that it was received by Mrs B and was opened multiple 
times between 14 November 2020 and 23 November 2020. Allianz accepts that it wasnt 
sent by mail, and compensation of £50 it offered to Mrs B was intended to cover this 
omission. 
The 2021 renewal documents, in similar form, were emailed to Mrs B on 14 November 
2021. Allianz says they were delivered but not opened. They were also sent by post.
I therefore consider that the circumstances in which Mrs Bs premium might increase were 
brought to her attention sufficiently clearly, and that these covered more than the single 
situation that she says she was told about in her telephone conversation. Allianz has said 
that the increases in premium were primarily driven by general insurance increases which 
take into account a dogs age, the cost of local veterinary fees, out of hours services and 
specialist referral centres. All pet insurers are likely to adjust premiums for these reasons 
and others.
Mrs B has complained that the increase is exorbitant, describing it as a 33% increase over 
a 12-month period. That is not entirely accurate. Her initial monthly premium for the first year 
2019/2020 was £34.22. This included a 10% introductory discount. The monthly premium for 
the year 2020/2021 was £39.35  an increase of 15% from the previous year, which also 
reflected the end of the introductory discount. The monthly premium for the year 2021/2022 
was £45.74  an increase of 16% from the previous year. So the approximately 33% 
increase Mrs B refers to relates to a three year period from December 2019 up to December 
2022 and reflects an introductory discount in the first year.
Having experience of the levels of premium increases in lifetime pet insurance policies, in 
my opinion the increases in Mrs Bs premiums are not unreasonable, particularly as they 
reflect a first-year introductory discount. All insurers are likely to adjust their premiums 
annually to reflect changes in risk and increased costs of potential claims. 
Mrs B has also complained that the increased premiums were taken without her consent. 
However her policy document provides for this, stating as follows:
11. Renewing your policy
Your policy is in force for 12 months providing you continue to pay your premium. 
Every 12 months you need to renew this insurance contract to continue with your 
cover. We will contact you before your renewal date with full details of your premium, 
excesses, policy coverage and Terms and Conditions for the next policy year. If you 
pay your premium by Direct Debit instalment, when your policy is due for renewal we 
will renew it for you automatically. If you do not want to renew your policy you need to 
let us know before your renewal date.12. The changes we can make at the renewal of your policy
a) At renewal of your policy we can change the:
 Premium,
 Excesses that you pay, and/or
 Terms and Conditions of your policy.
We will always tell you before your renewal date of any changes so you can consider if 
your policy still meets your needs.
This makes it clear that Allianz will continue to take premiums each year until it is notified 
that a customer wishes to discontinue the policy. This is to avoid an inadvertent loss of cover 
in just the circumstances that Mrs B has complained about. It also makes clear that 
premiums can increase, but customers will be advised in advance so they can consider 
whether or not they wish to renew. Allianz provided this advice in its renewal letters along 
with the following:
You might want to consider shopping around to make sure you have the right level of 
cover you need at the right price; it is important you have the correct cover for [D] so 
youre protected should he be unwell in the future. 
Ive also taken into consideration that Mrs B has obtained a quote from another insurer and 
that shes referred to cases of price walking. I dont consider that this is applicable in this 
case as shes comparing the premium shes being charged by Allianz not against what a 
new customer would be charged for the same policy but against what would be charged by 
another insurer for a similar policy. Policies issued by different insurers will differ as will their 
premiums. Insurers are entitled to price their policies in accordance with their own criteria 
and approach to risk.
Ultimately, I have to come to a view about whether Allianz has done anything wrong, or has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs B. I dont consider that it has. Regardless of 
what Mrs B says she was told on the telephone, her policy documents were sent to her and 
made it clear that her premium would increase over time for a number of reasons. Allianz 
sent her renewal documents in November 2020 and 2021 giving this information. Although 
Allianz omitted to send the 2020 documents by post, they were also sent by email to the 
address provided by Mrs B and the evidence is that they were opened. Mrs B and /or her 
husband should also have been able to see that the premium that was being taken from their 
joint account increased from December 2020. Mr or Mrs B could have identified an 
unexpected premium increase at any time thereafter and raised this with Allianz.
In conclusion, whilst I accept that Allianz couldve made clearer the extent to which 
premiums might increase over time and the possibility of significant increases, I dont 
consider that Mrs B has been greatly disadvantaged. She only had the policy for a short 
time. She paid a premium increased by 15% for 12 months after her introductory discount 
period ended, and then increased by a further 16% which she paid for 2 months. Such 
increases are not exceptional for a lifetime policy that doesnt increase premiums when a 
claim has been made. Shes made a claim under the policy so shes benefited from it. D is 
still a young dog and otherwise in very good health. Mrs B should not be handicapped in 
finding an alternative policy, and has indeed done so at comparable cost to what she paid 
Allianz in 2019.
I do however accept that Mrs B has suffered inconvenience and for this Allianz has offered 
her £50 compensation. I would expect this offer to remain open for acceptance should Mrs B 
choose to accept it. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman