DRN-2950325
The complaint
Mr A complains esure Insurance Limited, trading as Sheilas Wheels, havent offered a fair 
value for his car under his motor insurance policy after it was deemed a write off. Hes also 
unhappy esure didnt provide a courtesy car in a timely fashion.
What happened
On 18 December 2020 Mr A was unfortunately involved in an accident  and ultimately his 
car was deemed a total write-off. esure offered £6,904 as a fair market value for the car, 
minus the £150 excess, which he didnt think was fair based on the industry guide figures 
esure had provided to him. Hed calculated it as £7,950  which was the average value of 
the guides coming in at £9,005, and his car previously being a category D write-off (as 
opposed to category C as esure had said) meaning you could take 10% off, and then the 
excess of £150. Because he didnt think this was fair, he was asking esure to pay a further 
£1,196. 
In relation to the courtesy car, he added that it took almost a month, from 18 December 2020 
to 14 January 2021, before he was given one.
In their response to Mr As complaint esure explained theyd looked at all four trade guides, 
which showed the values of:
£9,450
£8,560
£8,572
£8,759
They said if one guide is significantly higher or lower, then they think its reasonable to 
ignore it. Because of that, they disregarded the first figure, and came up with an average of 
£8,630. They added theyd noticed Mr As car had previously been a category C total loss. 
They said this has an effect on the market value, and that our service says not to remove 
more than 20% - so taking that off it gave a figure of £6,904, minus the excess, which they 
said theyd be sending through in a cheque. They also said sorry for the issues regarding the 
hire car and paid £100 compensation for this.
Unhappy with this Mr A asked us to look into things  also saying hed not received his £100 
compensation cheque yet. 
Our investigator considered everything and felt esure had offered a fair valuation for the car. 
So, he didnt uphold that element of Mr As complaint. But he felt esure should have done 
more regarding the hire car issue  and felt an additional amount of £175 was fair, bringing 
the total compensation for that issue to £275.
esure accepted the outcome of our investigator.
Mr A agreed with the compensation, but didnt agree about the valuation, so the complaints 
been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A, and esure, have both accepted the amount of compensation recommended by our 
investigator. Ive seen nothing to suggest that would result in an unfair outcome for either 
party, so Ill move on to focus on the total loss element of the car. 
Ive firstly satisfied myself that the car is a total loss as esure have said  and I can see that 
the total cost of repairs came out to £6,973.54. Mr A isnt disputing that, and again Ive seen 
nothing to suggest this is wrong. So, moving on to the valuation of Mr As car which, if its 
what esure have said, then it would be a total loss.
Mr As policy will pay the market value of his car at the time its deemed a total loss. Itll help
to explain that its very difficult to value second hand cars and it isnt the role of our service to
value Mr As car. But our general approach is that we look to assess whether the insurers
offer is reasonable.
To do this, we look at valuations from motor trade guides  as esure and our investigator 
have explained. These are used for valuing second hand cars. The guides take into account 
regional variations and they provide evidence of likely retail selling prices  and therefore 
provide us with a fair market value for the type of car being assessed.
Ive looked at the valuations used by esure. The correct registration, mileage and type of car 
has been input  so I think theyve carried out the valuations correctly. And, I do think its 
appropriate to set aside one of the guides if the valuation is significantly out of step with the 
others  as esure have done. So, I dont think theyve acted unfairly in doing that.
Because of that the market value figure being £8,630 has been calculated fairly  prior to 
considering the fact Mr As car was previously written off. 
esure have deducted 20% from the claim because of this. Mr A knew his car had previously 
been deemed a write-off, and when thinking about the value of a car it can be affected as a 
result of it having been repaired before  so I dont think esure have acted unfairly on this 
point either.
That means from the original market figure of £8,630 taking off 20% which is £1,726, leaving 
a total figure of £6,904. And, of that figure, the excess of £150 does need to be taken off. Ive 
noted esure did say in their complaint response to Mr A in January 2021 theyd send him a 
cheque for his car, and hes not said he didnt get it. The valuation then of £6,904 (minus the 
excess) does mean the car should be deemed a total loss  as itd cost more to repair than 
its worth.
Overall then, Im satisfied esure have offered a fair settlement for the value of Mr As car, but 
I do think they need to pay the additional amount of compensation of £175 our investigator 
recommended  bringing the total to £275. Ive noted Mr A has said hes not received the 
£100 compensation esure previously said theyd pay him even though theyve said they sent 
it. If he wishes to dispute this, he may want to get in touch with esure following my decision 
to discuss matters.
My final decisionI partially uphold this complaint, and require esure Insurance Limited, trading as Sheilas 
Wheels, to have paid a total of £6,904 (minus the £150 excess) for the value of Mr As car, 
and total compensation of £275. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman