DRN-3029278
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2009. Mr W says Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS) mis-sold him PPI.
Mr W bought a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). TMPP is a packaged protection 
plan and it consisted of three parts  Mortgage Repayments Cover (the PPI), critical illness 
and life cover. Mr W only applied for the PPI which is what I will be looking at in this decision. 
What happened
Your text here The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which 
includes Mr Ws circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, 
limitations and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this 
information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Ws representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ws. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Mr W has said the PPI was included as part of his mortgage, but I think it more likely 
BOS made it clear to Mr W that he didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out. Ill explain why.
While BOS hasnt been able to give us copies of all of the paperwork from the time of the 
sale (which I dont find surprising because of the length of time since the sale and 
businesses arent obliged to keep paperwork indefinitely) I have seen quite a few cases 
similar to this one where we have full documentation. And from experience, customers 
like Mr W were asked to confirm what elements of the policy they accepted or rejected 
before any elements of the TMPP were added to the account. So, I think Mr W would 
have been presented with a choice and also a number of documents explaining he could 
go ahead without adding PPI if he wanted to. 
And as Ive mentioned above, Mr W only decided to take the mortgage repayment cover 
element from the TMPP package. I have seen a copy of the paperwork that was sent to 
Mr W shortly after application and it starts by saying Thank you for choosing our optional 
Halifax total mortgage protection plan (TMPP). I am pleased to confirm that your total 
mortgage protection plan has been arranged with effect from the 26th November 2009 
We can confirm your cover is as follows I think that if this had been different to Mr Ws 
understanding from the time of the sale, he would have raised this at the time. So, 
thinking about that and all the submissions in this case, and in the absence of detailed 
testimony from Mr W to the contrary, I think it more likely that Mr W would have known 
he had agreed to take the PPI and that it was something he had a choice about. 
BOS recommended the PPI to Mr W, so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
And the evidence about Mr Ws circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example, Mr W was eligible for the cover 
and although he had existing means  the employee benefits he told us about  he still 
seems to have had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr Ws employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. Although Mr W says he had a medical condition some time 
before the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for BOS to have recommended 
it. I say this because the illness Mr W told us about occurred 20 years before the policy 
was taken and he didnt tell us of any need for time off from work because of it. So, I 
think it unlikely Mr W would have thought he would have needed to make a claim on the 
policy because of this illness over and above any other condition, if at all. 
Its possible the information BOS gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out  so it looks like he wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr W as I concluded above, 
or too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he 
was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr W would have declined 
the cover had BOS done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr Ws circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations, 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So, I think he would have 
still thought he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr W would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Ws representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant BOS should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr Ws representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ws individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ws particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means BOS doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman