DRN-3152434
The complaint
Miss R complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) closed her account without 
an explanation and recorded a marker with the fraud prevention agency CIFAS. Shed like 
the account reinstated and an apology.
What happened
Miss R held an account with Halifax. In July 2018 this account received a large credit of just 
over £5,500 that was quickly dispersed  some faster payments, an ATM withdrawal and a 
debit card payment. Halifax later received a notification from the sending bank, saying the 
payment was fraudulent.
Halifax blocked the account and sent back what funds remained. They later took the 
decision to close Miss Rs account. They also recorded a marker against her with the fraud 
prevention agency CIFAS for misuse of facility.
In 2020 Miss R complained to Halifax, asking for an explanation for her account being 
closed, and that she cannot open another bank account. She said she didnt know anything 
about the credit into her account and had not provided her banking details to anyone. Halifax 
responded to say that comparing the information they had available, and the information 
shed now offered them, they feel they made the right decision.
Unhappy with this Miss R referred the complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
looked into the complaint but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Miss R told them 
that her online banking details and PIN were recorded in her phone, which she still had in 
her possession. They said the bar for recording a marker with CIFAS was high, and the 
evidence for recording one needed to be good reason to believe fraud or financial crime had 
been committed. They said they couldnt see how the money transferred in was then 
removed without her card, PIN and online banking details being compromised. And there 
was no plausible explanation of how this could have been done, except with Miss R being 
involved. They didnt feel Halifax needed to do anything further.
Miss R disagreed saying her online banking might have been compromised. But the 
investigator didnt think this was likely  they saw that several days before the fraudulent 
transaction entered her account another payment had been made to the same individual as 
some of the fraudulent funds were transferred to. They said there still wasnt a clear 
explanation of why Miss R wouldnt have reported this at the time. The investigator clarified 
that under Halifaxs terms they were within their rights to close the account.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, its accepted by all parties that the payment into Miss Rs account was fraudulent  
Miss R has made no claim to the funds. Shes said she was unaware of either the payment 
in, or the payments out.
As the investigator has rightly pointed out the bar for recording a CIFAS marker is high and 
need to go beyond mere suspicion. The evidence needs to be clear, unambiguous and 
rigorous. So, the key question for me to determine is whether Halifax have the evidence to 
meet this standard. 
Halifax have confirmed they no longer hold online banking records or payment audits for 
Miss Rs account. But despite this I think the evidence they hold is sufficient to record a 
CIFAS marker. I say this for the following reasons:
Looking at the account history I can see Miss R was using the account regularly up 
until the fraudulent payment was paid in. We know from the transactions out of the 
account that whoever removed the funds would have needed access to Miss Rs 
online banking, as well as the genuine card and PIN to carry out the ATM withdrawal. 
She has confirmed she didnt share these with anyone else.
Miss R has said she kept her PIN and online banking details in the notes app on her 
phone  but theres no indication that anyone else had access to her phone or that it 
was lost. In a branch visit in 2019 she told the bank the phone was still in her 
possession. 
The fraudulent funds were rapidly moved on, within several hours of the original 
payment. This suggests to me whoever was using the account was aware of money 
about to be paid in and was prepared to move it on.
Only one debit card was ever issued on the account, which was never reported 
missing. Theres no record of the PIN being changed. So, Im satisfied it must have 
been Miss Rs genuine debit card and PIN used to carry out the ATM withdrawal. The 
last genuine use of the card was in a shop several days before hand. It seems 
unlikely someone would have been able to oversee her enter her PIN, steal the card 
from her, then wait several days to arrange a fraudulent payment in. So, it would be 
difficult to see how someone other than Miss R carried out the ATM withdrawal.
There was a payment of £10 to an individual six days before the fraudulent payment 
 this same individual then received two faster payments of £900 and £80 of 
fraudulent funds. This suggests the payee was set up in advance to allow funds to be 
quickly moved once received. Miss R hasnt offered plausible explanation of why this 
payee was set up without her knowledge.
Miss R has suggested that malware may have been set up on her phone. Halifax 
have said they found no evidence of malware; but havent retained these records for 
me to scrutinise. But even if I accept this as a possibility this wouldnt explain how the 
ATM withdrawal would come to be, as the physical card with the chip would be 
required. So, this isnt a plausible explanation of how the fraudulent funds were 
withdrawn.
Overall then Im satisfied that the only plausible explanation of how the funds were 
withdrawn is that this was done either by Mr R, or someone she had allowed to do so. On 
that basis, Im satisfied that the evidence strongly suggests Miss R was involved in the 
fraudulent payment. And Im satisfied that this evidence is clear, relevant and rigorous 
enough to meet the standard of proof required by CIFAS. So, I dont consider it 
unreasonable for Halifax to record a marker against Miss R.
Miss R has suggested that her human rights have been breached by Halifax. Ultimately it 
would be up to a court to determine this, as our services remit is whats fair and reasonable. 
And in any case, as the crux of this issue is whether Miss R allowed the payments out of her account. And as Ive explained above, this is the only plausible explanation of how they were 
made. Its not unreasonable or unfair that Halifax reached this conclusion.
Ive likewise considered whether there was a duty of care to Miss R from Halifax to prevent 
fraud  but I dont feel this applies in this case, as its only plausible these transactions took 
place with Miss Rs knowledge.
Banks generally have to give some notice before closing an account, but there are 
exceptions. Ive reviewed the terms of Miss Rs account, and what they say about when they 
will close accounts with no notice. Im satisfied that Halifax closed the account in line with 
these terms. They do not need to provide any further details of their reasoning for this.
Im sorry to hear how the CIFAS marker has affected Miss R. But having reviewed all the 
evidence and carefully considered what shes said about how Halifax treated her, I dont find 
their actions to have been unfair or unreasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman