DRN-2019609
The complaint
Mr S complains that Leeds Building Society gave him incorrect information about how
interest would be calculated when he redeemed his mortgage.
What happened
Mr S wanted to redeem his mortgage with Leeds Building Society (LBS). He phoned to 
find out how his mortgage redemption figure would be calculated. He was initially told 
interest would be charged to the end of the month in which his mortgage was redeemed.
Mr S didn't think this was right so he phoned LBS two days later. This time he was 
correctly told that interest would only be charged up until the date on which he redeemed 
his mortgage.
Mr S said that he slowed down his remortgage when he was told during the first call that 
interest would be charged to the end of the month irrespective of when his remortgage 
completed. He says his remortgage was delayed due to the incorrect information he was 
given by LBS.
To settle matters he'd like LBS to compensate him for the additional two days' interest he 
had to pay as a result of having to call LBS again for the correct information. He'd also like
£500 compensation for the extra interest he would have been charged if he'd not called 
back when the information was corrected.
Mr S complained to LBS. It said that although hed been given incorrect information he 
hadnt suffered any financial loss as the correct information was confirmed two days later. 
It upheld his complaint and offered £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused  
which Mr S rejected. Unhappy with LBSs response he brought his complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator recommended that Mr S's complaint should be upheld in part. Our 
investigator thought that by the time Mr S was given the correct information, this had 
caused a two day delay and as Mr S went onto LBS's standard variable rate (SVR) from 
July 2019 this had resulted in him paying two extra days interest at a higher rate.
He therefore recommended that LBS should pay two days' loss of interest totalling £73.82. 
However, he didn't agree that Mr S should be compensated for the potential loss he would 
have incurred if he'd waited until 31 July 2019 before redeeming his mortgage because 
our service could only look at the impact the mistake had on Mr S based on what had 
actually happened.
LBS disagrees with the investigator's view. It accepts it gave incorrect information but it 
says that regardless of the information he was given on 26 June 2019 Mr S knew his fixed 
rate would expire on 30 June 2019 and that his mortgage would revert to LBS's SVR.
LBS also said that when Mr S applied for his mortgage, he was provided with a Key Facts 
Illustration. This set out that his fixed rate was until 30 June 2019. It said his mortgage 
offer also confirmed when his interest rate was due to change and that it wrote to him prior 
to the expiry of his fixed rate.
LBS therefore says Mr S was aware his rate of interest was due to change irrespective of 
whether or not it gave incorrect information about how his mortgage redemption figure 
would be calculated and it was his choice when her redeemed his mortgage and moved to 
another lender.
LBS asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
I recently issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts arent disputed by the parties. LBS accepts it incorrectly told Mr S that interest 
would be calculated to the end of the month in which he redeemed his mortgage. Where, 
as here, LBS accepts it made a mistake my role is to look at the impact this had on Mr S 
and whether it resulted in any loss to him and decide if LBS needs to do anything further to 
put matters right.
Based on the information Ive seen Im not persuaded that the incorrect information given 
by LBS resulted in Mr Ss remortgage being delayed and him having to pay additional 
interest. I say this because during any conveyancing transaction its not unusual for 
anticipated completion dates to change - for example whilst waiting for search results or to 
allow time for extra enquiries to be made in response to information revealed during the 
conveyancing process.
Mr Ss mortgage redemption statement shows the amount he needed to pay to redeem his 
mortgage. This was issued based on his mortgage being redeemed on 12 July 2019. Its 
standard practice, as was the case here, for mortgage redemption statements to allow for 
mortgages to be redeemed earlier or later than anticipated to allow for flexibility and 
unexpected problems. This is done by adjusting the daily interest charge detailed on the 
statement.
In the circumstances of Mr S's complaint I haven't seen anything to suggest that but for the 
incorrect information given by LBS his remortgage was otherwise ready to complete any 
sooner than it did on 16 July 2019 so it wouldnt be fair to hold LBS responsible for this.
I also think that as LBS gave the correct information to Mr S two days later this would still 
have given him a reasonable amount of time to ask his conveyancers to complete his 
mortgage sooner, provided it was of course ready to complete.
I think that irrespective of any delay caused by any incorrect information given by LBS, Mr S 
would have still found himself paying interest at LBSs SVR. I say this because Mr Ss fixed 
rate of interest with LBS was due to expire on 30 June 2019. I can see that LBS wrote to him 
and gave him prior notification of this and it also explained that his rate of interest would 
revert to LBSs SVR on 1 July 2019. Its clear that Mr S didnt contact LBS about redeeming 
his mortgage until the last week of June 2019 so I think its unlikely he would have been able 
to complete his remortgage by the end of June 2019 - given that hed only contacted LBS on 
26 June.
In any event, I dont agree that Mr Ss loss in the situation he found himself in is the extra 
two days interest he paid to LBS. I say this because here Mr S was in the process of 
redeeming his mortgage with LBS and remortgaging to another lender. This means he would have been paying interest whether that was to LBS or to his new lender. So even if I had 
found that the incorrect information given by LBS resulted in his remortgage being delayed 
the correct measure of loss would only be the difference between the amount of interest he 
would have paid to his new lender and the amount he did pay to LBS.
However, as Ive found that LBS wasnt responsible for the delay in Mr S completing his 
remortgage I think the £50 compensation offered by LBS is fair and reasonable for the 
incorrect information it gave to him. Mr S noticed the mistake quickly and LBS rectified it 
quickly. It remains open to Mr S to accept this should he wish to do so and Id expect LBS 
to honour its offer.
Finally, I agree with the investigator that I cant make any award to Mr S for the potential loss 
he would have incurred had he waited until 31 July 2019 before redeeming his mortgage. 
This is because our service can only look to award compensation for the impact the mistake 
had on Mr S on the basis of what could have happened.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final
decision. LBS acknowledged receipt but did not have anything further to add. Mr S disagrees 
with my provisional decision but he hasnt provided any further information for my 
consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further comments for my consideration I see no
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Michelle Hayward
Ombudsman