DRN-3350747
The complaint
Mr B and Miss B complain that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a life and critical 
illness policy.
What happened
In 2018, Mr B and Miss B were looking to re-mortgage. When they received mortgage advice 
from Nationwide, they were advised to take out a new life and critical illness policy. Mr B and 
Miss B were recommended joint life and critical illness cover that matched the amount of 
their outstanding mortgage. It would decrease in line with the mortgage and provide cover 
for almost the same amount of time (there was a shortfall of two months cover). Nationwide 
recommended this cover and Mr B and Miss B didnt have existing critical illness cover in 
place.
In 2021, Mr B was due to have surgery and would be off sick from work. He contacted the 
product provider to make a claim but was told he wasnt covered under the policy for being 
off sick under these circumstances. Mr B said he only took the policy on the understanding 
that it would cover him if he was ever off sick and he made a claim on this basis. He 
complained as he said hed tried to decline cover twice and then only took it out as he was 
told it would cover him when he was off sick from work.
Nationwide explained that the policy he was recommended provided cover if he or Miss B 
should die during the term or they suffered from one of the specified critical illnesses. It said 
there wasnt any recommendation for cover for general sickness and explained that Mr B 
may have recalled the terms of the Waiver of Premium benefit and become confused.
Our Adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She explained that the policy 
was suitable for Mr B and Miss B as they didnt have any way to repay the mortgage if one of 
them suffered from a critical illness and couldnt work. She also explained that there wasnt 
any evidence to show they were told the policy would pay out if they couldnt work due to 
sickness.
Mr B and Miss B disagreed. They said they only took the policy as they were told it would 
pay out if they were sick. They asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint, so it has 
been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide recommended that Mr B and Miss B take out this policy, which means it had to 
ensure it was suitable for their circumstances. I can see from the evidence provided at the 
point of sale that Mr B and Miss B had a mortgage with around 16 years left to run. Although 
they had some existing life cover, they didnt have any way of repaying their mortgage if one 
of them had to stop working due to a critical illness. So, I dont think it was unsuitable for 
Nationwide to recommend they take out a policy that provided them with life and critical 
illness cover. I can see that Nationwide advised Mr B and Miss B to cancel their existing life 
policy after their new policy went live to ensure they didnt have too much cover and that was 
the right thing for it to do.
The crux of Mr B and Miss Bs complaint is that they say they declined the policy 
recommendation but were only persuaded to take it out based on the policy paying out if 
they were sick. I cant see any evidence that they were told this, however the features Mr B 
and Miss B have told us appear to reflect the features of the Waiver of Premium benefit that 
they were recommended. This is a benefit that ensures their premiums are paid in the event 
they are sick and couldnt work  essentially to keep the cover going. Although 
recommended, the product provider couldnt provide this benefit after it completed the 
underwriting. However, I think its likely that Mr B and Miss B were confused about how the 
policy worked. So, Ive looked at whether the information Nationwide provided was clear, fair 
and not misleading.
I can see Nationwide provided a letter explaining why the policy was being recommended. 
This letter explained what the cover was for and when it would pay out. I can see the policy 
provider also sent Mr B and Miss B policy documents to show how the policy worked. I cant 
see any indication that Mr B and Miss B were told their policy would pay out if they were ever 
off work due to sickness, but rather that it would pay the approximate amount of their 
outstanding mortgage if they passed away or couldnt work due to suffering from one of the 
specified critical illnesses. So, I dont think Nationwide has mis-sold this policy.
The policy was suitable for Mr B and Miss B, and I cant see Nationwide provided any 
misleading information about it. So, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman