DRN-1692152
 
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy Bastion Insurance Company Limited turned down a claim she made on 
her mobile phone insurance policy. 
What happened
In June last year Miss G took out mobile phone insurance underwritten by Bastion. The 
following month she made a claim for accidental damage as she'd dropped her phone and 
there was damage to the casing. Bastion turned down the claim because it said the damage 
was cosmetic and repairs weren't covered where that was the case. 
Our investigator said that was in line with the terms and conditions of her policy and thought 
Bastion had treated her fairly. Miss G didn't agree. She said she took out the policy to insure 
against accidental damage and said the limitations on cover weren't made clear to her when 
she did so.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've looked first at the terms and conditions of Miss G's policy. I can see while this does 
cover accidental damage to her phone under a section headed 'Not Included' it lists 
"cosmetic damage". And the policy defines cosmetic damage as "bodily damage which does 
not cause any mechanical or operational impairment. This includes but is not limited to 
scratches and chips, to either side of the phone, and which does not prohibit the operational 
aspects of the device".
In this case it doesn't appear to be in dispute that Miss G's phone still works and having 
reviewed the photographs she supplied I think the damage in this case would fall within the 
policy definition of cosmetic damage. So the claim she made isn't covered by her policy. 
I appreciate Miss G says this wasn't made clear to her when she took the policy out. And the 
relevant rules say a firm must provide appropriate information to a customer about a policy 
so they can make an informed decision about whether to take it out. But even if Bastion 
didn't make this clear to Miss G in the documentation it was responsible for I don't think that 
makes a difference to the outcome in this case. Mobile phone insurance policies generally 
don't cover cosmetic damage. So even if Miss G had known more about that when taking 
out this policy I don't think it's likely she'd have found cover for this at a price she'd have 
been prepared to pay - especially as at that point she didn't know she'd need to make a 
claim. And so she'd never have had cover in place for the cosmetic damage claim she 
subsequently made. 
So for the reasons I've explained I don't think the claim Miss G has made is covered by her 
policy and I don't think Bastion treated her unfairly in turning this down.My final decision
I've decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
James Park
Ombudsman