DRN-2271728
The complaint
Mr H complained about a payday loan he took out through a company called 
WAGEME.COM Limited. Mr H says he was lent to irresponsibly and the loan contributed to 
his wider financial problems.
What happened
We now know that Mr H took out 1 loan payday loan from WAGEME. Ive enclosed a 
summary of this borrowing, based on the information it provided to us: 
Loan Taken Repaid Amount InstalmentsHighest Monthly 
Repayment
1 04/07/2014 25/05/2016 £110 1 £152
One of our adjudicators looked into this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. But 
Mr H doesnt agree with what they said so hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Mr Hs complaint.
WAGEME needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr H could repay the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship for example, less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the 
fact that WAGEME should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any 
lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Ive carefully considered all of these things 
and what they mean for Mr Hs complaint.
WAGEME told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to lend 
to Mr H. Ive thought about this and whether the lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. Ive considered whether, at some point, WAGEME should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided the loan in question.
I think the financial checks which WAGEME most likely carried out in this case would have 
been quite basic ones. But bearing in mind what Ive said above, about the length of the 
lending relationship, less thorough checks would have been proportionate for a single loan of 
this nature. I think the levels of likely checks, together with the income and expenditure 
details provided by Mr H himself, would have made the loan of £110 appear affordable for 
him. 
Mr H makes an important point about the challenging nature of his wider finances at the 
time, but given the moderate sum he was asking to borrow and his declared income of 
£1,900 per month after tax, I dont think WAGEME would have identified that Mr H was in a 
situation where he wouldnt have been able to pay the money back. This lending relationship 
had only just begun and so a reliance on certain basic checks, together with what Mr H had 
said about his finances was enough. Had more lending been advanced, Id have expected to 
have seen a more comprehensive assessment of his circumstances.
Im afraid that means Im not upholding the complaint about this loan. Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr H.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold the complaint about this loan. I dont direct 
WAGEME.COM Limited to pay Mr H any compensation in respect of this. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman