DRN-3426324
The complaint
Mrs R has complained about the performance of an endowment assurance policy invested in 
a with profits life fund managed by Forester Life Limited (Forester). 
What happened
In July 2005 Mrs R opened the plan directly with The Childrens Mutual with the Tunbridge 
Wells Equitable Friendly Society (TWEFS), latterly known as The Childrens Mutual, and 
which was taken over by Forester in 2013. 
The plan was to last 21 years with a guaranteed sum assured (either upon maturity of the 
plan or upon death of the life assured during the policy term) of £5,731 at a cost to Mrs R of 
£25 per month.
The plan was to mature in July 2026. Mrs R became unhappy with the performance of the 
plan so made a complaint to Forester. 
In its final response to Mrs Rs complaint on 16 December 2020 Forester detailed how the 
plan worked. The plan didnt guarantee a return other than the guaranteed minimum 
payment. And the return could be less than the total amount that was contributed by way of 
premiums. 
It said the return was dependent on long term investment performance and the effect of the 
deduction of charges. Yearly (reversionary) bonuses could be added to the plan to increase 
the sum assured along with the potential of a (terminal) bonus paid on maturity. The 
bonuses were a reflection of investment performance after costs. 
Forester told us it hadnt given any advice at the point of sale  it said that was given by an 
independent financial adviser. Forester acquired TWEFS in April 2013 after the predecessor 
company ran into financial difficulty. Since it had taken over the plan, it said it had 
considerably reduced the annual management charges that had previously applied to the 
plan, as well as paying a £53m cash injection into the TWEFS fund.
It said it did so with the aim of improving the investment prospects and security of benefits
for policyholders such as Mrs R. It confirmed the annual management charge for the plan
had been 1.25% since 2017, which it said was one of the lowest in the current market for 
plans of this type.
Forester said it regretted the performance of the plan had not been better but said the nature 
of this type of investment meant that its performance could not be guaranteed. 
Mrs R wasnt happy with the response she received and brought her complaint to this 
service. She told us:
The performance of the plan was disgraceful and devastating. No annual bonuses 
had been paid on the policy for ten years, either by the predecessor business or 
Forester.
Forester had said that Mrs R had received annual statements which showed a nil 
bonus. But as Mrs R understood it, the terminal bonus was added at the end date of 
the policy which prevented any decisions being made about poor performance until 
the end date of the policy.
Over the same time period that Mrs R held the policy with Forester, her husband held 
a mortgage endowment policy with another provider for which he paid similar 
premiums to Mrs Rs Forester plan. Throughout the latter years of holding that policy 
Mr R had been issued warning letters about the poor performance and despite this, 
the mortgage endowment policy returned considerably more than the Forester plan. 
The policy had been taken for the benefit of Mrs Rs daughter. Mrs R had sought the 
current value of the plan and was told it was £4,831.93 if she were to surrender it, 
compared to a cost so far of £4,550. And if it was surrendered no terminal bonus 
would be paid.  
Mrs R said she was trapped in the plan and it was clear that Forester had no 
intention of paying annual bonuses for the remaining six years of the plan and she 
had to keep paying the monthly premiums or this would impact on the investment 
even further. 
Mrs R questioned how Forester continued to run a fund making no profits and why 
she hadnt been warned in stronger terms that the policy was failing. Having allowed 
the policy to fail so badly how were Forester able to offer no terminal bonus if she 
were to remove the investment and invest in a performing policy. She wanted to 
know why Forester hadnt moved the investment into something which could pay a 
return. She questioned how the Government allowed a company to run in such a 
way. 
Some aspects of Mrs Rs complaint couldnt be considered by this service because Mrs R 
had brought her complaint to this service too late under the jurisdiction rules we have to 
abide by. These include the rules about when we can and cant look at a complaint if the 
event being complained about happened six or more years ago. Or if more than six years 
ago, then three years from when the complainant became aware, or ought reasonably to 
have become aware, they had cause for complaint. 
On 30 December 2021 our investigator clarified what elements of the complaint we could 
and couldnt look at:
We could only consider events that occurred within six years of the complaint about 
them being raised. Mrs Rs complaint that the with profits plan hadnt received a 
bonus for several years wasnt something we could consider from 22 October 2014 
which was six years prior to Mrs Rs complaint being logged with this service. 
Mrs R says that Forester hadnt sent any explicit or firm warnings to her that the plan 
wasnt performing. We could consider notification of performance of the plan from   
22 October 2014.
No terminal bonus would be paid if Mrs R removed her funds from the plan. There 
wasnt any evidence that Mrs R had queried this with Forester until the complaint was 
logged with this service so it was something we could consider.
Mrs R ought reasonably to have been aware about annual bonuses paid due to the 
yearly statements, so we could only look at the performance of the plan from           
22 October 2014 to when the complaint was logged. 
Our investigator later went on to consider the merits of the complaint and issued his opinion 
letter. He said:As Forester had told us the advice to invest was provided by a third party, the 
investigator wouldnt look to see if that advice to invest was suitable. The investigator 
looked at whether Forester provided clear information during the lifetime of the plan. 
The point of sale terms explained that Mrs R would get back a guaranteed minimum 
amount, the sum assured of £5,731 and that bonuses might be added but they 
werent guaranteed. 
There were various factors when calculating bonuses and it was for Forester to 
decide how much was paid. Any bonuses paid, or not paid, would be decided at 
Foresters discretion and those expectations were appropriately set out in the policy 
terms. 
Mrs R had been sent annual statements to show how the plan was doing. While Mrs 
R may have been aware of different information received from another product 
provider (Mr Rs mortgage endowment policy) and that it was explicit that that 
product was underperforming. That mortgage endowment policy was different to the 
Forester plan and wouldnt be expected to be treated the same. The annual 
statements Mrs R had been sent from 2014 onward showed whether a bonus was 
paid that year and how much. So no or little bonuses may indicate a poor 
performance and the statements clearly showed the bonuses paid. 
The value of a terminal bonus would be determined by Forester on maturity and 
would be a business decision it was entitled to make so not something he could 
comment on. The terms of the policy say it was only the sum assured that was a 
guaranteed amount. And as the terminal bonus can only be paid on maturity, 
Forester was reasonable in not allowing the payment earlier. 
The terminal bonus paid out upon maturity and the amount included a number of 
variables including investment performance. So, it was an event that hadnt 
happened and couldnt be guaranteed in advance 
It was for Forester to decided how the fund was invested. It wasnt for this service to 
instruct how it should invest. 
Mrs R didnt agree with the investigator. As the complaint remains unresolved it has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all of the information carefully I am not upholding Mrs Rs complaint. Ill 
explain why.
I should first clarify that I will not be considering whether the plan was a suitable investment 
for Mrs R. This isnt one of Mr Rs complaint points, so I wont be considering the advice   
Mrs R received to invest or any of the information she was provided at the point of sale in 
2005.
However, Forester did have the responsibility to make sure the information provided about 
the plan after it took over the business in 2013 was clear. 
Forester provided us with the annual statements Mrs R had been sent since 2014. And 
those statements clearly show the bonuses previously added, any new bonuses applied, or 
not during the year and the later ones included an example of the cash in value. Notes were also included about the plan and the types of bonuses that may be applied. So, I cant agree 
that Mrs R wasnt given appropriate information about the performance of her plan. 
Mrs R also asked why Forester had not advised the terminal bonus could potentially be so 
poor. But terminal bonuses can only be decided and applied upon the maturity of the plan 
(which hasnt occurred yet). So, its not foreseeable what that bonus might be. That bonus 
would be business decision made by Forester and because of the nature of a terminal bonus 
it couldnt be known in advance.
I appreciate Mrs Rs frustration and disappointment at the lack of financial return, but I 
havent seen sufficient evidence to make me conclude the information provided about the 
policy was misleading or breached any regulatory guidelines. So, I cant hold Foresters liable 
for any consequential loss of expectation. 
Mrs R has asked how Forester could continue to run a fund that was not making any profit. 
Foresters told us that after it over the operation of the policies, it did take steps to bring 
about improvements to the fund, by making both a capital investment and later in 2016 by
appointing a third-party fund management firm. From that date onwards, it said there has 
been positive fund growth.
Foresters has also said that it did reduce annual management charges for TWEFS policies 
in the fund. However, Foresters has not been able to award bonuses on the plan within the 
TWEFS fund for many years, in order to stabilise the fund. I dont find Foresters have acted 
unreasonably in taking that step, when it is not obliged under the terms of the plan it took 
over in 2013, to add bonuses.
Mrs R has asked how the Government allowed a company to run in such a way. I think it 
would be helpful to explain that we have no regulatory or disciplinary powers. Our service 
offers an informal dispute resolution service, where we consider what is fair and reasonable 
in the individual circumstances of each complaint. 
What this service can do is consider whether the way in which Foresters managed the bond 
was in line with regulations and the terms of the plan. And as I have said above, I havent 
seen anything to make me conclude that Mrs R was misled or that Forester didnt act as it 
should and within the rules which govern the operation of with profits funds.  
Firms have to manage the investments within certain restrictions and arent free to just 
remove any returns without giving anything to consumers. But they invest in a range of 
assets which will present risk to the overall performance of the fund. And inevitably some 
funds, and managers, will perform better than others. But it wouldnt be fair and reasonable 
to penalise a firm for not performing as well as another, provided theyve invested within the 
parameters of the relevant rules. 
Mrs R has said she was aware of another product (Mr Rs mortgage endowment policy) from 
around the same time as the Forester plan and that despite that products warnings of poor 
performance, had produced a better return than the plan she had with Foresters. I wont be 
addressing that point as its not part of this complaint and I am not in a position to consider 
the merits of that product. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to consider the investment 
return of one product with another provider with a product with a different provider. 
Mrs R says shes trapped in the plan and will have to continue with paying the monthly 
premiums when it was clear Forester had no intention of paying annual bonuses. I 
appreciate that Mrs R is disappointed with the performance of the plan. But as Ive said 
above, the way in which a product provider manages investments is a matter for its own 
commercial judgment within the parameters of the relevant rules. And inevitably some decisions will turn out to be less profitable than others and some funds wont perform as well 
as hoped. This is a risk of investing and one that she should have been appraised of at the 
point of sale.  
In this case, Im satisfied that Forester provided Mrs R with sufficiently clear information 
about how the plan worked and performed. And she was given no guarantees as to what the 
returns would be in addition to the guaranteed sum assured. So, in conclusion and in the 
individual circumstances of this complaint, I dont think Forester have done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint about Forester Life Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman