DRN-3572608
The complaint
Miss F and Mr M complain about UK Insurance Limited trading as Churchills (UKI) decision 
to apply the policy limit of £2,500 to a theft claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss F and Mr M had home insurance with UKI and in July 2021 they made a claim when 
their garage was broken into. They contacted UKI to report that various items valued at 
around £20,000 in total had been stolen, including a bike worth £4,679.81, an ebike, spare 
mountain bike tyres, some tools including a nail gun, hedge cutters and a leaf blower.
UKI agreed to settle the claim but it said the settlement would be limited to £2,500 because 
this was the policy limit on claims following theft from garages and outbuildings.
Miss F and Mr M complained to UKI. They said they hadnt been made aware of the 
existence of the policy limit when they took out the policy and they felt the policy had been 
mis-sold.
UKI maintained its position. It said the policy restricted payments on contents claims 
following theft from garages and outbuildings and it was satisfied the limit had been fairly 
applied. It said the term was clearly explained on pages 4 and 13 of the policy documents 
and that it was Miss F and Mr Ms responsibility to read the policy documents to make sure 
the policy met their needs.
Miss F and Mr M werent satisfied and so they complained to this service. Mr M said that he 
hadnt been able to work because the outcome of the claim meant he couldnt afford to 
replace his tools. And being unable to replace the bike meant he was unable to meet up with 
his friends.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I explained that, when policies are taken out online, the insurer 
has a duty to provide and draw attention to important information, and the consumer needs 
to read the information provided before they take out the policy. I said the crux of this 
complaint is whether UKI did enough to bring the £2,500 policy limit for theft from garages 
and outbuildings to Miss F and Mr Ms attention when they took out the policy. 
Our investigator had said she didnt think the term was sufficiently drawn to Miss F and Mr 
Ms attention before they bought the policy and she would have expected the relevant policy 
limit to be shown on the policy schedule or on the insurance summary. But I didnt think the 
policy limit needed to feature on the policy schedule or the summary as it wasnt any more 
significant or unusual than the other policy limits.
I pointed out that page 4 of the policy booklet contains a table of the policy limits and on 
page 13 of the booklet it states we will pay up to £2,500 for any contents claim following a 
theft from your garage or outbuildings. 
I explained that even though the sale was non-advised, UKI had a duty to make sure Miss F 
and Mr M were given information that was clear, fair and not misleading so they could make 
an informed choice about whether the policy was right for them. As part of that duty, we 
would expect it to tell them about any unusual, onerous or restrictive parts of the policy. 
While I accepted the term was significant, I didnt think it was unusual or restrictive because 
most standard home insurance policies include such limitations. And as I didnt think this 
was an unusual or onerous term, I didnt think it needed to be highlighted or specially drawn 
to Miss F and Mr Ms attention beyond it featuring clearly within the policy wording, which 
they had an opportunity to read before, during and after they took out the policy. On page 4, 
the information was presented clearly in a table, near the front of the booklet and I was 
satisfied this was sufficiently prominent.
Developments
UKI hasnt made any comments in response to my provisional decision. Miss F and Mr M 
have responded, and Ive outlined their comments below. 
Theyve questioned why the location of the garage is relevant. And theyve also pointed out 
that in my provisional decision I used an example of the storage of high value items in a 
shed, when in fact, their possessions were stolen from a garage. 
Miss F and Mr M have  clarified they had owned an ebike and a motorbike (which was also 
stored in the garage but which was insured under a separate policy) and that they thought 
the ebike was a single item which would covered up to £2,000. If theyd known the ebike 
wasnt covered, they would have sought insurance elsewhere.
Theyve also said the fact tools used in connection with any employment, trade or profession 
were excluded wasnt clearly drawn to their attention in the quotation process, noting that the 
document containing insurance product information stated the policy covered business 
equipment up to £5,000. They explained the majority of the stolen tools were for working on 
the e-bike and the motorbike, which is Mr Ms hobby, and that the value of the business-
related tools didnt exceed the £5,000 policy limit. If theyd known the tools werent covered, 
they would have sought insurance elsewhere.
Miss F and Mr M have explained they thought the policy covered up to £50,000 of contents 
across both the house and garage and if theyd known about the policy limit for items stolen 
from garages and outbuildings, they would have looked for other policies. The policy 
confirmation letter told them to check the schedule to make sure youre happy with the cover 
options you have chosen, suggesting that as the policy limit for items stolen from garages 
wasnt included on the policy schedule, it didnt apply.  
They believe UKIs failure to include the policy limit in the schedule meant the policy booklet 
contradicted the policy schedule and this was misleading. Theyve argued that any limits to 
the policy shouldve been included on the schedule, and the fact they werent meant the 
policy schedule contradicted the policy booklet. 
Miss F and Mr M have said they did read the policy documents but one of them is dyslexic 
and the document was full of jargon and difficult to understand. They had moved during 
Covid-19 and werent able to read through the documents to pick out every section they 
didnt understand. They also said theyd tried to phone UKI before they took out the policy 
but they didnt manage to get through and so they completed the application online as they 
needed to get the insurance sorted out quickly.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Home insurance policies regularly place limits on claims for contents stolen from garages 
and outbuildings because they are considered to be more susceptible to break-ins and 
therefore higher risk than the main dwelling. Ive used the storage of high value items in a 
shed as an example of consumer requirements  the fact this claim involves a garage 
doesnt make the example any less relevant.
I understand Miss F and Mr M thought their ebike would be covered up to £2,000 but Im 
satisfied UKIs decision to apply the policy limit of £2,500 to their claim was fair and this isnt 
affected by the single article limit. Similarly, UKI has mentioned the policy excludes cover for 
tools used in connection with any business, trade or profession and Miss F and Mr M have 
challenged this. But the settlement was based on the application of the policy limit for theft 
from garages and outbuildings, not the tools exclusion. So, I dont need to consider the 
exclusion for the purposes of this complaint.
Miss F and Mr M have also said they were confused about the fact the policy provided cover 
for up to £50,000 worth of contents. Insurers usually ask consumers to quantify the total cost 
of their insured possessions and put a limit on what the policy would pay out in the event of a 
claim. However, its not uncommon for insurers to impose other policy limits and Miss F and 
Mr Ms policy included a summary of those limits on page 4 of the policy booklet. I remain 
satisfied this was fair and reasonable.
Miss F and Mr M have also said the policy booklet contradicts the policy schedule, but I 
disagree. The policy schedule and the policy booklet are different documents which are 
intended to include different information. The schedule usually states the names of the 
policyholder/s, whats being insured, which sections of the policy the consumer has taken 
out, the premium, the maximum the insurer will pay for the claim, the excesses, the premium 
and any special terms or exclusions. The policy booklet then sets out the full terms and 
conditions of the policy, whats insured, whats not insured and any conditions the consumer 
must follow. Miss F and Mr Ms schedule stated this schedule forms part of the policy. Read 
it in conjunction with the policy booklet and keep it in a safe place and Im satisfied this was 
enough to highlight to Miss F and Mr M the important of reading both the schedule and the 
booklet.
I accept policy documents can be time consuming and confusing to read and this is why we 
expect insurers to draw significant terms to consumers attention. But there is a duty on the 
consumer to read the material they are provided and I maintain my view that the policy limit 
for theft of contents from garages and outbuildings was sufficiently prominent and didnt 
need to be included in the policy schedule. 
Similarly, while I understand a call to UKI would have been time consuming and this was a 
busy time for them, this isnt a satisfactory reasons for not having contacted UKI if they had 
any doubt as to the cover they were about to purchase.
As I said in my provisional decision, I dont think UKI needed to include the policy limit for 
contents stolen from garages and outbuildings in the policy schedule and I maintain that 
view. For the above reasons, I understand that Miss F and Mr M will be disappointed, but the 
findings in my final decision will be the same as the findings in my provisional decision.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman