DRN-2002982
The complaint
Mr T complains about paying an ongoing fee to Capital Asset Management Ltd (CAM) when 
no ongoing advice was provided in relation to his self-invested personal pension (SIPP).
What happened
In 2011 CAM advised Mr T to switch his personal pension to a SIPP. Mr T transferred funds 
of around £60,000 from his personal pension plan to a SIPP and made the following 
investments. 
£24,811 into Gulf Keystone Petroleum on 2 August 2011
£7,930 into Goldstone Resources Ltd on 2 August 2011
£19,842 into BT Group on 19 August 2011
In early 2012 Mr Ts holding in the BT Group was sold. The disinvestment of the BT holding 
took place on 19 January 2012 for £24,531 and the next day £19,843 was used to purchase 
a further holding in Gulf Keystone Petroleum. In addition to that investment Mr T went on to 
purchase, via his SIPP, shares in New World Oil & Gas plc (now Eridge Capital Ltd) in two 
separate sums on 6 February 2012 of £4,688 and £5,311. 
Mr T says the investments were recommended and selected for him by CAM. But CAM says 
differently  that the sale of Mr Ts BT shares and the new investments were completed on a 
non-advised basis, Mr T having approached CAM with his chosen investment selections.
Mr T complained to CAM about his SIPP. CAM didnt uphold the complaint. Mr T referred it 
to us. CAM said Mr Ts complaint hadnt been made in time and we couldnt investigate it. 
One of my ombudsmen colleagues considered that. She issued provisional jurisdiction 
decisions on 23 May 2019 and 3 February 2020. She then issued a jurisdiction decision on 
18 May 2020. She said we couldnt consider a complaint about the initial advice to set up the 
SIPP, transfer funds and make various investments in 2011. She thought, although there 
was inconsistency and disagreement about what happened, Mr T had sufficient information 
by April 2013 (or at the latest April 2014) to be aware he had cause for complaint. So those 
aspects of his complaint hadnt been made in time.  
But Mr T had complained, in a meeting on 15 January 2018, about the advice allegedly 
given by CAM in January and February 2012 to disinvest his BT shares and buy a further 
holding in Gulf Keystone Petroleum and shares in New World Oil & Gas plc. That complaint 
had been made within the primary six year period so we could consider it.  My colleague 
also said we could consider a complaint about fees taken after 15 January 2012.
Weve considered the two complaints under separate reference numbers. The complaint 
were considering here is (as set out above) the complaint about the fees paid to CAM after 
15 January 2012 for ongoing advice/reviewing Mr Ts SIPP. But, as theres some overlap, 
weve investigated that complaint alongside the other complaint about the advice Mr T says 
he was given in early 2012.
Our investigator issued his view on the current complaint (about the alleged lack of reviews) 
on 24 June 2020. He upheld the complaint.  In summary he said:
When Mr T was advised to switch to a SIPP in 2011 (which wasnt something the 
investigator was looking into), hed agreed to pay on ongoing fee. The fact find 
recorded that the first review meeting was due on 20 May 2012.  
The investigator also referred to the key facts about our services and costs 
document; the client agreement Mr T signed on 20 June 2011; and the 
recommendation letter dated 26 September 2011. 
The first annual adviser fee was paid on 1 August 2011 and payments continued until 
1 August 2016. 
The issue was whether CAM had supplied the services it was being paid to provide. 
Mr T had said the review meetings didnt take place and CAM hadnt provided any 
evidence to show they did. (Just to clarify that point, CAM had said that regular, even 
frequent meetings had taken place, but there was no documentary evidence to 
support that.)
By May 2012 CAM should have arranged a review meeting with Mr T and discussed 
his retirement planning. CAM should have advised Mr T to invest differently. Had 
CAM looked at Mr Ts SIPP in May 2012, CAM should have identified that, while 
Mr Ts attitude to investment risk had been assessed as higher than average, he 
couldnt afford to take a high degree of risk. It wouldnt have been suitable to 
recommend more than a balanced portfolio. In May 2012 there was a concentration 
in two single commodity shares which increased the investment risk. Mr T should 
have been advised to invest in a portfolio with a broad spread of different asset 
classes and sectors with only small amounts in any individual businesses.
Although CAM had arranged the share investments, it wasnt clear if CAM was 
qualified to advise on the shares in the same way as a stockbroker. If CAM could 
advise then it should have told Mr T to sell the existing two stocks and invested in a 
broadly diversified portfolio. If CAM couldnt advise then Mr T should have been 
referred to an appropriate broker/adviser who would have explained that holding 
such a high proportion of his SIPP assets in two commodity related shares wasnt 
suitable. 
Mr T would have accepted advice to make changes to his SIPP and invest in an 
appropriate portfolio. 
The investigator set out how CAM needed to redress Mr T. Essentially it needed to compare 
the value of Mr Ts SIPP on 20 May 2012 (the date the 2011 fact find recorded as when the 
first review was due), and excluding the 2012 investments in Gulf Keystone Petroleum and 
New World Oil & Gas plc, to a benchmark  the FTSE UK Private Investors Income total 
return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index). 
The redress didnt include the investments Mr T had made in 2012. The investigator had 
considered those under the other complaint reference and had proposed redress in the view 
hed issued on that other complaint.  CAM didnt agree with the investigators view. CAMs adviser said Mr T had approached him 
about transferring to a SIPP to invest in shares which Mr T had selected himself. The 
investigator had found CAM at fault for not reviewing Mr Ts portfolio. But it was at a review 
that Mr T had elected to sell the BT shares hed instructed the adviser to buy and reinvest 
the money in Gulf Keystone Petroleum. The adviser cautioned Mr T at the time against 
investing too much in one stock. 
The adviser said he and Mr T had met regularly on a social basis and often discussed his 
share holdings, effectively reviewing his portfolio on a weekly basis. Mr Ts assertion that he 
hadnt received even one phone call from the adviser wasnt true  theyd met several times 
a week and even holidayed together. Mr T could have sold his Gulf Keystone Petroleum 
shares at a huge profit but elected not to sell when the adviser discussed that with him. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was referred to me to decide. Ive 
considered it alongside Mr Ts other complaint. As Ive set out in my decision on that 
complaint, I thought there might be an issue about whether Mr T could have mitigated his 
position  that is taken steps to avoid or reduce his losses. We asked Mr T for some more 
information which I considered. 
The investigator told Mr T and CAM that, on the basis that Mr T could have mitigated or 
avoided further losses arising after April 2014, I thought it would be reasonable to calculate 
his losses as at, say, 5 May 2014. That would have given him a month after hed got the 
April 2014 statement to sell the shares himself or taken advice about what to do. The 
investigator set out revised redress. 
I then had some further thoughts about this complaint and, in particular, the start date for the 
redress. Essentially I thought it should be earlier  20 January 2012  than the start date the 
investigator had proposed  20 May 2012. 
The investigator informed Mr T and CAM that I was proposing to use the earlier start date. 
The investigator set out the revised redress and said that all the redress would be awarded 
under the other complaint reference with no award under the current complaint reference. 
Mr T didnt reply. CAM did. It said it was confused. CAM maintained that Mr T had given 
signed instructions to purchase the initial investments. He then telephoned (from his holiday) 
with instructions to purchase shares in BT. 
At a review meeting CAMs adviser informed Mr T of the portfolios performance. Mr T 
decided to sell the BT shares and buy more shares in Gulf Keystone Petroleum, even 
though the adviser warned Mr T about investing too much in one share. But Mr T had 
decided thats what he wanted to do. 
CAM didnt think it should compensate Mr T for decisions hed made. The adviser said he 
and Mr T met several times each week to discuss the portfolio. And the redress needed 
further explanation.   
Im sorry if CAM (and Mr T) are confused. I hope Ive explained things clearly below and, in 
particular, the changes to the redress as notified by the investigator.  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive set out above, one of my colleagues considered jurisdiction  whether we can look at 
Mr Ts complaint. But were required to keep jurisdiction under review throughout our 
investigation of a complaint until we issue a final decision. Ive done that. And I agree with 
my colleague that the complaint  in so far as relates to CAM taking fees after 15 January 
2012 for reviewing Mr Ts SIPP  was made in time. 
Strictly all Im considering here is CAMs alleged failure to review Mr Ts SIPP. But as Ive 
said, theres some overlap between the two complaints. My decision here and on Mr Ts 
other complaint should be read together, especially as to redress.
As to the merits of this complaint, I dont think theres any dispute that, when the advice to 
switch was given, Mr T agreed to pay an ongoing advice fee to CAM. Thats evidenced by 
the documentation, including the fact find, key facts about our services and costs document, 
the client agreement Mr T signed on 20 June 2011 and the recommendation letter dated 26 
September 2011.  
The latter said, under the heading, Reviewing your financial arrangements in the future, that 
the importance of regular reviews had been discussed and CAM would do that on a six 
monthly basis, although Mr T did have online access to his SIPP and any issues arising 
could be discussed at any time. 
As to how CAM would be remunerated, the letter said Mr T had opted to pay by commission. 
And it had been agreed that CAM would receive 4% initial commission and 1% annual fund 
based commission (so the fee was calculated by reference to the value of Mr Ts SIPP fund).  
I need to consider first if CAM did review Mr Ts SIPP. What happened, and whether any 
reviews did take place, isnt agreed. Mr T says he didnt hear further from CAM. I assume 
thats after the 2012 investments had been made. 
I havent seen anything to show that a formal ongoing service or reviews was provided by 
CAM  there are no further written recommendations, meeting or file notes or other 
documentary evidence to show that meetings were arranged or held. But CAM says there 
were regular conversations with Mr T about his portfolio, even if discussions were on a 
somewhat informal basis and may have taken place in a social setting.
But I think whether reviews were undertaken or not there are still problems for CAM. If I 
accept what Mr T says then CAM didnt undertake the reviews it had said it would provide 
and for which Mr T was paying. But, even if I accept that CAM did review Mr Ts SIPP, the 
question then arises as to what the outcome of those reviews should have been. 
CAM says it cautioned Mr T about the further investment in Gulf Keystone Petroleum and 
told him he shouldnt invest too much in one stock. But Mr T doesnt agree so its difficult for 
CAM to demonstrate that such advice was given. 
CAM was being paid to provide ongoing advice. I dont think CAM should have been happy 
to undertake reviews on an informal basis with the outcome of any review not being formally 
recorded. Thats especially the case if CAM gave advice to Mr T which he wasnt prepared to 
follow. Without any record of exactly what was discussed and when its impossible to be 
satisfied that such meetings did take place, much less that Mr T was given appropriate 
advice which he declined to accept. And, even if I accepted that CAMs adviser did caution Mr T about investing further in Gulf 
Keystone Petroleum, I dont think that went far enough. That investment just exacerbated the 
problem. Even before then Mr Ts SIPP wasnt invested suitably or in line with the degree of 
risk he should have been advised he could afford to take. CAM was supposed to be 
reviewing Mr Ts SIPP every six months. Each missed review was a missed opportunity to 
adjust Mr Ts SIPP portfolio so that he was invested in more suitable, well diversified funds. 
 
The investigator said that Mr Ts SIPP should have been reviewed in May 2012 which was 
the date agreed when the initial advice to switch to the SIPP was given. But, before then, 
changes to Mr Ts SIPP investments were made. His BT shares had been sold in January 
2012 and the further investment in Gulf Keystone Petroleum made followed, in February 
2012, by the purchases of shares in New World Oil & Gas plc (now Eridge Capital Ltd). 
As Ive said, those further investments are the subject of another complaint which weve 
considered under separate reference. In my provisional decision on that complaint I upheld 
it. I thought there was enough evidence to say that CAM had advised Mr T in connection 
with the investments and so it was responsible if they were unsuitable for him. 
But even if Im wrong about that and CAM didnt give any advice, CAM still knew about and 
arranged the disinvestment of Mr Ts BT shares and the purchase of the new investments. 
CAM was supposed to be regularly reviewing Mr Ts SIPP. CAMs first opportunity to review 
Mr Ts SIPP was earlier than May 2012. It was in January 2012 when Mr T disinvested his 
BT shares in January 2012 and made the new investments. When CAM was dealing with the 
new investments, CAM should have considered them against the background of what else 
the SIPP was invested in. CAM was after all supposed to be regularly reviewing the SIPP. 
Not only should CAM not have recommended the new investments, but CAM should also 
have realised that the investments held in the SIPP werent suitable. 
CAM should have told Mr T that the risk profile of his SIPP was too high and that the SIPP 
lacked diversification. As Ive said, even if the adviser did express some concern, that wasnt 
sufficient. When the new investments were made was a missed opportunity to review Mr Ts 
SIPP, and not just the new investments Mr T was planning (with or without CAMs advice) 
but overall. 
If CAM had reviewed Mr Ts SIPP CAM should have made it very clear to Mr T that his SIPP 
wasnt invested suitably and that he should switch to a range of well diversified funds in line 
with no more than a moderate attitude to investment risk. I dont see why Mr T wouldnt have 
followed that advice had it been given. Thats why I consider redress should be based on the 
overall value of the SIPP as at 20 January 2012. 
But I also consider, for the reasons Ive explored in my provisional decision on Mr Ts other 
complaint, that Mr T did have some responsibility to look at information hed been sent by 
the SIPP provider as to how his SIPP investments were performing. As I said, I can 
understand why he left things to the adviser. But I dont think it was altogether reasonable for 
Mr T to ignore information hed been sent from which I think hed have seen that things 
werent going well. I think he should reasonably have taken some action to mitigate his 
losses. 
The upshot is that the redress Im awarding on the other complaint covers Mr Ts SIPP (that 
is all the investments and not just the further investments he made in early 2012) from 20 
January 2012 to 5 May 2014; a return on that loss; and a (combined) payment for distress 
and inconvenience. So Im not making any award on this complaint. Instead of splitting the 
redress between the new investments made in 2012 and the remainder of the SIPP, it 
seems easier to award redress under one complaint reference only. But aside from the start and end dates having changed (and which changes have been notified to Mr T and CAM) 
the redress overall is essentially the same as previously. 
  
My final decision
Im upholding the complaint. But, for the reasons Ive explained, Im not awarding any 
redress.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman