DRN-3970235
The complaint
G, a limited company, complains that First Data Europe Limited (First Data) made changes 
to how it provided statements for a merchant services account. G is unhappy that 
compensation First Data offered regarding this issue has not been paid.
G is represented by Mr V, its director.
What happened
In around August 2021, G stopped receiving statements for its account with First Data. In 
September 2021 Mr V contacted First Data to question this and was told he would be able to 
view statements using an online portal. 
There were some issues with Mr V being able to access this online portal, and so he raised 
a complaint with First Data. First Data looked at what had happened and agreed there had 
been delays in resolving things, so it offered to pay G £25 in recognition of any 
inconvenience caused.
First Data says it was then unable to pay this compensation to G, it says the payment was 
attempted twice and returned each time by the third party bank. Mr V says there were no 
issues with the bank account G was trying to make the payment to, which was still open, and 
that as First Data had been able to take payments from Gs bank account it should have also 
been able to make this payment to G. Mr V would like compensation for the time and effort 
put into pursuing this issue and to recognise that First Data has ignored his correspondence 
about this issue.
One of our Investigators looked at what had happened, but overall they felt First Data had 
responded appropriately to Gs complaint. They felt the £25 offered was fair and that First 
Data had provided a reasonable explanation as to why it had not been paid. Mr V disagreed, 
he maintained that there was no reason why the payment should have been returned, and 
that further compensation was now due because of how First Data had handled things.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for largely the 
same reasons.
I appreciate Mr V was unhappy that First Data decided to move to an online portal for the 
provision of statements, and that there were then some delays in him gaining access to this 
portal. But First Datas records show that Mr V first called about this issue on 24 September 
and that access to the online portal was actioned on 12 October, so a delay of around two 
and a half weeks. 
I dont doubt that this was frustrating and can see that Mr V had to chase this up with First 
Data. But First Data offered G £25 to recognise the impact of any delay, and I think that 
amount was reasonable in the circumstances. The actual impact on G of the delay would 
have been limited here, and First Datas notes suggest it took steps to send Mr V the 
statements hed asked for before the portal was set up properly for him to access. I must 
also bear in mind here that the customer in this complaint is G, a limited company, and a 
limited company is not a person and so cant experience distress or upset. That means that 
all we are considering here is the inconvenience or additional work that any failings on First 
Datas part may have caused to G.
I acknowledge that there then appear to have been some issues in the £25 that was offered 
being paid to G. Mr V says no payments were ever received or returned by Gs bank. But 
First Data has provided us with records from its systems which show the payment was 
attempted twice and returned each time. As a result of this, First Data asked Mr V to 
reconfirm the account details several times, which he did so. And I can see that Mr V 
emailed First Data repeatedly about this issue without any meaningful response. I also 
understand that First Data took steps to withdraw funds relating to a different issue from Gs 
account at around the same time, which has led Mr V to question how it could say it was not 
able to make the payment of £25. 
But the withdrawal and compensation payment were being dealt with by different parts of 
First Data, which would not necessarily be sharing that kind of information between 
departments. And from First Datas complaints departments point of view, it had tried twice 
to make the payment and twice had that payment returned, suggesting that there was some 
issue with Gs account receiving this deposit. At this stage I think it might have been sensible 
for First Data to issue the compensation as a cheque to G, but Im satisfied that G had made 
reasonable attempts to pay the compensation via bank transfer. 
And while I can appreciate that this was frustrating for Mr V, as explained above, Mr Vs 
frustration is not something that we would look to compensate him for here. And again, the 
actual impact of this compensation not being paid immediately to G is limited.
On that basis, while I acknowledge that First Data could perhaps have handled things better, 
I remain satisfied that the £25 already offered is fair compensation for G for the impact of 
what has happened here. First Data should though now ensure that it pays that amount to G 
as soon as possible.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. But Im satisfied that what First Date Europe Limited has offered to 
do to put things right is reasonable. First Data Europe Limited should pay the £25 it has 
offered to G via cheque as soon as possible. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman