DRN-2021212
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank plc failed to make an international payment from his 
account after hed asked it to.
What happened
Mr M had a current account with Lloyds. He continued to hold the account even though he 
was living abroad. He wrote to Lloyds at the end of October 2018 and asked it to make an 
international payment from his account. He says he needed this payment to be made 
because he was planning a trip to the UK the following summer and because he wanted to 
supplement his living expenses.
When Mr M realised that Lloyds hadnt actioned his request he sent a further request to 
Lloyds. He says this also wasnt actioned and so he contacted Lloyds to make a complaint.
Before he received a response from Lloyds he telephoned it. Lloyds says that during this 
telephone conversation he was told his request for the international payment hadnt been 
actioned. He was also told that if he wanted to make a payment of more than £5000 he 
would need to use an alternative method. The adviser suggested that he could consider 
making the payment by using telephone or internet banking or he could lodge a cheque 
drawn on his Lloyds account into his foreign bank account. The bank that hed lodged the 
cheque with could then send it to Lloyds for collection.
A few days later he received Lloyds' response to his earlier complaint. The response stated 
that Lloyds' policy was not to make international payments where it had received a written 
request and the amount exceeded £5000. Since his request had exceeded that amount it 
said thered been no bank error. It acknowledged that it couldve contacted him about this 
earlier and so, it had paid £50 into his account by way of compensation.
Mr M wasnt happy with this response. He said hed previously made similar requests and 
theyd all been actioned. Lloyds looked into his complaint again. It said that on reviewing the 
complaint it agreed that after receiving his first request, it shouldve contacted him to let him 
know about its policy. It said it had received the first request on 8 November 2018 but it 
hadnt received his second request.
Lloyds acknowledged hed been inconvenienced and had to make international calls
because of what had happened. So, it said itd paid a further £150 into his account by way of 
compensation. But, it said that it wouldnt be able to make the payment hed originally 
requested because it exceeded the £5000 limit for written requests. So, hed have to make 
his request using an alternative method.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with this response. So, he complained to our service. Our investigator 
looked into his complaint. He thought that Lloyds had acted in accordance with its own 
policies and processes when it didnt action Mr Ms request. And he said that the amount of 
compensation hed been paid for whatd happened was fair and reasonable. So, he didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mr M disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said: 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute in this case that Lloyds received a written request from Mr M in 
which he asked it to make an international payment from his account. The rules 
which apply state that where a payment service provider (in this case Lloyds) refuses 
to carry out a payment instruction then it must notify the payment service user (in this 
case Mr M) of the refusal and if possible the reasons for that refusal. And, it must 
make that notification before the end of the time that it would usually take for the 
payment to be made.
Ive also looked at Lloyds' terms and conditions. These state that if it refuses to act 
on an instruction then unless the law prevents it from doing so, it will contact the 
customer as soon as it can and before the time any payment should have reached 
the bank its being sent to. As a guide, for a payment of the type Mr M had requested, 
Lloyds provides an indicative timescale of between 4 and 14 working days. The 
terms and conditions provide monetary limits for payments where telephone or 
internet banking are being used  but not for written requests such as the one Mr M 
made.
Lloyds didnt try to contact Mr M about the payment it had decided not to make. It 
says this was because of an administrative error in its branch. It also says that Mr M 
couldve contacted it earlier himself when the payment wasnt made.
Mr M chose to contact Lloyds by letter. Hes entitled to do that, But, because he lives 
abroad this can mean there are delays when dealing with his requests. It takes 
longer for his letters to reach Lloyds and it takes longer for Lloyds responses to reach 
him. I can see that Mr M says he did send a follow up request to Lloyds in December 
and he then made a complaint at the end of January. So, given the circumstances, I 
think he did make efforts to contact Lloyds as soon as reasonably possible and I 
wouldnt have expected him to do anything more.
Im satisfied that Lloyds didnt contact Mr M in the way that it shouldve done and 
Lloyds has acknowledged that this was the case. So, I have to consider whether the 
compensation its paid to Mr M is fair and reasonable for the losses he says hes 
suffered as a result of Lloyds not actioning the request when it received it.
Ive looked at the initial request Mr M made and the amount that he subsequently 
asked Lloyds to transfer after he became aware of what had happened. If Lloyds had 
contacted him on 8 November 2018 when it got the initial request, I think Mr M 
wouldve made alternative arrangements at that time to make the international 
transfer from his Lloyds account.
When Mr M became aware of the issue he arranged for a cheque for £10,000 to be 
sent for collection and he sent a further request for a £5000 international money 
transfer. I think this was in line with what hed been told to do during the telephone 
call with Lloyds.
It is the case that the amount he subsequently transferred was considerably less than 
the amount hed originally requested. Ive considered why this was the case.Mr M told Lloyds that the purpose of his original request was to pay for his trip to the 
UK and to supplement his living expenses. His pension was paid into his account 
with Lloyds.
When Mr M wrote to Lloyds at the end of February he said he was going to look into 
alternative arrangements to supplement his living expenses. He mentions setting up 
a standing instruction so that funds could be remitted to him on a regular basis or 
getting his pension paid directly into his overseas bank account. So, I think this 
explains why the amount he actually transferred was much less than his original 
request.
Im also satisfied that the amount he transferred was in line with the amount he would 
have used for his trip to the UK. In these circumstances, I think its fair and 
reasonable to ask Lloyds to only compensate him for losses he actually realised on 
the amount he subsequently transferred.
What should be done to put things right
Lloyds has provided me with its foreign exchange rates for the dates in question. I 
can see that Mr Ms original request was received by Lloyds on 8 November 2018. At 
that date the foreign exchange rate for outward international payments was AUD 
@1.7634.
I can see Mr M subsequently made two transfers from his account:
£10,000 was debited from his account on 14 March 2019. This was 
processed as a sterling cheque payment. Mr M had lodged this cheque with 
his foreign bank and it sent it to Lloyds for collection. The exchange rate on 
this date was AUD@1.8425; and
£5,000 was debited from his account on 11 April 2019. This was processed 
as an international money transfer and the exchange rate applied was AUD 
@1.7910
So, Ive thought about the difference in the exchange rate between the 8 November 
2018 for a transfer of £15,000 and the rate Lloyds applied when the two transfers 
were subsequently made. The difference is the sterling equivalent of AUD $929. On 
the date when the payment shouldve been made this wouldve been £526. If either 
side disagree with my calculations here, they are free to explain why in response to 
this provisional decision.
So, I intend to ask Lloyds to credit Mr Ms account with £526. And the credit should 
be backdated for interest purposes to 8 November 2018.
Ive also considered the compensation that Lloyds has already paid Mr M for the 
trouble and upset hes been caused in this matter. Its already paid him £200, 
including £50 for the cost of his telephone calls. I think thats fair and reasonable 
compensation for the inconvenience hes experienced. So, I dont intend to require 
Lloyds to pay him any further compensation for trouble and upset.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this 
complaint about Lloyds Bank plc and I would require it to take the following action:
Credit Mr Ms account with £526 with a value date of 8 November 2018.Mr M has accepted my provisional decision. He says that Lloyds should tell its overseas 
customers when it makes changes to its policies.
Lloyds has also accepted my provisional decision. It says that it will pay Mr M £526 together 
with 8% interest from 8 November 2018 to the date it makes the payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has accepted my provisional decision. He has also commented that Lloyds should tell 
its overseas customers when it changes its policies.
Mr Ms complaint was about Lloyds decision not to make a payment hed requested. So, in 
these circumstances, Lloyds shouldve told Mr M about its decision within the timescales set 
out in the relevant legislation and its own terms and conditions. It could only do that after it 
received the payment request. But, as Ive said in my provisional decision, if it had contacted 
him when it should have, Mr M wouldve been able to make alternative arrangements at an 
earlier stage. 
Lloyds has also accepted my provisional decision. In that decision Id indicated I would 
require Lloyds to back date the payment of £526 to 8 November 2018. In its response Lloyds 
has agreed to pay 8% interest on this sum from that date. I think thats fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
Having considered everything here Ive decided that Lloyds should take the following action 
to put things right:
Pay Mr M £526; and 
Pay 8% simple interest on £526 from 8 November 2018 until the date of payment.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank plc. I now require it 
to take the following action:
Pay Mr M £526; and 
Pay 8%** simple interest on £526 from 8 November 2018 until the date of payment.
** If Lloyds Bank plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a certificate showing this if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman