DRN-4141465
The complaint
Mrs J and Mr J complain about AWP P&C SA and the decision to decline the claim they 
made on their Home Emergency (HE) insurance policy.
Mr J has acted as the main representative during the claim and complaint process. So, for 
ease of reference, I will refer to any actions taken by either Mrs J or Mr J as Mr J 
throughout the decision.
What happened
Mr J held a HE insurance policy, underwritten by AWP. This policy was separate to Mr Js 
home insurance policy.
In mid-December 2022, Mr J discovered a leak coming from the drain in his bath, which had 
a full tub of water. And the water from this leak was leaking through the ceiling into his 
kitchen below, impacting his boiler and the electrical appliances contained within it. Mr J felt 
this situation was an emergency and so, he contacted AWP to make a claim. 
On the call, Mr J confirmed the leak would stop when the bath, or shower fixed overhead, 
wasnt used. And that once the bath had been cleared of water, the leak wouldnt be 
continuous. After considering this information, AWP declined the claim, as they felt the claim 
circumstances were excluded under the terms of the policy. And they referred Mr J to his 
home insurance provider instead. Mr J was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr J didnt think AWPs decision to decline the claim was fair. He thought the situation he 
was in was an emergency, as the bathtub was full when the issue with the drain became 
apparent. So, he didnt think it was fair for AWP to expect him to drain the bath manually 
himself. And he explained the leak itself had damaged his boiler, and the electrics within his 
kitchen, which meant both he and his wife were without heating and electric in December, 
which he didnt think was reasonable. So, Mr J wanted AWP to cover the costs of the 
damage caused by the leak.
AWP responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought they had declined the 
claim fairly, based on the terms and conditions of the policy Mr J held. And they didnt think 
they were responsible for any damages caused by the leak, or the repairs needed to rectify 
this. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr J remained unhappy with this 
response, so he brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought AWP declined 
Mr Js claim fairly, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, quoting the terms 
directly. While they recognised the inconvenience caused to Mr J, they were satisfied the 
claim circumstances fell under the policy exclusions. So, they didnt think AWP needed to do 
anything more.
 Mr J didnt agree. He thought there was an emergency, as the bath was full of water and so 
was leaking until he managed to drain it manually. And due to the time this took, he felt the 
damage caused in the room below, where the boiler was fitted, led to him and Mrs J being 
without heating, hot water and electricity during a winter month. He maintained his belief this 
couldve been avoided had AWP accepted the claim and so, he felt AWP should cover the 
costs of the damage repairs. As Mr J didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs J and Mr J. Ive no doubt 
it wouldve been alarming and upsetting when they discovered a leak coming through their 
ceiling due to a fault with their bath. And as this leak had impaired their electrics and boiler in 
the room below, I can understand why they would deem the situation to be an emergency 
and so, contact AWP as their HE insurance provider. And I can appreciate the upset they 
wouldve felt when AWP took the decision to decline the claim.
But for me to say AWP should do something to recognise the complaint, I first need to be 
satisfied AWP have done something wrong. So, I need to be satisfied AWP failed to act in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy when declining the claim. Or, if I think AWP 
did act within these, that they acted unfairly when doing so. And in this situation, I dont think 
thats the case. 
I think its important to make clear the role of AWP, and the HE policy they provide. This 
policy is separate to any home insurance policy Mr J may hold that insures his building and 
its contents. A HE policy is intended as a supplementary insurance policy to cover repairs, 
either temporarily or permanently, where this is an emergency situation. The policy is not 
intended to be an alternative to Mr Js home insurance.
So, for a claim to be accepted, there must be an emergency situation present. And the 
circumstances of the claim must fall within the terms of the policy without qualifying for any 
of the policy exclusions.
Ive carefully considered the policy terms and conditions, against the circumstances of the 
claim Mr J raised. Ive listened to a call between Mr J and AWP and within this, Mr J 
confirms that there was no leak when the shower or bath wasnt in use. 
The policy terms and conditions state within the Plumbing and drainage section under the 
heading What is not covered that AWP wont cover claims were water was escaping from 
internal plumbing where the water is escaping safely down a drain or can be stopped by 
switching off a tap or shower. 
I recognise Mr Js bath was full. And, that the issue was caused by a fault to the plug and 
drainage itself. So, I dont think the water was escaping safely down a drain. But I think its 
accepted that the leak itself could be stopped by switching the water off at a tap or shower. 
This is because once Mr J had drained the bath by other means other than the plug which 
he accepts he did using a bowl and towels, there was no continuous leak that threatened to 
damage his home. 
So, I do think the circumstances of the claim fell under this exclusion contained within the policy. And because of this, I think AWP have acted within the terms of the policy when 
declining the claim.
I appreciate Mr J wont agree with this. And I recognise his belief that AWP shouldve 
attended his property and drained the bath, before removing the bath panel and completing 
a repair. But I dont think this was the responsibility of AWP under the HE policy. Mr J has 
accepted to complete a repair, the bath panel wouldve needed to be removed to access the 
leak site. And the policy terms and conditions explain, under the general exclusions, that 
AWP wouldnt complete any repair that requires trace and access works to be completed. 
So again, I dont think I can say AWP have failed to act within the terms of the policy, or 
acted unfairly, when declining the claim.
And because of the above, I think it follows that AWP holds no responsibility towards the 
costs of the repairs required for the damage found in the home that resulted from the leak. 
Instead, I think these repairs are more suited to a claim under Mr Js separate home 
insurance policy. And the terms and conditions of Mr Js HE policy provided by AWP explain 
within the general exclusions that they arent responsible for any permanent repairs that 
should more specifically relate to a home insurance claim.
Because of all the above, I dont think AWP need to do anything more on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs J and Mr Js complaint about AWP P&C 
SA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman