DRN-4180545
The complaint
Miss G and Mr R complain that a mortgage adviser with Countrywide Principal Services 
Limited trading as Countywide Mortgage Services failed to advise them about an early 
repayment charge (ERC) that they had to pay.
What happened
Miss G and Mr R had a mortgage with a lender, I shall call Lender A. They had a fixed rate 
product and would have to pay an ERC if they redeemed the mortgage before the expiry of 
the fixed rate period unless they ported the mortgage product to a new mortgage with 
Lender A. From about March 2022, they were in contact with Countywide about a new 
mortgage and the purchase of a new property. They approached a broker with Countrywide 
who, in about May 2022 recommended a mortgage with a different lender, Lender B. Miss G 
and Mr R paid the lifetime brokers fee of £599 to Countrywide.  
Miss G and Mr R were to complete on 2 September when at the end of August, they got their 
completion statement showing an ERC of £5,378.28. Miss G and Mr R say that their fixed 
rate with Lender A was to end in October 2022 and they were completely unaware of any 
ERC. The broker at that stage suggested that they could consider cancelling the application 
with Lender B and try and port the mortgage product by taking a new mortgage with Lender 
A. But this wasnt attractive because of the increased interest rates and wasted fees on the 
first application. 
Countrywide said Miss G and Mr R had told the mortgage consultant that they believed there 
was no ERC applicable, so he had recommended the most suitable mortgage in the 
circumstances with Lender B. As it recognised that Miss G and Mr R would not be using its 
service again, it offered to refund £300 from the brokers fee. Our investigator didnt 
recommend that this complaint should be upheld as Miss G and Mr R should have been 
aware that an ERC applied. Miss G and Mr R disagreed saying in summary that they 
supplied details of their mortgage with Lender A to the broker so he could deal with Lender 
A.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Countrywide said that Miss G and Mr R had told him that there was no ERC on the existing 
mortgage. I note that the adviser says in an email to Miss G that early on in our meetings 
you didnt think there are any early repayment charges . Miss G replied that they had asked 
whether there were any potential fees from switching from their previous lender and the 
adviser had told hem that there wouldnt be any. The problem here is that the ERC that 
would be due to the first lender wasnt highlighted until the sale was about to complete. Who 
should have known about the ERC? 
Miss G and Mr R had dealt with Lender A and as part of the documentation supplied by 
Lender A, such as the original mortgage offer, it would have been clearly set out that if they 
redeemed the mortgage before a certain date that an ERC would be payable. Indeed, these 
offers are designed to highlight certain terms and if there is an ERC its one of the terms 
highlighted. We would expect Miss G and Mr R to know, because they had that information, 
if there was an ERC. Countywide didnt have that information as they hadnt dealt with 
Lender A. I can see that Miss G and Mr R supplied some information to Countrywide about 
the mortgage with Lender A although not about the ERC. That suggests that Countrywide 
was relying on Miss G and Mr R for information about the mortgage with Lender A rather 
than dealing with Lender A directly. So, we wouldnt expect Countrywide to know whether 
there was an ERC with Lender A. 
In order to provide suitable advice, we would expect Countrywide to make enquiries from 
Miss G and Mr R including about any ERC payable.. The Countrywide adviser says that he 
raised a query and was told that the term of the fixed rate had passed and so there would be 
no ERC. If that was the case the adviser could continue with his advice.  Miss G and Mr R 
say that they didnt tell the adviser this, but the Countrywide adviser told them there would 
be no charges from Lender A.
Clearly there are different recollections of the conversation. Miss G and Mr Rs complaint is 
that they didnt know about the ERC. But, as I say above, from their own prior dealings with 
Lender A, they should have known, and I cant fairly uphold this complaint if it arises out of a 
matter they should have known about. A reasonable explanation of Miss G and Mr Rs shock 
when they were told in August what the ERC would be is that they understood, as the 
adviser says he was told by them, that the fixed rate had ended, and no ERC was payable. 
In any case Miss G and Mr R were the ones who had the information in their hands about 
the ERC. So, for the reasons set out above I cant fairly uphold his complaint. I note that 
Countrywide offered to refund £300 of the Lifetime broker Fee and Miss G and Mr R may 
wish to consider that offer which seems fair
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G and Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman