DRN-4060032
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the delays he experienced whilst Legal and General Assurance 
Society Limited were assessing his claim. 
What happened
Mr A has group income protection insurance provided by his work. He brings this complaint 
in his capacity as an employee and beneficiary under this policy. Mr A has other, linked 
complaints, but Ill only be considering the way L&G handled his claim and the service he 
received as a consumer in this case.
In January 2022 Mr A was involved in an accident at work which resulted in him being 
incapacitated. He described his injuries as serious and that they have had an on-going 
impact on his functional capacity. He made a claim with L&G but this was declined. Mr A 
said his claim was declined unfairly. The policy holder (Mr As employer) stopped paying the 
premiums and so the policy lapsed  meaning there was no longer cover in place for Mr A 
and so his claim was declined. Mr A is also the director of that business. 
Mr A said L&G caused unnecessary delays whilst handling his claim. He said he was left 
waiting for extended periods of time whilst L&G were waiting to receive his medical records. 
He also said he was promised call backs from managers that didnt happen and was given 
incorrect information that the policy could still be reinstated, and his claim considered, when 
in fact that wasnt the case. Mr A would like L&G to pay his claim and more compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience he experienced. 
L&G said it declined Mr As claim fairly because the policy premiums hadnt been paid for 
around eight months and so the policy lapsed. It accepted that Mr A hadnt received a good 
level of service and that there were unnecessary delays which impacted its investigation. But 
it also highlighted there were factors outside of its control which contributed to the overall 
poor experience, in particular, the lengthy wait for Mr As medical records. It also said there 
was an excessive wait for Mr A to provide his financial information, so it was unable to 
assess his claim in good time. L&G paid a total of £750 compensation for the overall distress 
and inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator thought this was fair. She said the service offered could have been better. 
She acknowledged there were times where Mr A had requested call backs that didnt 
happen and delays moving his claim forward. She said this caused Mr A upset, but felt the 
overall compensation offered was fair. 
Mr A disagreed. In summary, he said L&G hadnt been sympathetic to his needs. He 
explained the incident left him unable to work and that he couldnt afford to pay the 
premiums. He also said the compensation wasnt enough considering the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced. Mr A referred to phone calls he had with L&G to support the 
upset he was caused. Mr A would like L&G to reinstate the policy and pay his claim. And so, 
its for me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided the compensation paid by L&G is fair and for the same 
reasons explained by our investigator. I agree there were times when L&G could have 
handled things better than it did. Throughout the investigation, there were unnecessary 
delays where it appeared little was happening. In addition, Mr A was left waiting for call 
backs that didnt take place in good time, or even at all, in some instances. But there were 
also moments when L&G was left waiting for extended periods of time which had an even 
bigger impact on the claims progression, which Im satisfied lessened the overall impact of 
some of its errors. Ill explain why.
L&G requested Mr As financial information so it could verify his income. It did this at 
the very beginning of the claim on 17 February 2022. This wasnt given to L&G until 
28 June 2022. Without this information, L&G would not have been able to assess 
what benefit, if any, would have been due under the policy. I also noted L&G had to 
ask Mr A for this information several times. Despite this, it took approximately four 
months for it to be received. I dont think L&G did anything wrong here as it was 
proactively asking Mr A and his broker for this information throughout the life of the 
claim. 
The policy lapsed in August 2022 due to the premiums not being paid. The last 
premium paid was in December the previous year. I understand Mr As arguments 
about not having enough money to make the payments and to be clear, that wont 
be considered here as thats the responsibility of the policy holder to maintain, and 
Mr A has brought this complaint in his capacity as a beneficiary under the policy.  
But ultimately, without an active policy, theres little for L&G to do in those particular 
circumstances. However, I note it continued to progress Mr As claim in that time by 
trying to gather evidence and even referred him for rehabilitation treatment and 
counselling. I thought that was particularly good of L&G given the policy holder had 
stopped paying the premiums.
Although there were delays throughout the claim, which I wont go into detail about 
here as both sides already agree on the chronology highlighted by our investigator, 
I think it makes little difference to the overall outcome. I say that because, 
ultimately, there was no longer a policy in place to consider Mr As claim against. 
Therefore, no benefit would have been paid until the policy was brought up to date. 
And as there was little chance of this happening, I dont consider those delays to 
have had a significant enough impact to persuade me to increase the amount of 
compensation already paid by L&G.
I thought L&G couldve responded to requests to call Mr A back. I think by not doing 
this, it caused him unnecessary distress and inconvenience as he was having to 
chase for updates and make additional requests for call backs. This seemed to 
further compound Mr As confusion about his claim progression. I note when a call 
back did happen, he was told the policy could be reinstated, provided premiums 
were brought back up to date. But this was incorrect because Mr As health 
declaration had changed given he was involved in a road traffic accident shortly 
after his claim was submitted. And so, the decision to reinstate the policy would not 
have been as straight forward in those circumstances as it needed to be referred to 
the underwriters for further consideration. Mr As medical records were not received in good time. There were significant delays 
in obtaining this information. To be clear, they were requested on 10 March and 
werent received until the beginning of June. The delay here was excessive, 
however, it appears Mr As GP was the reason behind the delay as theyd not 
responded to L&Gs request quickly enough. I note that when they eventually sent 
an invoice to L&G for the records release on 19 April, this was paid the following 
day and so Im satisfied L&G didnt hold things up there. I still think L&G couldve 
been more proactive in chasing for this information. Id have expected it to have 
chased the GPs office after a couple of weeks of not hearing back to its request. I 
note the first chaser from L&G wasnt until 29 March. In any event, this didnt make 
much of a difference overall because of the missing financial information making it 
impossible for L&G to quantify any benefit due under the policy, and the unpaid 
premiums ultimately leading to the policy lapsing. 
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) says L&G shouldnt unreasonably 
reject a claim, nor should it cause unreasonable or unnecessary delays. Im satisfied L&G 
declined Mr As claim fairly for the reasons Ive explained. There was no longer a policy in 
force to consider his claim against. Further, there were changes to Mr As health owing to his 
road traffic accident, which meant L&G wouldnt have reinstated the policy, even if the 
premiums had been brought back up to date. 
There were some delays caused by L&G but most were not. L&G couldve returned Mr As 
calls and kept him updated better than it did. This impacted the level of service offered and 
caused Mr A distress and inconvenience at a time whilst he should have been focussing on 
his recovery. But I consider the £700 compensation for the distress and inconvenience that 
caused to be a fair acknowledgement of that and so I make no further award here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman