DRN-4129478
The complaint
Mr F and Miss M complain about what happened when they tried to remortgage with 
Nationwide Building Society, and take out additional lending to pay for a number of home 
improvements. They complained about the valuation, and the service they received.
What happened
Whilst this complaint is brought by both Mr F and Miss M, as the mortgage is in both their 
names, our dealings have been with Mr F. So Ill mainly refer to him in this decision. 
Mr F said the remortgage process with Nationwide had been lengthy and difficult. He and 
Miss M started their application in March 2022. He said Nationwide tried to move the 
goalposts after the lending was initially agreed, and it repeatedly requested confirmation that 
a loan had been paid off, although hed already supplied this. 
Mr F said the mortgage application failed to go through due to a Nationwide keying error, 
and had to be input manually. Mr F has referred to this causing extended delays at a number 
of stages of the mortgage process. 
Mr F said a conveyancing company was given the wrong information, so that Miss M was 
continually referred to by the wrong name, despite Mr F telling Nationwide about the error. 
Mr F said the valuer who attended the property was rude, and didnt have local knowledge. 
Mr F said the valuer didnt know he was supposed to value the house both as it was, and as 
it would be after Mr Fs programme of works was completed. And Mr F said the valuer also 
ignored a recent sale of a similar house in the same street. 
Mr F said the valuation was much lower than expected, and was only a present condition 
valuation, not a valuation after the expected work was completed. Mr F appealed, and he 
said he also spoke to two local estate agents, who both provided values much higher than 
Nationwides valuer, but Nationwide wouldnt use these figures. Mr F said the appeal was 
prolonged, and shouldnt have been sent back to the original valuer. It was refused. 
Mr F said he then challenged the valuation directly with the survey company, and eventually 
the after works valuation was increased. Mr F said if he hadnt continued to challenge, the 
mortgage would have failed. Mr F said the mortgage could then proceed, but it still took 
about six weeks to input this manually, because Nationwide had a backlog of applicants. 
Mr F said he got confirmation of the mortgage towards the end of July, but two days later, he 
was told there would be a retention. That hadnt been mentioned before, and Mr F said this 
should have been mentioned much earlier. 
Mr F said when he finally got the mortgage offer, the only details of the retention were sent 
to him as a screenshot. Mr F thought sending a screenshot was totally unacceptable.
Mr F said he found out this retention had been added to the mortgage by the original rude 
valuer who had valued the property. Mr F said the valuer had doubted his and Miss Ms 
intentions, and he thought it was entirely inappropriate for a valuer to judge a couple rather 
than their property. 
Mr F said the retention meant he would have to complete the works before any money would 
be released. But Mr F said work had already started, and hed paid a considerable amount of 
money out for the renovations, some of which wasnt refundable. Mr F said he could provide 
receipts for the work done so far, and for deposits paid, but he couldnt complete the work 
with this level of retention being withheld. Mr F said he felt Nationwide was blackmailing him. 
Mr F said he complained, and the complaint was passed between different handlers. While 
this happened, Mr F said he and Miss M were living in a building site.
Mr F said Nationwide eventually agreed to release some of the retention before works were 
completed. But Nationwide would only release the rest when the works were completed to 
the satisfaction of the valuer. Mr F asked for a different valuer, but he said Nationwide 
refused. Mr F said he then found out this valuation company was a subsidiary of Nationwide. 
Mr F said that in November 2022 he contacted Nationwide for consideration of the release of 
the outstanding funds. The same valuer returned, viewed the house, took into account 
receipts and proposed future works, but Mr F said that Nationwide didnt then get in touch, 
and he had to chase Nationwide to release funds in December 2022.
Mr F said the delay with remortgaging meant the cost of materials rose significantly. And he 
said it also caused considerable strain and mental stress to him and Miss M. He wanted 
Nationwide to make a number of changes to its processes, and to pay compensation.
Nationwide said Mr F complained about the valuation, and it dealt with an appeal against this 
for him, but in May 2022 that appeal was rejected. Nationwide understood Mr F had then 
spoken directly to the survey company, and that firm issued Mr F with a response on 5 July 
2022. That didnt change the present condition valuation, but it did increase the after works 
valuation by £5,000. Mr F then confirmed he wanted to go ahead with the mortgage. 
Nationwide said it implemented a retention on Mr Fs mortgage, because otherwise it would 
have been lending him more than the value of the property at the time. Nationwide said it 
would normally discuss a mortgage retention with someone when the mortgage is about to 
go to the offer stage. But in Mr Fs case, this didnt happen for quite some time, because 
hed spent time challenging the valuation. 
Nationwide said it then highlighted the retention when he confirmed he wanted to go ahead, 
and Nationwide carried out its final checks. Nationwide accepted it would have been helpful 
to ensure Mr F had understood this earlier, and it offered Mr F £300 to say sorry for that. 
Nationwide said it applied the valuation in line with its own lending criteria. It could only 
release the money when the proposed works were done and checked. Nationwide said it 
wasnt responsible for Mr Fs decision to start work before he got a mortgage offer.
Nationwide said it had also noted Mr Fs complaint about the mistake over Miss Ms name, 
and it would get this corrected. It had noted his feedback about the survey company, and 
that he didnt want the same firm carrying out a future reinspection. Nationwide said it didnt 
give customers a choice of the firm used for valuations. Nationwide assigns valuers 
according to location, expertise and availability. But it said it would see if it was possible to 
assign someone else for the reinspection. When Mr Fs complaint came to our service, Nationwide said that it initially paid out part of 
the retention in advance of the works, then the remainder when Mr F demonstrated 
progress. Mr F had asked for the last part of the funds on 23 November, and it paid the 
remaining money on 2 December. So all the funds had now been released to Mr F. Mr F 
hadnt accepted its offer of £300, but he and Miss M could still accept that if they wanted to.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that Mr F, Miss M and 
Nationwide had changed the requested borrowing slightly in the initial discussions, to reduce 
the loan to value. Then Nationwide appointed a survey firm with the appropriate professional 
qualifications. Our investigator said Nationwide was entitled to rely on what the survey 
company said. Mr F was then offered a mortgage with a retention. Our investigator said 
there was a slight delay in providing this, because the application had to be keyed manually, 
so Nationwide could provide the rates previously available to Mr F and Miss M. In mid-July 
Mr F was told about the offer and retention. 
Our investigator said Nationwide couldnt reach its lending decision before the valuation was 
finalised, so it wouldnt be fair to say Nationwide should have told Mr F about the retention 
sooner. And it was fair to apply a retention when Mr F wanted to borrow more than the 
present value of the property. This is how mortgage lenders make sure the work gets done. 
Our investigator also said we couldnt look at what the surveyor did, thats outside the scope 
of our service. And he didnt think it was Nationwides fault that costs increased while Mr F 
was trying to resolve concerns about the valuation. 
Our investigator said Nationwide had been flexible, and released £6,000 of the retention in 
October 2022 when Mr F evidenced that part of the work was done. And it then released the 
remaining funds in December 2022, when most of the work was done. 
Our investigator said he wouldnt ask Nationwide to change its processes, and he thought 
the payment of £300 Nationwide had offered was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr F then had a phone conversation with our investigator, in which he strongly disagreed 
with the view reached. Mr F wanted an ombudsman to consider this complaint, so it was 
passed to me for a final decision. Mr F also wanted the ombudsman to listen to the call hed 
had with our investigator, and I can confirm I have done so. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Its clear that Mr F feels very strongly about this complaint. He has been very disappointed, 
and it appears perhaps somewhat offended, by the judgments of the firm that Nationwide 
commissioned in this case to provide a valuation. And he feels that a number of other 
aspects of Nationwides service werent acceptable.
I think, given the valuation of the property has been one of the core concerns in this case, 
that I should start by setting out the limitations of what our service can consider here. We 
can check Nationwide did what wed expect it to do, which is to instruct a firm which holds 
the appropriate professional qualifications. But our service cannot query the opinions and 
judgments of the valuer that Nationwide engaged. That work isnt covered by our service. I can see that Nationwide did instruct an appropriately qualified survey firm. As part of his 
complaint to us, Mr F is adamant that the firm Nationwide instructed is a firm it owns, and 
hes drawn conclusions from this about why the valuation of his property was reached. But I 
havent looked at the conclusions Mr F has drawn from this, because Im satisfied that this 
simply isnt the case. As our investigator has explained, the survey firm Nationwide 
instructed is not owned by Nationwide. 
I would also expect Nationwide to commission an appropriate valuation. Its not clear to me 
whether Nationwide initially asked its valuer to advise on not just the current value of the 
property but also the value after the work that Mr F wanted to do had been completed. But I 
can see from the notes of Nationwides detailed discussion about lending with Mr F and Miss 
M, in March 2022, that Mr F appears to have initially estimated the value of his property as 
much higher than the valuation report then suggested. So I cant see that Nationwide would 
have been aware from the outset that a valuation after completed works would be 
necessary. Nationwide did then request a valuation figure for the property with works 
completed, and this was provided by the firm.
Mr Fs mortgage was then delayed significantly, because Mr F strongly disagreed with the 
valuation given for the property, after the proposed works were completed. Mr F said he 
wanted Nationwide to accept the view of two estate agents who had visited the property  he 
thought they knew the local market and were better placed to advise on value. But an estate 
agent valuing a property for sale is doing a very different job to a valuer providing a value for 
mortgage lending purposes. I wouldnt expect Nationwide to set aside its valuers 
professional opinion on this basis.
As Ive made clear above, the professional opinion of the survey firm Nationwide 
commissioned is not something our service can look into. Nationwide isnt responsible for 
the decisions its valuer makes, and it is entitled to rely on the professional advice it has 
commissioned. 
I can see Nationwide did pass on the challenge Mr F made to the valuation, to the survey 
company for its consideration. I wouldnt expect Nationwide to do more than this. And I can 
see this challenge wasnt successful, as the survey company didnt then change its mind. 
Mr F then appears to have challenged the report again, directly with the survey firm. And in 
this he appears to have been partially successful, because the valuation after works were 
completed did increase from £170,000 to £175,000 in July 2022. I dont think that changed 
valuation means Nationwide was wrong to rely on the earlier advice it was given. 
Mr F then decided to go ahead with the lending, and he said that this was the first time 
Nationwide had mentioned any sort of retention to him. Mr F thought this should have been 
mentioned much earlier. He also said he thought the retention was applied by the survey 
firm, not by Nationwide. And he thought that the survey firm was judging him and Miss M, 
drawing conclusions that they werent actually intending to renovate their home, which he 
said was both inappropriate and wrong. 
I dont think Nationwide had to spell out for Mr F, the details of any potential lending to him, 
before it was clear that this lending would go ahead. And I dont think it was clear before 
mid-July, that Mr F would want to take up the lending Nationwide might offer. I also note that, 
as our investigator said, a retention was based on the current and future valuations of the 
property. As Mr F was challenging the assessment of the propertys value, it wouldnt have 
been clear that a retention was going to be necessary or appropriate, until final figures were 
arrived at, and an offer was actually made to him. So, in short, I dont think Nationwide made 
a mistake by not setting out the retention requirement for Mr F before this point.I also note that, whilst the survey firm can advise Nationwide on the current and future value 
of a property, its role ended there. It was the decision of the lender, Nationwide, as to how 
much to lend Mr F and what conditions to apply to that. 
Mr F also felt the survey firm was implying he didnt intend to do the work, and judging him 
and his partner. I dont think its appropriate for me to comment on the survey firm, for the 
reasons Ive explained. 
But I can set out the general position, which is that unfortunately, its not unheard of for 
borrowers not to complete intended works, for all sorts of reasons. Where the lending then 
exceeds the current value of the property, that can cause difficulties for all parties. So its not 
likely that Nationwide reached any decision on whether Mr F and Miss M were themselves 
intending to complete the work, or not, or that they relied on any individual assessment of 
that from the valuer. I think Nationwide just adopted a standard, precautionary approach, of 
not releasing more funds initially than it might be able to recover if, in the worst case 
scenario, the property had to be sold. Its not unusual for a lender to decide to withhold part 
of the money in these circumstances, and I dont think thats unreasonable 
Mr F said he was given no details at all of the retention until after hed accepted the 
mortgage illustration, and then was only sent a screenshot, which he said was completely 
inappropriate. I can understand if Mr F was expecting a more professional presentation from 
Nationwide at this point, but it appears that Mr Fs mortgage offer was being manually 
processed at this time, in order to allow Nationwide to offer him a rate which was no longer 
available to all its customers. I would anticipate that this did cause a short delay at this point, 
and may also have affected how Mr Fs offer was presented. I dont think Nationwide has to 
pay compensation just because of the way in which its delivered information to Mr F. 
I understand that the decision to apply a retention was particularly difficult for Mr F and Miss 
M, because they told us theyd started the work on their property in June 2022, well in 
advance of any decision by Nationwide to lend. But I dont think its Nationwides fault that Mr 
F and Miss M chose to do that.
I can see that Mr F requested a different valuer to review the property after the work was 
done. Mr F said Nationwide refused, but I can see that Nationwide said it would pass on this 
request to its valuation team, it just didnt know if there would be anyone else who was 
suitably qualified, available in his area. And Im pleased to see that, in light of Mr Fs obvious 
determination to complete the programme of renovations to his home, Nationwide took a 
flexible approach to its retention.
Mr F also said his mortgage application as a whole was delayed because it had to be 
manually processed from the outset. I havent been able to see that this was the cause of 
delays to the initial consideration of Mr Fs mortgage offer, or to the later release of the 
mortgage retention. I think its likely Nationwide was very busy at this time. 
Mr F also referred to repeated mistakes about Miss Ms name. I can see that Nationwide 
acknowledged this mistake and apologised for it. I understand that when Mr F rejected our 
investigators view on this matter, he was firmly of the view that our services website said a 
mistake like this would always result in an award of £300 in compensation, although Mr F 
was then unable to locate this web page. 
I dont think a payment of £300 in this case for a mistake over Miss Ms name would be in 
keeping with the wider decisions of our service. I dont think Nationwide has to do more than 
it has already done here, which is to apologise for this. Mr F said the costs of the work he wanted to complete had risen while he was disputing the 
valuation of his property, and he said he and Miss M had to start work in advance of funds 
being released, because otherwise they simply wouldnt be able to afford the work at all. I 
dont think its Nationwides fault that external costs rose while Mr F was challenging the 
valuers opinion, or that Nationwide is responsible for any decision by Mr F and Miss M to 
start work before their offer was in place. I can see that Nationwide took a flexible approach 
to its retention, and I note that Mr F has praised Nationwide for this. 
Mr F also complained that Nationwide asked repeatedly for written confirmation that an 
outstanding loan managed by a debt management company had been repaid. I think its 
reasonable for Nationwide to wish to be entirely satisfied that this had been repaid, as Mr F 
had initially said, before it went ahead with proposed lending.
In summary, I think the main issue in this case is the mistake Mr F alleges Nationwides 
valuer made over the value of his property. And that, unfortunately, falls outside of what Im 
able to consider. I do think there were times when Nationwides service could have been 
better, but I note that Nationwide hasnt only offered a payment of £300 in compensation 
here. It has also made an offer to Mr F and Miss M based on a rate which was no longer 
available to its customers, although I havent been able to see it was obliged to do so. And it 
did, as Ive noted, take a flexible approach to the release of the retention on this mortgage. 
In light of all of the above, I think the payment Nationwide offered, of £300, does provide a 
fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. For that reason, and although I know that Mr 
F and Miss M will be disappointed, I dont think Nationwide has to do more now than to make 
this payment which it previously offered. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society must pay Mr F and Miss M the amount 
of £300 in compensation which it has previously offered for this complaint, if it has not 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman