DRN-2814980
The complaint
Mr W complains about how Zenith Insurance plc handled and decided a claim made on his 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr W was involved in an accident with another driver at a roundabout and considered 
making a claim on his policy. Zenith held the other driver liable. It sent dashcam footage 
provided by Mr W to the other insurer for comment. It then chased the other insurer for eight 
months. Zenith then reviewed the dashcam footage and decided that Mr W was at fault. But 
it paid Mr W £300 compensation for delays and because it should have told him this when it 
first reviewed the footage. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Zenith 
was entitled to decide how to settle the claim. He thought it had compensated Mr W fairly for 
the delays it caused. He thought it had chased the other insurer reasonably and it wasnt 
responsible for these delays. He thought Zenith had given Mr W the option of repairing his 
car under his policy or at his own cost. 
Mr W replied that he felt unfairly treated by Zenith. Zenith told Mr W that the other driver 
hadnt made a claim and so it had closed its file and recorded the incident as for information 
only with Mr Ws No Claims Discount (NCD) allowed. 
But Mr W remained unhappy. He thought the other driver had overtaken him and then 
stopped suddenly, causing the collision. He thought Zenith hadnt investigated the incident 
fully. He asked for an ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr W feels frustrated that he was held at fault for the accident after 
Zenith had tried for a long time to get the other insurer to accept liability. 
Our investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr W the same as someone else in his position. 
I can see in the policy document that Zenith is entitled under the terms and conditions of its 
policy with Mr W to take over, defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr W has to follow its 
advice in connection with the settlement of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or 
not. This is a common term in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. 
Insurers are entitled to take a commercial decision about whether it is reasonable to contest 
a third party claim or better to compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
before making its decision on liability. 
The evidence that Zenith had to consider was Mr Ws version of events, the road layout and 
the dashcam footage Mr W provided. I can see that Mr W sent in the footage when he 
reported the accident, but it wasnt located by Zenith and he sent it again three months later. 
I can understand that this must have been frustrating for Mr W.
Zenith first held Mr W not at fault. I can see that it pressed the other insurer for an admission 
of liability, but it didnt receive this. Mr W had decided to wait for the admission before 
repairing his car. Zenith explained to Mr W that as it didnt have any outlay to recover, it 
couldnt take the matter to court.  
Mr W then made a complaint to Zenith. In its response, Zenith said it had reviewed the 
footage and circumstances and thought Mr W was at fault. Mr W thought this change of 
stance by Zenith was linked to his raising a complaint and making a subject access request. 
But I dont agree. I cant see any evidence that Zenith changed its decision for this reason. I 
think it reviewed the evidence and decided that a court would hold Mr W at fault on the basis 
of the dashcam footage. It explained its rationale to Mr W. 
I can understand Mr Ws frustration and disappointment, but I think Zenith is entitled to 
decide this by the policy terms and conditions. So I cant say that it acted incorrectly in 
changing its decision.
But Zenith has agreed that it should have requested the footage earlier. And that it should 
have told Mr W that he was at fault when it first reviewed the dashcam footage. 
When a business makes a mistake, as Zenith accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
Zenith has told Mr W that the claim has been closed as for information only, NCD allowed, 
as the other driver didnt make a claim against Mr W. This means that Mr W doesnt have a 
fault claim on his record that he would need to disclose to future insurers. But he must 
disclose that hed been involved in an incident, if this information is asked for. 
Mr W said his premiums had increased over the past two years. There can be many reasons 
for such an increase. But Mr W could ask for his premiums to be rerated based on Zeniths 
letter if he thinks they have been affected by the open claim. 
Zenith also offered Mr W £300 compensation for its delay in requesting the dashcam footage 
and then for not reviewing it correctly. I can see that Mr W has been caused considerable 
upset and stress by this matter. And I think £300 compensation for this is fair and reasonable 
for the impact the errors had as its in keeping with what Id require in similar circumstances. 
I dont require Zenith to increase this offer. But Mr W says he is yet to receive this payment. I 
expect Zenith to honour its offer and ensure the payment is made.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman