DRN-3640693
The complaint
Ms C complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) hasnt refunded the money she 
lost when she fell victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint in part. 
Im persuaded that Ms C fell victim to a scam. Following payments made through 
other banks, she used her Sainsburys credit card to pay $5,000 to a cryptocurrency 
exchange provider. This was made up of two payments: one for £3,087.54 (plus 
fees) and one for £771.88 (plus fees). Its unclear whether this provider is legitimate 
as theres not much information online about them. But, from there, the money 
seems to have been sent on to a company which had an International Organisation 
of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) warning that was already present at the time of 
the transactions. And Ms C has told us that the payments were made by allowing an 
individual to access her account using AnyDesk. So, all of this together persuades 
me that these payments were ultimately sent on to a fraudster.
While Ms C didnt make the payments herself, its clear she was aware they were 
being made. And she confirmed later that shed authorised the payments. So, Im 
confident she authorised the payments by way of apparent authority. The starting 
position is that Ms C would be liable for the payments she authorised. And 
Sainsburys has a duty to execute payment instructions without undue delay.
But there are some situations where we believe that banks  taking into account 
relevant rules, codes and best practice  ought to have identified a fraud risk, so 
should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before 
making the payment. If Sainsburys failed to do so, and that failure led to a fraudulent 
loss, it might be fair to hold it liable.
In this case, Sainsburys recognised that these payments were suspicious. It said 
that this was because the account had become active after a period of inactivity, not 
because the transactions themselves were suspicious or because it had any 
concerns about the merchant. Because of this, it said the payments were processed 
but it wanted to verify the activity was genuine. So, it applied a block to the account 
following these payments and said future transactions would be blocked until it 
confirmed the activity was genuine. 
Im not persuaded that Sainsburys went far enough here, given it had identified a 
potential fraud risk with these payments. It deemed them suspicious enough to block 
the account after the payments. But this doesnt feel like a proportionate response, 
especially when I factor in that the payments were clearly being made on a credit 
card to pay for cryptocurrency. As they had identified the payments as suspicious, I 
dont think a text message to confirm Ms C had authorised the payments and the 
blocking of the account following the payments was a proportionate check for 
payments totalling almost £4,000. Its not clear what it would have done if Ms C had 
said the payments were, in fact, not her. And the failure to carry out a proportionate 
check did indeed lead to a fraudulent loss here. 
Had Sainsburys intervened before processing these payments, I think its likely the 
scam would have been unravelled. Here, there were the clear hallmarks of a scam: 
the use of AnyDesk; a well-known public figure supposedly endorsing the investment; 
and a principal scam company with an IOSCO warning. I feel confident that Ms C 
would have been honest as the next payment she tried to make  of $2,000 with 
another bank  was stopped. And, as a result of this and its intervention, Ms C 
realised shed been the victim of a scam.
Sainsburys didnt raise a chargeback as it said it had no evidence the merchant 
hadnt provided the goods or services as described. So it doesnt appear that any of 
the funds were recovered. 
Ive also considered whether Ms C should be held partly responsible for her loss. And 
I think she should be. It doesnt appear she carried out sufficient, or potentially any, 
research. But, while there was an IOSCO warning about the principal scam 
company, Sainsburys has said it was unable to locate this, even once aware of its 
existence. So, had Ms C carried out appropriate research, its possible that she also 
wouldnt have located this adverse information, considering Sainsburys greater 
experience and knowledge of this type of portal.  
That being said, I think Ms C should reasonably have asked more questions of the 
scammer when being asked to pay $5,000 as Im not satisfied the reason she was 
given  a need to pay quickly as the trade was dropping in value  made sense. I 
understand that the scammer manipulated her and created a sense of panic, but I 
feel there was more she could reasonably have done. I therefore consider a 
reduction of 20% of her total refund is fair in these circumstances  and Ms C has 
agreed to this within informal communication prior to this decision.
Sainsburys doesnt feel that a deduction of just 20% is fair. This is partially for 
reasons Ive already addressed above  a failure to research the company  but it 
has referenced Ms C making high risk investments she has no experience of, which 
had no guaranteed returns, as well as allowing access to her device through 
AnyDesk. But, while at the centre of many scams, people have also made large 
profits as a result of cryptocurrency investments. Its clear she fell victim to a 
sophisticated scam, and I think it would be fair to say she was overly trusting. But I 
dont consider this to mean she should be held equally responsible. I maintain that 
the bank failed to meet its obligations. It didnt appropriately intervene and, in this 
case, I think it should be held responsible for the majority of the loss.
I note that Sainsburys offered £100 in compensation, with £50 of this being for the 
delays involved. As Sainsburys offered this as compensation, seemingly for service-
related matters, and its already been paid, I see no reason to make a finding on this 
aspect.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint against Sainsburys Bank Plc. I direct it 
to:
- Refund Ms C 80% of the scam payment (as well as associated fees, interest, and 
charges); and
- Pay Ms C 8% simple interest per year on this amount for any time in which Ms C 
would have been in credit on her account had it not been for the scam.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2023.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman