DRN-2721903
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly-premium mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy taken out in late 1997. Mr and Mrs H say HSBC UK Bank Plc, (trading as Midland), 
mis-sold them the PPI. 
I would point out that that this decision does not include any consideration of the complaints 
which Mr and Mrs H have made relating to some claims which they tried to make under the 
policy. 
What happened
HSBC sold Mr and Mrs H the PPI during a meeting in 1997 when they agreed to take out a 
mortgage to help purchase their home. The insurance and mortgage both commenced in the 
first half of 1998. 
Our adjudicator didnt think that the PPI had been mis-sold. As Mr and Mrs H disagreed, the 
matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr and Mrs H say that HSBC led them to believe that the PPI was compulsory. However, 
I think HSBC made it clear that Mr and Mrs H didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. Because of the time that has passed, I can understand why they 
dont remember the detail of this. Ive come to this conclusion because Ive seen the 
record of the face-to-face discussion HSBCs representative had with Mr and Mrs H 
about their mortgage and insurance requirements. This says that, among other 
insurance requirements, Mr and Mrs H needed short-term income protection. It says that 
Mr H had one months sick pay and wanted mortgage repayment protection and that the 
representative recommended HSBCs PPI. 
Ive also seen the follow up letter from HSBC to Mr and Mrs H setting out the insurance 
recommendations made during the meeting and saying that the relevant applications, 
including for PPI, had been made.
From the meeting record I can see that the representative noted that life cover was a 
requirement for the mortgage. And that he recommended a policy to cover both death 
benefit and critical illness. But nowhere can I see on this record, the follow-up letter or 
anything else weve been sent, that Mr and Mrs H were told that they had to have PPI.
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H, so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. I say this because:
oMr H was eligible for the policy;
oAlthough the mortgage was in Mr and Mrs Hs joint names, the policy only 
covered Mr H. As Mrs H wasnt working at the time of the sale she wasnt eligible 
for the insurance. She was however in receipt of certain allowances, but these 
were about to come to an end when she married Mr H. So, I dont find the fact 
that only Mr H was covered made the policy unsuitable for them;
oMr H wasnt adversely affected by any of the PPIs main limitations and 
restrictions  such as those affecting someone with a pre-existing medical 
condition;
oMr H may have been entitled to some sick pay for a short period from his 
employment, had he been unable to work. He also had an insurance policy which 
was about to mature, the proceeds of which were intended to be used on his and 
Mrs Hs house. They also had some shares and savings, some of which they said 
were intended to assist with the purchase of their home. However, following a 
successful claim, the PPI however would have paid out £250 a month for up to 12 
months had Mr H been made involuntarily redundant or off work because of 
accident or sickness. These payments would have been in addition to any other 
funds Mr and Mrs H may have had left after using some in connection with their 
home, leaving those available to help with their other expenses while Mr H had 
no income. So, I find that the policy could have been of use to them.
oAfter the first six months, when the policy was free, the PPI initially cost about 
£15 a month and was competitively priced by reference to other similar policies 
available in the market at the time. And I havent seen anything to suggest that 
the premiums were unaffordable for them. In any event, had they later felt that 
the couldnt afford the premiums, or no longer wanted the policy, Mr and Mrs H 
could have cancelled it at any time without further cost;
The meeting record and follow up letter set out the premiums and monthly benefit 
payable under the PPI. However its possible that the other information HSBC gave 
Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as complete or clear as it should have been. But 
they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And it seems 
like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them 
off taking out the cover. I say this particularly bearing in mind the serious 
consequences that could have arisen had they not been able to meet their monthly 
mortgage payments which were secured on their home.
From this I conclude that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. This means HSBC doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs H has said - including that they would have had 
financial assistance from their family if they were in need. As we explain on our website, we 
dont usually take this into account because circumstances change  and such assistance isnt guaranteed. Theres nothing Ive found in Mr and Mrs Hs case to make me think its 
reasonable to deviate from this approach here. 
Mr and Mrs H have pointed out that, despite financial difficulties during the term of their 
mortgage, they have never missed any payments. But this doesnt mean that at the time 
they took out the policy they couldnt foresee that circumstances might have arisen when 
they couldnt keep up the payments. 
Ive also seen that Mr and Mrs H have complained about the time and manner in which 
HSBC dealt with their complaint. I can see that there was some initial confusion about the 
names on the mortgage and policy and how they could go about making their complaint as 
well as delays in getting responses to correspondence. So, although I can see that these 
difficulties understandably caused Mr and Mrs H frustration and annoyance, with which I 
sympathise, I dont consider HSBCs handling of this complaint of such a nature to require 
me to make an award against it. Ive reached this conclusion particularly taking into account 
that the complaint was made and investigated at a time when HSBC, in common with other 
financial business, was experiencing a much higher than normal number of enquiries 
because of the cut-off period imposed for PPI complaints and when it had to make changes 
to its working practices as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Although Ive decided that HSBC didnt mis-sell the PPI, it has paid back some of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr and Mrs H because: 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because HSBC didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman