DRN-4246332
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy with several aspects of the service shes received from Starling Bank 
Limited.
What happened
Miss H opened an account with Starling and made a complaint shortly afterwards as she 
was unhappy with the music Starling played on their phone lines while calls were on hold. 
Miss H was also unhappy that Starling dont offer cheque books and that they dont put sort-
codes on debit cards.
Starling responded to Miss H and explained that they were sorry she didnt like their choice 
of hold music but that they had no plans to change it. Starling also explained that they had 
made the commercial decisions to not offer cheque books or put sort-codes on their debit 
cards, and that they had no plans to change these things either. Miss H wasnt satisfied with 
Starlings response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that Starling were entitled to 
make the decisions they had about the things which Miss H wasnt happy about. Miss H 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
Miss H made several further points of complaint, beyond the three described in the 
preceding section, when she submitted her complaint to Starling. However, when Miss H 
referred her complaint to this service, she only referred the three points issues described 
above. As such, Ive only considered the three points of complaint Miss H has explained to 
this service she remains unhappy with. And I havent considered the other points of 
complaint which Miss H didnt refer to this service, given that it would be expected that she 
would have referred these other points to this service if she remained unhappy about them.
Miss H is unhappy with Starlings choice of hold music, and she wants Starling to change the 
music they play to callers while they are on hold. Miss H is also unhappy that Starling dont 
offer cheque books, and she wants Starling to offer cheque books to account holders. 
Finally, Miss H is unhappy that Starling dont print sort-codes on their debit cards, and she 
wants Starling to print sort-codes on their debit cards.
However, Im satisfied that all three of these issues  the choice of hold music, the choice to 
not provide cheque books, and the choice to not print sort-codes on debit cards  are 
commercial decisions which Starling are fairly and reasonably entitled to make.
Miss H might not like the choices that Starling have made in these regards. But it doesnt 
follow from this that Starling have done anything wrong or acted unfairly by making these 
choices. And it isnt for Miss H, or anyone else, to tell Starling how they should operate in 
these regards. Rather, as explained, those choices are for Starling itself to make.
All of which means that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Starling to take any 
further action here. This is because, ultimately, if Miss H isnt happy about the operational 
choices that Starling have made, as described above, Im satisfied that Starling shouldnt be 
fairly or reasonably compelled to make any changes to how they operate in these regards 
because of Miss Hs displeasure.
I realise this wont be the outcome Miss H was wanting. But I trust that shell understand, 
given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman