DRN-3389426
The complaint
The estate of Mr R (deceased) complain that HSBC UK Bank plc didnt stop his account as 
soon as it was informed of Mr Rs death. The estate of Mr R (deceased) also complain about 
poor service provided by HSBC UK Bank plc.
The estate of Mr R is represented by his daughter, Miss R, as next of kin.
What happened
Mr R had a current account with HSBC. Sadly, Mr R died in July 2019 whilst he was 
abroad. Miss R says she contacted HSBC on the day after Mr R passed away and 
informed it about what had happened. She says she was told to attend a branch of HSBC 
in person with the death certificate. She and her mother did this in August 2019. She 
enquired if there was any insurance with the account. She was told there was not. She told 
HSBC she would be the point of contact and her mother confirmed the position.
Miss R says she was given one months statement of the current account. She says she 
noticed thered been withdrawals from the account after the date of death. And she noticed 
there was a direct debit from the account each month for Insurance Aspects. She asked 
HSBC about this. It told her there was no insurance. It subsequently told her there was 
travel insurance. By this stage she says it was too late to make arrangements for her 
fathers body to be returned to the UK and the family had to arrange for his body to be 
cremated abroad.
She complained to HSBC.
HSBC investigated her complaint. It said it was unable to locate any calls from her on the 
day after her father had passed away. So, the account had not been inhibited until the date 
when it had received the death certificate. HSBC said it couldnt refund any moneys paid 
out using the card for the account, after the date of death, as the PIN must have been 
compromised.
HSBC initially said that the travel insurance on the account had been cancelled in November 
2014. It offered £50 for the poor service. When Miss R queried the travel insurance, HSBC 
subsequently accepted it had given her wrong information. It was Mr Rs life insurance that 
had been discontinued in 2014. There was still travel insurance with his account. It referred 
her to the travel insurance provider. It increased its offer of compensation to £200.
Miss R wasnt satisfied. She complained to our service.
Miss R provided evidence to our service that her father had died without making a will 
and this was a small estate. Her mother, as next of kin, had consented to Miss R 
bringing this complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. He said HSBC couldnt trace the call
Miss R had made to it on the day after her father passed away. He said it was likely that 
HSBC had provided only generic information to Miss R during that phone call. He said 
HSBC had made mistakes but our service couldnt require HSBC to compensate Miss R for 
trouble and upset shed experienced. That was because she brought the complaint in her 
capacity as a representative of the late Mr R.
Miss R didnt agree. So, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
At the outset, I want to express my sincere condolences to Miss R and her 
family following the death of her father. I can see that this has been a very 
sad and distressing time for her family. I am sorry for their loss.
Miss Rs late father had a current account with HSBC. The account was a 
packaged bank account which included a travel insurance policy.
Miss R says her late fathers estate shouldve been able to use the balance 
in his account at the date of death to help pay for his funeral. And, she says, 
if HSBC had given her correct information about the travel insurance held 
with her late fathers account, she wouldve been able to engage an 
international funeral director to repatriate his body to the UK for burial.
Stopping the account
Miss R says that if the account had been stopped on the date she reported 
her fathers death there wouldve been a credit balance. HSBC hadnt 
stopped the account until several days later  and by that stage there was 
a debit balance on the account.
Miss R has produced evidence which supports what shes told us about 
calling HSBC on the day after her father died. HSBC hasnt been able to 
provide a copy of the call recording for that call  but Im satisfied on 
balance that a call was made. Im also satisfied on balance that the purpose 
of that call was to report the death and ask for directions about what was 
required.
I cant be certain what was said during the call. As Ive mentioned above, 
HSBC hasnt been able to provide a call recording for the call. It says it 
doesnt retain call recordings indefinitely and if there had been any call 
recording, its been deleted in line with its data retention policy. Ive also 
noted that HSBC didnt make any notes about the call on the late Mr Rs 
customer records.
Ive looked at all the information I have, to decide whats likely to have 
been discussed during the telephone call.
Miss R says she provided HSBC with details about her late father  name, 
address and date of birth. She says she also knew the branch where the 
account was held but she didnt have the account number. I think that may 
explain, in part, why theres no notes about the call on the late Mr Rs 
customer records.Ive then looked at the information HSBC provides online about what to do 
when someone dies. The first step is to register the death and get a copy of 
the death certificate. That is the evidence HSBC needs to support any 
notification of a death. It is only after it receives that important document it 
takes steps to freeze the account and stop any withdrawals. I can 
understand why HSBC asks for a death certificate as evidence of the death. 
It is fair and reasonable for it to seek to verify all of the information about the 
death of its customer before it stops the account.
I think, on balance, its likely that this is what Miss R wouldve been told 
during the telephone conversation on the day after her father had passed 
away. And, for that reason, Im not persuaded HSBC did anything wrong 
when it didnt immediately stop the account on that date and instead told 
Miss R she needed to provide a copy of the death certificate.
Miss R says she was told she and her mother had to attend the branch of 
HSBC, where the late Mr R had held his account, in person. She says this 
caused additional expense and she says that, having subsequently checked 
with HSBC, shes been told it wasnt necessary.
I dont have a copy of the call recording where Miss R says she was given 
this information. And, whilst I dont doubt her recollection of what she 
believes HSBC told her, Ive no evidence to support what shes said. As she 
mentions, the website sets out the various ways that the death can be 
notified to HSBC. So, on balance, I dont think HSBC wouldve told her she 
had to travel to a branch which was far from her home to formally notify it of 
her late fathers death. If it had done that, I think she couldve challenged it 
at the time and explained how inconvenient that was going to be. She didnt 
do that. So, Ive provisionally decided that its not fair or reasonable to 
require HSBC to reimburse her for the travel costs she says she incurred.
Miss R says she emailed HSBC with a copy of the death certificate on 9 
August 2019 when Miss R and her mother attended one of its branches. I 
can see HSBC did freeze the account on that date. It agreed to do that even 
though the original death certificate hadnt been received as yet. But, by 9 
August 2019 the account was already overdrawn  so there wouldnt have 
been any funds available to the estate for payment of the funeral bill.
Having thought about what Miss R told us concerning HSBC not stopping 
the account on the date she first contacted it, Im currently not persuaded, 
on balance, it acted unfairly or unreasonably when it asked her to provide 
the death certificate and only stopped the account after it received a copy of 
that document.
HSBC has also explained why its holding the estate liable for the payments 
that were made prior to the account being stopped. It says the reason is 
because of how the payments were made. And, I think its explanation is a 
reasonable one in the circumstances here.
The travel insurance policy
Miss R has also raised concerns about the information she was given 
about the travel insurance which was provided with the account. It is the 
case that HSBC gave her incorrect information about the travel insurance. 
It told her there was no insurance. It wasnt until 2 September 2019 that it gave her the correct information that there was travel insurance. By that 
date, she says it was too late to make arrangements with an international 
funeral director to have her late fathers body repatriated to the UK.
Ive looked at the wording on the travel insurance policy, available online. I 
can see that one of the benefits of the policy is that, in certain 
circumstances, the insurer will cover the costs of burial/cremation outside 
the UK or repatriation of the remains to the UK. The policy sets out the 
amount of cover and the excess. However, the policy also includes the 
following wording:
We will insure you providing
The journey is a round trip beginning and ending in the UK
You have booked your return journey before travelling outside the 
UK.
When our service asked Miss R about her late fathers trip abroad, she told 
us he had travelled on an open ticket. We asked her to clarify what shed 
told us. She hasnt been able to provide any further evidence to show that 
her late father had booked a return journey before he left the UK. She told 
us shes been trying to get copies of his bank statements to look into this 
further. She hasnt been able to get those copy statements yet. But, even if 
she was able to provide copy bank statements to us, I dont think that would 
confirm what type of ticket her late father had booked before he travelled.
So, having considered everything, I currently dont think that, even if shed 
been given correct information about the travel insurance policy when she 
first informed HSBC about the death, it wouldve changed the position here. 
And, although I know it will disappoint Miss R, my current view is that any 
claim under the travel insurance policy wouldnt have resulted in her being 
able to arrange for an international funeral director to repatriate her fathers 
remains to the UK.
Poor Service
HSBC has acknowledged that it didnt give Miss R correct information about 
the travel policy when she contacted it. And, it accepted that it had 
contacted her mother, even though her mother had told it that Miss R was 
looking after matters.
It is important that a bank should take the necessary care to give families, 
especially at a time of grief, accurate information so that they are able to 
make informed decisions. And a bank should also take care to follow 
instructions about who it should contact. HSBC has acknowledged it made 
mistakes here.
It is the case that when considering complaints our service can only award 
compensation to an eligible complainant. That is defined in the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook in the DISP rules. These say that the 
eligible complainant here is the estate of Mr R. So, I can look at any 
financial loss the estate of Mr R has experienced as a result of what 
happened. I cannot award any compensation for any loss, distress or 
inconvenience the personal representatives of his estate have experienced 
as a result of what happened.HSBC has offered to pay the personal representatives of the late Mr R 
£200, by way of compensation for the poor service it provided. It is a matter 
for the personal representatives to decide whether they wish to accept that 
offer. Whilst, I would expect HSBC to honour the offer its already made, I 
cannot require it to increase that offer.
Having considered everything here, my provisional decision is that I do not 
require HSBC to have to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, my provisional decision is that I do not intend to 
uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank plc.
Miss R responded to my provisional decision. She made the following comments:
She wouldnt willingly have travelled over 400 miles to visit a branch of HSBC to 
inform it about her fathers death if she hadnt been told to do that by HSBC;
HSBC had the opportunity, at the time she made her original complaint, to look for 
the telephone call she made to it in July 2019;
HSBC withheld the information about the travel insurance at the time;
Even though her late father had travelled on an open ticket, he wouldve had to pay 
for the return journey;
She understood that there had to be procedures not to stop someones account 
without good reason but she didnt think HSBC acted fairly when it said she had to 
provide the death certificate before it would stop the account;
Money was taken out of her fathers account illegally after he died. There were no 
relatives with him at the time that he died; and
HSBC had still taken the Insurance Aspects fee out of the account even after shed 
provided evidence of her fathers death.
In response to the provisional decision HSBC said it would honour its offer to pay the 
personal representatives £200. 
So, I now have to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about everything that Miss R told us in response to my provisional decision. But, 
having done so, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and in this decision, I 
havent changed my view about how this complaint should be resolved. Ill explain why.
Stopping the account
Miss R acknowledges that HSBC couldnt simply stop her late fathers account because she 
asked it to. But, she thinks it shouldve been able to act on what she told it when she phoned 
it the day after her father passed away.
In my provisional decision, I said that HSBCs procedures required the death certificate to be 
produced as evidence of death. On 9 August when Miss R and her mother visited a branch 
of HSBC she wasnt able to provide the original death certificate. She didnt receive that until 
21 August 2019. But she was able to provide HSBC with an email attaching an image of the 
death certificate. HSBC did accept that as being sufficient to enable it to stop the account. 
So, I remain of the view that it acted fairly and reasonably when, in line with its procedures, it asked for evidence of Mr Rs death before stopping the account. And, it didnt insist that the 
original death certificate was produced before stopping the account. It accepted an image 
provided by email. I think that was fair and reasonable.
Miss R is adamant that HSBC told her during the phone call in July 2019 that she and her 
mother had to visit the branch of the bank where her fathers account was domiciled. She 
says this meant they had to make a journey of over 400 miles  with all the associated 
expense and inconvenience. 
HSBC hasnt been able to provide a recording of the phone call. In her response to the 
provisional decision Miss R says that if it had checked at the time she first complained, it 
might have been able to find the call. Having looked at the letters dated 28 August 2019 
addressed to Miss Rs mother and the letter dated 2 September 2019 addressed to Miss R I 
can see that HSBC said on both occasions it couldnt find any calls logged on 29 July 2019. 
So, Im persuaded it did carry out checks at the time to try to find the call, but those checks 
were unsuccessful.
On balance, I was satisfied Miss R had called HSBC on 29 July 2019. I cant be certain what 
was said during that call. But, as I said in my provisional decision, I think Miss R couldve 
challenged what she says HSBC told her about having to travel 400 miles to visit a branch. I 
think it wouldve been reasonable to expect her to have done that. So, I remain of the view 
that its not fair or reasonable to require HSBC to reimburse her costs for the journey she 
says she had to make.
When she spoke to us about the provisional decision Miss R said that even after 9 August 
2019 when HSBC said it had stopped the account, it had taken two further payments from 
the account for Insurance Aspects fees. A fee was debited on 23 August 2019 and another 
fee was debited on 23 September 2019. I asked HSBC to comment on this. It said these 
fees were debited in arrears. So, the fee debited on 23 August related to the charging period 
from 2 July 2019 to 1 August 2019 and the fee debited on 23 September was for the 
charging period from 2 August 2019 to 1 September 2019. Because part of this charging 
period fell before 9 August 2019, the fee was still chargeable.
Having considered the response from HSBC I dont think it did anything wrong when it 
applied these two fees to the account.
Miss R also commented about the cash withdrawals made from the account after the date 
of her fathers death. In my provisional decision I said HSBC had explained why it was 
holding the estate liable for these payments. It told us the reason was because of how the 
payments were made. Miss R hasnt provided us with any new evidence or information 
that would cause me to change my view that HSBCs explanation here is a reasonable one 
in the circumstances.
 
The travel insurance policy
Since making my provisional decision, Ive looked again at the policy wording. I can see that 
the wording of the policy does change from time to time. So, I checked what the policy 
wording was in 2019 when Mr R passed away. It said:
In respect of each trip taken during the period of insurance, we will provide the cover 
set out in this policy document provided:
5. you have booked your return journey before leaving the UK, or if you have an open 
ticket, you have confirmed your return date with the airline.So, although Ive noted that the wording in 2019 was slightly different to what it was 
subsequently changed to, there was no difference in the requirement. 
Mr R had an open ticket. I havent seen any evidence to show hed booked a return journey 
or confirmed his return date with the airline. Whilst I can understand what Miss R says about 
the difficulty she would have trying to provide this evidence, Im not persuaded, on balance, 
it would be fair or reasonable to conclude that a return journey had been booked or that a 
return date had been confirmed with the airline. In these circumstances Im not satisfied a 
claim couldve been made under the policy. So, I havent changed my view about this part of 
her complaint.
Poor service
As I said in my provisional decision, I can look at any financial loss the estate of Mr R 
experienced as a result of what happened. I cannot award any compensation for any loss, 
distress or inconvenience the personal representatives of his estate have experienced as 
a result of what happened.
HSBC has told us it will honour the offer its already made to pay the personal 
representatives £200 for distress and inconvenience. So, I expect it to do that. But, as I 
explained in my provisional decision, I cannot require it to increase that offer.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman