DRN-4004105
The complaint
Mr J complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited settled another drivers claim on 
his motor insurance policy following a collision. 
What happened
Mr J was involved in a collision with another driver on a roundabout and he made a claim on 
his policy. Admiral eventually paid the other drivers claim on a without prejudice basis. But 
Mr J was unhappy with this. He thought Admiral had made its decision without fully 
investigating the incident and considering his version of events. He thought Admiral hadnt 
kept him updated and delayed obtaining CCTV evidence from the police. 
Admiral agreed it should have been more proactive in updating Mr J. It paid him £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Admiral 
was entitled by the policys terms and conditions to settle a claim as it saw fit. He thought it 
hadnt admitted liability. He thought the police had refused to share the CCTV footage due to 
an ongoing investigation. He thought Admirals compensation payment was fair and 
reasonable for the upset it had caused. 
Mr J replied asking for an Ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a final 
decision. He thought Admiral was responsible for more of the distress caused. He thought 
Admirals staff were rude and disinterested in his version of events. He said Admiral had 
sent him a letter shortly after the incident saying he was at fault, but it then said this was an 
error. He thought Admiral had wrongly settled the other drivers claim for personal injury. He 
said Admirals ill-treatment had affected his health. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr J feels frustrated and upset by Admirals decision. And I can see 
that hes unhappy with how it handled the claim. He said this has caused him many 
sleepless nights. 
Mr J said he had approached a roundabout in the right hand lane intending to go straight 
ahead. He said the other driver was in the left hand lane and then moved into his lane, side 
swiping his car. Mr J said the other driver hadnt indicated their intentions. 
The Investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr J the same as someone else in his position. 
Admiral is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr J to take over, defend, 
or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr J has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement 
of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies, and I do not find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making its decision. 
The evidence that Admiral had to consider was the two drivers versions of events and 
images provided by Mr J. There were no independent witnesses. It asked the other drivers 
insurer for its comments on the damage to the cars.
I can see that Admiral considered the evidence it had and thought the best possible outcome 
would be a split liability settlement, but Mr J was unhappy with this. Admiral then asked its 
engineer to consider the damage to the two cars and he thought the other drivers version of 
events was more likely to be true. 
Mr J said the police told him they had CCTV footage which showed that he was at fault. I 
can see that Admiral asked the police for this, but it wasnt provided. Admiral said it should 
have waited to get the CCTV footage from the police before asking for its engineers view. 
But it warned Mr J that without the CCTV footage it would accept the engineers view. 
Admiral sought the police report again without success. It was at risk of being taken to court 
by the other insurer. So it decided to settle the other drivers claim for repairs on a without 
prejudice basis. Admiral told Mr J that it hadnt settled a personal injury claim as none had 
been made.
Mr J wanted to take the matter to court. But Admiral is entitled by the policys terms and 
conditions to take a view of this based on the likely outcome. And it thought it wouldnt be 
able to successfully defend Mr J in court because the damage to the cars supported the 
other drivers account that they were already established on the roundabout when Mr J 
entered it. 
So I think Admiral reasonably investigated the claim as far as it was able to, and it 
considered the evidence available before making its decision to pay the other drivers costs. 
I think its entitled to do this by the policys terms and conditions. And so I cant say that it did 
anything wrong in this. 
Mr J has told us about the distress this matter has caused him. But I havent seen anything 
in Admirals file to show that it was disinterested or rude to him or that it caused him further 
upset. From what I can see, Admiral noted Mr Js concerns and accounts in detail and 
responded with action plans to take them forward. 
Admiral agreed it should have been more proactive in communicating with Mr J. It said it had 
sent him an early letter in error. And it paid him £100 compensation for this. I think thats fair 
and reasonable as its in keeping with our published guidance for the level of impact this 
caused. So I dont require Admiral to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman