DRN-3744631
The complaint
Miss R complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) irresponsibly 
gave her a running account credit facility that she couldnt afford.
What happened
In August 2017, Miss R applied for a catalogue shopping accounts through Shop Direct. 
She was given an initial credit limit of £600. The credit limit was decreased to £150 in 
October 2017, then raised to £650 in February 2018. The credit limit was raised twice 
more, to £1,150 in September 2018 and to £1,650 on 6 July 2019. Miss R appears not to 
have been in the habit of spending up close to the credit limit. 
In 2022, Miss R complained to Shop Direct to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for her because it wasnt affordable.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Miss R didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shop Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Miss Rs complaint is that Shop Direct irresponsibly gave her a running account credit 
facility that she couldnt afford.
Shop Direct has explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit agency to 
determine the amount of credit it was able to offer at every lending decision. Shop Direct 
told us that Miss Rs account was assessed on a monthly basis from the credit check 
information and the credit limit was set using that information and their observation of Miss 
Rs management of the account. 
Were Shop Directs credit checks sufficient? 
I think that they may have been, largely. But even if they hadnt been, I dont think better 
enquiries would have caused Shop Direct to think the initial credit limit or the subsequent 
credit increases were unaffordable. 
I say this because the credit was provided when there was no recent adverse information on 
Miss Rs credit file. The initial credit limit was reasonably modest and the repayments for the 
credit would also have been modest. And Miss Rs statements show that her income was 
regular and not modest. 
Miss R managed her account such that she was not using anywhere close to the credit limit 
that Shop Direct had been offering her. And Miss Rs credit history prior to the credit 
increases was largely clean. In saying that I have noted that whilst Miss Rs credit file shows 
that there were historic defaults in Miss Rs past (October 2016), those were not sufficient, 
in my mind, to have put off Shop Direct from providing more credit to Miss R. 
So, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that more thorough affordability checks would 
have led Shop Direct to think that it should not have provided the credit it did to Miss R. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman