DRN-3711171
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Phoenix Life Limited delaying in paying out on a matured policy.
What happened
Mr Ks policy matured in April 2021 and on 21 September 2021 he asked Phoenix Life to 
email him the required paperwork for requesting payment. Mr K gave the correct email 
address but Phoenix Life recorded it incorrectly meaning that Mr K did not receive the emails 
it sent.
In addition Mr K had asked for his address to be updated in 2019 as he was living in 
America. Phoenix Life didnt amend the address as it hadnt received a signature. It wrote to 
Mr K twice, but he says he didnt receive those letters. However, Phoenix Life says it could 
have amended the address when Mr K called in September 2021 but didnt do so. Instead, it 
sent out a further request. 
Phoenix Life apologised for the poor service Mr K had received and offered a total of £250 in 
compensation, to include the costs of calls and postage.
Our investigator thought the offer was fair and didnt recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. Mr K appealed. He said that he felt Phoenix Life were purposefully trying to avoid 
paying out, which caused him extreme stress. He felt that the offer of compensation was 
inadequate for the time and stress he had been caused.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts of this matter are not in dispute, so I have not repeated them in detail here. 
Phoenix Life has admitted that the service it provided was less than Mr K could expect and 
have offered compensation. This issue for me to determine is whether the compensation is 
adequate for the distress and inconvenience Mr K was caused.
Firstly I should say it is not the function of this service to regulate financial businesses. For 
this reason we cannot punish businesses  rather we will look to put a consumer in the 
position they would have been in had the error or omission not happened. Of course, putting 
a financial figure on stress is never easy.
I have carefully taken into account what Mr K has said about his health and I fully accept that 
this matter has caused him upset, distress and inconvenience. I dont find that there was a 
deliberate intent on the part of Phoenix Life to avoid paying Mr K but I do accept what he has 
said about the stress caused to him in trying to rectify the matter.
It is unfortunate that Mr K didnt receive the correctly addressed letters sent to him to sign, 
but I dont find this was the fault of Phoenix. Nevertheless it should have entered the correct 
email address when it was given, and certainly should have corrected it at the first 
opportunity. This would have saved time and inconvenience to Mr K. He made several calls 
in order to rectify the matter. Im pleased to note that interest was paid on the late claim 
payment, so that Mr K was not financially disadvantaged in that regard.
Im satisfied that compensation is due to Mr K for the poor service received, but I find that 
the sum of £250 offered is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
Phoenix Life Limited has already made an offer to pay £250 to settle the complaint and I find 
that this offer is fair in all the circumstances. My final decision is that Phoenix Life Limited 
should pay Mr K £250, less any sum in compensation offered for this matter that has already 
been paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman