DRN-4032233
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy with the service received from Aviva Insurance Limited when seeking 
assistance under a travel insurance policy she and her late husband, who Ill call Mr L, had 
the benefit of. 
All references to Aviva include its medical assistance company. And although Mrs R is being 
represented in this complaint, for ease, Ive referred to the submissions made on her behalf 
as her own. 
What happened
Mrs R has the benefit of a travel insurance policy as part of a bank account (the policy). The 
policy is underwritten by Aviva. She and Mr L travelled abroad and whilst away, in May 2022, 
Mr L became very ill and needed to be hospitalised. Their daughter contacted Aviva for 
assistance. Very sadly, a week later, Mr L died.
Mrs R is very unhappy with the overall support received from Aviva since contacting it for 
assistance and the way in which it handled the claim.
Mrs R says Aviva unreasonably delayed verifying the claim. Although, Aviva did end up 
covering various expenses including the medical costs whilst abroad, Mr Ls repatriation and 
Mrs Rs travel costs home, this decision wasnt taken until August 2022  around three 
months after Mr Ls death. Mr L and Mrs Rs family ended up arranging and paying for Mr Ls 
body to be repatriated to the UK  and for Mrs Rs travel back to the UK  in June 2022.
Mrs R is also unhappy that Aviva didnt keep her, and her family updated about Mr Ls 
condition in hospital. She wasnt receiving much information from the hospital, and she says 
her daughter had to proactively contact Aviva for updates. Shes also unhappy with the 
overall service received, including that her daughter was told during one phone call that 
Mr Ls condition was stable, although hed died. 
In its final response to Mrs Rs complaint, Aviva accepted that it couldnt provide more 
meaningful updates to Mr L and Mrs Rs daughter when she called because it was awaiting 
information from the treating hospital, via its agents. However, it accepted, on occasion, 
there were some communications failings. For example, it was agreed that a case manager 
would contact her back, but they then failed to do so. In recognition of this, Aviva offered 
£150 compensation  which was declined.
Unhappy with Avivas response, Mrs S referred a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt recommend Aviva to do anything 
more. Mrs R disagreed so this complaint has been passed to me to consider everything 
afresh and decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset I acknowledge that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than Mrs R 
has, and in my own words. And Im not going to respond to every single point made. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues 
here. The rules that govern our service allow me to do this as we are an informal dispute 
resolution service. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive overlooked it. 
I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able to reach 
what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome here.
I would also like to pass on my sincere condolences to Mrs R and her family during an 
incredibly upsetting time.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers. It also says they should handle insurance claims 
promptly and fairly - and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Aviva accept that there were times when its communications couldve been better, and 
Mr L and Mrs Rs daughter wasnt called back when she ought to have been. Its offered 
£150 compensation in recognition of this.
I know Mr L and Mrs Rs daughter was proactively contacting Aviva whilst Mr L was in 
hospital for updates and shes unhappy with the overall service she received. However, she 
isnt a beneficiary under the policy and so isnt an eligible complainant in respect of the 
complaint Ive been asked to decide. So, I dont have any power to direct Aviva to pay her 
any compensation for distress and inconvenience shes personally experienced because of 
what Aviva reasonably ought to have done better.
I know Mrs R will be very disappointed but apart from the service failures Aviva already 
identified in its final response, and an unreasonable delay of two weeks in July 2022 - which 
Ill go on explain - Im satisfied that Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably in the way in which 
it handled the claim on the policy and the assistance provided. Ill explain why.
Im satisfied Avivas contact notes overall reflect that it was proactively trying to 
obtain updates and medical reports from the treating hospital via its agents. Upon 
being notified of Mr Ls admittance to hospital, it promptly instructed its agents to 
attend the hospital to obtain a medical report. And I can see that over the next week 
it was proactively asking its agents to obtain updates regarding Mr Ls health and 
prognosis. From the contact notes it appears, on occasion, the hospital doctors had 
been very busy treating patients and wasnt answering calls. However, thats outside 
of Avivas control and, so, I dont think it would be reasonable to hold Aviva 
responsible for delays caused by the hospital providing information. Im persuaded 
that Aviva was proactively asking its agents to obtain updates as I would reasonably 
expect it to do in the circumstances of this case.
As a result, when Mr L and Mrs Rs daughter called for updates about Mr Ls 
condition, Aviva couldnt always provide a meaningful update. I can see that she was 
concerned that Mrs R wasnt always receiving information from the hospital directly 
even though she was abroad with Mr L. I can understand why Mr Ls family were 
trying to get any news about his medical condition via Aviva. From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Aviva provided the most up to date information to Mr L and Mrs Rs 
daughter and explained when it hadnt received updated medical information. 
I dont think Aviva acted unfairly in this case by not contacting Mrs R directly with any 
updates. I cant see that a request was made for Aviva to contact Mrs R for updates 
and an entry in the contact notes dated a few days after Mr L was admitted to 
hospital reflects that Mr L and Mrs Rs daughter asked that she be updated as Mrs R 
was physically worn out.
Mrs R says that when her daughter called Aviva, she was told that Mr L was in a 
stable condition but hed by that point passed away. I can, of course, appreciate that 
this would be very upsetting to discover. But I dont think Aviva acted unreasonably.  
From the contact notes, it was Mr L and Mrs Rs daughter whod contacted Aviva to 
notify it that Mr L had died. I cant see that Aviva had been notified of Mr Ls death by 
the treating hospital (via its agents) until after its call with her. 
I can also understand why after Mr Ls death, Mrs R wanted to promptly return to the 
UK and why shed want Mr Ls body to be repatriated to the UK as soon as possible. 
However, by that stage, the claim hadnt been validated. I dont think Aviva acted 
unfairly or unreasonably by seeking to verify cover under the policy and it was waiting 
for Mr Ls medical records to do. Its standard practice for travel insurers to request 
GP medical records when a policyholder falls ill whilst abroad and requires 
assistance or a claim is made. Thats so it can check a policyholders medical history 
(usually against the medical declarations made when the policy was taken out) and 
to see if the reason for needing medical attention was related to a pre-existing 
medical condition. Although, Mr L had declared medical issues before travelling, I 
dont think Aviva acted unreasonably by awaiting receipt of GP records, to review his 
medical history before verifying cover here. 
Im satisfied that it made this clear to Mr L and Mrs Rs family and if they wanted to 
arrange and pay for Mrs Rs travel home and the repatriation of Mr L, they could do 
so themselves. If the claim was verified, Aviva would cover the costs. And if not, the 
claim would be declined, and the costs not covered. I dont think that was 
unreasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As it transpires, it took Aviva many weeks after Mrs R returned to the UK and Mr L 
was repatriated for it verify the claim. From the contact notes Im satisfied that the 
initial delays were for reasons outside of Avivas control. Aviva was proactively 
contacting Mr Ls GP surgery for medical records which is what Id reasonably expect 
it to do. 
After a medical review in mid-June 2022, Im also satisfied that Aviva promptly took 
appropriate steps to validate cover after receiving information. Aviva required further 
information in light of the information obtained which I think was reasonable in this 
case given that it showed that Mr L may not have disclosed relevant medical history. 
It updated Mr L and Mrs Rs daughter and proactively chased the GP surgery for 
more information. A number of chasers were sent for the information in late June/July 
2022. Im satisfied that those delays were outside of Avivas control. 
From the contact notes it looks like Aviva received the last of the information it 
required to validate the claim in mid-July 2022. It then took over two weeks to confirm 
cover. It doesnt look like much was done to promptly progress the claim in that period and Aviva reasonably ought to have done more to decide the claim more 
quickly during this period. This wouldve resulted in the claim being settled a little 
quicker than it was. However, Im satisfied that Avivas offer of £150 is sufficient to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience experienced by Mrs R for that delay and times 
when its communication shouldve been better.
Putting things right
I direct Aviva to pay Mrs R £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience its offered to 
pay.
My final decision
I partially uphold Mrs Rs complaint and direct Aviva Insurance Limited to put things right as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman