DRN-3649545
The complaint
Mr T complains Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly blocked his account, which caused him significant
financial problems and worry.
What happened
The facts which led to Mr T making this complaint are known to both parties. In summary   
Mr T held a current account with Lloyds. From late December 2020 to early February 2021 
Mr T couldnt access his account, which Lloyds say was due to a processing delay.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ts complaint. They concluded Lloyds hadnt provided enough
information to show their actions were fair. They said Lloyds should pay him £500 to make
up for the impact those actions had on him. Mr T accepted the outcome, but Lloyds didnt.
So, the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
Lloyds provided further information after the investigator gave their view, which I considered. 
I issued a provisional decision and didnt uphold the complaint. My findings were:
Lloyds have important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when providing
accounts to customers. To comply with their obligations, its common for firms to restrict
access to an account to conduct a review. I appreciate Lloyds said the account was blocked
due to a processing delay, but in fact Im satisfied they were instead carrying out a review.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ts complaint based on not having information from Lloyds to
show they had acted fairly and in line with their legal and regulatory obligations. But Lloyds
have since provided subsequent information which I have carefully considered.
Based on the information I have; Im satisfied Lloyds decision to stop Mr T initially accessing
his funds was on balance reasonable and done to meet their legal and regulatory
responsibilities. So, while Mr T may have suffered losses because of not being able to
access the funds in his account, I am not holding Lloyds liable for them.
Mr T most likely wants to know what information was provided, but I am treating it in
confidence  a power afforded to me under the dispute resolution rules (DISP) which set out
in part my powers when dealing with information to decide a complaint.
I understand that Mr T will be very disappointed by the change to the outcome of his
complaint. But its for me to make an independent decision which I think is fair and
reasonable based on all the information and evidence I have. So, for the above reasons, I
am not currently going to direct Lloyds to pay him any compensation.
Neither Lloyds nor Mr T responded to my provisional decision. The deadline for them to 
respond has passed so I have proceeded to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint for the same reasons I gave in my provisional 
decision. My provisional findings are copied above, and they form my findings for this final 
decision. 
I find Lloyds acted reasonably when blocking Mr Ts account, and they concluded their 
review when they should have. So, I am not directing them to compensate Mr T for losses he 
experienced.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman