The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 2002. Mr S says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
What happened
Mr S complained to this Service. He said he did not know the PPI had been added to his 
mortgage agreement. He added he had good sick pay, redundancy pay and some equity in 
his property, so he concludes he did not need PPI.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. Mr S disagreed with our 
adjudicator's view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr S's case.
Ive decided the policy was not mis-sold because:
I think Lloyds Bank made it clear that Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI and the
separate PPI application form shows he chose to take it out and that he signed to
consent to have it added to his mortgage account  although I can understand why
he may not be able to  remember this.
Lloyds Bank recommended the PPI to Mr S so it had to check that the PPI was right
for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it
was. For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information Lloyds Bank gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as
it should have been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type
of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the
PPI would have put him off from taking out the cover.
Which means Lloyds Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Lloyds Bank has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
Lloyds Bank got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because Lloyds Bank didnt
tell Mr S, that was unfair.
DRN-1157587To put that right, Lloyds Bank has paid back the amount of commission and profit
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said about the mis-sale - including what he said 
about the equity in his property, and his adequate sick pay and redundancy pay. But I think a 
successful PPI claim meant he would not have had to sell his property to raise money from 
the equity to make mortgage repayments and the PPI would have lasted longer than his sick 
pay. So these points dont change my decision.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman