DRN-2740442
The complaint
Ms A complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund payments she didnt make 
from her account.
What happened
Ms A says she was out with a friend on 29 August 2020 and tried to take money from a 
cashpoint having entered her PIN. She couldnt do so and when she got home realised that 
payments had been made with her card and PIN by someone else and which came to a total 
of over £1,600. She reported this. 
Nationwide said it wouldnt be refunding the money. There was no obvious point when       
Ms As PIN was seen as there was no record of her attempting to use a cash machine that 
evening. And it had sent her a text message about one of the attempted payments for £519 
which it had blocked. Having received confirmation that was genuine from the number 
further payments were allowed. So, it said that Ms A authorised the payments. It also said 
that at 00:44 the next morning Ms A had logged into the mobile app and tried to freeze her 
card  she was successful in doing so at 01:18 using a device model type shed used to 
access her account before. She had called Nationwide at 01:59 to report her card and 
stolen.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Ms A explained that she 
had been at a bar with a friend. When she left two men had started talking to them and had 
followed them to a cash machine. Ms A accepted that she had been drinking and didnt have 
a clear memory of what happened. But she says that she had tried to use a cash machine to 
take out £5 and entered her PIN. Others round her had told her the machine wasnt working. 
She felt disorientated talking to the men and had given one her phone so that he could add 
his number. He hadnt entered a real number, but she later realised her SIM card had been 
taken out of the phone as had cash and the card from her bag. Ms A had told Nationwide on 
31 August 2020 that her phone had been taken too  but she said that she was still very 
confused especially as she felt Nationwide was accusing her of something and she was still 
in shock.
Our investigator didnt think that there was any evidence to support Ms As PIN being 
discovered in the way she said. And Nationwide had taken steps to protect Ms As account 
until the further confirmation was provided. So, he didnt think Nationwide had acted unfairly 
in holding her responsible for these payments.
Ms A didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She insisted she had been at a 
cashpoint and entering the PIN and thought it inconsiderate that she was described as being 
inconsistent about what happened. That was taken into account and she said that this wasnt 
reasonable given I was drinking and the initial shock of the breach of my personal property. 
She said that the cashpoint she used did have CCTV and no steps were taken to locate this. 
The fact that payments were flagged as suspicious is further evidence that her details had 
been compromised. She maintained that she had said from the start that her SIM was taken 
and that the text verification system had nothing to do with her phone only with that SIM. Her 
first call to Nationwide was made from her friends phone as a result. Ms A says she has 
shown evidence of this and of a taxi trip back home at 22:46 that evening. She went on to 
say that a fair resolution would be a partial compensation or a gesture of good will at this 
point.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent authorised 
Ms A wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
- Did Ms A either authorise the payments on the account, or allow someone else to use 
the card as Nationwide says?
- Did Nationwide act reasonably?
Ive seen audit logs for the disputed payments. The majority of them were made when the 
chip on the genuine card was read and the correct PIN entered. There were two contactless 
ones which came to a total of less than £30. Im satisfied that the payments were 
authenticated.
The question is whether Ms A consented to them. Ive read the information Ms A has sent to 
this service, listened to her call with Nationwide on 31 August 2020 and to a call she had 
with our investigator. There isnt a recording available of the call when she reported the card 
missing.
There is no evidence Ms A used a cash machine that evening as she describes. If she had 
got to the point of entering her PIN I would expect there to have been a record even if as she 
says the machine was faulty. I appreciate Ms A says she wanted Nationwide to obtain 
CCTV. It isnt clear from the evidence available which cashpoint and what time that evening 
could have been used as a basis to obtain any such recording about her use. But also 
following up on any criminal aspect of this is a matter for the authorities who would be able 
to obtain CCTV from third parties. 
I appreciate what Ms A says about having been drinking that evening and then being 
shocked and confused. Even if that explains some inconsistencies in what she has said it 
would then call into question her account now. And whether she has a genuine memory or 
whether what she now says is influenced by what she has been told by her friend or is Ms A 
understandably trying to make sense of things. She has expanded on her interaction with the 
men outside the bar compared to what she originally told Nationwide. And frankly she was 
absolutely clear that both her SIM and phone had been taken when speaking to Nationwide 
for the second time the following day. Her point is that someone could use the SIM without 
having the passcode for her phone. And also, Nationwide says she used the same device 
type to log on as before to try and freeze her card. 
I find it unlikely that someone could and would have only taken the SIM without her or her 
friend noticing. Im not entirely clear what expected value that would be compared to the 
phone itself. Ms As position must also be that this person put the SIM into a different 
handset and so was able to respond to a text from Nationwide. That isnt impossible, but I 
dont think likely to have been anticipated here. Her evidence that the first call to Nationwide was made from her friends phone is only based on a screenshot that cant be verified and 
the time of that call  at 00:46 doesnt tie up to the time Nationwide says Ms A did call at 
01:59. Similarly although she provides evidence of a taxi trip I cant know whether or not she 
was in that taxi or again verify that this is a genuine record.
All the money was quickly taken from her account. And by the time she had tried to freeze 
her account - at 00:44 the next morning - there was nothing remaining. There were balance 
enquiries made during the period. And there were some unsuccessful attempts to take more 
money from a cash point than was available in the account. As Ms A refers to there were two 
significant payments to what seemed to be a taxi company  and the attempted payment of 
over £500 to a supermarket and which led to her account being blocked. I accept that this 
pattern of payments isnt inconsistent with fraud. The difficulty is that there is nothing to show 
how her PIN was discovered and so to support that these were carried out by a third party 
and with no involvement from Ms A. There is no suggestion for example that she had it 
written down or told it to anyone. Ms As only explanation is that someone saw her entering it 
and this isnt supported with any evidence. I do find her explanation about her phone to be 
inconsistent and unlikely as I say. I can only reasonably consider Ms As explanation of what 
happened against the evidence available and Im afraid I dont think it is the most likely one.
Nationwide did identify a potential suspicious pattern of payments and made a fraud check 
by text. In any event I dont have a basis to find it most likely that Ms A didnt consent to the 
payment and so authorise them. So, I consider Nationwide has acted reasonably in dealing 
with these payments at the time and in now holding Ms A responsible for them. I also dont 
see a basis on which it should offer a gesture of goodwill or partial compensation either. I 
appreciate Ms A will be disappointed by the outcome.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman