DRN-3746248
The complaint
Mr C holds a low value high risk Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) 
administered by Curtis Banks Limited (CBL); 
the SIPPs investments were managed by Wallwood Capital Management (WCM) 
before it went into administration in 2021; 
at the time he had a choice between cashing them in or transferring them to a new 
manager; 
he chose to liquidate them, holdings that could be sold were sold but five of them 
could not be sold because three were in stocks that had folded and two were in 
stocks that had been suspended; 
he decided to write off his holdings in the three folded stocks and he instructed this in 
writing (to CBL); 
he sought to transfer his holdings in the two suspended stocks to a new manager but 
CBL gave him mixed messages on this (initially saying a transfer was not possible, 
then saying it was and then re-affirming that it was not); 
he has been eager to resolve the five holdings, to close the SIPP and to avoid 
incurring further fees for it, and he considers that CBL has hindered this pursuit.
What happened
One of our investigators considered the matter and concluded that it should not be upheld. 
He mainly said:
Evidence supports CBLs confirmation that the transfer Mr C sought could not be 
permitted, because the new manager he chose was not on its list of investment 
partners (who it allowed to be asset managers in its SIPPs). CBL made mistakes in 
communicating this to him, which delayed his treatment of the issue, but it has 
offered him £100 in compensation for that. The offer is fair in the circumstances of 
the case.
CBL did not respond to Mr Cs complaint in time, but complaint handling is not a 
regulated activity so this is not a matter that can be determined.
CBL had no responsibility for WCM going into liquidation. An option it gave Mr C in 
response to his complaint was that if he withdrew the liquidated cash from the SIPP 
but left the impaired five holdings he would be given a nil fee code whereby he would 
not pay annual administration fees  however he would remain liable for any third-
party fees that might arise from those holdings and he might have to retain some 
cash in the SIPP to meet those fees. This meant he would only be liable for fees 
outside CBLs control. This was a fair offer.
The investigator then enquired into the feasibility of an alternative that Mr C expressed  to 
relinquish his rights to all five holdings, in order to conclude the matter and stop having to 
pay product fees. He also asked CBL about evidence of telephone contacts with Mr C 
between December 2020 and April 2021, with regards to Mr Cs claim that his attempts to 
resolve the matter with CBL during this period were frustrated. 
CBL said relinquishing his rights to the holdings is not an option for Mr C; that his options 
remain those set out in its response letter of April 2021 and that it could not find the 
telephone contacts the investigator asked for  other than record for a call on 7 January 
2021 in which Mr C queried his options. In response, Mr C insisted that he had several 
conversations with CBL prior to WCM going into administration and that CBL must be duty 
bound to identify and disclose records of those conversations.
CBL also said that after receiving (on 29 January 2021) the management transfer application 
and Mr Cs instruction to liquidate the SIPP, the latter was done in a timely fashion, and 
despite the initial misinformation on the former it was correctly confirmed (by 10 February 
2021) that the transfer could not happen.
Mr C did not accept the investigators view. The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The events relevant to this complaint began outside of CBLs responsibility and control. 
WCMs impending movement into administration prompted the events that followed, 
including Mr Cs liquidation of the SIPPs holdings and his need to address the five holdings 
that could not be liquidated. As the investigator said, CBL had no role or responsibility in 
what happened to WCM and Mr C does not say otherwise, so the issue to consider is limited 
to CBLs role in his pursuit to liquidate the SIPP and to address the five impaired holdings. 
As the investigator also said, complaint handling is not a regulated activity. In some cases, a 
complaint to a firm and the handling (or mishandling) of that complaint might form a part of 
the primary or overall case (about a regulated activity) pursued by the complainant. If so, if 
the complaint is upheld and if compensation for trouble, upset and/or inconvenience is 
awarded, that award might cover relevant aspects of the firms complaint mishandling for this 
reason. An example could be where mishandling of a complaint added to the substantive 
problem or partly delayed its resolution. In Mr Cs case, the main issue in his complaint  
resolution of the five impaired holdings  is independent of CBLs complaint handling 
process, so this does not apply. 
I have not seen evidence that CBL caused an undue delay to the liquidation of holdings in 
the SIPP that could be liquidated. No such claim is part of Mr Cs complaint. 
With regards to the five impaired holdings, I address the management transfer pursuit first. 
CBL concedes that it misinformed Mr C in this regard and I too find that it did that. I also find 
that the misinformation appears to have unhelpfully misguided Mr Cs expectation, through 
no fault of his, up to the point that it was clarified to him that the transfer could not happen. 
However, CBL has offered its apology and payment of £100 for this. Overall, I consider this a 
reasonable resolution (and offer). I am mindful of his explanation that he was chasing 
clarification from CBL up to 9 February 2021, in the context of information he had about 
WCM entering administration the following day (10 February 2021), and that he did not get 
such clarification until late that day (9 February). I have also considered what he says about 
how this left him without time to find another manager for the transfer. However, it is also his 
evidence that prior to settling on the particular management firm that he put forward, his 
search had met a lack of interest from managers to undertake the five impaired funds and 
that the firm he put forward had agreed to the transfer only as a favour, because the 
individual manager he had at WCM had moved to that firm. In this context, and on balance, I 
do not consider that CBLs misinformation caused him a lost opportunity to find an alternative manager, and the misinformation did not continue for too long before it was 
corrected, so I retain the view that the £100 that has already been offered is reasonable.
In terms of CBLs decision to decline the transfer, it was simply the case that the firm Mr C 
put forward was not on its list of managers permitted to manage investments in its SIPPs. 
That was a reasonable basis for its decision.
The options presented by CBL to Mr C were  1) do nothing (whereby custody of the five 
holdings might or might not be resolved within WCMs administration process); 2) transfer 
the holdings to a willingly receiving new manager on its list; 3) transfer the SIPP to another 
provider (who permits management by his chosen firm); 4) purchase the holdings from the 
SIPP and then do with them as he wished. Mr Cs concerns about the ongoing SIPP 
administration fees were addressed by CBLs offer of the nil fee code, which would 
effectively stop such fees for the remaining five holdings after all liquidated cash had been 
withdrawn from the SIPP. Of course, CBL could not control any external/third-party fees 
associated with the five holdings  and it cannot reasonably be held responsible for such 
fees.
Given that the holdings were in a SIPP, they belonged to the SIPP, so CBLs confirmation to 
the investigator that Mr C could not simply relinquish rights to them is understandable. Legal 
ownership of the holdings belong to the SIPP, not to him personally. It appears that the 
fourth option summarised above could have been a steppingstone for him in order to do with 
the holdings as he wished. It is not clear why that option was not used but that is a matter for 
Mr C and is beyond the remit of this decision.
The set of options available to Mr C were reasonable in the circumstances and I consider 
that CBL did as much as it could reasonably do, in terms of the SIPP and its administration 
costs, by confirming that no administration fees would apply for the five impaired holdings in 
the SIPP (after withdrawal of cash from the SIPP). Beyond that, resolution of the holdings 
was/would be a matter for Mr C, and one that did/does not involve CBL.
My final decision
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman