DRN-4081746
The complaint
Mr S has complained that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) declined his claim for fascia board damage 
under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Fascia boards at Mr Ss property were damaged and he considered that this had occurred 
during storm conditions in February 2022. He therefore made a claim to QIC in March 2022. 
However, QIC declined the claim. It thought that the damage had happened through wear 
and tear and/or poor workmanship and was therefore excluded under the policy. Mr S 
complained to QIC about its decision to decline his claim, however it maintained its stance. 
In the circumstances, Mr S referred his complaint to our service. The services investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint. He considered that QIC had provided evidence that the policy 
terms and exclusion clauses were sufficiently clear and highlighted. In addition, he 
considered that QIC had relied on a surveyors expert report and detailed photographs. He 
thought that these provided evidence that the policy exclusions applied and that QIC had 
fairly assessed the claim.
Mr S remains unhappy with the outcome of his complaint. The matter has therefore been 
referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key question for me to determine is whether QICs application of the terms of Mr Ss 
home insurance policy and the decline of his claim were fair and reasonable. I cant say that 
QIC has acted unfairly or unreasonably, and Ill explain the reasoning for my decision. In 
reaching this decision Ive considered the submissions of both parties as summarised below.
Mr S said that the issue came to light when his neighbour found a part of the fascia board in 
his garden following stormy weather. A smaller piece of the fascia board remained fixed to 
the roof, so it had snapped into two. Mr S considered that this provided evidence of the 
ferocity of the winds at the relevant time. Mr S thought it was obvious that the damage had 
been caused by these high winds. He obtained a quote from a roofing contractor in August 
2022 and provided this to QIC. The roofing contractor also identified further damage to the 
fascia on the gable end and included this in his quote. QIC subsequently arranged for a 
surveyor to inspect the damage. Mr S thought that the surveyor had merely looked at the 
roof from ground level and didnt use ladders or a drone as the roofer had done. He didnt 
think that the surveyor would be able to determine that the wood was rotten from ground 
level and questioned his independence from QIC.
Mr S accepted that the wood on the gable end didnt appear to be in a good condition. He 
said that as he couldnt prove exactly what damage the storm caused to the gable end and 
as this didnt form part of the original claim, he wasnt pursuing this aspect of the claim. As to 
the fascia at the rear of the property however, again Mr S said it wasnt apparent how an 
assessment was made of the wood from ground level. From the photographic evidence, he 
felt that the wood appeared to be in a good condition. He thought the fascia had withstood 
high winds and adverse conditions for a long time which contradicts the assertion that it was 
inadequately fixed. Mr S thought that the fact that the board had remained fixed to the roof 
for years until it was damaged in the storm had been ignored.
Turning to what QIC has said about the matter, firstly it accepted that storm conditions as 
defined in Mr Ss policy had occurred on a specific date in February 2022. It noted that the 
highest wind speed was recorded as 64 mph. It said that it relied upon the report of its 
surveyor as to whether these wind speeds were the direct cause of the damage that 
occurred. 
The surveyor reported that; At the back someone has pinned PVC fascia on the gable on 
secured it with short nails into old wood. This is why it has come down. I would not consider 
that any of the damage is a direct result of the high winds. He considered that the UPVC 
fascia can only be connected to the existing timber if it is of a sound condition prior to 
installation. 
QIC reviewed the terms and conditions of the policy in the context of what had happened 
and concluded that the damage was due to age-related wear and tear and declined the 
claim. It thought that there was wear and tear over time, which has merely been highlighted 
by the storm winds. It also thought that there was evidence of poor workmanship with the 
fascia being inadequately fixed to old wood which had contributed to this damage.
The starting point in complaints of this nature will be the terms and conditions of the relevant 
insurance policy. The policy excludes damage in certain instances and refers to the following 
under the heading Any gradual or maintenance-related loss or damage - Loss or damage as 
a result of gradual causes including: wear and tear gradual deterioration, (whether you 
were aware of it or not. The exclusions also refer to poor workmanship; Loss or damage 
caused by poor workmanship, use of faulty materials including latent defects or poor design 
(a latent defect is a fault which exists but which only caused a problem at a later stage under 
certain conditions).
Ive looked at the relevant paperwork when Mr Ss policy was purchased, and I consider that 
QICs paperwork clearly highlighted policy exclusions for claims where poor workmanship 
and/or gradual wear and tear formed the underlying cause. Ive also considered the report of 
QICs surveyor. In default of alternative expert evidence, I consider this report to be 
persuasive. I note the reports clear conclusions with regard to the construction of rear 
fascia. Whilst I accept what Mr S states that the surveyor didnt use drone footage and 
viewed the damage from ground-floor level even though Mr Ss property is a three-storey 
building, the photographic evidence which he supplied is clear. 
This evidence shows that the gable end fascia was in poor condition and showing very clear 
signs of wear and tear. I appreciate that Mr S is not pursuing a claim in relation to these 
fascia boards. I also recognise that wood on different parts of the roof may suffer from wear 
and tear over different timescales. Nevertheless, I consider that the photographs show that 
the wood under the UPVC fascia board hadnt been in the best condition. I also accept the 
surveyors evidence that the method of attachment had been compromised by use of short 
nails. Im satisfied that, on the balance of probabilities, the UPVC panel was added to a 
fascia board which was already reaching the end of its useful life. Extreme storm conditions 
would have highlighted the weaknesses of this type of fascia solution.I dont doubt that the fascia board snapped off. I also dont doubt that the damage occurred 
due to a combination of factors, being the condition and construction of the fascia board as 
well as storm conditions. However, its for me to consider what is likely to have been the 
predominant cause of the damage and I consider this to have been the existing condition of 
the wood to which the fascia board had been attached and inadequate attachment of the 
fascia board. Whilst it may have endured previous storms, Im satisfied that on the balance 
of probabilities, the fascia was reaching the end of its useful life due to wear and tear and 
inadequate attachment, and the damage was fairly and reasonably excluded under the 
policy.
I appreciate that this will come as a great disappointment to Mr S. However, I cant say in the 
circumstances that QIC applied the terms and conditions of the policy unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining Mr Ss claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont intend to uphold Mr Ss complaint and I dont 
require QIC Europe Ltd to do any more in response to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman