DRN-2363249
The complaint
Miss M complains that after approving an overdraft facility of £500 TSB Bank plc 
failed to apply it to her current account.
What happened
In March 2020 Miss M applied for an overdraft with TSB. The application was approved and 
on 19 March 2020, TSB wrote to Miss M to confirm important information about the 
overdraft facility of £500.
TSB made a mistake and the overdraft facility wasnt applied to Miss Ms account. When 
Miss M applied for the overdraft facility a second time her request was turned down.
Miss M complained and TSB partially upheld her concerns. On 12 June 2020 TSB issued 
its final response and accepted it had failed to apply the overdraft facility due to a technical 
error. But TSB said it couldnt apply the overdraft to the current account as a subsequent 
request had been turned down. In total, TSB has paid Miss M £146 for her costs and the 
trouble and upset caused by its actions.
Miss M referred her complaint to our service and has told us that she had taken the step of 
borrowing funds from family and friends. Miss M has also explained that she wanted to 
have the security of an arranged overdraft in place due to the pandemic and uncertainty 
caused. Our investigator looked at Miss Ms complaint and upheld it. He asked TSB to pay 
a total of £250 to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss M.
TSB didnt agree and responded to say it wasnt persuaded Miss M had needed to borrow 
money from family and friends as her account activity didnt show that. TSB also advise 
that Miss Ms day to day banking appears to be handled with another business and that 
she could have applied for an overdraft elsewhere. As TSB asked to appeal, Miss Ms 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB has already paid Miss M £146 and our investigator has asked it to pay a further
£104, taking the total award for £250. Whilst I note TSBs comments in response to the 
investigator, I think £250 fairly reflects the impact of this situation on Miss M.
In response to the investigator, TSB has sent statement information to show Miss Ms 
account activity remained broadly the same during the period in question. TSB says that 
shows Miss M didnt borrow money from friends and family, but goes on to advise she 
appears to have two other bank accounts with different businesses. Given TSB knows Miss 
M has other bank accounts and has said her day to day banking appears to be dealt with 
elsewhere, its clear it doesnt have a full picture of her circumstances. Im not sure TSB can 
say with any certainty whether Miss M needed to borrow money or not.
Ive considered the case as a whole, and paid close attention to what Miss M says has told 
us about the impact of the situation. Miss M applied for the overdraft facility in case of an 
emergency during uncertain times. Its clear TSB was aware of the nature of the request 
and why Miss M wanted to have borrowing available. I appreciate TSBs point that Miss M 
doesnt appear to have needed the funds that would have been available, but as Ive said 
above, it doesnt have a full picture of her circumstances. I also think its reasonable to say 
that TSBs acceptance of Miss Ms overdraft request gave considerable peace of mind at a 
very difficult time.
I can understand how upsetting it must have been when TSB advised Miss M it had failed 
to apply the overdraft facility it previously approved. And I can also see how frustrating it 
must have been to have been told the subsequent application had been declined, despite 
her circumstances remaining the same. Ultimately, its up to TSB to decide whether to 
approve an overdraft or not, in line with its criteria, but I can see that the way Miss Ms 
applications were handled caused considerable distress.
Our investigator increased the award by £104, taking the total settlement to £250. Ive 
considered everything TSB and Miss M have said in response to the investigators 
findings. Having done so, Im satisfied that £250 reflects the impact of the issues raised 
on Miss M and is fair in all the circumstances. As a result, Im going to uphold Miss Ms 
complaint and direct TSB to increase the settlement to £250.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct TSB Bank plc to pay Miss M a 
total of £250 (less any compensation already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
Marco Manente
 
Ombudsman