DRN-1937441
The complaint
Mr O took out a Gold Added Value Account (GAVA) with Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) some 
time before September 2001 and he says it was mis-sold.
What happened
Mr O took out the following accounts with Lloyds:
Account Type Date of sale/change
Current Fee free April 1983
Gold AVA Fee charged Prior to September 2001
Closed December 2014
Mr O says that he didnt agree to taking out the GAVA, but he believed he needed it to 
obtain a higher overdraft from Lloyds. He says the GAVA wasnt suitable for him.
Our adjudicator didnt think that Lloyds mis-sold the account. Mr O disagrees so the case 
has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Os complaint.
Ill first consider whether Mr O knew he had a choice about taking out the GAVA; then 
whether Lloyds acted correctly when making the sale. 
In his initial submissions to Lloyds and this service Mr O said that at the time of sale he 
received a phone call telling him that hed been changed from a fee free account to a GAVA 
and would be charged a small monthly fee and he hadnt agreed to this. In response to our 
adjudicators view Mr O said that he approached Lloyds to get a larger overdraft on his 
account and Lloyds told him it would only increase his overdraft if he took out the GAVA but 
didnt tell him a fee would be payable.
So, understandably, after 20 years, I think Mr Os recollections of the sale arent clear and, in 
my view, I can take them into account but cant solely rely on them.
The evidence from Lloyds and Mr O indicates that Mr O had a fee free bank account with an 
overdraft before he took out the GAVA. So, in my view he was aware that fee free accounts 
with overdrafts were available from Lloyds and from other banks and financial institutions as 
they were widely advertised. And I think its more likely than not that if hed been unhappy at 
the prospect of paying a fee for an account, he would have challenged this and sought an 
alternative account elsewhere. Mr O says that he may have found it difficult to get the higher 
overdraft he wanted elsewhere. But he doesnt say that he tried to do so, or that he sought 
an alternative form of credit. Also, as Ill explain later, there were reasons why I think hed 
have been interested in the GAVA whether he received a higher overdraft or not.
So, I dont think I can say its more likely than not that either Lloyds just gave Mr O the 
account without his consent or that Lloyds told him he had to take the GAVA to get a higher 
overdraft as I would need to in order to uphold his complaint on this point. 
So, I think Mr O did know he had a choice about whether to take out the GAVA for a monthly 
fee or not and he chose to do so.
Lloyds advised Mr O to take out the GAVA. So, the requirement on Lloyds was to check 
whether the GAVA was suitable for him and provide enough information to Mr O about it for 
him to make an informed choice.
The GAVAs benefits include worldwide travel insurance, Sentinel card protection, 90-day 
purchase protection, £100 interest free overdraft and better interest rates for loans. Car 
breakdown cover and mobile phone insurance were added in 2004. The GAVA cost £8 per 
month.
Mr O says he was travelling between one and three times a year at the time of sale, so he 
could have used the worldwide travel insurance; and he was running an overdraft so would 
have expected to benefit from the GAVAs reduced rates for overdrafts. There was no aspect 
of the GAVAs benefits that he wasnt eligible for, and Mr O subsequently used some of the 
product benefits. He could have closed the GAVA at any time, but he didnt and kept it for 
over a decade. So, I think the GAVA was suitable for him.
I dont know exactly how the GAVA was presented to Mr O, but Lloyds was trying to sell him 
the account, so I think its more likely than not that Lloyds explained the benefits in some 
detail.  And Mr O later used some of the benefits, registering for example for the mobile 
phone insurance, and using the car breakdown service.
So, I think its more likely than not that he knew enough about what he was buying for him to 
decide that it was worth his while to do so, and to keep it in later years. And if he knew more 
it wouldnt have put him off buying the GAVA. 
So overall, although I know this will be disappointing for Mr O, I dont think that Lloyds mis-
sold the GAVA to him or that he lost out as a result of anything Lloyds did or didnt do.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman