DRN-4199959
The complaint
Miss J complains about a used car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement with 
Blue Motor Finance Limited. She is unhappy about a number of issues shes had with the 
car and that the car has previously been mapped. 
What happened
In August 2002 Miss J acquired a used car. The car cost £12,995 and was funded in part by 
a £5,000 deposit and then £7,995 through a hire purchase agreement with Blue Motor 
Finance Ltd. Miss J complained about several issues with the car, around is handling, and 
that she had learnt the car had been mapped at some point before she acquired it. 
Miss J complained to Blue Motor Finance and as it didnt uphold her complaint she referred it 
to our service. One of our investigators set out why they felt the complaint should be upheld 
and what Blue Motor Finance should do to put things right. At that time Blue Motor Finance 
accepted the findings of the investigator, as did Miss J. Miss J also said that she had since 
sold the car and the finance had been repaid. 
The investigator issued a revised view setting out different redress, now that the car had 
been sold. Blue Motor Finance did not accept the revised findings and explained that as 
Miss J had managed to sell the car without any deductions, this demonstrates the car was 
working as it should without any issues. 
As the complaint could not be resolved informally it has been referred to me for 
consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss J acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with Blue Motor Finance. As 
the supplier of the car Blue Motor Finance is responsible for the quality of the car. These 
requirements are set out in the Consumer Rights Act 2015, which indicates goods should be 
of satisfactory quality. The Consumer Rights Act also refers to goods being considered to be 
satisfactory if they meet the standard a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, 
taking account of, amongst other things, any description of the goods.  
Miss J referred to several issues with the car but some of these have been described as 
more general wear and tear items that would not be unexpected on a car of this age and 
mileage. I have not seen anything to sufficiently demonstrate the handling issues Miss J 
referred to demonstrate the car was not of satisfactory quality. 
But there is evidence from an independent source that refers to the car having been 
mapped. I have no reason to doubt this evidence and consider it to be reliable, noting it is a 
manufacturer approved garage. The report was completed within a short time, two months, 
after Miss J got the car, and I think it is unlikely that Miss J would have acquired the car, had 
the car mapped, then unmapped and then complained about the car because of the 
mapping. The car had travelled more than 60,000 miles before Miss J acquired it and I think 
it is more likely than not that the car was mapped prior to Miss J acquiring it. 
As the investigator has referred to, and is commonly known, mapping a car is typically done 
to increase the performance of the car. But this is usually against the manufacturers 
recommendations, will often invalidate the manufacturers warranty and will require the 
owner to declare on their insurance. The increased or enhanced performance of the car 
means the car is performing above that originally intended by the manufacturer and will 
therefore be likely to cause additional strain and wear on a cars components. 
There is no conclusive evidence to show the car having been previously mapped has 
caused more wear and tear on the components to what one would usually expect for a car of 
this age and mileage. But it is of course possible the car has experienced more wear and 
tear and could therefore face a greater likelihood of repair costs or possibly catastrophic 
failure as it ages further. It is therefore for these reasons that a car being previously mapped 
is something that would reasonably be expected to be made clear when the car is being 
supplied as it will likely impact on any decision to acquire the car. I have not seen anything to 
indicate that this was brought to Miss Js attention before acquiring the car and as evidenced 
by Miss J selling the car, I think it is clear she would not have agreed to acquire the car had 
she known it was previously mapped. 
I consider it reasonable where a car has been mapped, or previously mapped, to expect this 
to be made clear to a prospective purchaser. It should feature in the description of the car, 
so the buyer is fully informed about this. I have seen nothing here to indicate the car being 
previously mapped did feature in any description of the goods and when considering the 
overall circumstances of this complaint Im not persuaded the car was actually of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Miss J.  
I have noted what Blue Motor Finance has said about Miss J selling the car and that it 
believes this demonstrates the car was in good working order. The well known business that 
bought the car would not have done a comprehensive inspection of the cars engine or 
diagnostics when agreeing to buy it. And I dont consider it would have therefore known 
about the car being mapped when it decided the price it would buy the car for. So I am not 
persuaded this is evidence of the car not being mapped. 
Putting things right
Miss J has now sold the car and the finance agreement has been settled. As Blue Motor 
Finance has argued, Miss J got the market value for the car and while I appreciate the car 
was not Miss Js to sell, the value is likely to be similar to that which Blue Motor Finance 
would have achieved had it taken the car back. 
Miss J has however lost out as a result of this as she entered into the agreement with a 
£5,000 deposit and left the agreement with considerably less than this. In the circumstances 
here I consider it fair and reasonable for Blue Motor Finance to pay Miss J the £2,525.12 
that she has lost out having settled the finance agreement. 
Miss J has also incurred a £100 expense for having the vehicle inspected and this identified 
the car had been mapped. So, Miss J should also be refunded this amount. 
Miss J has been able to use the car, despite the prior mapping, and the other issues Miss J 
complained about all appear to be wear and tear items. I do not therefore consider Blue 
Motor Finance should be required to refund any of the monthly rentals Miss J paid towards 
the hire purchase agreement. Miss J has however suffered some trouble and upset as a result of being sold this car and Blue Motor Finance should therefore pay Miss J £100 to 
reflect this. 
Interest at 8% simple per year should be added to the refunded amounts from the date the 
£100 expense was incurred and when the hire purchase agreement was settled. If the 
complaint is not settled within 28 days of Miss J accepting this decision, interest at the same 
rate should be added to the £100 payment for the trouble and upset. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Js complaint and direct Blue Motor Finance to settle 
the complaint in accordance with what I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman