DRN-2663839
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Nationwide Building Society dealt with his loan application.
What happened
Mr C says he applied for a Nationwide loan that he could use to send money to his fianc in 
the Philippines. He says she needed the money urgently and has sent her money over the 
last 12 years. Mr C accepts that he has not met his fianc in person. He says the loan 
application was rejected by Nationwide and he was subjected to unnecessary and intrusive 
questions, but Nationwides head office later approved the loan. Mr C says he was told to go 
back to the branch, but the loan was again refused, and the Police involved. He says his 
account was blocked which meant he had to attend a branch for money which caused 
difficulties has he has health issues. Mr C would like £1,500 compensation which was the 
loan amount and says Nationwide failed to make reasonable adjustments. He also 
complains about how an overdraft charges refund were recorded on his statement.
Nationwide says its entitled in line with account terms and conditions to block a customers 
account where is has reasonable security concerns. It says it wanted to protect Mr C and his 
money and make sure he wasnt the victim of a scam. Nationwide says it correctly refused 
the loan application and blocked the account on 28 January 2020 and lifted it on 18 February 
2020. It also says its apologised for the mistake about the charges refund but Mr C has had 
the benefit of the refund and has given him details of its specialist team which he has spoken 
to,
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Nationwide had a duty to protect Mr Cs money and had acted in line 
with account terms and conditions. The investigator thought Mr C would have been unable to 
send the money even if his account hadnt been blocked and that Nationwide had tried to 
help him by involving its specialist team. And thought Nationwide had fairly apologised for 
the mistake in labelling the charges refund.
Mr C doesnt accept that view and in summary says Nationwide didnt act with compassion 
or understanding and that his fianc has been impacted by what took place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr C will be disappointed by my decision and about how strongly he feels about 
what has taken place.
I have looked at Mr Cs account terms and conditions which I think Mr C would have agreed 
to when the account was first opened. Those terms and conditions make clear that 
Nationwide may place blocks or restrictions on an account in certain circumstances. So, I 
dont think Nationwide made a mistake or acted unfairly by blocking Mr Cs account whilst it 
carried out further security and fraud checks in circumstances where Im satisfied it had 
legitimate concerns that Mr C may have been the victim of fraud.
Banks and building societies must have security and fraud measures in place to protect its 
money and its customers money. I am sure Mr C appreciates that and I accept that on 
occasions legitimate customers and transactions are subjected to fraud and security 
measures. That inevitably means that such customers are caused inconvenience but that 
doesnt mean to say Nationwide has made a mistake or acted unfairly.
I make clear to Mr C that I think its up to Nationwide to decide if its prepared to approve a 
loan application. And I think it was entitled in these circumstances to have concerns about 
the loan and the reasons for it. So, I dont think Nationwide made a mistake or acted unfairly 
by concluding that it was rejecting Mr Cs loan application and I dont think it matters that its 
head office later said it would approve the loan.
Im satisfied that Nationwide was reasonably entitled to be concerned in these 
circumstances that Mr C may have been the victim of a fraud. So, I dont think it acted 
unfairly by placing the account blocks and contacting the police. I think such actions were 
taken to protect Mr C and his money and I can see the account blocks were lifted in what I 
think was a reasonable time period. I also think Nationwide tried to help Mr C by allowing 
cash withdrawals during this time.
I appreciate Mr C has health issues and a disability but Im satisfied Nationwide tried to help 
and assist him. And fairly referred him to its specialist team. I cant see what other measures 
Nationwide could have taken to assist Mr C any further and I have made clear that I accept 
he was caused inconvenience as a result of what took place.
I find Nationwide has fairly apologised for the mistake in labelling the overdraft charges and I 
dont think that is the main part of Mr Cs complaint in any event. I also find Nationwide staff 
tried to help Mr C during the calls between them.
Overall, Im satisfied that Nationwide was reasonably entitled to reject Mr Cs loan 
application and didnt make a mistake or act unfairly by placing the blocks on his account. 
For those reasons I cant fairly order Nationwide to pay the £1,500 compensation Mr C 
would like. And Im satisfied this brings an end to what we in trying to sort out this dispute 
informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman