DRN-4056777
The complaint
Mr W complains about poor communication by The Prudential Assurance Company Limited 
(Prudential) in relation to his pension policy
What happened
Mr W said he took out a pension policy with Prudential in 1980 and paid £10 per month. He 
said he was visited by a Prudential IFA in 1982 and decided to stop paying the premiums. 
He thought he had lost all that had been paid in so didnt keep address details up to date. 
Had they communicated with him he would have kept them up to date.
He had sent letters asking the Prudential to deal with his daughter and not him but they 
denied receipt. Instead they tried to call him which he found distressing. When he tried to put 
his daughter on the phone they wouldnt speak to her. He wanted full details and for them to 
take responsibility for not contacting him until he was nearly 75. His daughter asked for 
details of the investment funds but none was provided.
He had not had any communication in the last 40 years despite the plan being active. He 
was told it was up to him to keep his address up to date. He said that was difficult if he never 
received any papers after it was paid up.
He said had he known, he would and could have made more contributions. While he joined 
an occupational scheme the law changed in 1997 and he could have paid more then. He 
thought that but for the advice he would have continued to make contributions until 1983 
when he joined the occupational scheme and then again after 1997. Had he done this it 
would have been worth around £250,000 not just £7,800.
Prudential couldnt provide him with any details. He thought the plan was a good one which 
would not now be offered so it would have been good to re-join in 1997. He had never had 
any letters from them until now. If they could find him now why didnt they try sooner? He 
kept all papers even wage slips going back to the 1980s. He also complained he received a 
lot of letters from the Prudential but they did not receive his.
Prudential said the policy stopped in 1982 and it had no records to show why, as it was so 
long ago. It assured him that it would not have used contributions to prop up another 
company and there was nothing to suggest it had anything to do with this other company. It 
noted Mr W had a personal finance review in 1999 which showed he joined a company 
pension scheme in 1984 but Mr W clarified this was March 1983. He would not have been 
able to contribute to this type of scheme if he was a member of an occupational scheme. Mr 
W had not kept his address up to date so it had to trace him. The terms of the policy were 
clear that it was not responsible if he didnt keep his address up to date. It started a trace in 
2021 as the policy had to be taken before he was 75.
It said Mr W had written to give authority for his daughter to act on the policy but the letter 
didnt quote a policy number and didnt have enough information to be matched to his policy. 
Prudential said it could not deal with his daughter until it had authority. Mr W was upset by its 
call to him to get authority but it did ask if it was convenient to speak. It didnt support his 
complaints.
My Provisional decision.
I issued a provisional decision in this complaint. I said that in order to make an award for 
financial loss or distress and inconvenience I need to decide that Prudential did something 
wrong. There are a number of issues to consider.
Advice to stop contributing
I could understand Mr Ws frustration about stopping contributions to the policy in 1982. 
Unfortunately due to the lapse of time there wasnt sufficient evidence to be clear what was 
said at the time if anything.
However in any event when Mr W joined an occupational scheme in 1983 he would have 
had to cease contributions to the policy. While he says he could later have restarted 
contributions that wasnt certain. At that time it would be common that paid up policies could 
not be reopened. Further he could have opened another pension policy to save for his 
retirement had he wished to do so and the law allowed. So stopping contributions to this 
policy didnt stop him saving for his retirement in other ways.
But even if I am wrong it does not seem that when the law changed he did opt to contribute 
to another scheme and I noted he had a financial review in 1999. That fact suggests that he 
would not have re-joined this scheme even when he was able.
I noted that Mr W feels this is a good policy. I cannot comment on that but would note that 
the pension it paid did not carry any increases in payment or guarantees and I have no 
details of the charging structure which may not be as favourable as those available in later 
years.
Dealing with Mr Ws daughter
I had seen the letter Mr W sent in early May 2022 to give authority for the Prudential to deal 
with his daughter. I noted it did not quote a policy number only an address. While the letter 
was signed there was no printed name nor indication of title such as Mr, Mrs or Ms. I can 
understand that Prudential were not able to match this up with his policy at that time. So I 
didnt think it did anything wrong in that respect.
Address contact details
I agreed that it was up to Mr W to keep his address details up to date. I could see that 
Prudential did make efforts via a call credit search to find him after his correspondence was 
returned as gone away. I understood that Mr W said he didnt know the policy remained in 
existence so didnt update the Prudential. That is unfortunate but I dont think it is the 
Prudentials fault that it didnt have a current address for him as it was up to Mr W to keep 
his records up to date.
Failure to trace Mr W at his normal retirement date.
I asked the Prudential to send copies of the pre-retirement packs and illustrations that it was 
obliged to send to Mr C before his NRD. It said no retirement pack was produced in 2012 as 
it had removed Mr Ws address from its records following the return of its bonus statement 
letter dated August 2011 (which confirmed he had gone away). It said it did a call credit 
search on 12 October 2011 but received a negative result. It provided a copy of its search.It said, it had no process of initiating a Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) trace 
during 2011 when it received the gone away notification. It followed its then current process 
on receiving a gone away notification at that time.
It said it updated its gone away process in 2017 and this included a DWP trace. But as, it 
had not received any further gone away notifications for Mr W post 2017 this didnt trigger 
the DWP trace. Mr W was traced after it initiated searches in April 2021 approximately a 
year before he was due to reach 75 years of age. This was part of its standard tracing 
procedures.
It wasnt for me to tell the Prudential how to run its business. But based on what it has said, 
because its previous search showed Mr W as gone away in 2011 it seems it made no further 
efforts to trace him from 2011 until 2021, when it needed to pay out the policy proceeds. This 
didnt seem fair or reasonable. I said that for the following reasons.
There was no regulatory obligation on the Prudential to try to find Mr W in advance of the 
plans maturity but I thought it would have a been a reasonable course of action. I said that 
not least due to its obligation to treat customers fairly  a requirement set out in the 
regulators handbook. This said that the Prudential must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly. I thought it was clearly in Mr Ws interest to get access to 
the pension he was entitled to from 2012. I thought this meant that the Prudential should 
have done more to contact Mr W at his retirement age and to give him the option to take his 
benefits sooner.
I thought this would have meant making extra effort to try to locate Mr W and make contact 
with him before his normal retirement date in 2012 in order to enable Mr W to access 
benefits he was entitled to receive.
The use of the DWP tracing service has been available for many years and is very effective 
as it uses a National Insurance number for trace rather than relying on credit or other 
records. While this might not have been part of the Prudentials standard process until 2017 I 
thought the obligation to pay a benefit should have meant it made more effort at Mr Ws 
retirement date.
I had no evidence it made any attempts to trace him after 2011 (and before 2021) at all by 
any means. In the light of its regulatory obligations to Mr W I didnt think that was fair or 
reasonable. I thought that had it used the DWP service I saw no reason why it would not 
have succeeded in tracing him in 2012 not least because it did find him in 2022. The fact it 
then did not use the DWP to find Mr W in 2017 because he had returned gone away in 
2011 seems self-defeating. It would seem that cases where there was a return marked gone 
away would be the most obvious cases to try using a DWP search especially where the 
benefits were now payable.
As I had concluded that the Prudential did not act in a fair and reasonable manner I could 
consider an award for financial loss and distress and inconvenience.
What loss has Mr W suffered as a result of the failure to find him in 2012.
The purpose of an award for financial loss was to put Mr W back as closely as possible to 
the position he would have been in had this error not happened. In effect that would have 
meant that he could have taken payment of his pension in 2012.
The Prudential said that as of 1 May 2012 the transfer value for the policy would have been 
£3,222.37. Further the value of the plan on 5 February 2023 was £7,806.20 so he has 
received an additional over £4,000 as the money remained invested in the with profits fund during this time.
The Prudential said this was a deferred annuity contract and as such did not have an annuity 
rate in the same way that its fund based personal pensions did. The benefits at retirement 
were not calculated by applying standard or guaranteed rates to a fund value. Instead the 
final pension was dependent on a combination of the guaranteed (basic annuity and 
attaching annual bonuses) and any further non-guaranteed benefits payable at the time.
It said the original premium of £10.00 per month secured an amount of basic annuity of 
£544.16. This was calculated based on a number of factors. These included the initial 
premium payment date of 1st May 1980, the specified retirement date of 1st May 2012 
(which is always the policy anniversary date before age 65) and also the age and sex of the 
customer. When premium payments ceased on 1st July 1982 the amount of basic annuity 
decreased to £39.28 to reflect the less than expected amount of premiums paid . Annual 
bonuses had also been allocated as a percentage of the basic annuity and any annual 
bonuses already accrued. The total basic annuity together with the annual bonuses were 
guaranteed to be paid as a pension payable yearly in arrears, from the specified retirement 
date. The total basic annuity and annual bonuses as at the specified retirement date of 1st 
May 2012 was £113.46.
The guaranteed pension within the policy only applied at the specified date and was 
represented in the form of a specific annuity option; being a single life annuity, with no cash 
sum, no guaranteed payment period, level (non-escalating) payments and payable yearly in 
arrears. As of 1st May 2012 the amount payable for this annuity option would have been 
£215.02. Other standard annuity options were available from this policy were calculated by 
applying a factor to the guaranteed pension option. Therefore, the guarantee was not lost, 
even if an alternative standard annuity was selected.
Mr W said that had he been offered the option to take his pension at age 65 he would have 
considered taking the annuity payment. As he was now 75 he had instead opted to take the 
pension as a lump sum even though this might mean he had to pay more income tax than 
would have been the case had he taken a pension income as set out above.
I think Mr W was deprived of the use of his money from 2012 to the date he actually received 
payment in February 2023. In such circumstances I would make an award for loss of use of 
the money at the rate of 8% per annum simple from the 1 May 2012 to the date of actual 
payment in 2023. However I note that the cash value of the policy in 2012 was around 
£3,200. Applying simple interest at 8% from May 2012 to February 2023 (to the full value as 
if he had taken a lump sum) would add an additional around £2,700 approximately which 
would increase the total to around £6,000. However I note the actual value paid out is about 
£7,800. So it seems that the amount Mr W has been paid is greater than I would have 
awarded, as he has benefited from the investment growth in the with profits fund over the 
period since 2012. So on a lump sum basis it does not seem that he has lost out. 
I note that Mr W says he might have taken an annuity income but I am unclear whether and 
how much income tax he pays now and whether he has had to pay more tax due to taking 
this as a lump sum. I would invite Mr W to provide details of his personal tax position before I 
issue my final decision.
For those reasons I am not proposing to make an award for financial loss as there does not 
seem to be one.
Delayed Payment of the lump sum from November 2022 to February 2023
Prudential said Mr W had applied to take payment as a cash lump sum and it had sent him a letter on 5 January 2023.
The claim has now been paid. The cheque was authorized on 27 February 2023 and Mr W 
should have received this within 5 working days. The plan value was around £7,800 it had 
paid 25% tax free with the remainder as a lump sum subject to tax of around £1,000.(Mr W 
may be eligible to reclaim any overpaid tax but will need to contact HMRC to do this). Mr W 
confirmed receipt but said it had taken 4 months to get this payment which seemed 
excessive.
Mr W applied to take it as a lump sum in November 2022 and signed the forms on 8 January 
2023. This does seem to have taken several weeks to process and this is something I have 
taken into account in my award for distress and inconvenience below.
Distress and inconvenience
I considered an award for distress and inconvenience. Such an award is intended to reflect 
the impact of the events on Mr W and not to punish the Prudential.
I considered that for over 10 years, Mr W wasnt aware he was entitled to a pension as he 
wasnt contacted from 2012 until 2021. However since he had become aware it was clear he 
is angry and frustrated by being denied access to his pension when he was entitled to it and 
could have made good use of it. He was also frustrated that it had taken 4 months to arrange 
payment to him. I thought the level of trouble and upset was considerable. I said that 
because of the number of years involved and the frustration that he could have had the 
money either as a lump sum or as an annuity earlier. I thought an award of £750 would be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Before I issued my final decision I invited both the prudential and Mr W to make any further 
comments. I also asked:-
1. Mr W to confirm whether he is a non-taxpayer or basic or higher rate taxpayer.
2. I would ask the Prudential to confirm how much interest would have been payable on the 
policy value from the date Mr W was entitled to payment in 2012 to the date of actual 
payment to him in 2023 at the rate of 8% per annum simple.
I proposed to uphold this complaint in part and direct that Prudential should pay Mr W £750 
for distress and inconvenience.
Mr W said he had no further points to add and confirmed he was a basic rate taxpayer. 
The Prudential said interest at 8% per annum simple from the relevant dates in 2012 to 2023 
was around £2,2000 pounds so the amount paid to Mr W of around £7,800 was greater and 
Mr W was better off due to the investment growth during that period. It said it would pay the 
£750 as directed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having read the comments from Mr W and the Prudential I have not changed my mind. I 
note that Mr W says he is a basic rate taxpayer rather than a non-taxpayer. It seems he 
would therefore most likely have paid tax on any annuity he had opted to take in 2012.I note also that the Prudential will most likely have applied emergency tax to the amount of 
the lump sum that was paid in excess of the tax-free cash amount. Mr W may therefore need 
to reclaim any overpaid tax from HMRC.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, The Prudential must pay Mr W £750 for distress and 
inconvenience. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part.
I direct that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited should within 30 days of this service 
notifying it that Mr W has accepted this decision, pay him £750 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman