DRN-4006842
The complaint
After Mr L made a claim on his motor insurance policy with Tesco Underwriting Limited, he 
says its repairer caused further damage to his vehicle.
What happened
Mr L told us that a garage in Tescos repair network (garage F) sent a recovery firm to 
collect his car and that it took photos showing no scratches on its bonnet. But when the car 
was returned three weeks later, Mr L noticed scratches immediately and complained to the 
delivery driver and to Tesco straight away. He said Tesco said garage F should deal with his 
complaint, and garage F said the recovery firm might have caused the damage.
  
Mr L also said that when he made the claim on 14 September 2022 Tesco promised him 
help in claiming for uninsured losses but didnt provide it. And he wanted it to escalate a 
complaint against one of its advisors, as he felt she was incompetent. In addition, Mr L 
mentioned Tescos call centre failings, and it not having given him a like for like courtesy car. 
 
In its final response letter on 24 October 2022, Tesco said its engineers had reviewed 
images of the damage and said it wasnt accident related. As Mr L didnt accept that 
response, one of our investigators considered his complaint.  She said she couldnt disagree 
with Tescos engineers and was unable to conclude that Tesco or garage F were to blame 
for any new damage to Mr Ls vehicle. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ls concerns about the replacement vehicle Tesco provided, and its promise of help in 
claiming for uninsured losses, have already been dealt with in a separate complaint. 
We cant look into a consumers dissatisfaction with one of an insurers advisors, as thats an 
internal staff matter. And we cant intervene with the way an insurer organises its call 
centres, as were not the industry regulator. But Mr L raised the issue of Tescos poor 
service (which included the long waiting times hed faced when calling it) in his previous 
complaint. Tesco accepted there were service issues and paid Mr L compensation.  
I think the issue to be addressed in this complaint is the additional damage Mr L says was 
done to his car after it was collected for repair. I think Tesco would be responsible for 
ensuring that any damage done by a garage in its repair network, or by the recovery agent, 
was put right. Mr L and Tesco have provided photos of the car when it was collected and 
when it arrived at the garage, but most of them dont show the bonnet. I dont think the ones  
showing the bonnet are particularly clear, but they seem to show small marks across it. 
The photos appear to show that the marks were there when the car was collected, as they 
were taken when it was parked in a street (presumably outside Mr Ls address). Similar 
photos then show the car at the garage, and the same marks are visible. So it seems the 
marks were there before the car was moved by the recovery service or taken to the garage. 
 
When Mr L complained, garage F examined the bonnet. It concluded that the pattern of the 
marks meant they werent accident related, and Tescos engineers agreed with that. They 
also thought the marks were old. I cant dismiss the findings of two sets of engineers who 
reviewed the marks unless theres compelling evidence that shows they were mistaken. 
Mr L says an engineer in an independent garage said the scratches could have been caused 
by the accident - and he thought they looked new. I dont think the view of one engineer 
overrides the opinion of several others. But in any event, But Mr L hasnt provided any 
evidence from the independent garage about the basis for its engineer disagreeing with the 
plausible explanation put forward by garage F and Tescos engineers.   
I dont think the available evidence shows that Tesco and its garage acted unreasonably in 
deciding that the scratches werent their responsibility. I know Mr L wont be satisfied with my 
decision, but I can only base my findings on the evidence Ive seen. Its for Mr L to show that 
Tesco is at fault. As I dont think hes done that, I cant uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman