DRN-1099546
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS) failed to give them accurate 
information about a balance transfer.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R were in the process of applying for a mortgage and they wanted to consolidate 
some existing debt. Mrs R held two credit cards with the BOS group which were incurring 
interest. They wanted to transfer the balance of these cards onto a new interest free credit 
card in Mr Rs name. 
They spoke to BOS on several occasions about what they wanted to do. And Mr R was 
subsequently approved for a credit card with 0% interest on balance transfers. The requests 
to transfer the two balances were made and they assumed this had been completed, as they 
didnt hear otherwise.
It was only when they called to activate the credit card that Mr and Mrs R were told one of 
the transfers had been declined. BOS say this is because it doesnt allow transfers within the 
BOS group; only external transfers can be done. In addition, it doesnt allow transfers of debt 
from one person to another. It says the balance transfer that was successful was done in 
error and should have also been declined. 
Mr and Mrs R complain that BOS didnt tell them this before they applied for the new credit 
card - if theyd known, they could have applied to another lender. Theyre now in a position 
where the debt is still split over two cards and Mrs R still had interest being applied to her 
remaining account. 
BOS acknowledged that it should have made Mr and Mrs R aware of its restrictions on 
balance transfers before the application was made. To put things right, it offered £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused. And it said it would freeze the interest on 
Mrs Rs account for six months whilst she made alternative arrangements. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He agreed that BOS had failed to give Mr and 
Mrs R important information before they opened the new credit card account, but felt the 
offer it had made to resolve things was a fair one in the circumstances. 
He said he couldnt ask BOS to provide credit in the way Mr and Mrs R wanted it to. This is 
because our powers dont extend to telling a business who it should lend to and on what 
terms  BOS is entitled to decide who it wants to lend to. 
Our investigator explained that where a business has done something wrong, wed expect it 
to put the customer back in the position they would have been in had everything been done 
correctly. In this case, if BOS had given Mr and Mrs R the correct information, he didnt think 
they would have opened this account. So he asked them whether they wanted the accounts 
returned to how they were initially. Mr and Mrs R say they want BOS to honour the second balance transfer. And they have 
commented on the further options presented to them. As our investigator hasnt been able to 
resolve the complaint, its been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusions as our investigator for substantially the same reasons. 
Theres no dispute that BOS failed to give Mr and Mrs R information that would have 
influenced their decision on whether to apply for a new credit card. Mr and Mrs R had told 
BOS what they needed the card for and what accounts it involved. BOS didnt tell them it 
couldnt transfer balances from within the BOS group or from one person to another. 
To confuse matters, BOS completed one of the transfers even though it didnt meet the 
criteria. And it failed to inform Mr and Mrs R that the second transfer had been declined. 
The transaction was handled poorly. So Ive thought about what BOS should do to put things 
right. And from what Ive seen, I think the offer it made is enough. Ill explain why.  
As our investigator has explained, there are limits on what we can direct a business to do. 
We cant tell BOS who it should provide credit to and in what way. It has its own lending 
criteria and Mr and Mrs R dont meet those criteria.
Due to an internal error, BOS did transfer one of the balances to the 0% interest free credit 
card in Mr Rs name. And its agreed to honour that transfer, despite it being against its 
lending criteria. Ultimately, it could have made the decision to reverse it. As it hasnt, I think 
Mr and Mrs R have benefited from the mistake. I say this because theyve had access to an 
interest free account which they werent entitled to, along with saving the interest that would 
have been incurred on that debt had it remained on the previous credit card. 
With regard to the remaining balance that wasnt transferred, BOS has given Mrs R a period 
of six months interest free. I think this is a fair resolution to the complaint as it gives her time 
to apply for a credit card elsewhere and transfer the balance to a lender outside the BOS 
group. 
I appreciate the situation Mr and Mrs R now find themselves in. But they were given the 
option to be put back in the situation they would have been in if the error had not happened 
and they didnt accept it. Whilst they are left with the debt split over two credit cards, this is 
the situation they were in initially, so I think the detriment to them is minimal. I also think they 
will struggle to find a lender who is prepared to transfer one persons debt to an account in 
someone elses name. So I think they have benefited in some way from the mistake BOS 
made. 
As a mistake did take place, I think it was reasonable for BOS to offer compensation. And I 
think £100 adequately reflects the stress and inconvenience caused taking into account the 
other remedies put in place.
 
My final decisionBank of Scotland Plc has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Bank of Scotland Plc should pay £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2020.
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman