DRN-4215163
The complaint
Mrs P complains that a car she acquired through a Hire Purchase Agreement (HPA) with 
RCI Financial Services Limited (RCI) needs a new engine. She would like RCI to pay for 
this. Or to reduce the cost she paid for the car by £7765  73% of the cost price of the car  to 
correspond to its  loss of value.
What happened
Mrs P says she took out the HP agreement in January 2019 for a three-year-old  car with 
15234 miles on the clock. She says in January 2022 the car broke down and she was told  
the issue was a timing chain failure. She says she has been advised the engine had failed 
and needed to be replaced at a cost of around £12500. The dealership offered to contribute 
25% as a goodwill gesture to the repair cost but Mrs M didnt accept this.
RCI didnt accept there was a point-of-sale issue for which it was responsible given the time 
that had elapsed from Mrs P getting the car to the engine failing  three years.
I issued a provisional decision in which I found:-
Mrs P bought a used car so she might reasonably expect more wear, tear and repair 
issues than had she bought a new car. Having said that we expect cars to be fit for 
purpose at the point of sale. And Mrs Ps car was only three years old with low 
mileage when she got it.
When issues arise within the first six months of an agreement we usually expect the 
business to investigate , and if appropriate to resolve any issues found.
When issues arise after six months, as in this case,  we usually expect the consumer 
to provide evidence of point-of-sale issues for which the business is responsible.
The engine issue arose three years into Mrs Ps agreement so a significant time after 
she got the car. And she had of course used it increasing the mileage from 15234 on 
purchase to 49,078 when the issue arose. I appreciated the usage wasnt excessive 
and Mrs P showed she had the car regularly maintained, but that didnt  automatically 
mean that the engine issue that arose was RCIs responsibility to resolve.
The evidence Mrs P gave us from one dealership who saw the car when it broke 
down, stated that in its view a properly maintained engine shouldnt fail to the extent 
it needs replacing after 45,000 miles. It felt the problem was consistent with a timing 
chain issue and suggested a design or manufacturing issue. However, this company 
also confirmed it didnt examine the car.
The information provided by the second dealership confirmed engine failure with 
piston no 1 having broken away causing damage to the engine block, it couldnt 
identify what caused the issue though it noted a suspicion that petrol may have been 
put in the tank due  to a fuel smell but couldnt confirm this. It didnt carry out any 
further work as this wasnt authorised  and it didnt feel it would shed any light on the 
cause. 
RCI pointed out there could be other alternative reasons as to why the engine failed  
such as water ingress so asked for an independent  inspection of the car. I didnt 
think that was unreasonable, so I asked RCI to go ahead and arrange this.
I carefully considered the results of the independent inspection. It concluded that 
catastrophic engine failure occurred due to the failure of the number one connecting 
rod. The most likely cause of this would be down to a foreign object or fluid entering 
the number one combustion chamber putting excessive pressure on the number one 
cylinder connecting rod leading to its failure. The failure of the connecting rod would 
have caused the hole present in the rear engine block. The report conclusively stated 
the timing chain was in one piece. So, timing chain failure as indicated by one of the 
garages Mrs P took the car to, wouldnt have been the cause of the engine failure.
It was frustrating that the engine hadnt been stripped down for inspection and the 
report did say that the failure could have occurred  for multiple reasons, but the 
engine would need to be dismantled to confirm what exactly had failed and why.
For me to ask RCI to cover the cost of repairs I needed to be convinced that there 
was a point-of-sale issue for which it is responsible. And due to the three years that 
elapsed from taking out the agreement to the engine failure the onus was on Mrs P to 
prove this. Unfortunately, I didnt feel she had done so.
Whilst the information from both parties agreed there was engine failure no actual 
cause had been absolutely identified. Suggestions had been made the garages Mrs 
P took the car to of a design or manufacturing defect and possible timing chain failure 
although the latter was conclusively excluded by the independent report. I had no 
evidence of a design or manufacturing defect. One of the garages suggested fuel 
may have been put into the tank due to a fuel smell but couldnt confirm this.
The independent report suggested the likely cause was the ingress of  foreign 
objects or fluid  RCI consistently said that given Mrs P lived in the countryside 
driving through water may have caused the issue which would be consistent with the 
independent reports opinion that foreign objects or fluid caused the problem. I 
thought that was a real possibility. However, that report also stated there might be 
multiple other issues that caused the problem, and these could only be identified by 
dismantling the engine
I considered asking RCI if it would be prepared to arrange for the engine to be 
dismantled for a further inspection but decided this wouldnt be reasonable. Not only 
would this cause further delay to dealing with Mrs Ps complaint but given the time 
Mrs P had the car before the issue arose the onus was on her ,not RCI, to show a 
point-of-sale issue for which RCI was responsible.
It was frustrating not to have a definitive reason for the engine failure. In the absence 
of this I didnt feel the age, mileage and maintenance of the car were sufficient 
reason for me to say the issue must have been present or developing at the point of 
sale particularly when other likely causes of the problem such as water ingress were, 
in my view, entirely possible.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both RCI and Mrs P have responded to my provisional decision. RCI made no further 
comments for me to consider.
Mrs P , understandably, didnt accept my provisional decision and made a number of points 
which I have carefully considered with my responses below.
I regret Mrs P feels I didnt give due time and consideration to her complaint and would like 
to assure her this wasnt the case. I took some time to very carefully consider all the 
evidence provided by both sides. I did make it a priority to issue my provisional decision as 
soon as possible when the independent report had been completed, and I had time to 
consider its findings, I was conscious of the delay caused with my request for an 
independent inspection.
I appreciate Mrs Ps disappointment that my provisional decision didnt accord with that of 
our investigator who found the timing chain had failed. Ombudsman decisions are 
independent , so our conclusions dont always accord with those previously made. And in 
this case I had the benefit of the independent inspection which was carried out after our 
investigator reached his view. The independent inspection conclusively ruled out timing 
chain failure as the timing chain was intact. Had that information been available to our 
investigator he may have reached a different view.
I cant comment on advice Mrs P was given by a third party that she should have been able 
to enjoy for at least six years. We do expect cars to be fit for purpose at the point of sale and 
that expectation is that cars are of durable quality. We consider age and mileage of the car 
at the point of sale. But we do need evidence that the issue is one that , in this case, RCI , is 
responsible for and unfortunately due to the time that has  passed between Mrs P getting the 
car and the fault arising this onus was on her.
I dont accept Mrs Ps assertion that RCI unduly delayed Mrs Ps complaint by asking for an 
independent inspection to be carried out. It offered to do this and, as I understand it this offer 
wasnt taken up. That doesnt accord with what Mrs P now tells me, but if she was happy for 
an independent inspection I dont see why RCI wouldnt have carried it out at the time it 
offered it.
The further delay to Mrs P s complaint was because I asked RCI to arrange the independent 
inspection to try to identify what caused the engine failure. I appreciate that caused further 
delay to Mrs Ps complaint being resolved and I balanced that in my mind when I made the 
request to RCI.
I share Mrs Ps disappointment that the engine wasnt stripped down to be inspected and I 
dont know why that was. As I explained in my provisional decision I did consider asking RCI 
to have the vehicle further examined but I felt , and still do feel, that would have been 
unreasonable. Given the time that had elapsed between Mrs P getting the car and the 
engine failure occurring the onus was on her, not RCI, to prove there was a point-of-sale 
issue for which RCI was responsible. Mrs P could, of course, have chosen to have her own 
independent inspection carried out had she wanted to.
I accept Mrs P doesnt accept water ingress might have cause the problem but that was a 
potential cause of engine failure identified by the independent report and I found that 
reasonable.Similarly, the suggestion that the wrong fuel had been used in the car was a suggestion 
made by the second dealership Mrs P took the car to. I think it was reasonable to note this in 
my provisional decision although I also noted that the dealership said it couldnt confirm this. 
Mrs P has quoted elements from one of the dealerships she took her car to with its 
comments that a properly maintained engine shouldnt fail so soon and suggested that there 
might be a design or manufacturing fault. I noted these comments in my provisional decision 
including that dealership hadnt actually examined the car. But I dont think Mrs P can expect 
me to ignore the points that dont support her case and just focus on the ones that do. To be 
fair to both sides I have to look at all the information provided.
I have noted Mrs Ps comments over the gesture of goodwill that RCI made. Gestures of 
goodwill are typically made on the basis that no liability is accepted for the issue in question. 
As such its entirely down to RCI as to what gesture it chose to make. 
I understand RCI is still prepared to offer a contribution of 25% towards the parts costs of the 
engine replacement. I leave it to Mrs P to decide if she wishes to take this offer up or not.
I have taken the comments  Mrs P has made in response to my provisional decision very 
seriously. Unfortunately, I dont feel she has given me any new information to consider that 
would lead me to feel I should change the conclusions of my provisional decision which is 
that there is no evidence of a point-of-sale issue for which RCI I responsible..
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman