DRN-2691821
The complaint
Mr F complains about an account he held with NewDay Ltd.
What happened
On 12 February 2021 I issued my provisional decision on this case. I came to a different 
outcome to our investigator, and so I wanted to give both parties a chance to respond.
I have copied my provisional decision below, and this also forms part of this final decision.
What happened
In 2017, Mr F took out a credit facility with NewDay. Mr F became behind on his repayments
and so NewDay told Mr F it was going to close his account, and so essentially the account
would become repayment only.
Mr F then repaid the full balance on the account. NewDay updated Mr Fs credit file to show
that the balance on the account was zero, but it didnt update his credit records to show that
the account had been settled.
Mr F complained to NewDay. NewDay acknowledged that it had given him some information
during a phone call that might have been confusing and so it offered him £40 to apologise.
Mr F wasnt happy with NewDays offer. He thought that £1000 would be a fairer amount to
settle the complaint. He says that as a result of NewDay not updating his credit records, he
wasnt able to get other credit facilities and so he had to take out high cost credit to
consolidate some other credit cards he had.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr F. He thought that NewDay ought to pay Mr F a
total of £150 compensation for the mistake it made. He thought that Mr F had experienced
distress and inconvenience as a result of the mistake. And he thought that NewDay had
contributed to Mr F not being able to take out other credit facilities (other than the high cost
credit I have already mentioned).
Mr F agreed that £150 was enough to settle the complaint, but NewDay didnt agree with
this. It said that it didnt agree the account not showing as settled on his credit file would
have meant he only had the option of taking out high cost credit. Its said that Mr F had other
negative information on his credit file that it thinks was more likely to have contributed to this.
Because NewDay didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to make a decision on the
matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And having done so, I dont intend to
uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Both parties agree that Mr Fs credit file information wasnt updated when it should have
been. So I now have to decide, what needs to happen to put Mr F back in the position he
would have been in had the error nor occurred and to think about what impact, if any, this
had on Mr F.
Mr F says that by NewDay not updating his credit file to show the account as being settled
has led to him not being able to take credit out elsewhere. But I dont currently agree with
this.
I havent seen any evidence that supports Mr Fs view that the reason he was unable to take
out credit elsewhere was as a result of his account not showing as settled. The account was
correctly showing as a zero balance, and so I dont think this information would be
considered negative to other lenders.
I have seen a copy of Mr Fs credit report. I can see that there have been missed payments
for some accounts and a default applied with a different account. I think it more likely that if
Mr F has had declined credit applications, and the declines are as a result of information on
his credit report, then I think it is more likely to be down to the other information showing on
his credit file  and not NewDay failing to update the account to show as settled. It follows
that I dont think that Mr F has lost out here.
Ive thought about the overall impact that this had on Mr F. While I appreciate that having to
contact NewDay about the information might have been a slight inconvenience, I havent
seen any information to suggest that NewDay delayed doing this. And the information is now
showing as correct on his credit file. So I think NewDay have put Mr F back in the position he
would have been in had the error not occurred.
Based on everything Ive seen, while I agree that NewDay had made a mistake, I think it has
already put things right for Mr F. So I wont be asking it to do anything more.
Mr F responded to my provisional decision to say that he didnt accept the findings in my 
provisional decision. He says he settled a lot of his accounts with one payment, and by doing 
this improved his credit score.
NewDay responded to my provisional decision to say it didnt have anything further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint.
I have taken on board Mr Fs comments. He says that paying off the balance and settling the 
account with one payment would improve his credit score. He said hes had confirmation 
from a credit reference agency about this. I dont doubt that what Mr F says. But for me to be 
able to agree that NewDays error in not settling the account led to Mr F having to take out 
high cost credit elsewhere, Id need to be satisfied that what NewDay had done wrong, 
directly impacted Mr Fs ability to obtain credit. And I still havent seen anything that shows 
me this.
I dont think that an account not showing as settled when the balance was showing as zero 
would have a significant impact on a credit file. And as I said in my provisional decision, there was other information on Mr Fs credit file that I think is more likely to be the cause of 
him not being able to obtain credit elsewhere.
So, my decision on this case remains the same. While I agree that NewDay ought to have 
recorded the account as being settled sooner than it did, I dont think this has had a big 
impact on Mr F.
However, NewDay did offer Mr F £40 for some information it gave him. I think its fair that 
NewDay still pays this to Mr F if it hasnt already. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman