DRN-3447249
The complaint
Mr H complains that he was lent to irresponsibly and that United Kash Limited (UKL) is 
responsible for this.
What happened
Mr H took out a number of loans with a company that for the purposes of this decision Ill call 
D. After taking the latest loan, Mr H became unemployed and fell into debt, so entered a 
debt management plan (DMP). This enabled him to pay a single monthly amount to the DMP 
administrator and they in turn shared the payments amongst his creditors.
In February 2017 D appointed liquidators and it was dissolved in July 2018. As part of the 
winding up of D its book of accounts was sold to UKL. 
In June 2020, following him seeing an article on the TV about unaffordable lending, Mr H 
contacted UKL claiming that the loans he had taken out with D were unaffordable and asked 
it to refund all interest and charges he had paid plus statutory interest. He also asked it to 
remove any negative information relating to these loans from his credit file.
UKL responded explaining that although it now owned Mr Hs account, as it wasnt the 
original lender it wasnt responsible for the lending decisions D had made. It said it would 
normally refer him back to the original lender to address this but as D was no longer in 
existence it referred Mr H to this service.
Our investigator didnt think this was a complaint that should be upheld. In summary he said 
that he understood that Mr H felt that as the current owner of the account UKL should bear 
the responsibility of the original lender. But that this service couldnt reasonably hold it 
accountable for the actions of another business. UKL didnt write the underwriting criteria for 
the loans that Mr H took with D, nor did it make the decision to lend to Mr H and as such it 
would be unfair to ask it to answer for those.
Mr H disagreed; a summary of his response is below.
 I would like the ombudsman to look into how the dissolving of a company and selling 
accounts is a way for a company to wipe its hands of any or indeed all future claims 
of affordability, mis-selling etc. 
I genuinely feel this has been the case here to avoid such claims. And if its not 
against the law, then its morally reprehensible for companies to conduct themselves 
this way. How can it be right for a company to purchase an account and have no 
responsibility for the redress.
UKL has caused my mental health and general wellbeing to suffer.
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same outcome as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons, Ill explain.
Firstly, Id like to explain to Mr H that the role of this service is to investigate individual 
complaints. While I appreciate his wider concerns, that businesses selling their books on to 
other companies being a way to get out of any claims that could be made against it. This is 
beyond the remit of this service and isnt something I can consider. I can only look at if the 
actions UKL has taken when dealing with Mr H are fair and in line with what wed expect.
In this case UKL purchased Mr Hs account along with other accounts from D. The money 
the DMP administrator used to forward to D previously, now went to UKL. In its capacity as 
the debt owner UKL is entitled to pursue Mr H for the money owed on his account. Mr H has 
not disputed that the loans taken were his, so the legitimacy of the account is not in question 
here.
I understand Mr Hs strength of feeling that UKL should take ownership of his complaint and 
bear the responsibility that D had. But UKL didnt buy D, it only bought the accounts that 
were active from D. By active I mean accounts where money was owing. As such UKL didnt 
take over the responsibilities D had as a lender. So, any requirements about lending 
responsibly or making sure the correct checks were carried out before the lending took place 
remained the responsibility of D. I appreciate that as D is no longer in existence this leaves 
Mr H with no one to bear that responsibility. But I cannot fairly hold UKL accountable for the 
decision D made to lend to Mr H. 
I know Mr H has said that UKL has caused his mental health and wellbeing to suffer and Im 
sorry to hear he has been through a tough time. He hasnt made any reference to this 
service or the UKL how it has done this other than not agreeing to take on the responsibility 
for Ds actions. So based on what I have seen I cant say that UKL has treated Mr H unfairly. 
If Mr H feels there is something UKL has done other than this then he should of course let 
UKL know so it can have the chance to put things right.
I know Mr H will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying 
to resolve his dispute with UKL can do for him.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman