DRN-1601690
The complaint
Mr K says Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream (Lending Stream), irresponsibly lent 
to him. Mr K says that Lending Stream didnt carry out reasonable and proportionate checks 
before it lent to him, and if it had, it would have realised he was reliant on short-term loans  
he was already borrowing from other short-term credit providers and was trapped in a cycle 
of debt. 
What happened
This complaint is about two short-term loans Lending Stream provided to Mr K between 
August and November 2018. Mr Ks borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 29/08/2018 23/11/2018 6    £500.00 £163.73
2 29/11/2018 24/05/2019 6 £1,240.00 £403.53
 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint and thought that taking into account 
Mr Ks known circumstances at the times the loans were given, there wasnt anything to 
suggest that he wasnt able to sustainably make the loan repayments. 
Mr K disagreed and as the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me to 
decide in my role as ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
that Mr K could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages 
of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint and Ill explain why. 
Lending Stream has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving any of 
the borrowing. It asked Mr K about his employment status and he confirmed he was 
employed and had a monthly income of around £2,700. Lending Stream also asked about 
his monthly living costs and Mr K declared these as £1,425 (for loan one) and £1,150 (for 
loan two) per month. So, this left Mr K with a disposable income of £1,275 and £1,600 
respectively. This would suggest that the monthly repayments were affordable on a pounds 
and pence basis. 
I know Mr K disagrees with the expenditure figures that were used by Lending Stream. But I 
have no reason to doubt that was the information used at the time when Lending Stream 
checked the affordability of the repayments for Mr K. 
Lending Stream also searched Mr Ks credit file which didnt show there were any recent 
adverse entries that would have caused it to have taken a more in-depth review of his 
finances. I think it was reasonable for Lending Stream to have relied upon this information 
bearing in mind these were the first loans that Mr K had taken from Lending Stream. So, in 
these circumstances, I dont agree it was irresponsible to lend to Mr K.
I accept its possible that Mr Ks financial circumstances werent correctly reflected in either 
the information he provided, or the other information Lending Stream obtained, such as the 
results of its credit checks. And Mr Ks actual financial position  if this was the case  may 
well have been apparent if further information  such as bank statement or more in-depth 
credit checks  had been obtained. And Mr K has given us a copy of his credit report that he 
obtained, and I see it does show he was using other short-term credit providers. But this isnt 
evident from the information that Lending Stream obtained from its own resources at such an 
early stage in the borrowing relationship. 
Lending Stream could only make a decision based on the information it had available at the 
time. And as it was in the early stages of a lending relationship with Mr K, I dont think it had 
reached the stage where there was a greater risk of the loans being unsustainable for Mr K. In these circumstances, I dont think Lending Stream needed to take further steps to 
verify the information provided  such as asking Mr K for evidence of his income and 
outgoings which Lending Stream could have gathered from his bank statement or copies of 
any bills, as examples. 
Im only able to uphold a complaint where I can safely say a lender has done something 
wrong. And in this case, I think Lending Stream carried out reasonable checks even though I 
appreciate that the information provided by Mr K differs from what was gathered by Lending 
Stream when it lent to him. 
But Lending Stream had asked Mr K for information about his income and expenditure and it 
carried out credit checks. Given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ks 
circumstances at the time and his history with Lending Stream, I dont think it would have 
been proportionate to ask him for the amount of information that may have been needed to 
show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the information Mr K provided 
or the information Lending Stream should have been aware of, which meant it would have 
been proportionate to start verifying what Mr K was saying.
So, I cant say Lending Stream was wrong to have approved loans one and two for Mr K. I 
know Mr K will be very disappointed with my decision. But I hope what I have said has 
explained to him how and why I reached that decision. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman