DRN-4075636
The complaint
Mr K complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) lent to him irresponsibly when it 
gave him a loan that he says he couldnt afford.
What happened
Mr K took out an unsecured loan for £25,000 with Tesco in August 2016. The loan was 
repayable over seven years at a cost of £437.08 a month.
 
Mr K says that Tesco failed to conduct sufficient checks on his individual financial position. 
He thinks Tesco was negligent in allowing him to take the loan. He asks that Tesco pay back 
all interest and any charges he paid and to pay him compensation.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. Mr K disagreed.
Our investigator reviewed the further points Mr K made but concluded it didnt make a 
difference to their view. As Mr K didnt agree with the investigators view his complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mr Ks complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as that of our investigator. I will explain 
why I have reached this decision. Mr K make detailed submissions, all of which I have read 
and considered. I will only refer to those points which are relevant specifically to the matter 
of whether Tesco did anything wrong when it gave him the loans.
Tesco needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr K
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mr Ks income and expenditure. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that Tesco should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr K. These factors include things like 
understanding Mr Ks income, the total amount Mr K borrowed, and the length of time Mr K 
had been indebted. There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of 
lending itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable. For smaller sums 
and in the early days of a lending relationship it may be reasonable for Tesco to have done 
fewer checks. It follows that for larger sums, over a longer period, more checks may have 
been necessary and proportionate.
In Mr Ks case, Tesco has provided copies of the information it found out before it lent to Mr 
K. It shows there was no adverse information about how he managed his finances. He had 
no arrears, CCJs or bankruptcy. He had a good credit reference score and his overall 
indebtedness was low, although Tesco noted that his debt to income ratio was at the high 
end of the tolerance. Tesco conducted an assessment of Mr Ks income and expenditure 
using information Mr K provided about his income and an assessment of his likely monthly 
expenditure using Office of National Statistics data. 
Tescos assessment took into account that Mr K was intending to use the loan to repay a 
large part of his existing debts of around £29,000. He was paying around £490 a month for 
those debts. The new monthly repayment would have been less than that, although it 
wouldnt have covered all of his outstanding debts.
Given the size of the loan and the long period over which it was intended to be repaid, I think 
Tesco ought to have done more to establish that Mr Ks financial circumstances were as 
they first appeared. And I think it needed to assure itself that Mr K really was intending to 
pay off the majority of his existing debts with the loan as he had stated. 
Although I consider that the checks Tesco did werent sufficient to be assured that the 
lending to Mr K was affordable, this doesnt necessarily mean that I should uphold Mr Ks 
whole complaint. I need to consider what Tesco would have found out if it had done the 
checks I think were necessary and proportionate. 
Mr K has explained that he had been experiencing very difficult health circumstances before 
he took the loan out and his income had fluctuated as a result of him taking time off work. I 
have great sympathy for the difficulties Mr K was experiencing. Mr K has provided a number 
of bank statements and payslips from the period before he took the loan out. I can see from 
these that his average income over the preceding three months was lower than he declared 
when he applied for the loan, and it seems that in the week before he applied for the loan 
that he was off sick from work and didnt receive any pay at all. But at that point, I dont have 
evidence to support that this was a long-term position or that Mr K informed Tesco that he 
was off sick and didnt have an income, or that he anticipated this would be a continuing 
situation. Up to relatively shortly before Mr K took out the loan his financial circumstances 
were close to those understood by Tesco at the point of application. In addition, the 
statements for both accounts Mr K has provided show that he was in credit throughout the 
three month period leading up to the loan. 
So, while I appreciate that Mr Ks finances were worse than he declared to Tesco, I dont 
think even if Tesco had known hed had some time off sick with no income that it would have 
considered it inappropriate to lend to him. I think Tesco would just have observed that over 
the three months preceding the loan application Mr K was not in overdraft and was 
managing his income and essential expenditure well. I dont think it would be reasonable for 
Tesco to have made specific enquiries into his health at the time of application and it was for 
Mr K to make Tesco aware of any potential vulnerabilities that he had, which it seems he did 
not do before he took out the loan. 
I have also considered whether Tesco ought to have made sure that the money from the 
loan would actually be used to pay off the other lending, as Mr K had stated he would. 
Otherwise, Mr K could have spent the money elsewhere and doubled his debt (and thus the 
repayments he needed to make each month). I understand that Mr K had taken a large loan 
and a smaller loan at the end of 2015 totalling £20,000. His bank statements show that he 
did, in fact, pay off the larger loan as well as paying off an outstanding credit card balance. 
He transferred the remaining funds to another personal bank account. This means that he 
wasnt making the repayments to the first large loan, meaning that his total additional repayments each month were less than £70 extra (and may have been less if he also paid 
off his other loan, too). 
So, while I think Tesco ought to have checked this, because without that repayment the new 
lending would have been unaffordable, I dont think it makes a difference for Mr Ks 
complaint because he did, indeed, pay off most of his outstanding debt. 
On balance, while I do not think Tesco did all the necessary and proportionate checks before 
it lent to Mr K, I dont think if it had done those checks it would have made a difference to the 
decision to lend to him. Unfortunately for Mr K, this means I do not uphold his complaint.
It may be helpful to explain to Mr K what would likely have happened in principle if I had 
upheld his complaint. In such circumstances I would have sought to place Mr K back in the 
position he would have been if he hadnt taken the loan. This would normally involve 
directing a refund of interest and charges paid during the loan term. However, in Mr Ks 
circumstances I dont think this would have been fair. I say this because Mr K was using the 
borrowing to pay off other lending (likely at a higher rate of interest than that of his Tesco 
loan). Its highly probable that he was actually in a better position by taking the Tesco loan 
than if he hadnt because he was swapping higher cost lending for lower cost lending. So, to 
put him back in the position he would have been in if he hadnt been given the loan wouldnt 
involve any financial compensation. 
I understand this will be deeply disappointing for Mr K, but I do not think he lost out as a 
result of anything Tesco did wrong.
I understand that Mr K has been struggling financially. I understand that meeting the 
repayments has been difficult. But I am unable to fairly say that Tesco acted unfairly, so I do 
not uphold Mr Ks complaint. It follows that Tesco does not need to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint and so Tesco Personal Finance PLC does not have to do 
anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman