DRN-4044487
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard handled 
his request for money back in relation to change fees he paid to an airline using his 
Barclaycard credit card. 
What happened
Mr T paid for return airline tickets in September 2021 for himself and another passenger 
using his Barclaycard. The initial flight booking was set to depart on 14 January 2022 and 
return on 5 February 2022 and cost around £1,950. In November 2021 Mr T paid £482.20 to 
change the return flights to a week later (12 February 2022) using his Barclaycard. I can see 
two transactions for £241.10 for this on his statement. 
On 24 November 2021 the airline contacted Mr T to let him know his outbound flight had 
been cancelled. It gave Mr T the option of rebooking onto another flight or claiming a refund. 
Mr T was able to rebook the outbound flight for the following day (15 January 2022), without 
charge. It also looks like he was able to push back the return flight by a day to 13 February 
2022, without charge. He asked the airline for a refund of the change fee hed paid of 
£482.20. 
The airline responded to say it refused Mr Ts request for compensation because it told him 
about the cancellation at least 14 days before he was due to depart. And under EU 
legislation it wasnt liable to pay compensation for this. It also said when a booking has to be 
amended it has to charge the applicable fare on that particular day in addition to the paid 
fare. This could be higher or lower depending on the fare applicable for that day. So when 
customers amend tickets theyre charged the difference in fares, administration costs, and 
other overheads. 
Mr T wasnt happy with the response so contacted Barclaycard to put in a claim. Barclaycard 
said it hadnt seen evidence Mr T wasnt expected to pay the change fee to the airline. So it 
didnt agree to refund it. It also said it had responded to the complaint within a reasonable 
amount of time. But it did credit Mr Ts account with £25 because it mis-advised him on a call 
in December 2021 that the complaint was closed. 
As Mr T remained unhappy, he referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
make any recommendations. He said the change fee Mr T paid was in line with the airlines 
terms and conditions. And he didnt think Mr T had been overcharged or was due a refund. 
Mr T didnt agree. He said its not fair he paid a change fee for a flight that was cancelled. 
And he was unhappy he didnt receive compensation for the 24-hour delay caused by the 
cancellation. He requested compensation for the delay and the change fee he says was 
taken for a cancelled flight. 
I issued a provisional decision that said:
I first want to say Im sorry to hear Mr Ts flights were impacted. And I want to thank him for 
taking the time to refer his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Im not going to comment 
on the compensation Barclaycard paid Mr T for the mis-advice in December 2021 as this 
doesnt seem to form part of his complaint. 
Im considering whether Barclaycard has acted fairly and reasonably in the way it handled 
Mr Ts request for getting his money back. In situations like this, Barclaycard can consider 
raising a chargeback or assessing a claim under section 75. 
Section 75 makes Barclaycard jointly liable for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by 
the supplier (under certain conditions). The value of the transactions falls within the financial 
limits. There also needs to be a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement in place. Having 
two parties involved can impact the arrangement. But Im first going think about 
Barclaycards liability for breach of contract because thats what Mr T has complained about. 
I think the key things to decide are whether the airline breached the contract in relation to the 
transaction for the change fee, or if it breached the contract in relation to paying 
compensation due to the cancelled flight.
Looking at events in sequence, Mr T paid the change fee so he could push back the return 
flight back a week. The airline said the payment covered the difference in fares, 
administration costs, and other overheads. I dont know what the breakdown for the two 
payments of £241.10 was. But presumably the air fare was higher on the return dates Mr T 
chose. The change went through without issue so I dont consider there was an initial breach 
of contract in relation to the change fees that Barclaycard would be liable for. 
The airline told Mr T in November 2021 the outbound flight had been cancelled. The airlines 
terms and conditions say when this happens the consumer can choose to change their flight 
or request a refund. It also says it would pay compensation if required to do so by law. Mr T 
was able to push back the outbound flight by a day without cost. And, from what Ive seen, 
he was also able to push back the return flight by a day as well. So any breach of contract 
here in relation to the initial transaction for the flights was remedied shortly afterwards. So I 
dont find Barclaycard is liable to do anything else. 
Mr T has also requested compensation for the cancelled flight. He had to take a flight the 
following day. I can understand why hes disappointed and why this might have affected his 
plans. The section of the airlines website relating to flight cancellations notifies customers of 
their rights under EC Regulation No 261/2004. But it also says this doesnt give the customer 
any additional contractual rights. The airline set out Mr Ts rights under the regulations and 
its obligations. But they didnt make a contractual promise to him to pay compensation in the 
event of the cancelled flight. I dont think the regulations were implied into Mr Ts contract 
with the airline. So there cant be breach of contract here for this that Barclaycard is liable 
for. In any event, from looking at the regulations relating to compensation for cancellation it 
looks like Mr T would have only been due compensation if he was informed of the 
cancellation less than 14 days before the planned departure date. The airline gave Mr T 
more notice than this. 
For completeness, Ive also thought about whether Barclaycard were fair not to raise a 
chargeback. The process is subject to rules made by the relevant card schemes. And its not 
a guaranteed way of getting money back. But for similar reasons Ive set out above, I dont 
consider there was a chargeback reason code that would have had a reasonable prospect of 
success. Mr T was able to change the flight after paying the change fee. He received what 
he paid for. And he was able to rearrange the cancelled flight, so he received the service he 
paid for. 
Therefore, while I can appreciate why Mr T is unhappy, I do have to consider Barclaycards 
obligations as a provider of financial services under the specific card protections that are available. Its important to note Barclaycard isnt the supplier here. For the reasons given 
above, Im not intending to direct it to take any action. And I therefore dont need to consider 
whether the necessary DCS agreement is in place for all the transactions either. 
Mr T didnt agree with the decision. He said the airline charged extra for changing a flight 
and then cancelled it without returning the charge. He has provided evidence the return flight 
he paid to change to had also been cancelled. He said thered been a breach of contract. 
Barclaycard agreed with the decision and had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to thank both parties for taking the time to respond to my provisional decision. Mr T 
has focussed on the change fee charge as opposed to compensation for the cancellation. So 
thats what Ill focus on next. 
Mr T has now sent us details that indicates the outbound and return flight were cancelled. So 
I can understand better that hes unhappy he paid to change to a flight that was ultimately 
cancelled. 
Ive thought about whether this changes my decision. But I think again I need to look at the 
sequence of events. 
Mr T originally booked a three-week trip that arrived on Saturday 15 January 2022 and 
returned on Saturday 5 February 2022. He decided to change that to a four-week trip and 
paid the extra £482.20 to return on Saturday 12 February 2022. The airline explained the 
extra cost was as a result of being charged the difference in fares, administration costs, and 
other overheads. While Ive not been given a detailed breakdown, from what I can see in the 
email confirmation, £420 of this was for the new fare and 20p was for Tax/Fee/Charge. So 
the new return flight cost more than the original return flight. And Mr T was happy to pay this 
amount.
The airline cancelled the flights for Mr Ts four-week trip. And from looking at the 
confirmation email the airline offered Mr T the chance to rebook onto the next available flight, 
or to claim a refund. I can see Mr T opted to take the next available flight, which meant the 
four-week trip arrived and left a day later than intended (the Sunday).
Had Mr T decided to claim a refund, and he wasnt reimbursed the change fee, I think hed 
have grounds to claim that money back as a result of the breach of contract. But he decided 
to take the next available flight, thereby remedying any breach of contract.
Even had Mr T not originally changed the trip from three to four weeks, if the three-week trip 
flights had been cancelled, its not clear he would have been able to change the trip to four 
weeks without charge because he was only given the option of a refund or to take the next 
available flight  which would have been 6 February 2022 for the original trip). I think he 
always was likely going to incur an extra cost for pushing the return flight back a week. 
Ive not seen anything to demonstrate the airline promised or was contractually required to 
refund Mr T the change fee in the event he accepted the next available flight after a 
cancellation. 
Taking everything into account, I can understand why Mr T is unhappy. But he agreed to pay the change fee for a return flight a week later than originally scheduled. He didnt request a 
refund when the outbound and return flights were cancelled. He requested the next available 
flights, which were a day later. So hes ended up in the position he wanted to be in. And any 
breach of contract has been remedied. 
Therefore, while I sympathise, for the reasons given above, including those in my provisional 
decision, I dont find I have the grounds to direct Barclaycard to take further action.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman