DRN-3625929
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt refunded payments made to a cryptocurrency 
firm that she says were unauthorised. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
This complaint concerns two payments that were sent to a cryptocurrency exchange. One of 
these payments was funded by a transfer from Miss Ts credit card.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In order to uphold Miss Ts complaint I would have to find it more likely these payments 
were made by someone else on her account, without her authority or knowledge.
Miss T has provided an explanation for how a third party may have been able to 
compromise her laptop, she says someone downloaded remote access software when it 
was being repaired. But she hasnt been able to explain how they also got access to her 
mobile to complete the payments. Shes acknowledged she had this and was the one 
who took the calls from Lloyds.
Miss T has reported to Lloyds that her partner searched their laptop and it did show the 
activity thats in dispute. However they have also said the laptop wasnt switched on at 
the time of the transactions. Its unclear how a third party was able to use remote access 
the laptop and complete transactions on it, with the laptops actual IP address, if it wasnt 
switched on. But as above, in any event, other steps were needed to complete the 
payments. 
Due to the nature of the payments Lloyds has shown that it made calls to Miss Ts phone 
as part of enhanced authentication. Miss T says she answered the calls but then hung 
up without completing any steps. However Lloyds system shows the calls were 
successful in authenticating the payments, suggesting steps were completed in the calls.
Considering what the system shows, both payments went through successfully and the 
calls did go to Miss Ts mobile, it does seem most likely the necessary steps were 
followed. I can also see it was her mobile that received the texts associated with these 
payments.
I accept Miss T says she wasnt the one that made or authorised these payments. But 
she hasnt been able to explain how her accounts and mobile phone were compromised 
in such a way that these transactions couldve been made by an unauthorised third 
party. Lloyds hasnt upheld her case on that basis  and I cant say this outcome is unfair 
considering it still cant be explained how this happened. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman