DRN-3008527
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain Fairmead Insurance Limited have unfairly reinstated their pet 
insurance policy. 
Mr and Mrs B have also raised concerns with how Fairmead have obtained their new bank 
details.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
All references to Fairmead also include its agents   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B have raised other complaints regarding this issue. My decision is regarding the 
complaint against Fairmead, so any references to anyone outside of Fairmead is for 
contextual purposes only.
Having reviewed everything, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for 
these reasons:
Mr and Mrs B hadnt provided details of their new account to Fairmead, so I can 
understand why they have concerns about how it obtained them
After cancelling the direct debit and policy with Fairmead, Mr and Mrs B changed 
their bank accounts through the switching service
I can see the current account switch services website says that when a payment is 
requested from an old account it is automatically redirected to the new account. So 
when Fairmead requested the direct debit from Mr and Mrs Bs old bank, the 
switching service redirected it automatically to Mr and Mrs Bs new bank
However, Ive also considered whether the payment should have been attempted by 
Fairmead
Mr and Mrs B said they had previously cancelled their direct debit with Fairmead as 
they no longer wanted cover. They said they explained this to Fairmead around 
January 2020
Ive seen a list of Direct Debits provided to Mr and Mrs Bs new bank when they 
switched accounts, and I can see the Direct Debit wasnt included. So I think the 
direct debit had been cancelled, and Mr and Mrs B had made Fairmead aware they 
didnt want the policy, so it shouldnt have been reinstated
Fairmead acknowledged system errors had resulted in them losing information 
around lapsed policies. It wrote to Mr and Mrs B in November 2020, inviting them to 
reinstate the policy but Im not persuaded this wouldve led Mr and Mrs B to believe 
the policy had been reinstated
It was only when Mr and Mrs B received a letter thanking them for providing their 
bank details that they became aware of the issue and contacted Fairmead
I can see Fairmead cancelled the policy and refunded any premiums taken, so it has 
put Mr and Mrs B back into the position they wouldve been had it not made the error
Ive noted Mr and Mrs B comments regarding the level of compensation. But our 
service is not a regulator. When our service makes compensation awards it is to 
acknowledge the inconvenience caused by a financial business when we feel 
something has gone wrong, not as a punishment
I think Fairmead should pay Mr and Mrs B £100 compensation as this fairly reflects 
the inconvenience they have been caused
For these reasons I uphold this complaint
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
To put things right, I direct Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs B £100 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman