DRN-2943695
The complaint
Miss M complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money acted 
irresponsibly by granting loans that were unaffordable for her.
What happened
In September 2018, Miss M took out a loan with Madison for £2,500. She took out another 
loan for £2,500 in January 2019. Miss M took out a third loan with Madison in July 2019, part 
of this was used to pay off the second loan, with the remaining £1,150 as a further advance.
In early 2020 Miss M complained to Madison that it had lent to her irresponsibly. She said it 
shouldnt have given her the loans as they were unaffordable. 
Madison said it was satisfied it had acted correctly when it approved her loan applications. 
Miss M remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Miss Ms complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
didnt think the checks Madison had carried out before granting the loans were sufficient. But 
she didnt feel Miss M hadnt provided enough information for her to determine what Madison 
would have seen if it had conducted proportionate checks.
Miss M disagreed with our investigators view. She said the fact shed taken out 18 short 
term high interest loans by the time shed taken out the third loan should have been enough 
to flag financial issues to Madison. She didnt think it was necessary to provide the other 
bank statements our investigator had asked for when she had provided statements from her 
main account. 
I issued a provisional decision on 25 June 2021 where I explained why I intended to uphold 
Miss Ms complaint in part. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Miss Ms complaint in part. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance required Madison to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Miss M could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable 
manner.  
The checks needed to be borrower-focused. It wasnt enough for Madison to think only about 
the likelihood of getting its money back. It also had to ensure that making the repayments 
wouldnt cause Miss M undue difficulty or have adverse consequences for her.  
There isnt a set list of checks that lenders need to carry out, but they should be 
proportionate, taking a number of factors into consideration. These factors include the 
amount, type and cost of the credit as well as the personal circumstances of the consumer.
The loans had a high interest rate (99.9% APR), meaning that Miss M was required to pay 
back significantly more than shed borrowed. Madison was required to establish whether 
Miss M could do so sustainably. In other words, that she would be able to do so without 
undue difficulty, while being able to meet other commitments and without having to borrow 
further.
Miss M says that her main concern is about Madisons decision to approve the third loan. As 
her initial complaint relates to all three loans, I have also considered Madisons decisions to 
approve the first two loans. 
Loans 1 and 2
In her application for the first two loans Miss M gave her income as £2,150. While Madison 
doesnt appear to have asked for wage slips to verify Miss Ms income, I think its reasonable 
for it to have relied on the information she gave it. 
Miss M said shed worked for her employer for 0 months in her first two loan applications. I 
think Madison should have questioned this. But Miss M has indicated that she was working 
for the same employer in all three loan applications. This would suggest the information on, 
at least the second application, was incorrect. In a telephone conversation that took place 
when Miss M took out the first loan, she told Madison that she wasnt aware of any changes 
in the future that would make the monthly instalments unaffordable for her. 
Miss M told Madison that her residential status was lodging and her outgoings for home 
were £300 a month. In the first loan application, the only other expense listed was £550 for 
card and loan repayments. Nothing was showing for any other outgoings (food, utilities 
etc). In the second loan application she said her card and loan repayments were £650, 
food was £100, and utilities was £100.
Madison says it didnt rely solely on the income and expenditure details Miss M had 
provided. It says it also used reasonable average figures. But it hasnt explained what these 
reasonable average figures were. 
Madison says it also checked Miss Ms credit file and has provided us with the information it 
reviewed at the time. The credit files show several historical defaults. But these had occurred 
more than three years before the loan applications were agreed and had all been satisfied. 
The credit files show Miss M was up to date with her repayments for her existing credit 
commitments. 
Im not persuaded Madisons checks for the first two loans were proportionate. I think it 
should have asked further questions about Miss Ms employment duration. Its also unclear, 
from the information provided, whether it took adequate steps to verify Miss Ms expenditure.
 
In these circumstances, our usual approach is to consider what Madison would likely have 
seen if it had carried out proportionate checks. Our investigator has asked Miss M to send us 
bank statements to give us an indication of what Madison would likely have discovered if it 
had requested further information at the time. But Miss M hasnt sent us any statements from 
before the first two loans were granted. So, I havent seen sufficient information for me to 
conclude that Madisons lending decisions were irresponsible.
Loan 3When she applied for the third loan, Miss M once again gave her income as £2,150. She 
said her outgoings for home were £300, utilities was £100, food was £100 and card and 
loan payments were £650.
Miss Ms credit file shows she had taken out 18 more loans since her previous loan with 
Madison six months before. Her total debt had almost doubled to £26,802. This suggests 
she was heavily reliant on credit. It also shows Miss Ms credit commitments were far higher 
than what shed declared on her loan application. Her monthly loan and home credit 
repayment commitments add up to over £1,200.  She also had seven credit cards, with 
balances totalling almost £5,000. She was overdrawn on her current account by over £600.
The information from the credit file shows that more than two thirds of Miss Ms salary was 
committed to paying off her existing debt. After taking into account the other outgoings listed 
on her application and her loan repayment to Madison, she would have had very little left 
over for other expenses.
Madison hasnt explained how it verified Miss Ms other expenditure, but I dont think whats 
listed on the application would account for all of her outgoings. Theres nowhere to state 
outgoings for travel, toiletries or entertainment, for example.
I think it was clear from the information that was available to Madison when it granted the 
third loan that Miss Ms outgoings were likely to be higher than her income. It was also 
apparent, from the information on the credit file, that she was having problems managing her 
finances. I think Madison ought reasonably to have realised that Miss M would most likely 
have had difficulty making her loan repayments without borrowing elsewhere. Given that 
Miss M was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay her loan repayments, I think it was 
irresponsible of Madison to grant her the third loan.
I set out what I intended to direct Madison to do to put things right. And I gave both parties 
the opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider 
before I issued my final decision.
Responses
Miss M didnt respond with any additional information or comments. Madison said it didnt 
have anything further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything else for me to consider, I see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Miss M to repay the principal amount that she borrowed 
because shes had the benefit of that lending. But she has paid interest and charges on a 
loan that shouldnt have been provided to her. So, Madison should:
Remove all interest and charges from the third loan and treat all the payments     
Miss M made as payment towards the capital.If reworking Miss Ms loan account results in her having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Madison should refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date they would have arisen to 
the date of settlement*
If reworking Miss Ms loan account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
Madison should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Miss M for the revised balance.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ms credit file in relation to the 
third loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Madison to deduct tax from this interest. Madison should give 
Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ms complaint and direct Madison CF UK 
Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman