DRN-3854760
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) closed his account in error when he 
was abroad leaving him without access to funds and investments for a week. He says the 
£400 compensation offered by Barclays was insufficient considering the time it took Barclays 
to resolve this and the trouble and upset this caused.  
What happened
Mr S held a number of accounts with Barclays. Barclays received a letter regarding Mr Ss 
late wifes estate and mistakenly marked Mr S as deceased on 15 August. This resulted in 
Barclays making Mr Ss accounts inactive and cancelling standing orders and direct debits. 
Mr S was abroad when this happened and believed that not being able to access his 
account was just a glitch on the system and was able to borrow funds from a friend. 
On return to the UK on 19 August his card was rejected at a supermarket and Mr S 
contacted Barclays. Mr S was told his accounts would be reinstated on the following 
evening, but all his banking facilities werent reinstated until 24 August. Mr S had to make 
several calls and visits in branch to find out what led to the error.
Barclays agreed it made a mistake, apologised and offered Mr S £400 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. Mr S was dis-satisfied with this and brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator looked at all of this and agreed that Barclays had made an error and took 
too long to fix it but thought that the offer of £400 was fair compensation for this.
Mr S disagreed he thinks the £400 offered is insufficient considering his personal 
circumstances and wants compensation of £2,000. Mr S has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Mr S wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way 
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our rules allow me to do that. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And we may award modest compensation. 
This service doesnt supervise, regulate or discipline the businesses we cover. And my role 
isnt to punish or penalise businesses for their performance or behaviour  thats the role of 
the regulator, in this case the Financial Conduct Authority.
In the background Ive given a summary of the events that happened giving rise to Mr Ss 
complaint. Barclays has already accepted it made an error regarding the closing and 
reinstating of Mr Ss accounts. So I dont need to make a finding here. What I need to 
consider is whether the £400 compensation offered to Mr S for the distress and 
inconvenience Barclays errors caused is enough.  
I dont think there is any doubt that the mistakes made by Barclays would have caused 
considerable inconvenience and would have left any one person feeling very distressed. And 
in Mr Ss case as he has explained this was exacerbated by his age, personal circumstances 
and health. 
My understanding is that Barclays have reinstated Mr Ss account and direct debits and 
standing orders at its end. I understand it may be necessary for Mr S to contact companies 
he has direct debits with to check they are still active and that this is a further inconvenience, 
but this is not something Barclays has the power to do. So I think Barclays has done all it 
can do to put Mr Ss banking facilities with it back to where they were before it closed his 
account.
Mr S has told us that he was without access to his account for around a week. Fortunately 
during this time he was able to mitigate this and borrow money from a friend. Mr S says that 
he was also restricted in accessing his investment account which meant he was unable to 
trade in shares. But there is no way of knowing what trades he may or may not have made. 
So though inconvenienced I cant say for sure whether Mr S lost out financially here. 
I sympathise with Mr S and accept that the whole situation inconvenienced him and no doubt 
left him feeling extremely vulnerable. But things dont always go smoothly and as has 
already been explained above our role isnt to penalise or punish a business when a 
business makes a mistake  rather it is to try and put the consumer in back in the position 
they wouldve been in if the mistake had not have happened which Barclays have done as 
well as offering £400 in compensation. 
And taking everything into consideration Im not persuaded that compensation above that 
already offered by Barclays is warranted or going to make a material difference to what 
happened or Mr Ss life. 
So on that basis I think Barclays the £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its mistake is a fair and reasonable way to settle Mr Ss and Im not going to ask it 
to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Mr Ss complaint and I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC 
to pay the fair compensation of £400 to Mr S for distress and inconvenience caused by its 
error. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman