DRN-2926559
The complaint
Mr C complains about delays and poor service from National Savings and Investments 
(NS&I) after he entered his online password incorrectly. 
What happened
On 17 November 2020 Mr C entered the password for online NS&I account incorrectly. Mr C 
has explained he wanted to withdraw money he had with NS&I. Mr C called NS&I and it sent 
him a password reset form. As Mr C didnt receive the form NS&I sent another on 
23 November 2020. Mr C returned the form and a temporary password was sent to him on 
3 December 2020. 
Mr C didnt receive the temporary password so another was issued on 15 December 2020. 
The password was used to access Mr Cs online account on 21 December 2020 and from 
that point Mr C was able to make withdrawals. 
Mr C complained to NS&I about the delay in reactivating his account and the service 
provided. NS&I first offered Mr C £25 and increased the compensation to £100. 
Mr C referred his complaint to this service and explained he had been forced to wait for 
around 45 minutes when calling NS&I. Mr C also said the decision to send correspondence 
in the post before Christmas during a pandemic was poor. Mr C also explained he through 
the service provided by the complaint handler was poor. An investigator looked at Mr Cs 
complaint but felt NS&Is offer of £100 was a fair way to resolve matters. 
Mr C asked to appeal and said there were unnecessary delays and that a manager hadnt 
called him to resolve the complaint. Mr C also explained he was unhappy that NS&I stopped 
corresponding with him about his complaint after it issued its final response in March 2021. 
As Mr C asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach which simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it - I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C has questioned whether sending password reset correspondence in the post in the run 
up to Christmas was reasonable. I take Mr Cs point, but the fist password reset form was 
sent to him on 17 November 2020 and the follow up form was sent about a week later. Mr C 
was then sent a temporary password on 3 December 2020. Whilst broadly in the same 
period, Im not persuaded it was unreasonable for NS&I to use the post at this time of year. I 
note that the second temporary password NS&I sent on 17 December 2020 was used by Mr 
C on 21 December 2020 so it does appear mail was being delivered in a reasonable time. 
That being said, I appreciate letters appear to have been lost in transit. I cant say why they 
werent received by Mr C but I think its more likely than not that NS&I sent them as it claims. 
Mr C says he was happy to take an alternative approach to resetting his password  like 
answering security questions. I appreciate that there are different ways businesses can 
verify customers, but its up to NS&I to decide what approach to take. NS&I says it sends a 
password request form first and then a temporary password to protect the account and Im 
satisfied thats an approach its entitled to take. 
Mr C has also explained that he experienced long wait times when trying to call NS&I. I dont 
doubt what Mr C has told us. NS&I has explained it was under increased pressure at this 
time which impacted waiting times. But I agree with Mr C that being on hold was distressing 
and can understand why he became upset. Ive taken this into account when deciding how 
to fairly resolve Mr Cs complaint. 
I can see Mr C feels the complaint was handled poorly and that he found NS&Is decision to 
end its investigation upsetting. But NS&I issued a number of complaint responses and I think 
its fair to say it did listen to Mr Cs concerns. The compensation offered was increased from 
£25 to £100 in an attempt to resolve the complaint. NS&I provided Mr C with referral rights 
for this service in line with the rules. I understand Mr C will likely find my decision 
disappointing, but I havent found NS&I treated him unfairly when responding to his 
concerns. 
I agree there were some delays and that the service provided at times shouldve been better. 
But I also think its fair to note there were other factors outside NS&Is control that impacted 
what happened. NS&I paid Mr C £100 to reflect the trouble and upset caused. Taking 
everything Mr C has told us into account, Im satisfied £100 fairly reflects the impact of the 
issues raised on him. As Im satisfied NS&I has paid compensation that is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances, Im not telling it to increase the award or take any 
further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because National Savings and Investments 
has already paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my 
decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman