DRN-3468272
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) unfairly 
turned down their claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs W bought a holiday ownership product from a business, Business X, in 
April 2005. The cost of the product was £9,010 and it was paid for from a loan taken with 
First National Consumer Finance Limited, now GE Money. The loan was in joint names.
Mr and Mrs W say that when they took out the timeshare they were told that they would have 
access to four or five star accommodation and that the product was misrepresented, 
including the level of maintenance fees. Mr and Mrs W say that had they known what 
Business X said wasnt right, they would not have taken out the membership in the first 
place.
Theyve also said that the sale was pressurised with aggressive sales tactics including not 
being given enough time to read the contract.
In August 2019, Mr and Mrs W, using a representative, complained to GE Money. It 
responded to say that as the sale took place many years before the complaint, the complaint 
had been brought too late under the relevant provisions contained in the Limitation Act 1980 
(LA). It referenced two agreement numbers, one from April 2005 and one from 
October 2005.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think GE Money needed to do 
anything further. They agreed that the claim under s.75 and s.140A CCA had been brought 
too late, so they didnt think GE Money needed to consider the substance of the claim.
Mr and Mrs Ws representative responded to say they didnt agree so the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
I also have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision. And 
I want to assure Mr and Mrs W, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not 
because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to 
us. But, Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Was the claim under s.75 CCA brought in time?
Mr and Mrs W say that Business X misrepresented to them the nature and benefits of the 
timeshare agreement, so they say GE Money is jointly liable under s.75 CCA. But if GE 
Money could show the claim was brought outside of the time limits set out in the LA, it would 
be entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to answering the claim. I should make it clear 
however that Im not deciding if any right that Mr and Mrs W may have to bring these claims 
has expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts. In this decision Im considering if 
GE Money has acted fairly and reasonably in turning down Mr and Mrs Ws claim.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under s.2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967. It was held in Laws v. The Society of Lloyds [2003] EWCA 1887 
that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by s.2 LA or an action brought for 
a sum recoverable by statute within s.9 LA. Under both of those provisions, a claimant has a 
period of six years to bring a claim from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
Here Mr and Mrs W brought a like claim against GE Money under s.75 CCA. That claim was 
brought under the CCA, so would be covered by s.9 LA. Again, it means Mr and Mrs W had 
six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to being a claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mr and Mrs Ws case, thats when they could have 
brought a claim for misrepresentation against the supplier or the like claim against GE 
Money. I think that was the date they entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare, so in 
2005. It was at that time that they entered into an agreement based, they say, on the 
misrepresentations of Business X. They say, had the misrepresentations not been made, 
they wouldnt have bought the timeshare. And it was on that day that they suffered a loss, as 
they took out the loan agreement.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued in 2005, so Mr and Mrs W had 
six years from then to bring a claim. But they didnt try to contact GE Money about their claim 
until 2019, which was outside of the time limits set out in the LA. So, I think GE Money acted 
fairly in turning down this misrepresentation claim.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising out 
of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination but I 
think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
S.140A CCA was introduced by the Consumer Credit Act 2006. Schedule 3 of that Act sets 
out to what credit agreements s.140A CCA applies. In short, if a credit agreement had 
completed before 6 April 2008, no claim under s.140A CCA could be brought in respect of 
that credit agreement.
GE Money hasnt been able to provide evidence of when Mr and Mrs Ws loan ended as it 
says it was closed some time ago and it doesnt have records that go that far back. Im not 
surprised by that as there is no requirement for GE Money to keep records indefinitely. So, 
its possible the loans were settled before April 2008, in which case Mr and Mrs W wouldnt 
be able to make a claim under s.140A.
However even if s.140A was applicable, I think this claim has been brought too late. Ill explain why. 
The LA applies to a claim under s.140A CCA too. It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] EWHC 
3264 (QB) that when considering s.140A CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran from the 
date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still running at the time the claim was 
made. As with an action under s.75 CCA, the limitation period is six years, so Mr and Mrs W 
would have to bring an action within six years of the date of settlement. As Ive said, we dont 
know the exact date of settlement, but at the time the claim was raised in 2019 GE Money 
couldnt find a record of the account. From what we know about how long businesses such 
as GE
Money normally keep records, I think its likely that the accounts had been closed more than 
six years prior to when the claim was raised. This means its more likely than not that the 
claim was raised more than six years after the date of settlement, and therefore that Mr and 
Mrs W have brought their claim too late.
Ive thought about whether any other grounds for extending the limitation period apply here 
and I dont think that they do.
Overall, I think GE Money fairly considered the things it needed to when it said the claim was 
brought too late. Its ultimately for the courts to decide whether any claim that Mr and Mrs W 
may have against the supplier or GE Money has expired under the LA. But, as far as I can 
see from the information available, any claim that Mr and Mrs W might have against GE 
Money has most likely exceeded the time limits set out in the LA. I think it is reasonable to 
take this into account in these circumstances. And I am not persuaded that GE Money acted 
unfairly in declining the claims.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint against GE Money 
Consumer Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman