DRN-3143228
The complaint
Mr V says Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr V took out two instalment loans from Loans 2 Go. A summary of his borrowing follows.
Mr V says Loans 2 Go didnt carry out effective affordability assessments and had it done so
it wouldnt have lent to him.
The investigator said Mr Vs complaint should be upheld as the checks Loans 2 Go carried
out suggested he would be unable to sustainably repay the loans.
Loans 2 Go disagreed. It said the credit checks it carried out did not show Mr V was having
problems managing his money, contrary to the findings in the investigators assessment.
And its affordability checks showed Mr V could afford the loan repayments.
As an agreement wasnt reached the complaint was passed to me. I reached a different 
conclusion to the investigator, so I issued a provisional decision (an extract follows and 
forms part of this final decision). I asked both parties to respond with any comments or new 
evidence by 4 November 2021. 
Extract from my provisional decision
I can see Loans 2 Go asked for some information from Mr V before it approved the loans. It
and asked for details of his monthly income and expenditure. It revised the figures he
declared using an income verification tool to check his likely minimum income and it
increased the costs, also adding a 10% buffer. It also checked his credit file to
understand his credit history and existing credit commitments.
From these checks combined Loans 2 Go concluded Mr V had enough monthly disposable
income to afford to repay both loans.
As I said, Ive reached a different conclusion to the investigator who recommended both
loans should be upheld. Im currently not planning to uphold the complaint about loan 1. Ill
explain why.
Loan 1
From the income and cost analysis Loans 2 Go completed it concluded Mr V had a minimum
monthly income of £1292.74 and expenditure of £1035.23 and so he could afford the £57.15
monthly repayment for this loan. It also carried out a credit check that showed Mr V had no
outstanding debt at the time, only one credit search in the last six months and one default on
a communications account in May 2019 worth £1,208. He was not using an overdraft facility
on his current account. So I dont think there was such a level of adverse data that the lender
should have carried out further checks or thought there was a risk the repayments wouldnt
be sustainably affordable.
And I think these checks were proportionate give the value and term of the loan; the stage in
the lending relationship; and the fact the monthly repayment was a low proportion of Mr Vs
net income.
Our investigator pointed to the payday loans that she saw on Mr Vs full credit file that he
supplied to this service. But these werent evident on the credit check the lender carried out
 this can happen due to timings, and/or the fact not all lenders report to all the credit
reference agencies. And I can only fairly expect the lender to respond to what it saw on the
credit check it carried out. It follows for loan 1 I think the lender made a fair lending decision
and it wasnt wrong to give Mr V the loan.
Loan 2
This time Loans 2 Go concluded Mr V had a minimum monthly income of £1284.86 and
expenditure of £974.90 and so he could afford the £167 monthly repayment. Again the credit
check it carried out did not show he was struggling financially, his only outstanding debt was
the balance of loan 1.
But Mr V applied for loan 2 whilst he still had loan 1 (he used it in part to repay loan 1). It
was for almost three times the amount and significantly increased the amount he owed to
Loans 2 Go. So in these circumstances I think Loans 2 Go should have done more to check
Mr Vs financial position, particularly given it had not checked actuals for either his income or
expenses.
However its failure to do so doesnt in itself mean Mr Vs complaint should succeed. I need
to look at what proportionate checks would have shown Loans 2 Go and consider if it
ought to have realised that Mr V most likely couldnt sustainably afford the repayments.
Like the investigator, I have looked at Mr Vs full credit file to understand what proportionate
checks would most likely have shown. To be clear, I am not saying Loans 2 Go ought to
have carried out a different kind of credit check, just that this is the data I have to help me
understand what it would most likely have seen had it carried out a fuller financial review at
the time.
I think it would have come to light that Mr V was reliant on payday lending to manage his
finances. He had taken out a payday loan every month in the 12 months prior to this
application - so he wasnt using them on the short-term basis they are intended for. I think
from this Loans 2 Go, as a responsible lender, would have thought there was a high risk
Mr V would be unable to repay this loan without borrowing to repay, or suffering other
adverse financial consequences. And this is what it needed to check, amongst other things,
to meet its obligations under CONC 5.2A.12(R). It sets out:
The firm must consider the customers ability to make repayments under the agreement:
(1) as they fall due over the life of the agreement and, where the agreement is an open-end
agreement, within a reasonable period;
 (2) out of, or using, one or more of the following:
(a) the customers income;
(b) income from savings or assets jointly held by the customer with another person, income
received by the customer jointly with another person or income received by another person inso far as it is reasonable to expect such income to be available to the customer to make
repayments under the agreement; and/or
(c) savings or other assets where the customer has indicated clearly an intention to repay
(wholly or partly) using them;
(3) without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments;
(4) without failing to make any other payment the customer has a contractual or statutory obligation to
make; and
(5) without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation.
It follows I think Loans 2 Go was wrong to give loan 2 to Mr V.
I have not found any evidence that Loans 2 Go acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other
way.
I then set out what Loans 2 Go would need to do to put things right if I upheld the complaint.
Mr V responded saying he was happy with the provisional decision. Loans 2 Go did not 
reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
As neither party provided any new information or evidence it follows I have no reason to 
change the findings or outcome I set out in my provisional decision. 
For the reasons set out above I find Loans 2 Go was wrong to give loan 2 to Mr V.  
Putting things right
For Loan 2 
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr V to repay the capital that he borrowed because he had
the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have
been provided to him.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges and treat all the payments Mr V made as
payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Vs loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Vs loan account results in an outstanding capital balance Loans 2
Go should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr V.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Vs credit file in relation to loan 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go should
give Mr V a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.  
My final decisionI am upholding Mr Vs complaint in part with regards to loan 2. Loans 2 Go Limited must put 
things right as set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman