DRN-2301174
The complaint
Mr R says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
St Andrews Insurance Plc has taken responsibility for the sale.
What happened
Mr R took out a PPI policy (branded Credit Care) shortly after taking out a loan in
1999. He paid a monthly premium for the PPI which protected his loan repayments if
he couldnt work due to being too unwell or an accident. The PPI also provided life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr R disagreed
with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr R case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
St Andrews had to make Mr R aware that he had a choice about buying the PPI. Mr R says 
he was told he had to take the PPI in order to secure the lending.
St Andrews has sent us a copy of Mr R signed credit agreement, which I can see
gave the option to add PPI but suggests it wasnt taken at that stage. St Andrews internal
records show that the PPI wasnt taken out until more than a week after the start of the loan.
St Andrews has also provided a copy of a separate direct debit instruction for the PPI and a
PPI acceptance form setting out the monthly premium, monthly benefit, and maximum term
of PPI cover. Mr R signed and dated it more than three weeks after his credit agreement was
dated.
Mr R says the PPI was sold during a telephone call and he only signed the direct debit 
mandate because he was under the impression he couldnt secure the loan without the 
policy. Based on experience of St Andrews sales practices at the time, I think its
likely Mr R was sent some documents about PPI after the loan was taken out. And,
as the loan had already been taken out, I dont think Mr R can reasonably have
thought that he had to have the PPI to get the loan or that the PPI was part and parcel of it.
So, I think its likely St Andrews made it clear to Mr R that he had a choice about the PPI. 
And that he chose to take it out, knowing he didnt have to.
Given how the PPI was sold, Im satisfied St Andrews didnt recommend the PPI to Mr R. 
This meant that, although St Andrews didnt have to make sure the PPI was suitable for
him, it did have to make sure Mr R got the information he needed to decide for himself if it 
was right for him.
Its possible the information St Andrews gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But I think he chose to take out the PPI  so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
Mr R was affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover. 
I note Mr R says he had 12 months sick pay benefits from his employer. Ive thought 
carefully about what Mr R has told us, but its very unusual for an employer to provide 12 
months full sick pay. I think its likely Mr R was entitled to some sick pay. But in my 
experience  and without any evidence to show otherwise  I think its unlikely he would 
have received the level of sick pay hes told us he was entitled to. And as the policy would 
have paid out alongside any sick pay he did get, it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. 
Mr R says he had some savings at the time. But like any sick pay benefits he would have 
received, the policy would have covered his repayments, meaning he could have used any 
savings for their intended use or could have remained intact. 
It also looks like the PPI was affordable for Mr R. Overall, I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mr R have lost out because of how St Andrews 
sold him the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold Mr R complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman