DRN-2909121
The complaint
Mr B has complained about his car insurer Admiral Insurance Company Limited in relation to 
a claim he made after he was involved in a road traffic accident.
What happened
Mr B was involved in an accident. He called Admiral and made a claim. Over the subsequent 
weeks Mr B had to speak to a number of people in various different departments. Mr B was 
unhappy about this; the amount of contact and the confusion he was sometimes left with 
following those contacts. Mr B felt the claim became protracted because of the confusion 
caused by Admirals representatives, and because his car had to be moved to various 
different repairers. He was also concerned that Admiral hadnt considered or pursued 
various lines of enquiry in respect of the claim. 
But Mr Bs concerns went beyond the claim itself. He also felt that Admirals policy was 
potentially misleading in a number of ways. And that the industry regulator, the financial 
conduct authority (FCA) was ineffective. Mr B put his concerns to Admiral.
In its final response to Mr Bs complaint dated October 2020, Admiral accepted that Mr B 
was given varying, contradictory, sometimes incorrect and/or unnecessary advice. It said this 
had caused delays in settling the claim and caused Mr B distress and inconvenience. It said 
it should have taken on board details Mr B had provided to it about his health and treated 
him as a vulnerable customer  if it had it would have appointed him a single point of contact 
and his claim journey would have been entirely different. Admiral paid Mr B £250 
compensation for the upset and £50 to make up for the cost of calls hed had to make to it. It 
also made various apologies.
Admiral also responded to a concern Mr B had raised about the courtesy car available on 
the policy. It explained the terms and conditions which apply and noted that, if it had handled 
the claim better, Mr B should have been given a courtesy car three days earlier than he 
actually was. It paid him £30 as compensation for loss of use of his car (whilst not having a 
courtesy car) for those three days.
Mr B remained unhappy and complained to us. Our investigator felt it was clear that Admiral 
had failed Mr B. But he felt the £250 Admiral had paid Mr B was fair and reasonable 
compensation for that. He also felt £30 compensation regarding the courtesy car/loss of use 
was fair and reasonable. Mr B asked for an ombudsmans review.
Mr Bs complaint was passed to me to consider. I felt Admiral had failed Mr B, and that it 
seemed to accept that. But I didnt think its offer of £250 compensation was sufficient 
redress in the circumstances. I thought it should pay a further £250. In respect of Mr Bs 
other concerns, I explained that I didnt think Admiral had done anything wrong.
Mr B said he agreed with my provisional findings. Admiral said it didnt accept them.
Admiral said that it had offered to treat Mr B as a vulnerable customer but he had turned 
down its offer. So, Admiral said, Mr B is partly responsible for the way the claim unfolded. 
Admiral said the delay in repair between 25 August and 4 September was also Mr Bs fault.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
the regulator
Admiral isnt responsible for which body regulates the insurance industry. I appreciate that 
Mr B feels the regulator is ineffectual but that isnt something I can hold Admiral responsible 
for. And Admiral does have to refer in its policy details, as well as in some correspondence, 
to the fact of being regulated by the FCA.
Admirals policy is potentially misleading
I understand the concerns Mr B has set out in this respect. But my focus here is on what 
happened to Mr B, how he was affected and what Admiral must do to put things right. And 
I don't think Admiral has misled Mr B. So I wont be commenting on the general concerns 
Mr B has raised about potential shortcomings in Admirals policy wording.
claim handling
I think its clear that Admiral failed Mr B time and again during this claim. Not least was its 
failure to reasonably treat Mr B as a vulnerable person. Admiral accepts that, if it had done 
that, Mr Bs claim journey would have been very different and much, if not all, of its later 
failures, along with the stress Mr B was caused, would have been avoided. 
Ive seen what Mr B has told us about his health. I accept that because of his personal 
situation he suffered greatly due to Admirals failures. Taking everything into account I think 
that fair and reasonable compensation is £500.
Mr B hasnt, to date, told us what he thinks fair and reasonable compensation would be. Im 
mindful that he might think £500 is not enough. But if so, Id draw his attention to our website 
which provides detail about our compensation awards. Our awards are designed to make up 
for the upset caused rather than to punish or fine a business. Whilst, on this occasion, 
Admiral made numerous failures, our awards arent based on the number of errors which 
occurred, nor do we award more compensation just because failures kept occurring. Instead 
we look at the impact to the consumer. Having thought about how Mr B told us he suffered 
on account of Admirals failures, our approach to compensation awards and other awards 
made in similar circumstances; Im satisfied that £500 is fair and reasonable.
unprofessional conduct
Mr B said Admiral had acted unprofessionally by dismissing eyewitness testimony without 
investigating it, and by not obtaining CCTV footage. Admiral explained to Mr B that it accepts 
it shouldnt have dismissed the witness testimony and that it didnt pursue the CCTV footage 
because the third-party had accepted liability. 
I understand Mr Bs concerns about these issues, but they dont amount to what I would 
consider to be unprofessional conduct. Admirals failure to properly gather and consider evidence would be poor claims handling which might cause frustration and/or impact the 
claim outcome. But here the claim outcome wasnt affected. And Admiral accepts it failed 
Mr B regarding the witness statement. So Ive taken the frustration this caused Mr B into 
account in making my compensation award.
Regarding the CCTV footage, I know Mr B was told Admiral hadnt requested this, and that 
this seemed at odds with emails Admiral had written to him, where it had indicated this had 
been requested. However, I see that Admiral had made initial enquiries with the owner of the 
CCTV footage, but that this didnt progress to a formal request to obtain it because, by that 
time, liability had been accepted. I dont think Admiral set out to mislead Mr B, or that it failed 
to properly handle the issue of this evidence.
cost of calls
Admiral paid Mr B £50 as he had to call it a lot during the claim. I think its clear that if 
Admiral had handled things better, Mr B wouldnt have had to call it as much. I think 
Admirals offer of £50 as compensation for costs Mr B incurred in having to call it more is fair 
and reasonable. 
courtesy car
Mr B has said that Admirals policy isnt clear about when a courtesy car will be provided. Or 
what the difference is between a courtesy car and a hire car. Admiral says its policy only has 
an option for a courtesy car, and its wording about this is clear. Admiral also said it had 
reviewed the claim journey and accepts that, if it had managed the claim better, Mr B should 
have been offered a courtesy car three days before he was. So Admiral offered £30 to make 
up for that. 
I understand that the retail insurer, who sold the policy to Mr B, also offers additional cover in 
respect of hire vehicles. These vehicles are available to a policyholder in the event of an 
incident which leads to a claim on the motor insurance. But this is separate cover which 
Admiral, as the motor insurer, does not provide. The Admiral policy, therefore, doesnt 
mention the hire vehicle option, and I wouldnt expect it to.
Admiral, as part of its cover, does offer a courtesy car to policyholders where it is repairing 
their vehicle. Ive seen the policy wording in this respect, and I think its clear. 
The accident occurred on 17 August 2020 and it was 22 August 2020 when Mr B was 
provided with a courtesy car. This was in line with the policy as, at this point, the claim had 
been accepted and the car was with the approve repairer. But Admiral had asked Mr B to 
source the repairer rather than doing this itself. It seems that it could have checked its 
systems and found the same repairer on 19 August 2020, thus enabling the repair to 
progress. I think Admirals offer to compensate Mr B for the three days when he couldnt use 
his car and when it hadnt reasonably progressed his claim, thereby providing him with a 
courtesy car, was fair and reasonable. 
Ive considered Admirals objection but I cant say its persuaded me that my assessment on 
its liability for the upset Mr B was caused was wrong. In saying that I take note of the 
following extract from Admirals final response:
even though you declined for us to record your vulnerability I believe you should have been 
escalated for further support. Had we done so I believe you would have received a different 
customer journey.
I also refer back to the following summary taken from my background section above:Admiral accepted that Mr B was given varying, contradictory, sometimes incorrect and/or 
unnecessary advice.
And I note that whilst Admiral has pointed out in reply that Mr B delayed the claim for just 
over a week in late August  it accepted in its final response that it caused more delays, 
confusion and frustration for Mr B for nearly three weeks in September. 
I remain of the view that Admiral failed Mr B and that in doing so it caused him significant 
distress and inconvenience. My provisional decision hasnt changed and its findings are now 
the findings of this, my final decision.
Putting things right
I require Admiral to pay Mr B a further £250  this makes a total of £500 compensation paid 
by it for distress and inconvenience caused to Mr B by its failures. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to provide the redress 
set out above at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman