DRN-2036253
The complaint
Mr R complains that he was mis-sold an HSBC Plus Account (HPA) in February 2008 by 
HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons.
Mr Rs complaint is that he was given the HPA without his consent and until very recently 
didnt know he was paying for it.
HSBC has provided records that show he had held a fee free account prior to the HPA, and 
he was also party to a fee free joint account for many years while he had the HPA. So, in my 
view he was aware that fee free accounts were available.
I have no evidence from the time of this sale that shows that Mr R was given the account 
without his consent, and this service has no systemic evidence from that time of HSBC 
giving customers packaged bank accounts without their knowledge.
The cost of the HPA appeared on Mr Rs monthly account labelled as a fee from the first 
month and he had copious correspondence over the years that showed either explicitly or by 
implication that he was paying a monthly fee for the HPA.
At the time of the sale, HSBC was running a promotion which offered a big discount on any 
overdraft on the account if you took out an HPA. Mr R regularly used an overdraft facility, so 
I can see why he might have been interested in the HPA. And Mr R couldve closed the HPA 
at any time but didnt and kept it for over 10 years.
This service has seen evidence that HSBC only did non-advised sales at the time of this 
sale. Mr R does not remember being advised to take the account and there is no paperwork 
to show otherwise. So, I think its more likely than not that the HPA was sold on a non-
advised basis. This means that HSBC was not required to check the HPA was suitable for 
Mr R.
So, while I dont doubt Mr Rs honest recollections, I think its more likely than not that Mr R 
chose to take out the HPA based on the information that HSBC gave him; he was aware he 
was paying it, and I dont think HSBC did anything wrong in this matter.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman