DRN-4383931
The complaint
Mr S has complained because Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited changed the terms of his 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP)  which he feels rendered it unfit for purpose. Hes 
also unhappy with how it handled his complaint.
What happened
Of relevance here, the terms and conditions of Mr Ss SIPP said:
when dealing in Mr Ss investments Aviva needed to be in receipt of a valid instruction 
from either Mr S, his advisor or his discretionary investment manager
Aviva could change the terms and conditions of the SIPP
oto respond in a proportionate manner to changes in the way it administered 
investments or products of this type
oto respond in a proportionate manner to changes in technology or general 
practice in the industry
oto respond in a proportionate manner to changes in taxation, the law or 
interpretation of the law, decisions or recommendations of an ombudsman, 
regulator or similar person, any code of practice, or
oto correct errors, if it is reasonable to do so.
They also said Aviva would tell Mr S in writing of any change (that wasnt necessary to meet 
regulatory requirements) that it considered to be to his disadvantage at least 60 days before 
the change becomes effective.
In June 2020 Aviva made the commercial decision to change the term about being in receipt 
of a valid instruction from Mr S when dealing with an investment. The change meant Aviva 
would only accept an investment instruction directly from Mr S in exceptional circumstances 
where he was unable to place an instruction through his advisor.
Mr S complained to Aviva as he still wished to place trades directly. Aviva told Mr S it was 
entitled to amend the terms and conditions and the changes were made due to Covid-19 and 
the effect this had on its platforms propositions. It confirmed it wouldnt process future 
instructions given by Mr S on a direct basis  the instruction would need to come from his 
financial advisor. It nevertheless offered Mr S £200 compensation for distress and confusion 
caused due to the SIPP and the functionality of the platform. Aviva has told us this was the 
first time it told Mr S that the terms and conditions had changed.
Aviva later told Mr S that the term was changed as a result of the pandemic to clarify that 
whilst its platform had always been designed for customers with advisors it would accept 
instructions directly from customers in the event the customer was, as an example, unable to 
contact their advisor due to the pandemic.
Mr S moved his SIPP to a different provider in September 2020.
In May 2022 Mr S again complained to Aviva. He said the way it operated the SIPP meant it 
was unfit for purpose and caused him to incur losses and waste time. He referred to the 
change in the terms and conditions making it almost impossible for him to place trades. He 
also added his dissatisfaction with how Aviva was handling the complaint. Aviva didnt 
uphold the complaint about the change in terms. It didnt think the SIPP was unfit for purpose 
and it referred Mr S back to its response in 2020.  For the complaint handling Aviva offered 
Mr S £100 compensation.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she felt Aviva was 
entitled to change the terms and that the SIPP remained fit for purpose (albeit she 
acknowledged that it no longer met Mr Ss needs). She did however think that Aviva failed to 
properly inform Mr S of the change, and she felt it should pay £200 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused. She further said that Mr Ss complaint about Avivas complaint 
handling fell outside of our remit.
Aviva accepted our investigators conclusion but Mr S didnt. He felt the changes Aviva made 
were so significant that they made the SIPP unfit for purpose. He made four general points:
a product provider should be responsible for damages where they change terms and 
conditions which render a product unfit for purpose
the £200 compensation suggested by our investigator bore no resemblance to the time 
and cost involved in him trying to trade and moving the SIPP following the change in the 
term
various regulator principles (eg to act with integrity, skill, care and diligence) were 
breached by Aviva in its handling of his complaint
although Aviva accepted our investigators conclusion the issue of the £100 previously 
offered remained outstanding (particularly given how Aviva has ignored his 
communications on this issue).
The complaint has therefore been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Preamble
In responding to our investigators conclusion Mr S made several points about how our 
investigator had handled the complaint and reached her conclusion  including why and how 
she determined £200 was sufficient compensation without asking him about the time and 
costs associated with trying to trade and transferring the SIPP.
My remit here isnt to comment on or clarify how our investigator handled the complaint or 
the thought process she followed in reaching her conclusion. Its to decide the complaint 
Mr S brought to us about Aviva. My review of the complaint and my decision are entirely 
independent of our investigators. And my decision will concentrate solely on the complaint 
points made about Aviva.
Mr S also asked that I address each of his points using the same numbering system that he 
used. And he asked for sight of a draft of my decision in case there was an error of evidence 
or fact. Although this decision will be binding on Aviva if Mr S accepts it, we are an informal 
dispute resolution service. This means that while Ive considered the complaint and 
arguments as a whole Im entitled to focus on the points that I think are relevant to the 
outcome of the complaint. Further, the drafting of my decision isnt a negotiating tool for Mr S (or Aviva for that matter) to make further comments or arguments  our two-stage 
investigation process has already given both parties sufficient opportunity to provide any 
evidence or make any further representations. Mr S is not therefore going to get a copy of 
my decision in advance.
Change in terms
Irrespective of whether the platform was designed for advisor trading, direct customer 
trading or both, its clear to me that the original terms and conditions of the SIPP allowed 
Mr S to instruct Aviva directly to carry out trades. Its also clear that the changes to the terms 
made direct customer trading virtually impossible. However, its also clear that the terms and 
conditions of the SIPP did allow Aviva to change the terms and conditions in certain 
circumstances. Accordingly, the outcome of this part of the complaint in my view turns on 
whether Aviva acted fairly when it changed the relevant term.
Aviva was only able to change the terms of the SIPP for one of the four reasons Ive listed 
above. Aviva said it changed the term due to how the Covid-19 pandemic affected its 
platforms propositions. In my view, this fell within the ambit of responding to a change in the 
way Aviva administered investments or SIPPs. Im also satisfied that the change was 
proportionate given that, from Avivas point of view, the platform had always been designed 
for customers with advisors and that there was a separate product available for consumers 
who wanted to trade directly ie without using a financial advisor.
Accordingly, I conclude that Aviva acted fairly and reasonably, and within the terms of the 
SIPP, when it amended the term.
Mr S has argued that the change rendered the SIPP unfit for purpose and that Aviva 
shouldnt be able to make changes that have this effect. I disagree with Mr S that the SIPP 
became unfit for purpose. This is because while I agree it made it difficult (if not impossible) 
for him to instruct Aviva himself the fundamental nature and purpose of the SIPP didnt 
change  it was still a retirement savings vehicle that allowed Mr S to invest his retirement 
savings into various investments. The only change was that investment instructions needed 
to come from his advisor rather than from him directly.
Despite my above conclusion its clear that Aviva didnt notify Mr S of the change as it was 
required to. In my view, the change was to Mr Ss disadvantage as it took something away 
from him ie the ability to instruct Aviva directly on the trades he wished to make. So Aviva 
should have informed him of the change in writing at least 60 days before the change 
became effective. But it didnt inform him until around six to seven weeks after it came into 
force.
Mr S feels the compensation for the inconvenience he endured as a result of the change 
should be around £1,000. During the complaint hes detailed the number of hours hes spent 
on the matter together with his hourly rate. Compensation I award isnt calculated on this 
basis. This is because it unfairly disadvantages lower earners (who might suffer just as much 
or more inconvenience as anyone else) and it rewards those people who spend more time 
than is reasonably warranted dealing with a matter. Rather, I look at what happened overall, 
how that affected the consumer and award compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
A consumer may of course argue that they suffered a financial loss (as opposed to 
inconvenience) based on their hourly rate because they spent time pursuing a matter rather 
than working/earning. But Im not usually persuaded by such arguments as it was the 
consumers choice to pursue the matter during working hours rather than non-working hours.Typically, I award between £100 and £300 compensation when theres been a single 
mistake that required a reasonable effort by the consumer to sort out. The impact of the 
mistake usually lasts for a few days or weeks and causes some distress, inconvenience, 
disappointment or loss of expectation. In contrast, I typically make awards upwards of 
£1,000 when a complaint takes a lot of effort to sort out and the impact of the mistake lasts 
many weeks or months and caused considerable/substantial distress, inconvenience etc.
Compensation I award is for distress, inconvenience etc the consumer wouldnt have 
otherwise suffered but for the businesss mistake. The mistake in this case was Aviva not 
telling Mr S in advance that it was changing the terms of the SIPP  it wasnt the change in 
the term itself. Thats important here because the general effect the change had on Mr S  
eg him not being able to trade directly, him having to instruct his financial advisor who in turn 
would then have to instruct Aviva, him moving his SIPP to another provider  and the 
inconvenience it caused is something that would have happened even if Aviva had given 
Mr S the required 60-day notice eg he still would have been inconvenienced by having to 
move his SIPP. So I dont think there are grounds to make Aviva pay any compensation for 
this.
I do nevertheless agree with our investigator that Mr S would have experienced some (rather 
than substantial or considerable) frustration and inconvenience due to not being told in 
advance about the amended term. In that regard, I consider £200 to be fair and reasonable 
to compensate Mr S.
Complaint handling
How Aviva handled Mr Ss complaint doesnt fall within our jurisdiction so my remit doesnt 
extend to considering this issue. This is because we can only consider complaints about 
financial businesses carrying out regulated activities (or ancillary activities connected to 
regulated activities). And complaint handling isnt a regulated activity.
It is sometimes the case that a complaint about a businesss complaint handling is part and 
parcel of and intrinsically linked to the main complaint about a regulated activity. This isnt 
the case here though. Mr Ss initial complaint to Aviva about the change in terms and 
conditions was in 2020. He then complained to Aviva about the same issue and about the 
complaint handling in 2022. Accordingly, Im satisfied that Mr Ss complaint handling 
complaint arose after his complaint about the change in terms and is therefore an isolated 
complaint  rather than being ancillary to the regulated activity concerning Avivas provision 
of the SIPP. 
Accordingly, I make no judgement on whether Aviva treated Mr S fairly in the way it handled 
his complaint (including whether or not it breached any regulator principles) or on whether 
any compensation it offered was fair.
I leave it for Mr S to either accept or reject Avivas offer or to pursue the matter further 
directly with Aviva or elsewhere.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay Mr S £200 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 Paul Daniel
Ombudsman