DRN-4149538
The complaint
Mr S has complained Clydesdale Bank plc, trading as Virgin Money, added a marker against 
his name to the industry fraud database.
What happened
In 2022 Mr S went to a bank to open a new account. His application was rejected as there 
was a marker against his name on the industry fraud database, CIFAS. This marker had 
been lodged by Virgin Money.
Mr S went to Virgin Money and queried what theyd done and why. 
They told him hed opened an account in early 2019, which hed then left overdrawn and had 
been the receipt of fraudulent funds. They believed they had sufficient evidence to lodge a 
marker with CIFAS. 
Mr S had requested copies of his personal data from Virgin Money, including his calls to 
review the evidence that was held about him. He was unable to get all the answers he 
wanted from Virgin Money so brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
As no evidence was initially forthcoming from Virgin Money, our investigator upheld the 
complaint and asked Virgin Money to remove the CIFAS marker and pay Mr S £500 for the 
distress caused.
Virgin Money then provided the required evidence. This included calls made by Mr S. Based 
on this evidence, our investigator changed her view and told Mr S that she wasnt going to 
ask Virgin Money to remove the marker.
Mr S subsequently accepted the phone calls were him and queried how the two unknown 
deposits of £1,600 and £1,100 into his account could have been withdrawn. Hes asked an 
ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a similar outcome to our investigator. Ill explain why.
It is clear what the requirements are prior to lodging a marker. Specifically:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial crime has 
been committed or attempted.
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could confidently 
report the conduct of the subject to the police.
So Virgin Money must be able to provide clear evidence that a financial crime was being 
committed and Mr S was involved. 
Despite Mr S believing that because of his difficult financial position in 2019 he was unable 
to open a bank account, he opened a basic bank account with Virgin Money in January 
2019. The details used to open the account all match Mr Ss personal details. Theres then a 
short flurry of relatively low-value transactions with the account being left £96.90 in debt.
I have been able to review the evidence Virgin Money has now shared. This includes the 
phone calls. These have led Mr S to admit that the voice on different calls is his. That he is 
the person calling up Virgin Money to query the account being overdrawn in 2019 and again 
in 2022 after finding out about the existence of the CIFAS marker.
Theres also a record of Virgin Money speaking to Mr S and asking him whether hes 
expecting a large deposit in February 2019. He says he was expecting his wages from his 
employer. Then two payments were received into his account. This money was not from 
Mr Ss employer but from a customer of another bank whod been the victim of a scam. Mr S 
also told Virgin Money hed lost his debit card although theres no evidence this was ever the 
case. Nor did he follow this up.
Mr S has subsequently queried how money received into his account was then taken out. 
Virgin Moneys records arent clear about this because of the time that has passed. I suspect 
 based on the statement narrative  that these transactions, potentially transfers, were 
undertaken in branch. In which case the debit card would have been required, along with 
some ways of being able to identify Mr S.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I believe Virgin Money met the CIFAS requirements in 
lodging a marker. I wont be asking Virgin Money to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ss complaint against 
Clydesdale Bank plc, trading as Virgin Money.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman