DRN-3550269
The complaint
Mr F complains the investment advice National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) gave him 
in 2006 was unsuitable.
What happened
In November 2006 Mr F was in his late fifties, retired, with no work income following the sale 
of his business, and minimal pension savings. Of the proceeds of his business sale, he had 
a sum available to generate income but also to use in other financial enterprises.
NatWest advised Mr F to invest around £250,000 of this into five different distribution funds 
(the funds), held mainly in four investment bonds, and an ISA. NatWests advice letter said 
Mr Fs objective was regular income of £11,000 with the potential for capital growth. It said 
this would be his only income. Its notes expressed his income need as 4.5% per year from 
the funds after tax. NatWests advice notes in its Financial Needs Review signed by Mr F, 
said the funds would be invested for at least five years. Its advice letter said it could be 
longer.
NatWest says Mr F took regular income from the funds, started to draw capital after more 
than five years and then closed a bond. In later years he withdrew more capital from others. 
A few years after that he invested around £50,000 back into the remaining bonds and ISA. 
He then closed these around two years later.
NatWests 2006 advice letter said distribution funds allow income to be distributed twice 
yearly without directly affecting the value of the investment and such funds suited Mr Fs 
objectives and attitude to risk. It said the cash-in value would at first be less than Mr F paid 
in, and there was an early exit charge in the first five years but after five years the risk of 
capital loss should be reduced. It said there were no guarantees over the level of future 
growth as the fund value could fall as well as rise  but historically stocks and shares and 
property have performed better than cash deposits over the medium to long term.
The letter said Mr Fs attitude to risk was low, as defined in its risk guide. It said this 
attitude confirms you understand the relationship between risk and reward and aim to 
achieve greater returns over the longer term than interest paying accounts. You are 
therefore prepared to accept the risk of possibly losing some of your money and to see some 
fluctuations in value.
The notes and the risk guide offered as options, very low, low, medium and high risk 
categories. According to the guide, the potential returns, risk of loss and daily value changes 
would all increase as risk increased. 
From that guide, in terms of loss and value fluctuation, very low risk meant no risk to 
capital, no mention of value fluctuations but a risk of value being eroded by inflation; low 
risk meant some value fluctuation and the risk of possibly losing some money; medium 
risk meant wider day to day value fluctuations and the risk of a possible loss arising at any 
stage and high risk meant the same but with fluctuations that were significant.
Beyond these descriptions, the risk guide also had a chart next to which it set out example 
investments for each risk category. On this chart:
Low included low risk fixed interest funds, further defined as funds in fund categories 
that have large holdings of either UK government debt or UK investment grade bonds. It 
also included with-profits and smoothed managed funds. It also included multi-asset 
funds with a maximum of 60% in equities (e.g. cautious managed, defensive managed 
and distribution funds).
The low risk category sat in between very low and medium risk categories. On the chart:
Very low included cash deposits, products returning at least the original investment and 
managed cash funds.
Medium included funds with 100% in shares if they were global shares but not 
concentrated in a particular region (and not in emerging markets), or if they were all UK 
shares but not concentrated in a particular sector. It also included mixed asset managed 
funds that might have up to 80% in shares.
NatWests notes say Mr F had properties here and abroad, no outstanding borrowing, 
£20,000 in a current account, £13,500 in a with-profits bond (NatWest says this was split 
between a with-profits and a guaranteed capital bond) and £8700 in an ISA in a managed 
fund. The notes say the bond and ISA started in 2004 and had grown since then (the ISA 
investment started at £7000). NatWest had recommended these investments. The advice 
letter said the ISA was medium risk, the with-profits bond low risk and the cash very low risk. 
From the description above, Mr Fs ISA was a mixed fund and up to 80% invested in shares. 
Mr F says NatWest later agreed it was too high risk and also that it had advised him to invest 
too much in 2004. Neither party has offered full details of that advice or of the review that led 
to the conclusion Mr F has mentioned  and this complaint isnt about the 2004 advice or 
investments. NatWest says Mr F cashed in the 2004 investments in 2008.
Mr F says NatWest advised him to invest too much in 2006, bearing in mind what was left 
was used, in part, in a financial enterprise in which assets can be difficult to turn into cash. 
He also says the advice to invest in the funds was unsuitable due to the proportion of risky 
assets they contained, bearing in mind his lack of previous investment experience, and he 
says an approach free of investment risk shouldve been taken instead.
NatWest has said Mr F didnt start to access capital from the funds until five and a half years 
after investing, which it says suggests he didnt invest too much and had enough available 
cash left after investing. It says the amount invested related to the income need and the 
limited risk approach wanted, and it could only base its advice on Mr Fs plans and cant be 
responsible if these didnt pan out as expected in a way it couldnt reasonably foresee. 
NatWest has said all the recommended funds met the low risk definition in the risk guide, 
emphasising the example investments on the chart - in particular the reference to distribution 
funds and mixed asset funds investing up to 60% in shares. It thinks the definition didnt rule 
out non-UK shares or mean the risk associated with such shares placed the funds beyond 
the level of risk Mr F understood he was taking.
The discussion about asset allocation has been largely based on factsheets from later years 
for the same or similar funds. NatWest and Mr F either havent or havent been able to 
provide fund factsheets from 2006 to show exactly how all the funds were invested or what their objectives or strategies were at that time. 
Our adjudicator thought the funds likely invested around half in shares including non-UK 
shares. Mr F says the funds were heavily dependent on risk-based assets and has said 
one invested 40% in shares, 10% in property and also held high yield bonds - and half the 
shares and bonds were overseas. NatWest has said this fund specifies its shareholdings as 
being mainly UK and two funds held no non-UK shares and another has held only 3.5%.
As a guide to interest rates at the time, the Bank of England official interest rate increased 
from 4.75% to 5% in November 2006. As a guide to broad share price movements between 
the time Mr F took his 2004 ISA and the 2006 advice, the FTSE 100 index was rising from 
August 2004 until April 2006. In June 2006 it had fallen from its April 2006 peak but 
recovered this towards November 2006. 
My provisional decision in May 2022 explained I didnt plan to uphold the complaint. I said, in 
brief summary:
NatWests advice wasnt unsuitable by virtue of any need Mr F had to access the 
invested capital in the short term. It is apparent he was willing to invest that capital for at 
least five years, he didnt withdraw it sooner and NatWest had made clear there were 
penalties if he did and advised him to keep other money on deposit for emergencies. He 
wasnt left with a short-term cash shortfall or a need to sell other assets quickly.
Mr F was retired and without work income to replace investment losses. But he had other 
assets to fall back on. He could afford to take a degree of risk with the invested money if 
he wished to do so. 
The asset allocation of the funds was likely in line with a benchmark allowing up to 60% 
in shares and what Mr F had said about one of the funds is in line with this too. So all the 
funds fitted into NatWests low risk category, but at the riskier end of it. But it was such 
a broad category that Mr F agreeing to be placed in it still leaves uncertainty as to what 
level of risk he wanted and whether the funds were suitable. That said, the advice letter 
specifically indicated the funds would include shares, as well as stocks and property.
If Mr F were willing to take the risk involved, there were some good reasons for him to 
invest in funds like these in his circumstances.
Mr F didnt have to consider NatWests advice to invest in the funds, at what it called 
low risk, without any frame of reference. His existing investments were small and in that 
low risk category mostly, but lower risk than the funds. But he also had an ISA in the 
next category up. NatWests advice letter told Mr F the funds being recommended were 
similar to but less risky than his ISA  and that was a fair representation of the situation. 
Overall, I didnt think the funds risks went beyond Mr Fs willingness to accept risk.
Events after the advice, like Mr F putting more into the investments, dont seem to offer 
much support to Mr Fs complaint - but I give these events only limited weight.
NatWest replied saying it didnt have anything else to add. Mr F replied disagreeing for a 
number of reasons. Ive considered them all, but in brief summary they included:
NatWests low risk category was so broad as to be meaningless. Mr F is likely to have 
understood low risk in the everyday sense, not how NatWest used it. He wasnt familiar 
with the fact the category could contain investments other banks would classify as 
having a medium or even balanced level of risk.My decision didnt place enough emphasis on the assets contained in the funds. The 
funds are so outside the low-risk classification given by NatWest that it would be unjust 
to take at face value the claim these were low risk funds. All were focused on overseas 
equities, exposed to currency risk and so increased risk of volatility. The funds did hold 
40% bonds but a large percentage were junk bonds (high yield or sub-investment grade).
The top ten holdings of one fund illustrate the points above. The funds assets technically 
meet 40% in fixed interest bonds, but this doesnt make the fund low risk if most of this 
had junk status with the associated high risk of default. NatWests broad definition of low 
risk stretched up to funds with 60% equities but would snap if the rest were heavily 
invested in junk bonds and the equities heavily invested into high risk markets. These 
concerns are not limited to just one fund but to all the funds. Mr F would give us further 
breakdowns of the funds if needed and requested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for broadly the reasons I gave in 
my provisional decision. Ill explain those reasons by first addressing the specific points Mr F 
has raised most recently.
I dont expect Mr F was familiar with how other banks might have described the risk of the 
funds NatWest recommended and I dont think there is very much between what Mr F says 
about the breadth of the low risk category and what I said about it in my provisional decision. 
I also dont overlook what Mr F has said about the everyday meaning of low risk, and how 
this doesnt sit easily with the investment risk carried by the funds. But my view is Mr F had a 
frame of reference for understanding what was meant, in the form of his past investments 
and in particular the ISA  as discussed in more detail in my provisional decision and below.
As for the funds assets, if I were persuaded these were mostly overseas equities and with 
bonds mostly of sub-investment grade, my conclusions here would be different. Indeed the 
funds wouldnt need to go as far as that in exposure to sub-investment grade bonds or 
overseas equity to affect my view. But Ive nothing to show the funds were invested like that.
Mr F has offered more breakdowns, but I havent anything that makes me think any party 
has full details of the funds from the point of sale  not least because if that were the case 
and fuller details would change things, Id expect these wouldve been provided already. 
What has been sent are factsheets for the most part produced a great many years after the 
advice. They relate to funds whose names, ownership, management or benchmarks are 
sometimes different to what was recorded, or available, at the time of the advice. Even if that 
wasnt so, the mere passage of time in my view means attempts to estimate past holdings 
from recent factsheets become more speculative the greater the level of detail that is sought.
In short, what I have doesnt persuade me the funds were, as a whole or to an extent that 
ought to change my conclusions here, more likely than not mostly focussed on overseas 
equity with the rest in sub-investment grade bonds. In my view that isnt the most likely 
possibility of all those available. For example, it wouldnt be surprising if instead the funds 
equities were mostly sterling denominated with some overseas, but with a larger proportion 
overseas in some cases than others, and sometimes including some riskier overseas 
elements in some cases. Likewise I wouldnt be surprised if the bonds were mostly 
investment grade with a proportion in sub-investment grade that was larger in some cases 
than others. Ultimately, though, precise details of all the funds are not available to me.With all this in mind, do I take into account that some of the bonds held are likely to have 
been non-investment grade and some of the shares were overseas, including some riskier 
overseas holdings. So as well as the amount of equity, the funds risk could be increased by 
increasing exposure to those areas. This was an inherent part of the risk associated with 
funds following the benchmarks that it appears these funds followed. But taking all this into 
account doesnt alter my conclusions. Ive explained these in more detail below.
Mr F took income from the invested funds, which is what was planned. The risk of 
investment loss the funds carried meant investing in them wouldnt usually be suitable if 
invested capital (as distinct from the income the funds investments produced) was likely to 
be withdrawn in the short term, such as within five years or less. Surrender penalties on the 
bonds gave further reason for not investing funds needed within five years.
NatWests advice letter recommended Mr F keep cash on deposit for emergencies and it 
said Mr F was going to do this. Both parties agree he didnt actually access capital (rather 
than income) from the funds until more than five years had passed. Mr F will have been 
familiar with his own short-term spending plans and was in a good position to judge how 
much he might need for these. Also it was for him to decide how much he might need for his 
other financial enterprise, including for any contingencies. Having arrived at a figure, Im not 
persuaded NatWest shouldve thought Mr F had got that wrong. 
With all this in mind, I dont think NatWests advice to invest the amount Mr F invested was 
unsuitable by virtue of any need he had to access the invested funds in the short term. He 
appears to have been in a position to invest that money for the medium to long term and 
NatWests advice to invest that sum doesnt seem unreasonable, taking into account Mr Fs 
circumstances and what it appears NatWest had found out from him about this plans. Also it 
is apparent that he was willing to invest that sum at the time for at least five years and that 
NatWest made clear to him there were penalties if he accessed that capital sooner.
Turning again to how the recommended funds were invested, the funds were distribution 
funds. What we have suggests their asset allocation was in line with the 60% shares limit the 
cautious managed sector had at the time. Recent fund factsheets NatWest sent for two of 
the funds places them in that sector (known since 2012 as mixed investment 20% to 60% 
shares). What has been said during this complaint about another of the funds, mentioned by 
Mr F specifically, puts it in this sector too. Id add that this would be typical of distribution 
funds at the time and Ive nothing to suggest these funds were different. So Ive next 
considered whether funds of this kind were suitable for Mr F in his circumstances.
Mr F was retired and without work income to replace investment losses that might arise. But 
I dont agree that in his circumstances this means he ought to have been advised to keep all 
his free capital (if not earmarked for his other financial enterprise or emergencies) in cash or 
free of investment risk. If the investment was unsuccessful Mr F had other assets to fall back 
on. Overall I think he could afford to take a degree of risk with the invested money if he 
wished to do so. I accept his other assets could take time to sell, but I dont think the advice 
left him with a short-term cash shortfall or a need to sell other assets quickly. 
Mr F was assessed by NatWest as having a low attitude to risk. This was then set out for 
him in NatWests advice letter and also NatWests notes Mr F signed. Looking at the written 
description of this, it is apparent the consumer should expect some value fluctuation and a 
risk of loss not present in the very low risk category, but to a lesser extent than would be 
present in the medium risk category. This perhaps says little. Beyond this, the most useful 
indication to what might be involved is given by the example investment types in the guide.
NatWests example investments in its low risk category included multi-asset funds with a 
maximum of 60% in equities and specifically listed distribution funds as a type of fund in this category. In my view this describes the funds recommended to Mr F by NatWest. In the 
course of the complaint there has been discussion about the extent to which some of the 
distribution funds here held overseas shares. I dont think that by specifying distribution 
funds and funds holding no more than 60% in shares, the guide was seeking to exclude 
distribution funds that held some overseas shares or suggesting overseas shares wouldnt 
be held by funds in this category. So I dont think NatWests recommendation of the funds 
would, by virtue of overseas shares held, fall outside the bounds of what the guide was 
suggesting might be recommended under this risk category.
That said, when defined by the example investments in the guide, the low risk category 
was very broad indeed  going from funds with no shares up to cautious managed funds 
with up to 60% in shares. So it contained investment types that were very different in terms 
of the level of risk of loss and the sorts of risks they carried. A gilt or corporate bond fund is 
quite different to a cautious managed fund investing up to 60% in shares, even before taking 
into account that only some of the rest of the assets in a cautious managed fund might be as 
low risk as those found in a gilt or corporate bond fund  a point Mr F has emphasised again 
in his response to my provisional decision.
Indeed, a fund investing up to 60% in shares, with other risk assets too, might on the face of 
it seem to have more in common with a fund investing up to 80% in shares (which the guide 
placed in the medium risk category) than a fund of government bonds with no shares. Mr F 
in his response to my provisional decision has noted some banks mightve place such funds 
in the same category.
In saying all this, I do not overlook that within a mixed fund the extra risk of holding riskier 
assets is partly offset by the diversification of asset classes. Still, if Mr Fs risk attitude 
matched a fixed interest fund whose assets themselves might be considered low risk, like 
gilts or investment grade corporate bonds, then it wouldnt match up very well with a fund 
investing up to 60% in shares like those NatWest recommended to him.
So the broadness of the range of investments in the low risk category leaves room for 
some uncertainty as to what risk exactly it was that Mr F wanted and was willing to take. Still, 
the funds NatWest recommended were included within the low risk category in the guide, 
although at the riskier end. Mr F agreed to that category, so his agreement is potentially 
evidence to indicate he was willing to take the degree of risk involved with those funds.
I note also the advice letter explaining the advice says: historically stocks and shares and 
property have performed better than cash deposits over the medium to long term. So this 
specifically indicates that what Mr F was being recommended would include shares, as well 
as stocks and property  so wouldnt just be fixed interest. Also Mr Fs existing low risk 
fund  which NatWest referenced when discussing low risk - wasnt fixed interest with no 
shares. It was a with-profits fund - a mixed fund, with exposure to shares. 
With-profits funds try to reduce risk by smoothing returns or guaranteeing values at some 
points during the investment term. This wouldnt apply to the distribution funds NatWest 
recommended (and theres no suggestion Mr F was led to believe it would). So those funds 
likely carried more investment risk than Mr Fs with-profits fund. Still, Mr Fs experience of 
low risk with his with-profits fund was in some ways closer to NatWests recommended 
funds than it might have been had his experience been in fixed interest funds. Also I dont 
think it was necessary for Mr F to have had experience of the exact same type of fund or 
fund risks in order to be able to assess and understand the recommendation NatWest was 
making or for NatWests recommendation of the funds to be suitable.
In saying this, I take into account that Mr F had some experience of a mixed fund that didnt 
operate on a with-profits basis  in the form of his medium risk managed fund ISA. This wouldve allowed him some more insight into and understanding of the funds and the risks 
NatWest was recommending. On the face of it, the funds were similar but with a 60% share 
limit rather than the 80% NatWest allowed for medium risk funds. So the recommendation 
couldve been understood by Mr F in some ways as a less risky version of his existing ISA.
Of course I bear in mind Mr Fs experience of that ISA at the time of the 2006 advice will still 
have been limited as hed only had it since 2004. Also its value had risen rather than fallen 
over that period  so it hadnt given him experience of capital loss. But in light of what Ive 
said further above about market movements over the period, if Mr F monitored the value of 
his ISA or share values generally, its likely hell have witnessed some fluctuations and falls 
in value at times  although limited and short term in nature rather than large and sustained.
So Mr F wasnt considering NatWests advice to invest in the distribution funds without any 
frame of reference or anything to compare it with. He had experience of an ISA that, on the 
face of it, carried more risk than the funds he took in 2006 and could have been understood 
as a more exaggerated version of what NatWest was recommending in 2006.
I note in passing that despite its rise in value, the performance of his 2004 ISA did not lead 
Mr F to take or NatWest to recommend in 2006 the same level of risk as that ISA  a lesser 
degree of risk was taken. So the advice doesnt appear to have been unduly influenced by 
that short-term performance without consideration of other relevant factors. 
Also I dont overlook that taking risk with a small sum, like the 2004 ISA, is more affordable 
and easier than taking risk with the large sum Mr F invested in 2006 - a sum that would 
make a significant contribution to Mr Fs overall finances in the longer term, and on which he 
was reliant for his income in the short term. But I note also that NatWest was recommending 
less risk be taken with that larger sum than with Mr Fs 2004 ISA. I acknowledge that the use 
of non-investment grade bonds and overseas, particularly developing overseas, equities by 
the funds will have had the effect of reducing the gap between the degree of risk posed by 
the funds and that posed by the existing ISA  but, in light of what Ive said further above 
about the funds composition, I think the points above still stand.
I note whats been said about the 2004 ISA later being deemed to be too risky. So I dont 
assume that in 2004 Mr F was willing to take the level of risk involved in the 2004 ISA. But 
regardless of whether the ISA met his requirements in 2004, I think taking it gave him some 
investment experience and a frame of reference of the kind and to the extent Ive outlined 
above.  Also the fund selection in 2006 involved funds carrying less risk. So overall whats 
been said about the 2004 ISA doesnt make me think Mr F was unwilling to take the degree 
of risk carried by the funds NatWest recommended in 2006. It seems to me that one of the 
things NatWests advice letter told Mr F was the funds being recommended were similar in 
kind but less risky than his existing ISA  and, based on what I have, I still think its more 
likely than not that this was a fair representation of the situation.
Ive also considered that in the period covered by 2007 to 2009, significant falls took place in 
the value of assets like the shares and corporate bonds in the funds. But Ive seen nothing to 
suggest Mr F reacted to that volatility, or changed his plans for the investment, in a way that 
might suggest the volatility was outside the range of what he was given to expect at the sale. 
Of course, I place limited weight on this, given it occurred after the sale itself. Similarly I 
place limited weight on the point that Mr F invested further sums into the remaining bonds or 
ISA in 2017. This doesnt mean the 2006 advice was right, but neither does it easily lend 
itself to the conclusion that Mr F felt the approach hed been recommended had carried too 
much risk or that he should have kept his funds on deposit as has been suggested.
I note whats been said about Mr F not needing to take the degree of risk involved with the 
funds recommended in 2006. The after-tax income return Mr F was seeking was around 10% below the before tax return on the official bank interest rate and would fall within the 
tax-deferred withdrawals limit. So for short-term purposes Mr F didnt need to a return that 
was particularly high relative to the investment risk free rates likely to have been available at 
the time from cash deposits. But spending the interest from cash deposits would not have 
allowed for growth, which was also an objective, or any hedge against the effects of inflation 
over the medium term. In short, there were reasons to invest in the kind of funds NatWest 
recommended, so long as Mr F was prepared for the degree of risk involved. On balance Im 
persuaded that he was.
In summary, Mr F agreed to low risk. He did so in the context of the risk guide. The list of 
possible investments on the guides chart includes funds of the kind Mr F was advised to 
take. Those funds were at the riskier end of the range of investments in that broad list. But in 
light of what Ive said further above, what I have doesnt make me think Mr F wasnt willing to 
take the fluctuations and risk of loss of the funds he was recommended or that in his case 
what was understood as low risk excluded funds of the type he was recommended or was 
restricted only to the lower risk options within NatWests low risk category. Also it appears 
the sum Mr F invested was one he could afford to invest for at least five years and the risk of 
loss was affordable given his circumstances.
With all this in mind, and having looked at the recommended investments in the context of 
Mr Fs circumstances, objectives and what was recorded of his attitude to risk, on balance 
Im not persuaded NatWests recommendations were unsuitable for Mr F. So I dont uphold 
the complaint. 
Im grateful for all Mr Fs points, including the further points kindly provided in response to 
my provisional decision. I thank all the parties for the assistance provided to us throughout.
My final decision
In light of what Ive said above, and for the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman