DRN-3206914
Complaint
Mr N has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) unfairly continued applying 
charges on his overdraft which caused him financial difficulty.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ns complaint and thought Santander should have 
realised Mr Ns overdraft had already become unsustainable by April 2017. So it needed to 
refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to Mr Ns overdraft from this point. 
Santander disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think Santander acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from April 2017. By this point, it 
was evident Mr N was struggling financially. 
A cursory look at his statements leading up to this period shows that Mr N had been 
struggling to maintain his overdraft at its limit for an extended period of time and this is 
evidenced by the significant number of unarranged overdraft fees. Equally, Mr N had already 
got into contact with Santander to explain that he was finding paying the charges difficult. 
So I think that by April 2017 Santander should have stopped providing the overdraft on the 
same terms and treated Mr N with forbearance rather than adding even more interest, fees 
and charges on the overdraft.
All of this means that Santander should have realised that Mr N was experiencing financial 
difficulty and offered him help to repay what he owed. As Santander didnt react to Mr Ns 
account usage and what he said, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
In reaching my conclusions, Ive thought about what Santander has said about the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook, the terms and conditions of Mr Ns account, its process and 
any actions it may have taken. But for the reasons Ive already explained, I remain satisfied 
that it wasnt fair to continue adding charges to Mr Ns account from April 2017.
Mr N ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges at a time when he was already 
experiencing difficulty. So Im satisfied that Mr N lost out because of what Santander did 
wrong and that it should put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what Santander needs to do to put things right for Mr N
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ns complaint for Santander to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ns current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from April 2017 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Santander should contact Mr N to arrange a suitable repayment plan, 
Mr N is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Santander to reach 
a suitable agreement for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative 
information on Mr Ns credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded 
had it started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in April 
2017. Santander can also reduce Mr Ns overdraft limit by the amount of refund if 
it considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave him over 
his limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr N along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Santander should remove any adverse information from Mr Ns credit file. 
Santander can also reduce Mr Ns overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it 
considers it appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr N a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ns complaint. Santander UK Plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman