DRN-2766970
The complaint
Mr R complains that NewDay Ltd irresponsibly allowed him to open two credit card accounts 
that were unaffordable and also increased the credit limit on one of the accounts.
What happened
Mr R says he opened the first account in July 2017 and three credit limit increases were 
applied that were unaffordable. He says he was in financial difficulties at the time and was 
using payday lending to support his income. Mr R says he would like further interest and 
charges refunded. The second account was opened in July 2019 when Mr R says NewDay 
knew he was in financial difficulties. He says NewDay accept that, but he would like the 
outstanding balance written off and any adverse information removed from his credit file.
NewDay says it accepts it shouldnt have opened the second account and has refunded 
charges and interest. It says it carried out appropriate checks on the first account and Mr R 
said he earned £20,000 a year and had debts of about £8,400. NewDay says it approved a 
relatively low credit limit of £900 which it increased in November 2017 to £1,800 and 
increased again to £2,550 in April 2018. The final increase took place in August 2018 to 
£3,300 which NewDay accepts was unaffordable and shouldnt have been approved. It has 
refunded interest and charges on that account.
Mr R brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint in part. The 
investigator thought NewDay should remove any adverse information from Mr Rs credit file 
about the second account but didnt think the balance should be written off as Mr R had the 
benefit of the spending. The investigator thought NewDay carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks on the first account application and thought the first credit limit increase 
was also appropriate. But thought the second credit limit increase not reasonable as Mr R 
had exceeded his credit limit in two or the three previous months. The investigator 
recommended charges and interest be refunded from April 2018 and Mr Rs credit file be 
updated.
Mr R says he had payday loans at the time of lending but cant find evidence of them.
NewDay doesnt accept that view and says there was no indication of financial difficulties at 
the time of the second increase and its policy is not to lend if there are three consecutive 
months of exceeding a credit limit. It says it cant remove a default when its been correctly 
recorded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I have come to the same overall view as the investigator and for similar 
reasons.
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
borrowing application. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type and amount 
of that lending.
There is no dispute here that NewDay ought to have rejected Mr Rs application for the 
second account as it ought to have been clear that any lending would be unaffordable. I 
think NewDay has acted fairly by refunding the charges and interest but Im satisfied Mr R 
had the benefit of that money and so it would be unfair to order NewDay to write off the 
balance. I appreciate NewDay says it shouldnt remove the default from Mr Rs credit file. 
But I disagree and NewDay should put Mr R back in the position he would have been in 
before the mistake was made. And Im satisfied that it would be unfair for the default to 
remain in circumstances where the account shouldnt have been opened which allowed the 
account to default.
I have looked carefully at the application for the first account and I agree with the investigator 
that NewDay carried out reasonable and proportionate checks on it and allowed a relatively 
modest credit limit of £900. So, I dont think NewDay made a mistake or acted unfairly by 
opening the account. I appreciate Mr R says he had payday loans, but he hasnt provided 
any evidence of them or given us a copy of his credit file. So, in those circumstances based 
on the evidence I have seen Im satisfied the lending was reasonable and proportionate. 
I also think the first credit limit increase was also checked appropriately and NewDay was 
able at that stage to consider Mr Rs positive account management in the months before the 
increase. So, I dont think NewDay made a mistake or acted unfairly by increasing the credit 
limit on this occasion.
I can see from NewDays records that Mr R used the first credit limit increase and in the 
three months before the April 2018 increase exceeded his credit limit on two occasions. I 
appreciate NewDay says it wouldnt have increased the limit if there had been three 
occasions when the credit limit was exceeded but I think taking all of the factors into account 
that it should have carried our further reasonable and proportionate checks on the increase 
offer. I also think it should have considered how close in time it was to the November 2017 
increase and what had taken place, namely the immediate use of the new limit. It follows that 
I find the second credit limit increase was not affordable. And its clear that after the increase 
Mr Rs financial position did deteriorate.
There is no question here that the third credit limit increase was unaffordable as NewDay 
accept that is the case and I think it has acted fairly by refunding interest and charges.
Putting things right
I intend to order NewDay to put Mr R back in the position he would have been in from April 
2018 if the credit limit hadnt been allowed. I accept that may be a difficult calculation, but it 
should refund interest and charges over and above those that would have been incurred on 
the £1,800 credit limit. And it will need to take into account that it has refunded charges and 
interest on the last credit limit increase. NewDay should pay Mr R 8% interest if there is a 
balance owing to him after that calculation. It should also remove any adverse information 
such as late payments from Mr Rs credit file if, after those calculations are carried out, it 
would have been the case that such adverse information wouldnt have been reported. I also 
agree with the investigator that NewDay should pay £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience and distress Mr R was caused. I find such an award would be fair and 
reasonable. I cant fairly order the default from the first account be removed from Mr Rs 
credit file as I think it clear the relationship between him and NewDay had broken down and 
he was unable to repay his debt.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order NewDay Ltd to pay Mr R 
£100 compensation and remove any adverse information about the second account from his 
credit file. I also order NewDay Ltd to refund any charges and interest applied to the first 
account from April 2018 on any balance greater than the credit limit at the time namely 
£1,800. If that results in money being owed to Mr R then NewDay should refund that money 
and pay 8% simple interest on that amount and provide him with a certificate of tax paid to 
Her Majestys Revenue and Customs. And any adverse information about the first account 
should be removed from Mr Rs credit file if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman