DRN-3174749
The complaint
Mr H complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly and provided him with a 
loan that was unaffordable.
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided a loan to Mr H as follows: 
Date 
takenAmount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal 
repayment 
amountLoan 
status
29/10/2020 £2,000 24 months £329.33 £7,903.92 Outstanding 
Mr H said he was already in debt and had Loans 2 Go completed the correct checks, it 
wouldn't have agreed this loan.
In its final response letter Loans 2 Go didnt uphold the complaint and so Mr H brought his 
complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. She didnt think Loans 2 Go should have 
provided Mr H with the loan as his bank statements showed that his credit spending 
represented a significant proportion of his monthly income. She also said he was regularly 
facing daily overdraft charges and his credit report showed a history of defaulted accounts 
and payment arrangements. So she felt that Loans 2 Go shouldve realised it was unlikely 
that Mr H would be able to sustainably meet the loan repayments. 
Loans 2 Go didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. In summary, it mainly said:
the credit report it obtained showed all Mr Hs active borrowings were up to date with 
payments, which evidenced that he wasnt facing any financial difficulty at the time he 
applied for the loan and could afford the payment on all his credit commitments
there was some adverse information on Mr Hs credit file, but this would normally be 
expected given the type of lending that Loans 2 Go provides
Mr Hs payslips were reviewed to verify his income  not his bank statements 
A business is not obliged to review bank statements before approving loan 
applications.
Loans 2 Go said it was satisfied with the level of checks carried out and cannot say 
that it should have conducted any further checks or reviewed any bank statements 
before agreeing to the loan.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr H would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If so, did Loans 2 Go 
make a fair lending decision?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
I have reviewed the information Loans 2 Go gathered when it agreed to provide this loan. It 
took salary details from payslips provided by Mr H and verified that Mr Hs minimum income 
was approximately £2,404 monthly. After looking at the credit report information it gathered, 
Loans 2 Go slightly increased the overall amount Mr H had said he was spending each month and allowed for a total monthly expenditure figure of around £1,348. It also added a 
buffer of 10% of Mr Hs verified expenditure in order to allow for fluctuations in his monthly 
income or outgoings. Relying on this information, Loans 2 Go said that the contractual loan 
repayment for this loan should have been affordable. 
Our adjudicator thought that Loans 2 Go had done proportionate checks before it provided 
the loan. I think that view was based on the misunderstanding that Loans 2 Go had seen two 
months worth of bank statements before approving the loan. 
From what Loans 2 Go has said, it seems that those bank statements werent seen by 
Loans 2 Go until much later as these were only provided when Mr H complained about the 
loan. 
  
I've taken into account that Loans 2 Go felt its checks at the time were proportionate and 
that it was entitled to rely on the information it had gathered  including what it saw on the 
credit report it obtained. And I can see that one of the loans our adjudicator thought Mr H 
would be paying is shown on the credit report with a nil balance.
But, after independently reviewing this complaint, like our adjudicator, I think its fair and 
reasonable overall to uphold it. I will explain my reasons for saying this.
I think its fair to say that the credit checks Loans 2 Go did showed clear signs that Mr H 
might already be financially over-stretched and having trouble managing money problems. 
Loans 2 Go could see he appeared to have balances outstanding on two expensive loan 
accounts which already cost him £215 and ££161 each month and it looked like he would be 
paying these for some time  plus he had signed up to pay a further £22 each month on 
another credit account. It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a 
credit history showing other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these things 
wouldnt necessarily be reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application. 
But I think Loans 2 Go should have been concerned to see that the information in front of it 
suggested that with its loan as well, Mr H would need to pay almost a third of his take home 
pay to service his debt. 
I think that Loans 2 Go, as a responsible lender, shouldve realised that a loan which 
required Mr H to make debt repayments at this level for the next two years seriously risked 
not being sustainably affordable. The fact that Mr Hs active credit accounts showed up to 
date payments wasnt enough in my view to address the proper concern I think Loans 2 Go 
shouldve felt about lending to someone with such a significant level of debt compared to his 
disposable income. And so I dont think Loans 2 Go shouldve provided this loan  at the 
very least, not without first doing more in-depth checks to satisfy itself that Mr Hs financial 
situation was not what it appeared to be on the information it had in front of it. 
This means, unlike our adjudicator and Loans 2 Go, I dont think its checks were 
proportionate. In my view, Loans 2 Go needed to carry out further and more in-depth checks 
to gain a proper understanding of Mr Hs financial situation to ensure it didnt provide a loan 
if he wasnt in a position to sustainably afford the loan repayments.
So I've thought about what a proportionate check would likely have revealed to Loans 2 Go.   
Mr H has provided copies of two months worth of his bank statements which help me 
understand what better checks might have shown to Loans 2 Go when he applied for this 
loan. Of course, different checks might show different things  and Im not saying Loans 2 
Go shouldve necessarily asked to see bank statements. But these give a useful insight into Mr Hs overall financial situation at the time. I think if Loans 2 Go had carried out what 
I consider to be proportionate checks, its likely it would have discovered more concerning 
information about Mr Hs financial position.
In addition to what it knew about his existing use of credit and the extent of his indebtedness, 
Mr Hs bank statements show that in the weeks running up to him applying for this loan he 
was paying for loans taken out with at least four other providers of expensive high cost 
unsecured lending. By my reckoning, he had borrowed more than £7,000 in new loans taken 
out over a two week period around the end of September and the start of October 2020.
Had Loans 2 Go seen this information, as I think it shouldve done, it shouldve realised that 
Mr H was in serious financial difficulty. Bearing in mind that the loan purpose wasnt stated 
I dont think Loans 2 Go wouldve had any reason to think that this loan wouldnt simply add 
to Mr Hs overall indebtedness. So I think Loans 2 Go shouldnt have provided the loan for 
this reason.  
  
And given my concerns above about the amount Loans 2 Go already knew Mr H would be 
spending on his existing credit commitments, this extra borrowing that Loans 2 Go hadnt 
known about or factored into its affordability assessment meant he would now pay an even 
bigger proportion of his take home pay on servicing debt. 
I think Loans 2 Go ought reasonably to have been aware that taking further, costly lending 
was unlikely to help Mr H. I dont think Loans 2 Go could reasonably have satisfied itself that 
providing this loan to Mr H wouldnt put him in a worse position by increasing his overall 
debts. And it shouldve realised that maintaining this level of debt wasnt likely to be 
sustainably affordable for Mr H. 
So, I am planning on upholding Mr Hs complaint that he should not have been given the 
loan.
I havent seen anything which makes me think that Loans 2 Go acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr H in some other way. So I cant fairly say that there is any reason 
for me to award any additional redress. 
But taking everything into account, I dont think Loans 2 Go should have agreed to provide 
the loan to Mr H. 
And as Mr H has been further indebted with an expensive loan that he shouldnt have been 
provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what Loans 2 Go did wrong. So, 
I think Loans 2 Go needs to put things right.
I hope that setting out my reasons as I've done helps explain more clearly why its fair and 
reasonable to uphold this complaint and I hope Loans 2 Go might reconsider its position in 
light of what I've said above.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr H agrees with what I've said and he would like to set up a payment arrangement as soon 
as possible to reduce the outstanding debt as quickly as he can in order to improve his credit 
rating. 
Loans 2 Go confirmed that it had no further points to be considered. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and I appreciate Loans 2 Go responding so promptly to my provisional decision which has 
enabled me to progress matters more quickly in line with Mr Hs express wishes. 
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr H to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. 
But he has paid extra for lending that should not have been provided to him. 
In line with this Services approach, Mr H shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed. 
If Loans 2 Go has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then 
take the following steps.
Otherwise, Loans 2 Go should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined 
below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr H received as a result of having been given this 
loan. The repayments Mr H made should be deducted from this amount.

If this results in Mr H having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Loans 2 Go should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr H keeping in mind the need to 
treat him positively and sympathetically if he needs further time to pay.
remove any negative information recorded on Mr Hs credit file regarding this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
should give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to take the steps I've set out above to 
put things right for Mr H. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 Susan Webb
Ombudsman