DRN-3774238
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon automatically transferred 
his Aegon Scottish Equitable pension plan to an Aegon Retiready pension plan and that his 
new pension plan doesnt allow him to invest into a cash fund. 
What happened
Mr G held an Individual Pension Plan with Aegon Scottish Equitable. In mid-May 2019 
Aegon Scottish Equitable wrote to Mr G to tell him that they planned to transfer his Individual 
Pension Plan into an Aegon Retiready pension plan.
In this letter Aegon Scottish Equitable explained that the transfer of Mr Gs pension would 
take place in June 2019 unless Mr G told them that he did not want the transfer to happen.
Aegon Scottish Equitable wrote to Mr G again in early June 2019. They referred to their 
previous letter and told Mr G that they would go ahead with the transfer of his pension 
unless he told them otherwise. The letter went on to say that: If this transfer isn't right for 
you for any reason, please call us, email or write to opt out before 24 June 2019, and quote 
your policy number. 
In early July 2019 Aegon Scottish Equitable wrote to Mr G again to confirm that the transfer 
of his pension to Aegon Retiready had been completed and enclosed his Confirmation of 
transfer document.
In late October 2019 Mr G carried out a fund switch within his new Retiready pension plan. 
Mr G then carried out further fund switches in mid-November 2019 and early December 
2019.
In mid-May 2022 Mr G telephoned Aegon Retiready to ask about a recent fall in the value of 
his pension. Mr G also asked if he could switch his pension plan investment into a cash fund. 
Aegon Retiready told Mr G that there was not an option to invest in a cash fund within his 
pension plan, but they would check to see if it was possible for him to transfer his pension 
plan back to Aegon Scottish Equitable, where a cash fund would be available.
As Mr G had not heard back from Retiready, he telephoned them a few days later to ask 
again about switching his pension into a cash fund. Mr G had eight different telephone 
conversations with Aegon Retiready and Aegon Scottish Equitable on the same day.
During these telephone conversations Mr G was told by Retiready that it may be possible for 
his pension plan to be transferred back to Aegon Scottish Equitable, but Mr G would need to 
speak directly with Aegon Scottish Equitable to ask if they would be willing to set up a new 
pension plan for him, that he could then transfer his Aegon Retiready plan into.
When Mr G then spoke with Aegon Scottish Equitable on the same day, they told him that 
they were unable to open a new pension plan for him. They did however say that it may be 
possible for the original pension transfer completed in June 2019 to be reversed.
At the end of May 2022 Aegon Retiready telephoned Mr G to explain that as more than 12 
months had elapsed since the pension transfer was completed in June 2019, and as Mr G 
had completed fund switches in his Aegon Retiready pension, then a reversal of the June 
2019 transfer wasnt possible.
Mr G raised a complaint with Aegon Retiready as he wasnt happy with the conflicting and 
incorrect information he felt that he had received in his earlier telephone conversations. 
In mid-July 2022 Aegon Retiready wrote to Mr G to explain that they hadnt yet completed 
their review of his complaint. Mr G decided to refer his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Aegon did subsequently complete their review of Mr Gs complaint. They confirmed that it 
wasnt possible to reverse the June 2019 transfer. They also explained that the option to 
invest in a cash fund wasnt available within Mr Gs pension plan. However, they did accept 
that they had provided incorrect information to Mr G during his telephone calls in May 2022 
and offered Mr G £350 in compensation for the inconvenience suffered. Mr G didnt accept 
this offer.
An Investigator within the Financial Ombudsman Service reviewed Mr Gs complaint. Their 
view was that Aegons offer of £350 compensation for the inconvenience that Mr G had 
suffered as a result of being given wrong information during his May 2022 telephone calls 
was fair and reasonable.
Mr G didnt agree with the Investigators view as he didnt believe that the compensation 
offered was sufficient. Mr G said that he should be able to switch his pension investment into 
a cash fund and that he wasnt happy about the June 2019 pension transfer. Mr G therefore 
asked for his complaint to be referred to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aegon Scottish Equitable wrote to Mr G twice before they completed the transfer of his 
pension plan to Aegon Retiready. These letters were correctly addressed.
On page one of the May 2019 letter Aegon stated: The terms and conditions of your current 
pension are different to the Retiready pension. Unless you tell us you don't want the transfer 
to happen, we'll vary your current contract to reflect the terms and conditions of the 
Retiready pension.
Aegon Scottish Equitable wrote to Mr G again in early June 2019. The letter was headed: 
Reminder: We're getting ready to transfer and modernise your pension In the opening paragraph of their letter Aegon Scottish Equitable said: We recently wrote to 
you to let you know that we're planning to transfer your current Aegon pension to Retiready. 
Your pension will transfer after 24 June 2019, unless you tell us otherwise.
This letter went on to say: If this transfer isn't right for you for any reason, please call us, 
email or write to opt out before 24 June 2019, and quote your policy number.
I think that in their letters, Aegon Scottish Equitable were telling Mr G that the transfer of his 
pension plan would go ahead unless he told them that he didnt want the transfer to happen. 
Mr G was also being told what action he needed to take, and what the deadline was to take 
any action, if he didnt want the transfer to proceed. 
I also think that the action that Mr G needed to take to stop the transfer was straightforward 
in that he only had to contact Aegon Scottish Equitable by letter, email or telephone to tell 
them that he didnt want the transfer to proceed.
Therefore, I think that Mr G could have stopped the transfer proceeding if he had decided to. 
If Mr G had decided that he didnt want the transfer to go ahead then he would have retained 
his original Aegon Scottish Equitable pension plan, which did allow investment into a cash 
fund. 
As Mr G didnt contact Aegon Scottish Equitable to instruct that the transfer be stopped, the 
transfer of his pension plan did go ahead and Mr G received written confirmation of this in 
July 2019.
Aegon Scottish Equitables letter of May 2019 also stated:
The enclosed Important changes affecting your pension plan document highlights the main 
differences between your current Aegon pension and the Retiready pension.
 Section 1. describes the assumptions we made to compare your charges.
 Section 2. shows the options you will lose after the transfer.
 Section 3. Includes other features that will change after transfer. 
Section 3, as detailed above, stated:
Following the transfer, you will remain in the Retiready version(s) of your current fund(s). 
Where you are invested in more than one fund, youll remain invested in the same 
proportions as you were invested in immediately before the transfer. The range of insured 
pension funds available under a Retiready Pension is different from those available under 
your current terms. On Retiready you can choose to switch into one of our five Retiready 
Investment funds (Retiready Stability and Retiready Solutions 2 to 5), each designed to suit 
different risk levels. However, if you do, you must switch all of your current fund holdings into 
one Retiready Investment fund and you wont be able to switch back. After the switch, you 
can only invest in one Retiready Investment fund at a time. You can find out about the five 
Retiready funds within the Key Features document in the important reading section at 
www.aegon.co.uk/incontrolinfo. 
I think that this information was telling Mr G that he was able to retain the investment funds 
that he was holding in his Aegon Scottish Equitable plan when the transfer was made. I think 
that Mr G was also being told that if he wanted to make a fund switch within his new Aegon 
Retiready plan, the range of funds then available to him be different to those available in his 
Aegon Scottish Equitable plan. Aegon Scottish Equitable explained that only five fund options would be available within the 
new Aegon Retiready plan. These five options didnt include a cash fund. At the time of 
transfer Mr Gs pension plan wasnt invested in a cash fund. Aegon Scottish Equitable also 
told Mr G where he could find out information about the five funds available within the Aegon 
Retiready plan. 
I think that Aegon Scottish Equitable were also explaining to Mr G that once he completed a 
fund switch, he would then not be able to go back and use any of the funds that his Aegon 
Scottish Equitable plan was invested in when the transfer was made. 
Mr G completed fund switches within his Aegon Retiready plan in October, November and 
December 2019. These switches moved his pension plans investment into one of the five 
funds available within his Aegon Retiready plan. 
Aegon Scottish Equitable also stated in their letter of May 2019, under the heading If you 
change your mind, that Youll have 12 months from the date of the transfer to ask us to 
move your pension back. Well reinstate your current pension to the value before we applied 
the enhancement and put you back in the position you would have been in had we not 
carried out the transfer. 
Therefore, Mr G had until 12 months after the transfer was completed, so until June 2020, to 
decide if he wanted the pension transfer reversed. 
Mr G didnt ask about moving his pension plan back to Aegon Scottish Equitable until May 
2022. This was nearly three years after the original pension transfer had been completed, so 
the option of reversing the original transfer was no longer available to him. 
Mr G contacted Aegon Retiready in May 2022 to ask about switching his pension plan into a 
cash fund. Mr G then had eight telephone conversations with Aegon Scottish Equitable and 
Aegon Retiready on the same day in mid-May 2022. During these conversations Mr G was 
given incorrect information about whether he was able to reverse the June 2019 transfer and 
if he could set up a new pension plan with Aegon Scottish Equitable, to then transfer his 
Aegon Retiready plan into. 
Mr G was not told until late May 2022 that he wasnt able to invest his Aegon Retiready plan 
into a cash fund, nor could he reverse the June 2019 transfer or set up a new pension plan 
with Aegon Scottish Equitable. I think that it wasnt reasonable that Mr G was given incorrect 
information during his telephone calls and then had to wait until the end of May 2022 before 
he received correct information on his pension plan.
Mr G has said that he should be allowed access to a cash fund within his Aegon Retiready 
plan. This plan does provide a cash facility, but Aegon Retiready have said that this is only 
for receiving pension contributions and paying out pension benefits. It is therefore not a cash 
fund and cannot be used for investment. And I cant direct a business to offer particular 
funds to its customers.
This is explained on page 6 of the Aegon Retiready Terms and Conditions document which 
says: Cash facility  means the untraded cash account that is set up for and within each 
product wrapper for the movement of money to and from, and within, a product wrapper.
In their response to Mr G, Aegon have explained that they think that the investment options 
available to him are:
To stay invested in your Retiready plan in your current investment solution
Switch to another Retiready solutionAlternatively, you could transfer externally to another provider who would have the   
functionality you are looking for
You could also consider transferring in to Aegon One Retirement or Aegon               
Retirement choices platforms  however they are advised platforms so you would 
need an adviser to arrange this. 
I therefore dont think that Aegon Scottish Equitable acted unreasonably when they 
transferred Mr Gs pension to the Aegon Retiready plan. I also think that Aegon Retiready 
have explained to Mr G that a cash fund is not available within his pension plan. Aegon have 
told Mr G what they think his options are if he does want to invest into a cash fund. 
Aegon have admitted that Mr G should not have been given incorrect information during his 
telephone calls in mid-May. I agree that it has failed in this respect and I therefore find in 
favour of Mr G. However, I think that Aegons offer of £350 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for the inconvenience that hes suffered. I think that aside from paying Mr G 
this compensation Aegon dont need to take any further action.
My final decision
If it hasnt already done so, Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon now need to pay Mr G 
the offered sum of £350.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Ian Barton
Ombudsman