DRN-3530024
The complaint
Ms S has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) charged her interest under a 
credit agreement she took out which had a deferred period of 12 months.
What happened
Ms S bought a boiler under a buy now pay later arrangement. As part of this she entered 
into a credit agreement with Ikano to borrow £3,010. The application for the credit was 
accepted on 10 August 2020. Ive seen a copy of an email from Ikano to Ms S saying her 
application had been accepted, but this email isnt dated. In this Ms S was provided with a 
link to access the agreement. Ikano has provided an event log to show Ms S accessed the 
agreement online on 11 August and this also suggests she accessed it to sign it on 16 
August 2020. And it seems from the copy of the agreement Ive got that Ms S signed it 
electronically on 17 August 2020.
Ikano have said Ms S was sent a letter dated 7 September 2020, which said if she would 
like to pay back her loan without paying interest shed need to do so by 10 August 2020. 
Theyve also provided a copy of a letter theyve said was sent to Ms S dated 18 July 2020, 
which reminded her that she needed to repay her loan by 10 August 2021 if she wanted to 
do so without paying interest.
Ms S made a payment of £1,000 to repay part of the loan on 6 August 2021 by bank 
transfer. Shes said she then tried to telephone Ikano on numerous occasions to repay the 
balance of the loan by credit card. Shes explained she was unable to get through to 
speak to anyone and, when she eventually did, the person concerned couldnt take her 
payment. She also emailed Ikano about her problem getting through and eventually 
managed to pay the balance of £2,010 on 19 August 2021. Mrs S was then told she owed 
interest on the loan because she hadnt repaid it in full by 10 August 2021.
Ms S complained to Ikano and said she hadnt been able to repay the loan in time 
because of the problems she had when she called and tried to speak to someone to do 
this. Ikano issued a final response in which they maintained that Ms S had missed the 
deadline to repay the loan without interest and saying they would not waive the interest 
due.
Ms S asked us to consider her complaint about Ikano. One of our investigators did this 
and said it should be upheld. This was because he didnt think the credit agreement made 
it clear that the deferred period ended on 10 August 2021. He thought it could be taken to 
mean it ended on 17 August 2021. And he said that because Ms S clearly tried to repay 
the loan before 17 August 2021 she should not be charged interest.
Ikano didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
They said the loan agreement was clear on the fact that the deferred period 
ended on 10 August 2021.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 May 2022 in which I set out what Id 
provisionally decided and why as follows:
Ive looked at the loan agreement and it doesnt state on this what the start date is. In fact 
the only date on it is the date it was signed by Ms S and a representative of Ikano. This 
date is 17 August 2020. And, in the absence of any other date or reference to when the 
agreement started, I think the start date has to be taken to be 17 August 2020. There is 
no reference on the agreement to the date the application for the credit was accepted.
The agreement sets out the extent of the duration as 132 months and the amount of 
credit as £3,010. It also sets out the total charge for the credit as £3,363.11.
Ms S was a buy now pay later customer and the agreement has the following 
section covering this:
BUY NOW PAY LATER CUSTOMERS: No payments are due for the first 12 months, the 
deferred period interest is calculated on the Amount of Credit and applied from the date 
the application is accepted. If the Amount of Credit is repaid on or before the end of the 
deferred period, no interest will be payable but an administration fee of £49 will be 
payable.
Ikano have said this shows that interest is payable from 10 August 2020, because this is 
when Ms Ss application for credit was accepted. But there is no mention on the 
agreement of this date. And the deferred period is not defined anywhere in the 
agreement. In view of this, I cant see how Ms S could have worked out from the 
agreement that she needed to repay her loan in full by 10 August 2021 to avoid paying 
any interest. And I think she could have reasonably assumed that the deferred period 
started from the only date shown on the loan agreement, ie 17 August 2020.
However, Ive noted that Ikano have said that Ms S received the two letters informing 
her that she needed to repay her loan before 10 August 2021 if she wanted to avoid 
interest. And Im satisfied from evidence provided by Ikano that these were both sent to 
Ms S. And I think it is most likely she received them. So, whilst I can see why Ms S may 
well have assumed when she saw the loan agreement that the deferred period ended on 
17 August 2021, I dont think she could have thought this once she received Ikanos 
letters of 7 September 2020 and 18 July 2020. In view of this, I dont think it would 
produce a fair and reasonable outcome if I didnt allow Ikano to charge interest based on 
the deferred period ending on 10 August 2021, when Ms S received two letters which 
stated very clearly it ended on this date.
I appreciate Ms S emailed Ikano in April 2021 asking when her loan agreement started 
and for a copy of it. But its clear Ms S had already been provided with a copy of it online 
and may well have still had access to it in April 2021, as I assume the original link she 
was provided with would still have worked. So, I dont think the fact Ikano didnt reply to 
Ms Ss
email should have any bearing on the outcome of her complaint.
Ikanos records show that the only call Ms S made to them before the 10 August 2021 was 
on 9 August 2021. Ive listened to a recording of this call. In it Ms S was asked to choose 
from two options. To press 1 if her card had been lost or stolen or 2 for anything else. I 
assume Ms S chose option 2 and was then asked to input her 16 digit Ikano account 
number. It seems she tried to do this twice, but the number was incorrect. And on the 
second occasion she was told Ikano was unable to progress any further using the 
automated system. Ms S was then put through to a recorded message which told her if 
she was a loan customer she should go to Ikano.co.uk for help and advice.I cant see Ms S made any further attempts to contact Ikano until 12 August. And she 
eventually spoke to someone and paid off the balance of her loan on 19 August. This 
means the evidence suggests Ms S didnt actually attempt to contact anyone at Ikano 
before the deadline of 10 August for her to be able to repay the loan without being 
charged interest.
Ive also checked with Ikano and theyve told me that if Ms S had gone on to the Contact 
Us page on their website and chosen the Loan category, shed have been presented 
with a question Have you got a settlement figure from us yet?. She did have a settlement 
figure, so if she chosen Yes shed have been asked how she wanted to pay off her loan. 
If shed chosen Over the phone, shed have then been told to call 0344 8565535. And 
she could then have spoken to someone and paid off her loan by credit card.
I appreciate Ms S has said she had problems getting through to someone at Ikano. But 
the evidence Ive seen suggests she didnt actually try to do this until 12 August at the 
earliest. And by this time shed already missed the deadline she needed to meet for 
paying the loan off without paying any interest.
In the circumstances, I dont think Ikano have done anything wrong in charging Ms S 
interest on her loan, as it did make it clear to her that she would have to pay this if she 
didnt repay her loan in full by 10 August 2021 and she didnt do this. And it doesnt 
appear she made a meaningful attempt to do so prior to this date.
I then said Id provisionally decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. 
I gave both parties until 8 June 2022 to provide further comments or evidence. 
Neither party has provided any further comments or evidence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to alter my view on the fair and reasonable outcome as 
set out in it and included above. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision dated 25 May 2022, my final decision is 
that I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint about Ikano Bank AB (publ). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman