DRN-3392641
The complaint
Mrs W complains about how Pepper (UK) Limited has dealt with her mortgage and her 
property. Shes unhappy with the original property valuation, that she wasnt permitted to sell 
land forming part of the property, and with the steps Pepper took to sell the property after it 
took possession.
What happened
In 2008, Mrs W re-mortgaged her property to GE Money Home Lending. She borrowed 
around £370,000. In March 2015, the mortgage was transferred to Pepper. There were 
already significant arrears on the mortgage by then, the mortgage debt had increased, and a 
court order for possession had been granted to GE Money in 2011. 
In February 2016, before the eviction date, Mrs W surrendered the property and gave the 
keys to Pepper. Pepper says it then found the owner of a neighbouring property had blocked 
access to the property and there was an ongoing boundary dispute. It appointed solicitors, 
who had to undertake extensive enquiries, including with the Land Registry  and this took a 
significant length of time.
In March 2019, the property was sold for £310,000, to the neighbour with whom there was 
the boundary dispute. By this time the mortgage debt had increased further, and the sale left 
a shortfall of just over £200,000 which Mrs W has been asked to pay. 
Mrs W complained. In summary, she was unhappy that:
- the property was overvalued when she took out the mortgage in 2008;
- GE Money hadnt allowed her to sell land which formed part of the property in order to 
pay the mortgage arrears;
- Pepper had turned down an offer to buy the property for £300,000 in 2015 from the same 
neighbour who went on to pay a similar amount for it in 2019. Had Pepper accepted the 
earlier offer, the mortgage debt wouldnt have increased to the extent it has;
- the property had never been put up for sale on the open market, and it should have sold 
for far more than it did. 
Pepper said it and its predecessor, GE Money, had sent Mrs W final responses to some of 
these complaints a number of years ago, and it didnt consent to the Financial Ombudsman 
looking into those issues now. It also said it had done nothing wrong in respect of more 
recent events, and it had got the best possible price for the property given the difficult 
surrounding circumstances of the boundary dispute and lack of access.
Our investigators found we couldnt help with some aspects of Mrs Ws complaint, because 
she had brought them to us too late: specifically, the 2008 valuation and her request to sell 
some land. They said we could look into Mrs Ws complaint about how Pepper dealt with the 
mortgage and the property after it took possession in 2016, and the sale price it got.
Our investigators ultimately recommended that Pepper refund the interest it had added to 
the mortgage after it took possession of the property in 2016. Neither Mrs W nor Pepper 
thought that represented a fair outcome, so the complaint came to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I came to a different conclusion to our investigators, so I issued a provisional decision to give 
Mrs W and Pepper an opportunity to provide any further evidence or comments they wanted 
me to consider. I didnt propose to uphold the complaint, and I said:
Mrs W has made various complaints over the years, to both GE Money and Pepper, and 
received final response letters about them. For the avoidance of any doubt, I agree with the 
conclusions our investigators reached about which complaints I can consider. I cant 
consider Mrs Ws earlier complaints about which she received final response letters in 2013 
and 2014. Those complaints have been brought too late. 
The crux of the complaint I can consider is that Mrs W thinks Pepper has mishandled the 
whole matter of the sale of the mortgaged property and has left her with a significant debt, 
which she cant pay and which could and should have been avoided.
Pepper had a duty to obtain the best possible price for the property. I would expect it to have 
balanced that against selling the property as quickly as possible, in order to keep the costs 
to Mrs W to a minimum. I have to decide whether the actions Pepper took were reasonable 
in the particular and unusual circumstances of this case. While I realise Mrs W will be very 
disappointed with my decision, I think they were.
Its common ground that there was an ongoing boundary dispute. Mrs W had tried to sell the 
property herself but had to take it off the market because of this dispute. So this wasnt a 
straightforward sale. Peppers records satisfy me that it considered trying to sell the property 
at auction without settling the boundary dispute. However, the market appraisals it obtained 
predicted sale prices of £40,000, £50,000 and £100,000. Its records show that it consulted 
its solicitors, who were dealing with the boundary dispute, and they recommended waiting 
rather than going to auction, as attempts to rectify the boundaries on the title at the Land 
Registry were ongoing. 
Against this background, I dont think Peppers decision not to put the property on the open 
market while the boundary dispute was ongoing was unreasonable. Access could only be 
gained by crossing a neighbours field, and I accept that this would have had a significant 
impact on any proposed sale price.
I understand Mrs Ws point that the owner of the neighbouring property blocked access and 
made things so difficult in order to devalue the property so that he could then buy it at a 
reduced price. She may well be right. But that doesnt mean I can fairly find that Pepper was 
at fault. Three years is a long time for a property to be in a lenders possession and not 
marketed. Its also unusual for a property to be sold by a mortgage lender without going on 
the open market. But I think the fact that both these things happened here is down to the 
difficult and unusual circumstances surrounding this property, rather than because of 
anything Pepper did wrong or failed to do. 
I have seen copies of various letters and e-mails relating to the boundary dispute going back 
more than 20 years, and its clear that there was a long-running dispute over boundaries and access to the property. Im satisfied that solicitors acting on Peppers behalf made extensive 
enquiries about this between 2016 and 2019, including applying to the Land Registry and 
considering referring the matter to the Property Chamber of the First Tier Tribunal, in order 
to try to correct the title  but ultimately were unsuccessful. I dont think there was 
unreasonable delay on Peppers part or on the part of those acting on its behalf. 
Against this background, I dont consider Peppers decision to accept the offer of £310,000 
was unreasonable, and it didnt need Mrs Ws permission to accept it. The alternative was 
for Pepper to have continued to seek a resolution to the boundary dispute and lack of 
access; this could have run on, possibly for years and with mounting costs to Mrs W. I dont 
think that would have been the fairest course of action for Mrs W, although I recognise that 
she feels strongly the property shouldnt have been sold in the way it was.  
Mrs W says the neighbour who bought the property had offered her a similar amount for it 
directly, before Pepper took possession  but Pepper had refused to accept it. She says that 
had Pepper made a different decision then, she wouldnt have been liable for so much more 
mortgage interest and costs. I agree but, importantly, I find nothing to indicate that Pepper 
knew about the boundary dispute when it said the offer wasnt enough. It couldnt reasonably 
have foreseen then that things would turn out as they would and, as far as it was concerned, 
consenting to Mrs Ws acceptance of the offer in 2015 would have left Mrs W with a shortfall 
of more than £125,000. On the face of it, at that time, Pepper thought this wouldnt have 
been in Mrs Ws best interests, and I think that was a reasonable decision for it to have 
taken knowing what it knew then.
Mrs W also says that at least four other local landowners would have been interested in 
buying the property had they known it was for sale, and would have paid more than 
£500,000. She has provided a copy of an e-mail from a property developer to demonstrate 
this. I think its clear there was other interest in the property  but theres nothing to indicate 
that the developer was aware of the boundary dispute and access difficulties. I cant fairly 
conclude other than that these issues would significantly have affected any sale price on the 
open market, to Mrs Ws detriment. The changes in planning laws which Mrs W has pointed 
to wouldnt have changed that.
The mortgage debt increased in the years between possession and sale, which Mrs W 
considers unfair. Pepper was entitled to add sales, legal and insurance costs to the 
mortgage, and to charge interest on the mortgage balance, after Mrs W surrendered the 
property. That is provided for in the mortgage terms. Given my conclusion that Pepper didnt 
act unreasonably in the sale of the property, I cant fairly require it to refund those costs and 
interest. If Pepper makes a successful claim for any of those costs from the Land Registry, it 
should pass any refund on to Mrs Ws mortgage debt and let her know.
I recognise that Mrs W is in a very difficult situation. I can also see that shes finding this 
matter extremely stressful, and I was sorry to learn about the serious health issues she has 
to manage. I understand Pepper has passed the debt arising from the mortgage to another 
company to administer, and I encourage Mrs W to liaise with them and let them know about 
her circumstances. They should treat her fairly in seeking to recover the debt. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs W said she was very disappointed with my provisional decision and she didnt accept it. 
She made some further comments and sent in copies of various correspondence, some of 
which she had already provided. Mrs W said I had got some of the facts wrong, and it isnt right to say that access was only 
possible by crossing a neighbouring field  the area in dispute was only a small area of 
tarmac and access had been dug alongside part of the road. She also said she thought the 
boundary dispute had been settled some time earlier; had she known the neighbour would 
resurrect it, she would have dug an adjustment to the end of the drive to solve the problem. 
Pepper then wouldnt let her do so and instead took the matter up with the Land Registry  
from which she is still waiting for costs to be reclaimed. 
She also still thought the property should have been put on the open market and the way it 
was sold was wrong, as were the valuations Pepper got. Pepper hadnt helped her manage 
the mortgage payments when she was finding them difficult to afford, and it was unfair to 
have kept adding interest to the debt, as well as not to have allowed her to visit the property 
following possession.
Pepper accepted my provisional decision and had nothing more to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion I reached in my provisional decision. I 
know that Mrs W is hoping for a more favourable outcome, and Im sorry she will be 
disappointed.
Mrs W has referred to various earlier events in the history of her mortgage. I cant consider 
all of those because she has complained to us about them too late. GE Money and Pepper 
have sent her a number of final response letters over the years in respect of her complaints 
about their treatment of her, including the original property valuation, payment 
arrangements, and access to the property following possession. 
Ive noted what Mrs W has said about the boundary dispute, and Ive carefully considered 
the documents she has provided. But I think its clear that the dispute hadnt been settled, 
and the evidence Ive seen (including the market appraisals and solicitors advice Pepper 
obtained, and which I referred to in my provisional decision) satisfies me both that the 
dispute affected the value of the property and that there were issues with access. 
Ordinarily, I would expect a property which a lender has taken into possession to be put up 
for sale on the open market in order to get the best possible price. But there is a reason why 
that didnt happen here: the boundary dispute. This was an unusual and difficult situation. In 
these very particular circumstances, I dont think the steps Pepper took to sell the property, 
the price it ultimately got, or the time it took, were unreasonable.
As I said in my provisional decision, if Pepper makes a successful claim for any costs from 
the Land Registry, it should pass any refund on to Mrs Ws mortgage debt and let her know. 
Payment of the shortfall debt is for Mrs W to discuss with company collecting it  and they 
should take account of her circumstances in reaching an agreement for repayment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman