DRN-3209166
The complaint
Mr P complains Rock Insurance Services Limited mis-sold him a travel insurance policy. 
Mr P has brought his complaint through a representative, but for simplicity Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by Mr P personally.
What happened
On 10 March 2020 Mr P purchased an annual travel insurance policy online. The policy was 
purchased through a comparison site, so no advice was provided to Mr P. 
Mr P found himself unable to travel due to issues related to Covid -19 so on 16 March 2020 
he contacted the underwriter of his policy to make a claim. The underwriter declined the 
claim because it said it wasnt covered under the terms and conditions of Mr Ps policy. A 
separate complaint has been considered by our service regarding the underwriters decision. 
Mr P has also raised this complaint against Rock about the sale of the policy and the 
information he was provided at the time. He said he took out the insurance to cover 
unexpected events primarily in the event of personal injury and cancellation of his trip. But 
now he thinks he wasnt provided with enough information to fully understand what was 
covered before he went ahead with the sale. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He didnt think Rock had acted unfairly 
when the policy was sold because he was satisfied the information, theyd provided at the 
point of sale was sufficient in highlighting the key limitations of the policy. 
Mr P didnt agree. In summary he said the information wasnt explicit enough and the 
average person would expect to be covered for cancellation due to covid-19 issues. 
So it has now been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that those selling insurance on a non-advised 
basis are required to provide customers with clear, fair and not misleading information about 
the policy theyre selling.
So Rock needed to give Mr P enough information to allow him to make an informed choice 
about whether or not to buy the insurance and whether it was right for him. I would expect 
Rock to do this by drawing Mr Ps attention to any key or unusual features of the policy. In 
practice this will usually mean highlighting the significant exclusions and other restrictions on 
cover.
Rock has provided evidence of their sales process and the information provided to Mr P 
during his application. 
The summary of cover and significant exclusions are usually detailed within the Insurance 
Product Information Document (IPID) and the policy terms and conditions. So Ive reviewed 
the information contained in Mr Ps IPID and I can see it sets out a list of key exclusions 
under the section what is not insured?. This list states there is no cover for claims arising 
from prohibited regulations. Therefore, Im satisfied this limitation of the policy was brought 
to Mr Ps attention.
The policy terms and conditions also set out specific scenarios where the policy provides 
cover for cancellation or curtailment of trip. And the same exclusion for claims arising from 
prohibited regulations is included in the list. So, Im satisfied this information also adequately 
sets out the limitations of the policy. 
I can see Rock made this documentation easily available during the application process 
because links to the policy document and the IPID were provided on the same page  giving 
Mr P straightforward access to the important information relating to the policy.
Rock also sent Mr P an email confirmation shortly after the purchase of the policy which also 
contained additional links to the relevant policy literature, which was straightforward and 
available to download. The email also told Mr P to read all documents to be certain that you 
have selected the right cover for you.
This information was provided to Mr P both during and after the sale of the policy, so I think 
Rock did enough to make Mr P aware of the main things the policy did not cover. This 
documentation also highlighted his cancellation rights should he change his mind or feel that 
the policy wasnt right for him. 
Mr P has argued the information on the website was misleading because the headline 
Comprehensive protection states there is cover is for up to £5,000 for cancellation, but 
there is no mention of any reason that cancellation would not be covered. But I dont think 
its reasonable to expect insurance to cover every eventuality. Its not unusual for policies to 
have limitations and exclusions to the cover they provide. And as Ive explained I think that 
Rock did enough in this case to draw these to Mr Ps attention
I note Mr Ps point that in the circumstances, an average person would expect their travel 
insurance to cover cancellation due to covid-19 issues. But that isnt the test I must apply 
here. My role is to consider if Rock fairly provided clear information about the key exclusions 
of Mr Ps policy at the point of sale. And for the reasons Ive explained Im satisfied they did. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman