DRN-1297108
The complaint
Miss M complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited didnt inform her that her direct 
debit wasnt set up and then reported a late payment on her credit file. 
What happened
Miss M took out a loan with Clydesdale in July 2019. A short period after the loan agreement 
began, Miss M contacted Clydesdale to amend her repayment date to the 1st of each month. 
Her repayments were set up to be paid by direct debit and the first payment was due on 1 
August.
Clydesdale contacted Miss M around a week after her first payment wasn't received. Miss M 
was able to make this payment, but it was recorded as a late payment on her credit file. Miss 
M complained because she thinks a mortgage application was declined because the late 
payment marker had impacted her credit score. She says she's had to obtain a mortgage 
elsewhere and pay higher costs as a result.  
Clydesdale says the account Miss M arranged for her repayments to arrive from wasnt one 
that accepted direct debits. Clydesdale agreed to remove the late payment marker on this 
occasion, as it thought Miss M would've made the payment on time had she known about 
the problem. 
Miss M remained unhappy - she says her credit report continues to be impacted negatively 
even after the late payment marker was removed. She says Clydesdale should've told her 
that her account didn't accept direct debits before the first payment was due. Miss M wants 
compensation for the extra costs she's incurred. She also wants all her credit reports 
amended. Miss M also thinks that Clydesdale has incorrectly recorded the start date of her 
loan as 1 July - she wants this corrected.
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint as he was satisfied that Clydesdale acted fairly 
when it arranged to remove the late payment marker. The investigator explained that 
Clydesdale didn't have to share information with all credit reference agencies - but should do 
with at least one. The investigator was unable to conclude that the late payment marker was 
the reason why Miss M's mortgage application was declined. He didn't think it would be fair 
to ask Clydesdale to cover the additional costs Miss M told us about or hold it responsible for 
the ongoing concerns Miss M has about her credit file.
Miss M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman's decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I'm not upholding this 
complaint. 
 
 late payment marker
Miss M's first payment was due on 1 August but the payment wasn't received on time. This 
payment was made around a week later. So I don't think that Clydesdale acted unfairly when 
it added the late payment marker on to her credit report. 
After Miss M complained, Clydesdale decided to remove the later payment marker - even 
though it didn't have to - because it felt Miss M would've paid by the due date had she known 
about the problem with her direct debit. I've seen a recent copy of Miss M's credit report and 
I can see that the entry has been removed. So I won't be asking Clydesdale to do anymore 
in relation to this.
Miss M says the marker impacted her credit report to the extent that she was declined a 
mortgage application around the same time, and now she's paying higher costs because 
she's had to obtain a mortgage with a different provider. Miss M says her credit report 
continues to be affected by the late payment marker.
But I can't say for certain whether the late payment marker impacted Miss M's mortgage 
application. I've seen a copy of the email Miss M received from her mortgage broker. This 
indicates that her application was declined due to 'adverse bureau information, but doesn't 
explain what this was nor does it say that her application was declined solely because of the 
late payment marker. It's not for me to look in to or comment on why Miss M's mortgage 
application was declined on this occasion. But I haven't seen anything that makes me think 
it's because of something Clydesdale did wrong. 
So I can't fairly say that the late payment marker was the reason why Miss M's mortgage 
application was declined. 
I empathise with the fact that Miss M had to shop around and seemingly had to take out a 
mortgage that costs her more. But even if I did think differently about this, as I explained 
above, I don't think Clydesdale was wrong to add the late payment marker in the first 
instance. So I won't be asking it to do anything differently to put things right.
direct debit
Miss M says Clydesdale should've told her that direct debits weren't being accepted from her 
account. From the information Clydesdale has provided us, it seems the business became 
aware of this issue sometime in July - before Miss M's first repayment was due and around 
the time Miss M arranged for her repayment date to be amended. 
I haven't seen anything to suggest that Clydesdale specifically told Miss M that her account 
did not accept direct debits. And it seems to me that it wasn't until after Miss M missed her 
first payment that this information was given to her. However, Clydesdale has sent me 
details of its contact with Miss M and I can see she was sent a text message on 24 July - 
advising her that her first payment was due on 1 August and that she doesn't have a direct 
debit set up. 
So I think it's likely that this would've prompted Miss M to at least make enquiries, given she 
would've understood differently. Had she done so before the first payment was due, then it's 
likely she would've been asked to set up a direct debit from a different account so that her 
first payment would be made on time. So I can't fairly say that Clydesdale acted unfairly 
because of this.  
Even if I did think that Clydesdale could've done more to make Miss M aware, I wouldn't be 
asking it to do anything differently. Clydesdale already recognises that Miss M would've likely paid on time and it has removed the late payment marker from her credit report to 
rectify the situation. So I won't be asking it to do anything more. 
loan start date
Miss M says Clydesdale has incorrectly recorded the start date of her loan in her credit 
report. The information I've seen tells me that Miss M used the loan to make a purchase on 
9 July 2019. Miss M's recent credit report reflects the same start date. So I think Clydesdale 
has recorded an accurate start date. 
My final decision
I'm not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 March 2020.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman