DRN-4021827
The complaint
Mr H complains that Assicurazioni Generali SpA (Generali) has turned down an incapacity 
claim he made on his employers group income protection insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I havent repeated it in 
detail here. Instead, Ive set out a brief summary of what I think are the key events.
Mr H was insured under his employers group income protection insurance policy. The policy 
provided cover for Mr Hs own occupation. The specified policy deferred period was 28 
weeks.
In June 2021, Mr H was signed-off work with a diagnosis of anxiety and depression. He was 
referred to occupational health (OH) by his employer, who concluded that Mr H wasnt fit to 
work, due to a number of factors, which included work stress; a potential grievance and 
bereavement. In November 2021, as Mr H had remained unfit for work, his employer made 
an incapacity claim on the policy. 
Generali reviewed the medical evidence provided by Mr Hs treating clinicians and OH and it 
ultimately decided to turn down the claim. Thats because while it acknowledged Mr H had 
experienced a number of factors which could impact upon his well-being; the main trigger for 
his absence had been work-related concerns about potential redundancy and detrimental 
treatment. It felt that Mr H would likely have been able to carry out his own occupation if hed 
been working for another employer. So it didnt think hed met the policy definition of 
incapacity.
Mr H was unhappy with Generalis decision and so he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. He considered the available 
medical evidence. He felt it indicated that Mr Hs health had deteriorated due to issues he 
was facing at work. He thought that if Mr H had been performing the same duties for another 
employer, hed likely not have experienced the same problems which had led to his 
absence. So he concluded it had been fair for Generali to turn down Mr Hs incapacity claim.
Mr H disagreed and Ive summarised his responses to our investigator. He felt that Generali 
had colluded with his employer to decline his claim. He felt hed been pushed from pillar to 
post between Generali and his employer and he considered Generali had truncated the 
available medical evidence. He was also concerned that Generali had failed to provide us 
with all of the medical evidence it had access to. He said that while there were work-related 
stressors, his case had been complex and he wouldnt have been fit to work for any other 
employer. He told us that redundancy hadnt been a factor, as his employer had told him that 
there was another role for him. He explained other stressors hed been experiencing. A 
private medical insurer had agreed to cover sessions of high intensity therapy in October 
2021, in order to treat his symptoms. He provided evidence of a grievance against his 
employer, which he felt provided evidence to show that he was unable to work due to four 
years of issues in the workplace, amongst other things.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr H, I think it was fair for Generali to turn 
down his claim and Ill explain why.
First Id like to reassure Mr H that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint 
and his detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent us. Im 
very sorry to hear about the circumstances that led to Mr H needing to make a claim and I 
dont doubt how upsetting and worrying the situation has been for him and his family. Within 
this decision though, I havent commented on each and every point hes made and nor do 
our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
It's also important I make the parameters of this decision clear. I appreciate that Mr H 
considers that documentation concerning a grievance about his employer is relevant to his 
complaint. However, as the investigator explained, my role here is to consider whether 
Generali assessed Mr Hs claim fairly and reasonably, as the underwriter of the policy. 
Generali isnt responsible for any action on the part of Mr Hs employer and so it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to comment on any specific concerns he had about his employer. Ive 
concentrated then on the evidence which focuses on whether Generali handled Mr Hs claim 
in a fair and reasonable way.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So, Ive thought about, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr Hs policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether I think 
Generali handled Mr Hs claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy, as these form the basis of his 
employers contract with Generali. Mr Hs employer made a claim on his behalf for incapacity 
benefit, given he wasnt fit for work. So I think it was reasonable and appropriate for Generali 
to consider whether Mr Hs claim met the policy definition of incapacity. Ive turned then to 
look at Generalis definition of incapacity. This says that a member is incapacitated if:
As a result of illness or injury, the Member is incapable of performing the Material and
Substantial duties of their occupation, and they are not carrying out any other Work
or occupation.
Generali has defined what it means by material and substantial. This means duties that are 
normally required for the performance of a Members occupation and cannot reasonably be
omitted or modified by their Employer.
This means that in order for Generali to pay incapacity benefit, it must be satisfied that it was 
Mr Hs illness which prevented him from carrying out the material and substantial duties of 
his own occupation  for any employer, not just the employer he was working for at the time 
of the claim.
Its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim 
on their policy. This means it was Mr Hs responsibility to provide Generali with enough 
evidence to demonstrate that his illness had led to him being unable to carry out the duties 
of his role. This principle is also set out in the contract terms. Generali assessed the evidence Mr H provided in support of his claim and concluded that it 
didnt indicate that he met the policy definition of incapacity. So Ive next looked at the 
available evidence, including medical evidence, to assess whether I think this was a fair 
conclusion for Generali to reach. I understand Mr H has concerns that Generali hasnt 
provided us with all of the medical evidence it held. But I hope it reassures him to know that I 
havent seen compelling evidence which demonstrates, on balance, that Generali failed to 
meet its obligations to provide us with all of the information we require.
The policy says that incapacity benefit will be paid at the end of the deferred period, 
providing the member remains incapacitated. This means that in order for benefit to be paid, 
a policyholder mustve been incapacitated in line with the policy terms, for the entire deferred 
period and afterwards. Mr Hs deferred period ended on 30 December 2021 and so any 
benefit wouldve become payable under the policy from 31 December 2021. 
When the claim was first made, Mr Hs employer submitted a claim form on his behalf. The 
claim form was completed by both Mr H and Generali. Mr H described the nature of his 
illness as follows:
I have been diagnosed with depression and anxiety due to detrimental treatment at work, 
including excessive workload, lack of support, workplace harassment and lack of time off, in 
addition to other personal stressors.
Mr Hs employer stated that he was signed-off with anxiety and stress. The form said that 
prior to Mr Hs absence, his role was placed at risk of redundancy and was in the middle of 
a consultation process. This has been paused while he is on sick leave.
Generali also reviewed Mr Hs medical records. These show that in June 2021, Mr H spoke 
with a doctor following an e-consult. The e-consult notes show that Mr H referred to not 
being able to see family and also to fact that he believed he was suffering from work stress. 
He stated: I have not been allowed full paternity in the past and my boss only cares about 
numbers. I have tried to raise it several timesbut he doesnt seem to care threatening 
redundancy if my performance drops.
Mr H spoke with a GP following the e-consult request. Their notes say that Mr H was under 
pressure at work, he was not able to take any days off over the last 2 years. Also, his wife 
works and he needs to look afterchildren. The GP issued Mr H with a fit note which stated 
that he was unfit to work due to mixed anxiety and depression. Mr H was referred for talking 
therapy, although he opted not to take medication. Mr H spoke with a GP again in July 2021. 
The notes say: He wants to take sick leave and get help from family abroad.
The GP continued to issue Mr H with fit notes, which cited that he wasnt fit to work due to 
anxiety and depression, although it appears these were generally issued following e-
requests by Mr H based on his reported symptoms, rather than following consultation.
Mr Hs patient boarding card states that Mr H had been referred for mixed anxiety and 
depressive disorder, noting that Mr H had self-referred following low mood, depression and 
anxiety. Feels stressed at work and GP is to sign (him) off. Redundancies at work, client has 
felt stressed. Has lost friend
It's clear that Mr H had a number of reviews with an OH doctor, who repeatedly classed Mr 
H as unfit for work  or latterly, fit for work on a phased return basis. Ive looked carefully at 
the OH reports which were issued  particularly during the deferred period. The OH doctor 
noted that Mr H had reported that prior to his absence, hed been working very long hours, 
which in addition to the matters that led to his grievance, were fundamental to the 
development of his impaired psychological well-being. While the OH doctor recommended a delay in the grievance process, on 15 December 2021, they stated that from a cognition 
perspective, (Mr H) is fit to restart the grievance process.
The OH was aware that Mr H had been undergoing CBT and intended to begin high-intensity 
therapy. The OH doctor stated: Once (Mr H) has commenced the high intensity therapy, it 
may be prudent for him to prioritise the work-related stressors encompassed with the 
grievance and redundancy processes
Mr H was initially seeking treatment from IAPT, which ended following the authorisation of 
high-intensity treatment by his private medical insurer. I note that IAPTs notes say that Mr H 
had been experiencing low mood and worry due to a difficult two years. Hed experienced 
personal loss and that work had been overwhelming and stressful and he has recently taken 
sick leave to help.
In January 2022, Mr H saw a psychologist for the treatment of anxiety and depression. They 
stated that he had symptoms consistent with anxiety and depression. They noted that Mr Hs 
symptoms had developed over two years due to a number of stressors, including a high 
demand job, bullying the in the work-place, bereavement, increase in stress and life 
demands resulting from the pandemic. They also said: Given that (Mr Hs) symptoms are 
likely to be exacerbated by the stressful environment at workhe was advised not to return 
to work until there was an improvement in his mental state.
Generali assessed the available medical evidence. While it sympathised with Mr Hs 
position, it concluded that he was suffering with anxiety caused by reaction to his workplace 
environment. It didnt think there was evidence to show that his illness had progressed into 
an enduring and severe medical illness. 
Ive thought very carefully about this. It appears that Mr H was suffering from symptoms 
which can also be indicative of a significant mental health condition. And I appreciate hes 
sought treatment through IAPTS and psychological treatment which was funded by his 
private medical insurer. But I note that the majority of the available medical evidence makes 
specific reference to Mr Hs difficulties with his employer; workplace issues and his 
grievance. This suggests to me that the medical professionals involved in Mr Hs care 
considered these issues to be significant. And I do think the evidence points towards the 
cause of Mr Hs symptoms being a reaction to his workplace and other personal stressors, 
rather than a significant medical condition which wouldve prevented Mr H from carrying out 
his role for any employer.
So I dont think it was unreasonable for Generali to rely on the available medical evidence to 
conclude that the trigger for Mr Hs absence was his workplace situation. Indeed, Mr H has 
referred to being unable to work due to a four-year cumulation of abuse at work. This means 
I dont think it was unfair for Generali to conclude that the evidence showed that Mr H was 
suffering from an understandable reaction to the very difficult situation in which he found 
himself at work and other personal stressors. Or that Mr Hs absence was likely due to 
anxiety caused by a reaction to his working environment as opposed to a mental health 
condition. 
Overall, I dont think it was unfair for Generali to conclude that Mr Hs absence wasnt 
caused by an incapacity which prevented him from carrying out the substantial and material 
duties of his role. Instead, I think it fairly concluded that Mr Hs absence was more likely due 
to a reaction to his circumstances at work. On this basis then, whilst I sympathise with Mr 
Hs position, I find it was fair for Generali to turn down his claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman