DRN-4045148
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC are pursuing him to repay an unsecured 
personal loan taken out in 2014.
What happened
Mr T has said that he doesnt remember taking out an unsecured loan in 2014 and that he 
has never received any contact or correspondence in relation to it from Barclays. As such he 
feels, if the loan does exist, Barclays should now accept that the debt is statute barred and 
therefore Mr T wants Barclays to stop pursuing him for the debt.
Barclays says it disagrees with Mr Ts point that the arrears are statute barred due to it not 
contacting Mr T for six years. It says it issued arrears notices between February 2015 and 
July 2020 along with yearly statements, to the address it held on file and the address it 
issued its final response to. Therefore, it said it was its obligation to contact a consumer who 
is in arrears. Barclays say Mr T raised the argument that the debt was statute barred in 
August 2022.
Mr T remained unhappy with Barclays response and referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ts concerns and said on balance he was satisfied the loan 
was taken out by Mr T and that he had received correspondence from Barclays regarding 
the loan during the six years. However, our investigator said as Mr T felt the debt was statute 
barred and wouldnt be paying the debt, it was unreasonable for Barclays to continue to 
demand payment for the debt.
Barclays didnt agree. It said, it didnt think Mr Ts debt was statute barred because it had 
continued to be in correspondence with Mr T regarding the debt from 2014 to 2022. As 
Barclays felt the debt was enforceable, and hadnt been statute barred, it was able to 
continue corresponding with Mr T regarding the debt. So, it asked for the case to referred to 
me to consider.
I issued my provisional findings on 13 February 2023 where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Based on what Ive seen so far, I do 
agree with the investigators findings but for different reasons, which is why I have issued 
provisional findings, to allow both parties an opportunity to review my reasons.
Mr T has said he doesnt remember taking out the unsecured personal loan. However, this 
doesnt automatically mean that the loan wasnt genuine or that Barclays wasnt entitled to 
contact him about the loan. The loan was taken out in 2014. I have seen a copy of the credit 
agreement that relates to this loan. I have also been provided with bank statements of an 
account which appears to be in Mr Ts name. On 14 May 2022 £25,000 was credited to that 
account with the reference Barclayloan. From reviewing the statements, I can see this 
account was regularly used.
Barclays has provided arrears notices, statements and default notices sent to the same 
address which it sent its final response to. This is the address which is on the bank 
statements of the account the loan was paid into and the loan agreement. Mr T did receive 
the final response letter and sent a copy of it to our service. Therefore, I am satisfied the 
correspondence was sent to an address Mr T had access to. It has also been able to show 
how it traced Mr T through address searches carried out by external tracing companies 
using the information it held on file. Based on this, I think Barclays has done enough to show 
it was reasonable for it to contact Mr T in relation to the loan in question.
In August 2022 Mr T has made the assertion that the debt is statute barred. As our 
investigator has explained it isnt the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to decide if a 
debt is enforceable as only the courts can decide this. We can however consider whether 
Barclays acted fairly by asking Mr T to repay the debt.
The relevant guidance here is in the FCAs handbook (CONC). In section 7.15.1 it says:
A debt is statute barred where the prescribed period within which a claim in relation to the 
debt may be brought expires. In England, Wales and Northern Ireland, the limitation period is 
generally six years in relation to debt.
Section 7.15.5 says:
If the lender or owner has been in regular contact with the customer during the limitation 
period, the firm may continue to recover the debt.
Barclays has provided a considerable amount of correspondence which was sent to Mr T 
from late 2014 to 2022 in relation to the loan. As explained above, this correspondence was 
sent to an address Barclays held for Mr T. It also sent its final response to this address. Its 
not in dispute that Mr T received the final response, as he forwarded it onto our service. So, I 
think its more than likely that Mr T did get the letters Barclays sent, and he knew about the 
loan and the fact he was in arrears. As such, as Barclays has provided evidence it continued 
to correspond with Mr T between 2014 and 2022, I am satisfied it acted in line with CONC 
7.15.5.
That said, section 7.15.8 says:
A firm must not continue to demand payment from a customer after the customer has stated 
that he will not be paying the debt because it is statute barred.
Given the fact Mr T has now said he wont be paying the debt because he believes it is 
statute bared, in line with CONC 7.15.8, Barclays should now stop continuing to demand for 
payment from Mr T. However, I should explain that this provision isnt absolute. As explained 
above, it is qualified by other guidance in CONC 7.15.5 that does not prevent a firm from 
attempting to recover a debt where, for example, the lender has been in regular contact with 
the customer during the limitation period. And as mentioned above, Ive seen evidence that 
suggests Barclays did this. So, based on the CONC provisions and the circumstances in this 
case, Barclays would still be entitled to attempt recovery of the debt, including  but not 
limited to  initiating legal proceedings.
CONC 7.5.10 says that a firm shouldnt initiate legal proceedings where we are considering 
a complaint. And by virtue of this provisional decision our consideration of Mr Ts complaint 
is now coming to an end. And should Barclays initiate such proceedings, Mr T is, of course, 
entitled to ask the court to consider his Limitation Act defence, albeit he may want to seek 
legal advice about his options should that happen.
My provisional findings were:My provisional finding is that in line with CONC 7.15.8 Barclays Bank UK PLC should now 
stop continuing to issues demands for payment, but is entitled to attempt recovery of the 
debt, including  but not limited to  initiating legal proceedings, if it wished to so.
Mr T responded explaining he was very unwell during that period of time and was suffering 
greatly with his mental health. And outlined that he had several addresses at that time due to 
his personal circumstances.
 Barclays also responded and said that it has accepted that the loan is statute barred and 
was in the process of arranging for further correspondence to be suppressed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, it isnt the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to decide if a debt is 
enforceable as only the courts can decide this. So, the matter of whether or not the debt is 
statute barred hasnt been considered in this decision.
However, Barclays has now accepted that the debt is statute barred and has agreed to my 
provisional findings in its entirety. Barclays has confirmed that it has instructed its collections 
department to apply suppression markers to ensure no further correspondence is sent to Mr 
T.
So my decision remains the same as I outlined in the provisional findings.
Putting things right
No further correspondence should be sent to Mr T in regards to the loan in question.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to act in 
line with the above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman