DRN-3330350
The complaint
Mr W complains that Bradbury Hamilton Limited (BHL) didnt provide him with a service 
despite charging him trail commission through his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). 
Hed like to be compensated for the commission and fees hes been charged since February 
2018.
What happened
BHL bought the client book, which included Mr W, of an unconnected financial advisory firm 
in 2014. Mr Ws SIPP had a trail commission arrangement in place from an agreement made 
between Mr W and his previous financial advisor. This arrangement was made before the 
introduction of the Retail Distribution Review (RDR) in December 2012. 
The RDR prohibited commission payments to advisers for arrangements set up after 31 
December 2012. But before the RDR, commission could be paid by the SIPP provider to the 
adviser as a set percentage of the amount investment amount. And advisers could also 
receive a regular commission known as trail commission. This could be a small percentage 
of the value of the fund and was designed to pay the adviser for ongoing servicing.
Mr W continued to receive investment support from his previous adviser  who didnt work 
for BHL  at no additional charge up to 2017. BHL told this service that 75% of the trail 
commission was paid to the original adviser who set-up the trail commission from the 
commencement of the acquisition contract in 2014 through to 2017. After the originals 
advisers retirement, BHL provided Mr W with a new contact. Mr W felt that the new contact 
would provide the same support that hed received from his original adviser. The new 
contact retired in November 2018. 
In August 2019 BHL wrote to Mr W suggesting a review of his SIPP. This prompted a 
complaint from Mr W, who asked for a refund of commission and fees paid to BHL because 
he felt it hadnt been looking after his interests by reviewing his plans. He also removed BHL 
as his servicing agent. 
BHL issued its final response letter in October 2019. It said that when itd bought the client 
book from Mr Ws previous financial adviser, that included buying the right to receive trail 
commission on his SIPP. BHL said that the commission represented delayed remuneration 
to which Mr Ws original adviser had been entitled for setting up the SIPP. BHL noted that Mr 
Ws original adviser had never worked for BHL. But that from 2014 onwards, the original 
adviser had continued to assist Mr W.  BHL said it couldnt give Mr W advice as hed not 
requested it. And he didnt have a client agreement with it, so it wasnt allowed to give him 
advice. 
Unhappy, Mr W complained to this service. BHL didnt consider that this service had 
jurisdiction to consider the complaint. But in September 2021 this service concluded that we 
did have jurisdiction as we didnt agree that:
1. the complaint was out of time 
2. trail commission is a service activity and as such isnt a regulated activity 
3. Mr W wasnt an eligible complainant because there was no service agreement 
between him and BHL 
After the jurisdiction decision, this service considered the merits of the complaint. We asked 
BHL if it had any further information for us to consider. But it said it had no additional 
information to add. 
However, BHL said that as the trail commission was set up on a pre-RDR contract and no 
new fee arrangement for ongoing service had been set up, it had no obligation to provide 
any specific service level. And it also referred to a Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
document which it felt supported its view. It highlighted the following sentence from that 
document: However, a financial adviser or intermediary can continue to receive trail 
commission for advice on investments that you bought before 31 December 2012.
Our investigator considered the merits of the complaint. He felt it should be upheld. He said 
the complaint centred on BHLs failure to undertake all ongoing client servicing 
requirements... He didnt agree that BHL should continue to receive ongoing commission 
while providing no meaningful service. He felt that BHL should return Mr W to the position he 
wouldve been in had the trail commission ceased after February 2018. He also felt that BHL 
should pay Mr W £500 for the trouble and upset itd caused.
BHL didnt agree with our investigator. It agreed it hadnt informed Mr W at the time that his 
contact at BHL had retired in November 2018. But it didnt agree that it hadnt remained 
available to him. BHL also agreed that the letter itd sent in August 2019 couldve contained 
more accurate fund values, rather than being generic. BHL said it had done things for Mr W. 
It said itd carried out a fact find. It said it had wanted to convert Mr W into a proper client, 
on a proper servicing agreement. BHL didnt agree that itd caused Mr W any distress, as 
hed always been aware that the commission was being taken from his account. BHL also 
didnt agree that commission should be refunded from February 2018. It noted that most 
clients were only on an annual review. Therefore it felt it wasnt fair or reasonable to refund 
fees starting immediately from the last contact. 
Although BHL didnt agree that itd failed to provide a service it was contracted to provide, it 
offered to pay Mr W £1,000 as a compromise payment. 
Our investigator put this offer to Mr W. But he didnt accept it.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for a review.
I issued a provisional decision on 10 February 2022. It said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold it. But I dont agree with our investigator that BHL should 
return Mr W to the position he wouldve been in had the trail commission ceased after 
February 2018. I do however agree that some compensation for loss of expectation and for 
distress and inconvenience should be paid in this case. Ill explain why. 
Were ongoing services specifically agreed through the trail commission?
Sometimes, it was specifically agreed that trail commission would entitle a consumer to 
further services, including regular reviews and other types of policy management. So Ive asked BHL if it knew whether this was a service which was agreed by the parties to be paid 
for by the trail commission. It confirmed that no service agreement was agreed with Mr W at 
the time his initial policy was set-up. 
BHL said that the trail commission had allowed Mr W access to its firm if he needed a policy 
summary or any generic information about his funds. It said this also allowed the 
Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM) to request its assistance in completing Mr Ws risk 
profiles when needed. But that, given Mr W hadnt wanted a service agreement, it hadnt 
been: instructed or obliged to provide any specific service.
BHL also questioned what service Mr W had received from his original adviser up to 2017. It 
said that his funds were invested with a DFM. And that the DFM carries out the portfolio 
reviews. So it felt that although the original adviser may have continued to meet Mr W, it 
didnt know what those meetings entailed. BHL also said that itd not seen any evidence of a 
specific service from the original adviser. And noted that it was in that advisers interest to 
keep Mr W happy so that he didnt look for a new adviser. As if hed changed his adviser, the 
trail commission wouldve transferred to the new adviser. It repeated that it was entitled to 
the ongoing trail commission as the successor business.
Ive carefully considered all the evidence. While I acknowledge that no service was agreed to 
be included as part of the trail commission, Ive seen no evidence that BHL ever explained to 
Mr W exactly what he could expect from them. Ill consider this point further in the loss of 
expectation section below. But before that, Ill look at trail commission more generally.
Pre-RDR commission
Commission is a difficult matter. It was normal with investments in the UK up to 2012. But 
the rules have changed since then. Although this complaint occurred after 2012, it relates to 
an investment taken out before then. So the pre-2012 position is relevant in this case. 
In broad terms a consumer enters into a relationship with an investment adviser. The adviser 
agrees to give advice. And the consumer enters into a separate contract with the investment 
product provider. In the agreement with the adviser the consumer would agree that the 
adviser would be paid via commission paid by the product provider. And in the agreement 
with the product provider the consumer would agree to pay the charges for the investment. 
Usually the adviser would agree they would give further advice if asked but that they were 
not obliged to do so. Often the adviser would stay in touch and offer to review matters from 
time to time. This appears to have been the case here until Mr Ws original adviser retired.
The agreement as regards the payment of the commission involved an agreement between 
the adviser and the product provider. The product provider was paying the adviser for 
introducing the consumers business to it. The consumer was not party to that agreement. 
The terms on which the product provider paid the adviser, how much, when paid, any terms 
relating to repayment and so on were matters between the product provider and the adviser. 
The product provider might pay the commission in one lump sum. Or more normally it would 
pay part as a lump sum and the rest by instalments for as long as the investment continued 
to exist. The payment of the commission in instalments in that way is often called trail 
commission. And despite the fact that payment was paid over a long period, the payment 
was still for the introduction of the business to the product provider. 
Its true that the product provider was able to pay the commission to the adviser as result of 
the charges it made to the consumer for the investment. But the consumer did not pay the 
commission, the product provider did. Whether or not there was any obligation on the adviser to give any kind of ongoing service 
was a matter between the consumer and the adviser depending on what they had agreed 
between them. It was not determined by whether or not the product provider agreed to pay 
trail commission. The product provider paid the adviser for the service the adviser provided 
to it not for the service provided to the consumer. 
In this case Mr Ws original adviser had an arrangement with the investment provider and 
trail commission was paid. That advisers firm sold the right to receive that trail commission 
to BHL as part of a bulk transfer to BHL. But BHL continued to return 75% of that 
commission back to Mr Ws original adviser while he carried on supporting Mr W. When Mr 
Ws original adviser retired, BHL introduced him to a new contact at BHL.
I dont agree with our investigator that the trail commission in itself created any obligation on 
BHL to provide a service to Mr W. I acknowledge that BHL did try to convert Mr W into a 
proper client, on a proper servicing agreement. But note that Mr W was reluctant to sign a 
terms of business arrangement with BHL and to accept advice from it. But I do consider that, 
as I said in my jurisdiction decision, Mr Ws refusal to sign didnt imply that he accepted that 
BHL should continue to receive ongoing commission without providing any meaningful 
service. I say this because, as far as Mr W was concerned, hed had a meaningful service 
via BHL until February 2018. And from what Ive seen, BHL didnt clearly communicate either 
the original post-transfer of business relationship, or how that relationship would change 
following the retirement of both Mr Ws original adviser and the new contact. 
Based on the above, in principle I dont consider that BHL did anything wrong when it 
continued to take the trail commission after its acquisition of the client book which included 
Mr W. But in practice, Im persuaded that BHLs failure to clearly communicate with Mr W 
about the services he should expect to get from it led to a loss of expectation for him. Ill 
explain why. 
Loss of expectation
I accept BHLs position that liability for the ongoing provision of advice hadnt been passed 
on as part of the takeover of the original advising business. But I dont consider that BHL 
made clear to Mr W exactly what he could expect from it immediately after the transfer of 
business, or after the retirement of his original adviser. Or after the retirement of the new 
contact. BHL has confirmed that it didnt tell Mr W about his new contacts retirement at the 
time. From what Ive seen, Mr W saw very little change to the service hed been receiving 
before the transfer until the new contact retired. It was only when he received the August 
2019 letter that he felt he hadnt been getting the service he expected and complained. 
So Ive gone on to look at how the changes in contact were communicated to Mr W. 
When BHL took over the book of business it wrote a letter, dated 29 March 2014, to the 
previous business. Ive included an extract from this letter below:
Bradbury Hamilton Ltd is now entitled to all commission payments and will undertake all 
ongoing client servicing requirements in respect of the above agency from this date 
onwards.
The investment platform provider also confirmed that on 19 May 2014, the adviser linked to 
Mr Ws account changed to a named adviser at BHL. And that this continued until Mr W 
removed BHL from his account in August 2019. 
Moving on to the letter BHL sent to Mr W in August 2019, this said:it appears that the fund mix in which the plan has been invested has not been looked at for 
some time. With this in mind there is a real concern that if this investment is not looked at 
soon you may find that the value of the investment could be adversely affected.
I can understand why Mr W wouldve been shocked to receive this letter. He considered that 
his investment had been subject to regular reviews through his fund managers and his BHL 
adviser. I think this was a reasonable assumption based on what the March 2014 letter said 
and the investment support Mr W had continued to receive up to the retirement of the new 
contact in November 2018.
I acknowledge that BHL dont agree that it caused Mr W any distress. Its position is that hed 
always been aware that the commission was being taken from his account. But I think that 
misses the point here. I understand that Mr W was shocked to find out that he hadnt 
received the service that he thought was being provided by BHL. It may be BHLs position 
that Mr W shouldve known that it wasnt providing the service he thought it was providing. 
But I consider that the 29 March 2014 letter reasonably led to quite different expectations 
about the service BHL was actually providing. 
From what Ive seen, Mr W felt that BHL was still providing an ongoing service to him. Ive 
seen no evidence that he was explicitly told that hed only get this service if he signed an 
ongoing service agreement with it. So I consider that it was reasonable for Mr W to believe 
that BHL was providing a service, despite the fact that he wasnt paying any fees other than 
the trail commission.
It would clearly have been better for Mr W if hed been properly informed of any changes 
when they occurred. But even if that had happened, from 2012 onwards, all new advice was 
required to be paid for in the form of an up-front fee rather than through commission. So had 
Mr W wanted or needed advice any time after 2012 he wouldve had to pay for it regardless 
of who provided it. 
It seems clear that Mr W was comfortable with how his investments had been operating up 
to February 2018. From what Ive seen, that was the last time he had contact with his new 
contact at BHL before that contacts retirement. BHL has told this service that most clients 
are only on an annual review cycle. So disagree that it would be appropriate to take the last 
contact date as the point at which things went wrong. 
From what Ive seen, Mr W removed BHL as his servicing agent after receiving the August 
2019 letter. Im satisfied that he wouldve removed BHL earlier  most likely at the point his 
new contact retired in November 2018  if BHL had clearly communicated at the time that 
there was no free ongoing servicing or advice provision connected with the trail commission. 
However, this wouldnt have meant that Mr W wouldve instead received the trail 
commission. So I dont consider that it should be returned to him for the nine-month period 
between November 2018 and August 2019. This is because he didnt pay the commission, 
the product provider did.
Im satisfied that Mr W suffered a loss of expectation, rather than financial loss, when he 
found out in August 2019 that BHL hadnt been reviewing his plans. I acknowledge he must 
have been disappointed when he discovered that BHL werent providing the support hed 
expected. I believe that Mr W could reasonably consider that he hadnt received the service 
expected for a nine-month period between November 2018 and August 2019. I also 
acknowledge that it wouldve been a shock for Mr W to realise this service had not been 
provided. 
Ive also considered what BHL has said. And what its offered to put things right. BHL said that it shouldve told Mr W that his new contact had retired in November 2018. It 
noted that it had written to him in August 2019. And that it was still available to him. BHL 
agreed that the August 2019 letter should probably have contained more accurate fund 
values, as the generic nature of that letter had been one of the reasons for Mr Ws concern. 
BHL said that it had done things for Mr W  for example a fact find. BHL also said that it had 
always wanted to have a proper service agreement with Mr W, which wouldve provided a 
defined service. But he had declined that. BHL felt it was unfair to say that it had tried to 
collect money for nothing from Mr W.
BHL offered £1,000 as a compromise payment to Mr W. I acknowledge that Mr W has 
rejected this offer. But from what Ive seen, I consider that is a fair and reasonable offer 
under the circumstances. I consider that it would be fair compensation overall for both the 
loss of expectation and the distress the unclear communication has caused Mr W. 
Response to my provisional decision
BHL didnt agree with my decision. It felt that I had mis-represented its offer to pay Mr W 
£1,000 to settle the matter. I can confirm that before I wrote my provisional decision, I did 
listen carefully and in full to the telephone conversation in which the offer was made. 
BHL said that it had offered to settle the matter for £1,000 under the following 
circumstances:
1. It felt that our investigator was extremely biased against it. And that crucial evidence 
had been ignored. It also felt that accusations had been made that it wasnt providing 
the service it was obliged to. BHL felt that my provisional decision had since 
established that this was not the case.
2. Under the circumstances noted in 1., BHL felt that the complaint against it may be 
unfairly upheld, so made the offer to avoid that scenario.
3. BHL also made the offer to try to avoid further time-consuming investigations being 
necessary.
4. BHL said it was reluctant to spend additional time and resource dealing with this 
complaint as itd been going on since 2019. It made the offer in the hope of 
concluding the matter more quickly. 
BHL acknowledged that Mr W rejected its offer to settle. And this led to the investigation 
continuing. It had to spend further time and resources handling the queries. It felt strongly 
that my decision under the circumstances was unfair.
BHL explained why it felt my provisional decision to ask it to pay Mr W £1,000 was unfair:
1. It felt Mr W was always aware of the adviser charges that were being deducted.
2. It said it was entitled to collect the commission, as I had explained in my provisional 
decision.
3. It said that it wasnt reviewing Mr Ws funds, and never had. It said that Mr Ws 
previous advisers didnt review his funds either. And that his funds were reviewed by 
the DFM.
4. It said that Mr W regularly attended the DFM office. And that it now understood that 
his original adviser had also met him there. But it said that whilst that adviser might have had an informal chat with Mr W about his investments, he wasnt carrying out a 
fund-related review.
5. It said itd introduced Mr W to a new contact at BHL because it was assisting his 
DFM in carrying out the risk assessment when requested.
6. It said it wasnt obliged to introduce Mr W to any new adviser when that new contact 
retired. But that it had contacted Mr W in a reasonable timeframe and in good faith 
with a proposal to review his investments. 
7. It acknowledged that the wording of its letter couldve been different, but it didnt see 
why the letter had caused Mr W distress.
8. It didnt consider itd done any wrong. It said it was always available to Mr W. And it 
was available to his DFM when they needed its support.
9. It didnt think itd done anything to impact Mr W in any negative way.
10. It felt it unfair to award Mr W £1,000 compensation for the letter itd written to him to 
invite him for a review of his funds. It felt that if it hadnt written to him, he wouldnt 
have had a reason to complain.
Mr W accepted my provisional decision. But made the following points:
He felt that the resolution had taken too long and that my response was complex and 
difficult for the layman to understand
He noted that his complaint had three parts and asked me to confirm that my 
decision covered all three aspects of his complaint
Mr W said he remained unclear about what the trail commission had paid for after his 
original adviser retired
He didnt agree that the trail commission was paid by the SIPP company. He said it 
came out of his SIPP funds. And therefore he did suffer financially.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive listed every point BHL made in response to my provisional decision, I consider 
that several of them arent new points, so have already been addressed. However, I have 
carefully considered all of the new points BHL made. 
I agree that Mr W was always aware of the adviser charges that were being deducted. I dont 
consider I ever said he wasnt aware of the charges. But Im satisfied that he wasnt clear 
about the service he could expect to get for those charges. And while I agree that no service 
was guaranteed under the terms of the trail commission, one had been provided up to the 
retirements of first the original adviser, and then the new contact. Hence I concluded Mr W 
had suffered a loss of expectation at the point that he received the letter offering him a fund 
review.
I acknowledge that BHL said it wasnt reviewing Mr Ws funds, and never had. And that his 
previous advisers didnt review his funds either as they were reviewed by the DFM. But Mr W valued the service he received from his previous advisers. And was surprised when he 
found out hed not been getting the service he thought hed been getting. This is  in my 
opinion  because his expectations were never properly set after the transfer of the client 
book. On the contrary, the letter Mr W received after that transfer suggested that BHL would 
undertake all ongoing client servicing requirements in respect of the above agency from this 
date onwards.
I cant comment in any detail on the services provided by Mr Ws original adviser. All I can 
say is that Mr W wasnt unhappy with that service, or the one provided by the new contact at 
BHL. 
Regarding BHLs point that itd introduced Mr W to a new contact to assist his DFM when 
requested, I havent seen evidence that this was ever explained to Mr W. Therefore I still 
consider that it was reasonable for Mr W to expect that new contact to provide the same 
support his previous adviser had done. Im not saying that is what BHL was obliged to do. 
Simply that it never explained to Mr W what service the new contact was there to provide.
I agree that BHL wasnt obliged to introduce Mr W to any new adviser when his new contact 
retired. And that it contacted Mr W in good faith with a proposal to review his investments. 
But Ive seen no evidence that this was ever made clear to Mr W. And previous 
communications from BHL, and the service its new contact had provided to Mr W, had led 
him to have a different expectation.
I acknowledge that BHL dont see why its letter offering Mr W a fund review had caused him 
such distress that I intended them to pay him £1,000 compensation. But thats not the case. 
The £1,000 compensation represents compensation for both Mr Ws loss of expectation and 
the distress and inconvenience the lack of clarity around the service he could expect has 
caused. I consider that Mr W wouldve removed BHL as servicing agent before August 2019 
if hed known the extent of the actual service it was providing him with. I consider that the 
letter simply caused Mr W to realise that he hadnt been getting the level of service he 
thought hed been getting. And therefore gave him a cause for complaint that he hadnt 
previously realised he had.
I accept that BHL was available to Mr W. And that it was available to his DFM when needed. 
But I disagree that BHL has done nothing to impact Mr W in a negative way. I consider that if 
itd been clear to Mr W about the service he could expect, it couldve prevented the 
complaint.
I acknowledge that BHL considers that the compensation Ive proposed is simply for the 
letter itd written to Mr W about a fund review. And that it considers that he wouldve had no 
reason to complain if it hadnt written to him. But I dont agree. Im satisfied that Mr W would 
have complained at the point in time in the future when he found out what service he was 
entitled to. The reason I say this is that this was less than the service he thought he was 
getting. Mr Ws expectations about the service had been set by previous communications 
and by previous advisers actions. But the service he was entitled to under the arrangement 
he actually had with BHL was less than the one he thought he was getting. Im satisfied that 
Mr W wouldve removed BHL as his servicing agent as soon as he found out the extent of 
the service BHL was obliged to provide. And it is for this reason that I still consider £1,000 
compensation to fairly reflect the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill now consider the points Mr W has made. Im sorry he feels that his complaint has taken 
too long to resolve. And that my response was complex. 
Regarding Mr Ws complaint having three parts: I can confirm that while my decision has 
focussed on the crux of Mr Ws complaint, which was the money taken by BHL and the lack of service provided, Ive considered the other aspects of Mr Ws complaint as part of that.
I acknowledge that Mr W has said he remains unclear about what the trail commission had 
paid for after his original adviser retired. And that Mr W feels that he did suffer financially due 
to the trail commission still being paid. However, I covered these points in my provisional 
decision. I apologise if I wasnt clear. But I dont feel I can usefully add anything further at 
this stage. 
Having considered all of the points both BHL and Mr W have made, I remain of the view I set 
out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I require Bradbury Hamilton Limited to pay Mr W £1,000 to compensate him for the loss of 
expectation and distress its unclear communication has caused.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. I require Bradbury Hamilton Limited to 
take the action detailed in the Putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman