DRN-4447261
The complaint
Mr E has a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with Westerby Trustee Services Limited 
(Westerby). Mr E transferred monies from an existing pension arrangement into the SIPP 
and the transferred monies were then invested in holdings that havent performed as well as 
hoped.
Mr E has complained about his SIPP and Westerby. He says Westerby had a regulatory 
responsibility to protect him from these unusual and inappropriate investments and that it 
failed in its duty by allowing them to proceed. 
What happened
Westerby has been represented by solicitors for periods of our investigation of this 
complaint, and the solicitors representing Westerby have made submissions on behalf of 
Westerby at various times. But for ease, Ive referred to Westerby throughout, whether the 
submissions came directly from Westerby or were made on its behalf.
Abana Unipessoal Lda (Abana) is a financial adviser firm based in Portugal. In December 
2013, Abana passported into the UK on an Insurance Mediation Directive (IMD) branch 
passport from 8 January 2014 to 7 January 2016 and an IMD services passport from 12 
March 2013 to 29 December 2015. This means that during those dates, Abana was an  
EEA-authorised firm and permitted to carry out some regulated activities in the UK. 
A Westerby SIPP application form was signed on 15 November 2013. Section 9 of the 
application says Do you have a financial adviser?. This was answered yes and the details 
of Mr F of Abana were added. It was also instructed that an initial fee of 5% of the switched 
value should be paid to Abana. It was noted in the application form that pension monies 
estimated at £176,177 were to be transferred in from Mr Es existing pension plan.
An application form for an investment platform called ePortfolio Solutions, distributed in the 
UK by a business called Asset Management International (AMI), was also completed. This 
recorded the financial adviser as being Abana. Mr F, as a financial adviser with Abana, 
signed a declaration on the application form on 15 November 2013, the application form was 
signed by Mr E on the same date. It was also signed by Westerby, as trustees of Mr Es 
SIPP, in January 2014. 
Some of the monies in the ePortfolio Solutions platform were invested in the Kijani 
Commodity Fund (the Kijani Fund) and some were invested in the Swiss Asset Micro Assist 
Income Fund (SAMAIF), both of which were based in Mauritius. 
On 11 November 2014, Westerby wrote to Mr E about his investments in the Kijani and 
SAMAIF funds. It explained that the funds would, following a Policy Statement from the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in August 2014, be considered to be non-standard 
assets. It explained that the funds might be higher risk than Mr E originally considered. Its 
letter also said the Mauritian Financial Services Commission (MFSC) had issued 
enforcement orders against companies under which both the Kijani and the SAMAIF funds 
were cells. 
It explained that non-standard assets are often speculative and high risk, and that it only 
permitted such assets where full investment advice had been provided by a regulated 
financial adviser or where the investor was a High Net Worth/Sophisticated or Elective 
Professional Investor. It further explained that the investments might be higher risk than 
Mr E originally considered, and it was therefore imperative that Mr E discuss this with his 
financial adviser.
Westerby strongly urged Mr E to contact his regulated financial adviser, and it provided the 
details for Mr F and Mr G of Abana, and asked Mr E to confirm whether he wanted to 
continue to hold the investments or for Westerby to attempt to sell them. Westerby says 
Mr E didnt respond to this letter and so, as it wasnt able to redeem funds without his 
authority, the funds were retained.
On 22 June 2015, Westerby wrote to Mr E. Ive not been provided with a copy of this letter, 
but from other complaints weve received Im aware that it would have provided Mr E with an 
update on the Kijani Fund. It would have reminded Mr E that the Kijani and SAMAIF funds 
were now considered non-standard assets and would have explained:
The Kijani fund was being investigated by auditors. The fund managers had 
taken the decision to liquidate all assets and return client investments within 
30 to 60 days.
This information had been given to Westerby by AMI, but it hadnt been able 
to ascertain who made the statement originally.
Some investors had made redemption requests over 90 days ago but not 
received any money. 
The adviser dealing with Abana clients (by this point a Mrs B, not Mr F) had 
become directly authorised with the FCA under a new firm  Abana (FS) 
Ltd. 
Abana customers were in the process of being novated (moved over) to 
Abana FS Ltd.
Again it strongly urged Mr E to contact his regulated financial advisor, 
(referring, I assume, to Abana (FS) Ltd). It didnt however ask Mr E to confirm 
whether he wanted to continue to hold the investments on this occasion.
On 3 July 2015, Westerby wrote to Mr E. Westerby referred to its letter dated 22 June 2015 
and explained that subsequent to that letter, Abana customers werent, in fact, being 
novated to Abana (FS) Ltd. Westerby said it understood the reason for this was that Abana 
didnt consider Abana (FS) Ltd to be suitably independent to provide advice on Mr Es SIPP. 
Westerby urged Mr E to have his SIPP reviewed immediately by an independent financial 
adviser (IFA) with the necessary permissions. It also said if Mr E had any queries about its 
letter, he should address them to a Mr G of Abana and it provided Mr Gs contact details.
Theres then a letter from Westerby to Mr E dated 10 September 2015, in which Westerby 
explains that trading on the ePortfolio Solutions platform was suspended pending the 
appointment of new management and reconciliation of funds. This letter also stated that the 
Kijani Fund was suspended, the SAMAIF was suspended, the International Money Market 
Fund was suspended and that the TCA Global Fund could not be accessed due to the 
suspension of the ePortfolio Solutions platform pending appointment of new management. 
Regarding the Kijani Fund the letter also explains that there remains a high degree of 
uncertainty about the return of funds to investors and that it could take a number of years for 
matters to be dealt with completely.
On 23 December 2015 Westerby wrote to Mr E again. The letter said: we now have further information regarding the EPS platform, the Swiss Asset 
Micro Assist Income Fund (SAMAIF) and the Kijani Fund
We have been in correspondence with the new managers of the platform and with 
Asset Management International to confirm details of your redemption (sale) request. 
We understand that trades in the underlying funds have been placed. 
The illiquid funds within your portfolio cannot be sold at present, and will remain 
within the SIPP EPS account for the time being.
Based on the information that we have been provided with, the current value of the 
liquid and illiquid elements of the investment are as follows:
Liquid Funds: £100,843.07 (SAMAIF expected to trade again in February)
Illiquid Funds: £83,634.82 (this is not a true value - please see below)
The letter also sets out the redemption timescale for what are described as underlying funds, 
including the TCA Global Credit Fund, the Lucent Strategic Land Fund and the Premier 
Socially Responsible Investment Fund.
 
The letter says the following about SAMAIF:
We have been informed that the suspension on this fund has been lifted, however it 
is not yet active, pending final authority from the Mauritius Financial Services 
Commission. 
EPS have included the value of this fund in the Liquid Funds referred to above. We 
have been advised that this is because the underlying assets and the value of the 
fund have been verified, and that the fund is expected to begin trading again in 
February 2016.
It appears that Mr E hadnt, in fact, already made a redemption request by this point. Based 
on the copy of the form provided to me and also on what Westerby has told our Service, 
Mr E signed and returned his redemption form in January 2016.
We issued a final decision on another complaint involving Westerbys acceptance of a SIPP 
application from Abana in February 2021 (the published decision). That final decision has 
been published on our website under DRN7770418. And Ive seen an email on that 
complaint dated 15 April 2016, in which Westerby emailed a consumer and explained that 
holdings in the Kijani and SAMAIF fund were illiquid and that:
Due to the liquidity issues with the funds within the portfolio, the Managed Portfolio 
was split into two - Managed Portfolio S representing the Suspended funds (mostly 
Kijani) and Managed Portfolio L representing the Liquid funds (initially approximately 
20% TCA Global and 80% SAMAIF). ePortfolio Solutions have advised us that 
SAMAIF was initially included in the Liquid portfolio as it was expected to begin 
trading again imminently, however this has not yet happened.Ive also seen a copy of a 24 April 2016 update from SAMAIF to investors, this explains that 
the re-structured SAMAIF has (since 22 April 2016) been licensed by the MFSC and 
suggests that work to begin trading is still ongoing. And in its 6 June 2016 submissions to us 
on a separate complaint featuring SAMAIF Westerby said: 
The SAMAIF is also currently not trading. It is our understanding that they are 
currently in communication with the Mauritian regulators in order to enable 
redemptions from the fund, however there are no definitive timescales as yet.
Westerby has previously sought to clarify that the quoted wording above, which is taken from 
a letter Westerby sent to us on 6 June 2016, was given by Abana.
In response to Mr Es complaint, amongst other things, Westerby said that:
All advice was provided by Abana and liability for unsuitable advice to make 
investments should rest with Abana.
Westerby acts as SIPP Trustee and Scheme Administrator, it doesnt and cant 
provide advice on SIPPs or underlying investments.
Westerby doesnt hold the relevant regulatory permissions to provide financial 
advice.
As SIPP Trustee and Scheme Administrator, Westerby has a responsibility to assess 
the acceptability of an investment for inclusion in a SIPP.
Arrangements under the Westerby SIPP are strictly member-directed.
Under the terms of the Trust Deed it couldnt undertake any investment purchases or 
redemptions without Mr Es authority to do so.
It carried out due diligence on Abana before accepting business from it. And verified 
that Abana was authorised to operate within the UK under an EEA passport.
It established an Intermediary Terms of Business with Abana.
The Terms of Business included a warranty that the introducer holds, and undertakes 
to maintain, the necessary permissions to advise on SIPPs and the underlying 
investments.
Westerbys standard procedure was to check the Financial Services Register every 
time a SIPP was established and every time adviser remuneration was paid, to verify 
that the introducer remained authorised.
The current version of the Register shows additional information regarding Abanas 
permissions, but this version of the Register only came into effect in September 
2015.
Westerby considered that the judgment in R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration 
Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] EWHC 2878) (BBSAL) supported its 
understanding that SIPP providers are not required to consider the suitability of an 
investment for a given investor; their obligation is to consider whether the asset is 
acceptable to be held within a SIPP. And Westerby didnt think Mr Es complaint bore 
anything more than a superficial similarity to BBSAL, as BBSAL involved an esoteric 
investment in forestry which was introduced to the investor by an introducer who was 
not authorised or regulated by the regulator. Whereas in Mr Es case, Abana was 
authorised by the regulator, and the underlying investments were in liquid funds via a 
regulated investment platform. 
The advice provided to Mr E by Abana has been subject to an independent 
compliance review, carried out by Complete Compliance Support Limited (CCS) 
who concluded that the advice was unsuitable.
Abana has accepted that its liable for the losses suffered as a result of its advice and 
CCS carried out redress calculations.
Mr E signed and returned his redemption form in January 2016. As a result, Mr E recovered a total of £98,004.13 - £78,328.88 on 19 May 2016 and £19,675.25 on 9 
September 2016. 
Mr E had referred his complaint to our Service too late for us to be able to consider it, 
as hed done so more than six months after the final response letter (FRL) Westerby 
had sent him. It sent its FRL on 22 October 2018 but Mr Es complaint form was 
dated 24 April 2019 and was received by our Service five days later. 
One of our Investigators reviewed Mr Es complaint. They thought Mr Es complaint had 
been referred to our Service within the six-month time limit, because hed emailed us on 28 
February 2019 to complain about Westerby and Abana. And having reviewed Mr Es 
complaint, our Investigator said that Westerby ought to have identified that Abana needed 
top-up permissions to advise on and make arrangements for personal pensions in the UK, 
and taken all the steps available to it to independently verify that Abana had the required 
permissions. And that if Westerby had taken these steps, it would have established Abana 
didnt have the permissions it required to give advice or make arrangements for personal 
pensions in the UK, or that it was unable to confirm whether Abana had the required 
permissions. In either event, it wasnt in accordance with its regulatory obligations nor good 
industry practice for Westerby to proceed to accept business from Abana. Our Investigator 
concluded that as Westerby shouldnt have accepted Mr Es SIPP application from Abana, it 
was fair and reasonable for Westerby to compensate Mr E for his financial loss. 
Westerby didnt agree with the Investigators view and, amongst other things, it said that:
It still thought Mr Es complaint had been referred to our Service too late. Mr E 
emailed our Service on 28 February 2019, but our email to Mr E dated 4 March 2019 
confirmed wed not yet registered Mr Es complaint. Mr Es complaint form was dated 
24 April 2019 and was received by our Service five days later. This complaint form 
contained Mr Es signed declaration that I would like the Financial Ombudsman 
Service to look into my complaint. So our Service couldnt have registered or set up 
Mr Es complaint before this. 
Section 20 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) provides that an 
authorised person acting without permission doesnt make the transaction void or 
unenforceable, and it doesnt give rise to any right of action for breach of statutory 
duty (save for in limited circumstances). This is the opposite approach to someone 
acting without authorisation (as per section 27 of the FSMA).
That primary legislation allows for the voiding of contracts where a party is acting 
without authorisation (section 27), but explicitly removes this provision where an 
authorised party acts outside of their permissions (section 20), demonstrates that 
Parliaments intention was that an authorised party shouldnt be held liable for losses 
flowing from another authorised partys breach of their own requirements. 
Mr E seems confused about who provided him with advice on his investments. Our 
Service has re-written Mr Es complaint to direct it towards Westerby, when it is 
evident from his complaint that it is properly directed at Abana.
It was no part of Westerbys contractual obligations and/or legal obligations (as set 
out in section 20 of the FSMA) to Mr E to investigate the permissions of third-party 
advisers.
Its previously requested, amongst other things, disclosure of: the details of the 
contact at the FCA with whom this Service communicated; records of such 
communications; file notes or attendance notes; details of the FCA contacts role at 
the FCA; whether the FCA contact was dealing with the Register in 2013; and what 
the FCA contacts understanding of the Register in 2013 is based upon. Westerby 
has highlighted in previous submissions to this Service that its only been provided 
with the FCAs response thats referred to in the published decision and its not 
received the further disclosure its requested. Submissions its made havent been fully addressed.
It took all reasonable steps to verify Abanas permissions.
It disagrees that Abana not holding the relevant permissions would have been a 
matter of public record. The FCA could only confirm what was on the Register, not 
what was missing from it. And the FCA cannot provide any more information than 
that which is provided on the Register.
There have been various criticisms of the FCA Register over the years, and it may on 
occasion have contained errors.
Abana had confirmed orally and in writing that it had the necessary permissions and 
it was reasonable for Westerby to rely on this.
It disagrees that the Written Agreement was vague and generic in nature. The term 
permissions encompasses top-up permissions. The wording sale of SIPPs was 
very similar to that in the FCA handbook and guidance. And its unrealistic to 
consider that any change of wording would have caused Abana to not provide the 
undertaking. 
During the changeover from the Financial Services Authority (FSA) to the FCA, the 
FSA allowed a further twelve months for firms to alter their paperwork, including 
agreements, letterheads and business cards. The date of the Written Agreement falls 
under this time period. 
The Investigators view downplays the extent and thoroughness of the due diligence 
it performed. It met with Abanas representatives and obtained information from 
them. Abanas representatives had good technical knowledge and confirmed that 
Abana had the correct permissions.
It was reasonable to rely on the information provided by Abana in writing, together 
with Westerbys meetings with Abana and the due diligence performed. 
Before accepting applications, it checked the FCA Register and the permissions 
page, the latter was blank.
It checked the Portuguese Register, this explained that Abana was authorised to 
advise on life and non-life, the latter Westerby understood meant investments and 
pensions.
Much later, independent consultants appointed by the FCA also spoke to the 
Portuguese Regulator and were told that Abana was authorised to advise on pension 
products. If Westerby had contacted the Portuguese regulator, it would have been 
told the same.
If it was impossible to verify the permissions through the FCA Register, and also a 
regulatory requirement to reject the business on these grounds, it would make it 
impossible for an EEA-passported firm to do any business other than the default 
business allowed by their passport regardless of any top-up permissions held. This 
may be construed as favouring local firms by the back door and might possibly be 
unlawful under EU law.
Westerby undertook due diligence before accepting the introductions from Abana in 
accordance with the guidance.
Abana was adamant that it had the correct permissions, presented itself as 
knowledgeable and professional and at no time did it present any reason to doubt its 
credibility.
This Service hasnt considered properly the application of COBS 2.4.6R (and COBS 
2.4.8 G).
Westerby provided quarterly Product Sales Data reports to the FSA and later the 
FCA, those organisations were aware through the reports that Abana was introducing 
business to Westerby. And in 2015 Westerby was in contact with the FCA about 
Abana. On these occasions the FCA didnt raise any issues or allegations to 
Westerby about a breach of Westerbys duties and obligations.
Abanas actions were more serious than any alleged failures by Westerby.Its important that this Service doesnt overlook the gravity of Abanas wrongdoing, 
when considering this complaint against Westerby and the issue of apportionment. 
Abana has now ceased to trade and it seems that the insolvency of Abana (and 
possibly the lack of insurance cover) and that Westerby being based in the UK has 
influenced the conclusion that Westerby should compensate Mr E fully for his losses. 
In a previous decision, a different Ombudsman did deal with the apportionment issue 
where the complaint was against an EEA firm that had acted outside its permissions. 
The decision made an apportionment between the SIPP provider and the adviser on 
a 50/50 basis. 
It has requested a copy of the details of the outcome of this Services investigation of 
Mr Es complaint against Abana.
Any complaint against Abana ought to be decided first, or at the same time, as the 
complaint against Westerby.
Abanas clients, including Mr E, were offered redress by Abana and Mr E isnt entitled 
to be compensated for his losses twice. Westerby says that correspondence in June 
2016 from Complete Compliance to Abana and the FCA said that redress letters 
were sent to consumers including Mr E, though Westerby says it doesnt have a 
copy of the redress letter sent to Mr E. Westerby went on to say Indications are that 
Abana failed to hold appropriate [insurance] cover for their pensions activities in 
further breach of their regulatory obligations and therefore their insurers have failed 
to meet any of redress offers made by Abana and FOS awards against them.
Had it uncovered that Abana didnt have the relevant permissions, it would have 
declined all business from Abana from the outset, and would never have received Mr 
Es application or have been in a position to highlight Abanas lack of permissions.
It wouldnt have been at liberty to contact investors directly to tell them why their 
application was refused.
If it had rejected Mr Es application, Abana would have re-applied on behalf of Mr E 
to another SIPP provider that Abana was using and that SIPP provider would have 
accepted the application.
This Service needs to give true weighting to the fact that Abanas clients trusted its 
advice. 
Having been ordered by the FCA to pay full redress to its client, Abana then refused 
to do so. Little/nothing was done to enforce awards made against Abana for redress 
to investors on similar complaints before Abana ceased to trade. Losses caused by 
the apparent failings of other authorities shouldnt rest with Westerby.
Following its November 2014 letter, any investor would have sought independent 
financial advice or made some reasonable enquiries. 
If Mr E had acted promptly following Westerbys letter in November 2014 to mitigate 
his losses and request a redemption, he would likely have been able to recover 
100% of his funds. And if he had acted promptly following Westerbys letter in 
December 2015, then he likely would have been able to recover a significant amount 
of his funds, and at least 50%. This is what happened in the complaint that was the 
subject of the published decision. But Mr E only returned his redemption form in 
January 2016 after some delay.
Whether or not there was a reference in Westerbys letter in November 2014 to 
Mr E to seek advice from Abana is an irrelevant point and had no bearing on the 
outcome as Mr E would have reverted to his existing adviser, regardless of the 
reference to Abana in Westerbys letter.
The Investigators view fails to take proper account of Mr Es failure to mitigate his 
losses.
By concluding that it wasnt reasonable for Mr E to take some action after its letters, 
this Service is effectively deciding that Westerby was always liable for any 
subsequent losses irrespective of the duty on Mr E to mitigate his losses. Westerby ought to be provided with a copy of the relevant information that the 
Investigator has relied upon in reaching their view.
The application form for the SIPP would have been downloaded by Abana and 
completed by it with Mr E. Only after this was it sent to Westerby and processed in 
November 2013.
Originally, Abana put its clients into the Kijani and SAMAIF funds directly.
Later on, Mr F of Abana made arrangements (without Westerbys authority) for the 
funds to be placed into the EPS Managed Fund  a Special Purpose Vehicle 
(SPV) which essentially acted as a fund of funds, comprised of the Kijani, SAMAIF 
and the TCA Global funds.
When ePortfolio Solutions started trading again, they split the funds into two 
portfolios  Managed Portfolio S containing the Kijani Fund, and Managed Portfolio L 
containing SAMAIF and TCA Global funds (S standing for Suspended, and L for 
Liquid).
SAMAIF was included in Portfolio L as it was expected to begin trading again.
Redemptions from this fund were made by the managers selling TCA Global  hence 
they were able to make redemptions initially, but TCA Global was ultimately depleted 
(it had effectively been used to subsidise the early redemption requests in the 
expectation that SAMAIF would begin trading again  a decision by the SPV 
managers that Westerby had no control over).
Previous final decision on a complaint against Westerby
As I mentioned above, we issued a final decision on another complaint involving Westerbys 
acceptance of a SIPP application from Abana in February 2021 (the published decision). 
That final decision has been published on our website under DRN7770418. 
That decision relates to Abana and features the same key point  namely the permissions 
held and required by an incoming EEA firm dealing with personal pensions in the UK, and 
Westerbys knowledge of this. Westerby has made the same, or very similar, submissions on 
that case and some of its recent submissions on this case are made with reference to the 
published decision. 
After the published decision was issued, Westerby was asked to take it into consideration, 
as an important representative decision, in accordance with the relevant FCA DISP Rules 
and Guidance (particularly DISP 1.4.1, 1.4.2 and 1.3.2A), which should be taken into 
account when assessing other similar complaints. 
On this basis, Westerby was asked to review (amongst others) outstanding complaints 
involving Abana  including Mr Es  and if it wasnt prepared to change its position after 
taking account of the detailed reasons set out in the published decision, to explain why that 
was the case. Westerby didnt change its position.
Other submissions from Westerby
Ive carefully considered all the submissions Westerby has made over the course of this 
complaint. This includes further submissions its made following on from the published 
decision. Amongst other things, Westerby has said: 
A number of points raised havent been addressed by this Service.
The published decision confirms we contacted the FCA about whether top-up 
permissions appear on the FCA Register and that the FCA confirmed that top up 
permissions do appear on the Register under the Permission page and that the 
FCA understands the same information was available on the Register in 2013.Theres been no disclosure of: the details of the contact at the FCA with whom this 
Service communicated; records of such communications; file notes or attendance 
notes; details of the FCA contacts role at the FCA; whether the FCA contact was 
dealing with the Register in 2013; and what the FCA contacts understanding of the 
Register in 2013 is based upon. This Service should provide full disclosure of this 
information. Not to do so is procedurally unfair.
An understanding of what was on the Register in 2013 isnt proof of what was 
actually on the Register at the relevant time. 
It was reasonable for Westerby to assume from the Terms of Business agreement 
that Abana had the necessary permissions. Further, it doesnt accept that it ought to 
have been reasonably aware of cause to have questioned the accuracy of the 
statement in the Agreement. 
The published decision concedes that information which wasnt available on the 
Register wouldnt have been provided to Westerby by the FCA if it wasnt already on 
the Register. But the published decision also says that if Westerby had contacted the 
FCA directly the FCA would have been able to confirm Abanas permissions. No 
information has been provided about this and the FCAs position generally. 
Westerby made a Freedom of Information request to the FCA. And, in response, the 
FCA confirmed that in 2013, the Register would have indicated the broad 
permissions held under IMD by a firm which would have been either insurance 
mediation or reinsurance mediation and that there was no requirement under the IMD 
to display more detailed activities. Any further information not displayed on the 
Register would have been considered confidential information under Section 348 of 
the FSMA which prohibits disclosure of this information. 
In the published decision the Ombudsman sought to distinguish the complaint from 
the situation in the Adams court case on the basis that Abana was offering an 
advisory service. Its unclear how Abanas contractually defined role impacts on the 
scope of duty owed by Westerby under COBS 2.1.1R. It was no part of Westerbys 
contractual obligations to investigate the permissions of third-party advisers. 
In the published decision the Ombudsman failed to follow DISP 3.6.3G, which 
provides: Where a complainant makes a complaint against more than one 
respondent in respect of connected circumstances, the Ombudsman may determine 
that the respondents must contribute towards the overall award in the proportion that 
the Ombudsman considers appropriate.
The Ombudsman failed to assess apportionment and causation. 
Despite a related complaint about the actions of Abana, in the published decision the 
Ombudsman decided that Westerby should compensate the consumer for the full 
extent of his financial losses. 
Abana has ceased trading and closed, as such any indemnity from Abana and/or 
assignment of any action against it would now be worthless.
Complaints made against Abana to this Service ought to have been decided first, or 
at least at the same time as complaints against Westerby. This Service dealing with 
the complaint against Westerby first has led to the failure to address the issue of 
apportionment. 
This Service has found against Abana in a number of complaints involving a different 
SIPP operator, and ordered Abana to pay redress yet we havent pursued, or invited 
the complainants to pursue, the SIPP operator.
Westerby has also made a number of other submissions to us previously, some in this 
complaint and others in separate complaints featuring Abana and the same key point  
namely the permissions held and required by an incoming EEA firm dealing with personal 
pensions in the UK, and Westerbys knowledge of this. These submissions include that:GEN 4 Annex 1 states that an incoming (EEA) firm must make details of the extent of 
its permissions clear on request. This shows that the FCA directs that the firm should 
confirm its permissions. Its Terms of Business provided for such a request and 
effectively formalised this disclosure through a signed agreement.
The FSMA acknowledges that theres a general principle that consumers should take 
responsibility for their decisions, a principle which the FCA should have regard to 
when considering consumer protection. This Service is part of the consumer 
protection provisions under the FSMA, it follows that we must similarly have regard to 
this principle. Theres a clear intention in law that consumers have a level of 
responsibility. And this Service has issued other decisions which take account of a 
consumers failure to take action to mitigate their losses.
At the time the SIPP investments were made, there was no reason to conclude that 
they didnt satisfy Westerbys requirements.
Westerby was reliant on the publically-available Register as it stood at the time.
At that time, the Register didnt show what permissions were held; it simply stated 
that the firm was EEA Authorised and that consumers should contact the firm to 
confirm its complaints and compensation arrangements.
In the absence of any notification to the contrary on the Register, it was considered 
that Abana had full passporting permissions under its EEA Authorisation. 
In the absence of information on any registers to confirm permissions at the time, it 
was reasonable for Westerby to accept Abanas representation (via the signed Terms 
of Business) that it held the necessary regulatory authorisation/permissions to carry 
on its pensions activities.
Abana was an authorised and regulated entity. It was reasonable to expect that it 
would be aware of, and act within, its regulatory permissions. By representing to 
Westerby that it held the necessary permissions, Abana either deliberately misled it, 
or wasnt aware of its lack of permissions.
Its not fair or reasonable to hold Westerby liable for Abanas failures. 
It acted in good faith in accepting the introduction of consumers SIPPs by Abana.
Abanas offer of redress should be enforced, rather than consumers seeking redress 
from Westerby.
Its due diligence wasnt simply a check of the Register. Its Chairman and Compliance 
Oversight was present at several face to face meetings with Abana's advisor and 
Compliance Director. And he was thorough in his "testing" of their processes and due 
diligence. 
This culminated in Westerby establishing a legal document  the Terms of Business 
 in which Abana warranted that it had the required permissions to introduce the 
SIPP. Abana therefore effectively "defrauded" it.
Its able to accept applications from non-regulated introducers. This isnt something it 
has done, but its acceptable to the FCA.
It doesnt hold a copy of the "Permission" page for Abana.  
Its been able to retrieve archived copies of the page for other passported firms from 
the relevant time period. In every case the Permission page simply shows "No 
matches found".
The "Basic Details" page of Abana's Register entry included a field labelled 
"Undertakes Insurance Mediation", but the field was left blank; for UK firms it was 
always completed. 
Westerbys argument isnt that there werent other sections of the Register, rather its 
that Abanas permissions couldnt be determined from the Register due to the limited 
information available. In other words, Westerby doesnt accept that, at the relevant 
time (when the online Register was viewed in 2013), that there was information 
regarding permissions available or accessible by an online user.The terms and conditions of business which it entered into with Abana werent 
generic and were drafted in line with the FCAs due diligence expectations and 
guidance. 
The terms and conditions of business was a robust and legally binding document and 
was fit for the purpose intended. The document was worded specifically for Abana 
and was signed by two of Abanas directors.
It was enclosing the Terms and Conditions agreement from one of the industrys 
leading and largest SIPP operators, which mirrors Westerbys own wording with 
uncanny accuracy.
During the relevant period, Abana was operating within the UK and was authorised 
and regulated by both the Portuguese Regulatory Authority and the FCA  Westerby 
took great comfort from such double supervision.
The AMI investments were trading on a recognised exchange, redeemable within 30 
days and regulated by the Mauritius Financial Services Regulator. The portfolios 
according to the AMI mandate were investing in a diverse spread of international 
investment instruments and therefore qualified as standard investments according to 
FCA definitions. And their risk profile posed no greater investment risk than a large 
number of similarly positioned international investment funds. 
Westerby checked all of the above as part of its due diligence.
While issued after the events complained about, it considers the due diligence it 
undertook was in accordance with the standards detailed in the FCAs July 2014 
Dear CEO letter.
The purpose of a SIPP is to offer the member the opportunity to invest in a more 
adventurous and diversified portfolio. 
SIPP operators, including Westerby, considered this type of investment normal.
Westerby doesnt accept that it ought to have recognised the proposed investment as 
an unusual proposition which carried a significant risk of consumer detriment.
Redemptions were being made at the time Westerby wrote to Mr E in November 
2014 and had Mr E instructed Westerby to request a full redemption, its likely he 
would have been able to recover his entire pension fund.
No amount of due diligence that Westerby undertook would have enabled it to 
establish that the Kijani Fund was subject to fraud.
It wrote to Mr E again to inform him that it was possible to make redemptions from 
part of his account on 23 December 2015.
Westerby cant be held liable for a consumers decision to invest in the funds.
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint was passed to me for a decision. I issued 
a provisional decision on this complaint. In summary, I concluded that Mr Es complaint had 
been brought within the relevant time limits as Mr E had referred his complaint to our Service 
within six months of Westerbys FRL. 
And having considered the merits of Mr Es complaint, I concluded it should be upheld. 
Westerby ought to have identified that Abana needed top-up permissions to advise on and 
make arrangements for personal pensions in the UK, and taken all the steps available to it to 
independently verify that Abana had the required permissions. If Westerby had taken these 
steps, it would have established Abana didnt have the permissions it required to give advice 
or make arrangements for personal pensions in the UK, or that it was unable to confirm 
whether Abana had the required permissions. In either event, it wasnt in accordance with its 
regulatory obligations nor good industry practice for Westerby to proceed to accept business 
from Abana. 
Additionally, Westerby ought to have considered the anomalous features of the business. 
These were further factors relevant to Westerbys acceptance of Mr Es application which, at 
the very least, emphasised the need for adequate due diligence to be carried out on Abana to independently ensure it had the correct permissions to be giving advice on personal 
pensions in the UK.
Further, I concluded its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to conclude 
that none of the points Westerby has raised are factors which mitigate its decision to accept 
Mr Es application from Abana. That its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case 
to hold Westerby accountable for its own failure to comply with the relevant regulatory 
obligations and to treat Mr E fairly. And its appropriate and fair in the circumstances for 
Westerby to compensate Mr E to the full extent of the financial losses hes suffered due to 
Westerbys failings.
Mr E accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
Westerby didnt accept my provisional decision. It maintained Mr Es complaint had been 
referred to our Service too late. It said the DISP rules dont define what amounts to a 
referral, and that our Service told Mr E on 4 March 2019 that we hadnt registered his 
complaint and wouldnt do so until we received his completed complaint forms. And 
communication between our Service and Mr E made no mention of the six-month time limit. 
Since our Service received Mr Es completed complaint form on 29 April 2019, in which Mr E 
declared that hed like us to investigate his complaint, we couldnt have registered or set up 
Mr Es complaint before 29 April 2019. Therefore, we received Mr Es complaint more than 
six months after Westerby issued its FRL. 
Regarding the merits of Mr Es complaint, Westerby said that despite repeated requests, we 
hadnt provided it with the information it thought we should provide regarding the enquiries 
made of the FCA and its response. Therefore, Westerby hadnt had the opportunity to make 
further submissions on this point. Westerby also asked for a copy of the email our Service 
sent to Mr E on 22 February 2019, as its copy was incomplete. I provided this to Westerby, 
with an explanation that it wasnt an email Id relied on in reaching my conclusions. Westerby 
didnt provide anything further for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Firstly, Ive thought about whether this is a complaint our Service can consider. Our ability to 
consider complaints is set out in Chapter 2 (DISP 2) of the FCAs Handbook of Rules and 
Guidance. DISP 2.8.2R says: 
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service 
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the 
complainant its final response or redress determination or summary resolution 
communication; or 
(2) more than: 
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later) 
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or 
ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint; 
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or 
some other record of the complaint having been received; unless: 
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limitswas as 
a result of exceptional circumstances.
Ive seen that Westerbys FRL was dated 22 October 2018. Westerby argues Mr Es 
complaint has been brought too late under the six-month time limit because our Service 
couldnt have registered and set up Mr Es complaint until we received his complaint form 
dated 24 April 2019, in which he declared he wanted our Service to look into his complaint. 
I acknowledge Westerby says the DISP rules dont define what amounts to a referral. But 
DISP 2.8.2R says refers a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. In other 
words, when a complaint is sent or directed to our Service; DISP 2.8.2R contains nothing to 
suggest that our Service receiving all the completed forms or setting up the complaint on our 
system is relevant or necessary to either constituting a referral, or to meeting the six-month 
time limit provision. 
Mr E emailed our Service on 28 February 2019, and Im satisfied that email asked our 
Service to investigate his complaint about Westerbys responsibilities in the matter of his 
SIPP, as he was dissatisfied with Westerbys responses so far. So Im satisfied Mr Es email 
dated 28 February 2019 constituted a referral of his complaint about Westerby to our 
Service. And whether or not communication between our Service and Mr E mentioned the 
six-month time limit makes no difference to that, as Westerby has suggested. 
Given all this, my decision is that Mr E did not refer his complaint to us too late under the six-
month time limit provision. 
Therefore, Ive gone on to consider the merits of Mr Es complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Westerby is concerned our Service may have changed the meaning of Mr Es 
complaint. It appears from the content of Westerbys FRL to Mr E dated 22 October 2018 
and its further response letter to Mr E dated 3 January 2019 that Westerby understood 
Mr Es complaint to encompass the adequacy of checks it undertook as a SIPP provider 
when accepting his business and on investments made after it had accepted his business. I 
say that because, in responding to Mr Es complaint, Westerby sought to clarify to Mr E 
some of its duties as his SIPP provider. Westerby said that the due diligence undertaken on 
Abana and on the ePortfolio Solutions platform and the funds held within in it didnt highlight 
any concerns. Westerby also referenced some steps it had taken when it became aware of 
issues with the investments. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal dispute resolution forum. A complaint 
made to us need not be, and rarely is, made out with the clarity of formal legal pleadings. 
Our Service deals with complaints, not causes of action.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances, its appropriate to take an 
inquisitorial approach. And, ultimately, what Ill be looking at here is whether Westerby took 
reasonable care, acted with due diligence and treated Mr E fairly, in accordance with his 
best interests. And what I think is fair and reasonable in light of that. And I think the key 
issue in Mr Es complaint is whether it was fair and reasonable for Westerby to have 
accepted Mr Es SIPP application in the first place. So, I need to consider whether Westerby 
carried out appropriate due diligence checks on Abana before deciding to accept Mr Es 
SIPP application from it.When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I need to take account of 
relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. 
Mr E and Westerby have provided detailed submissions to support their position and Id like 
to reassure them both that Ive considered all the comments and evidence theyve provided. 
But while I mean no discourtesy, my decision will focus on what I consider to be the central 
issues in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. So my decision wont 
address every point or question both parties have raised, but will instead set out my findings 
and my reasons for reaching them. 
Relevant considerations
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence, Im still of the view that the relevant 
considerations in this case are those that Id previously set out in my provisional decision. As 
such, and while taking into account all of the submissions that have previously been made, 
Ive largely repeated what Id said about this point in my provisional decision.
Ive carefully taken account of the relevant considerations to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance. The Principles 
for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general statement of the 
fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G  at the relevant 
date). Principles 2, 3 and 6 provide: 
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly. 
Ive carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The 
Specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirements they cover. The 
general notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific 
rules. 
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which find expression in 
the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an Ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
Ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The Ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and hadnt treated 
its client fairly. 
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out above, 
said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL): 
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to 
cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they 
are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the 
Principles-based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to 
formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general 
duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6. 
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of the FSMA and the approach an 
Ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL 
upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the Ombudsman in that complaint, which 
Ive described above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant 
time as relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account. 
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a decision on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. Im therefore 
satisfied that the Principles are a relevant consideration that I must take into account when 
deciding this complaint. 
On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v Options 
SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision of the High 
Court and, on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. Ive taken account of both these 
judgments when making this decision on Mr Es case. 
I note that the Principles for Businesses didnt form part of Mr Adams pleadings in his initial 
case against Options SIPP. And, HHJ Dight didnt consider the application of the Principles 
to SIPP operators in his judgment. The Court of Appeal also gave no consideration to the 
application of the Principles to SIPP operators. So, neither of the judgments say anything 
about how the Principles apply to an Ombudsmans consideration of a complaint. But, to be 
clear, I dont say this means Adams isnt a relevant consideration at all. As noted above, Ive 
taken account of both judgments when making this decision on Mr Es case. 
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles, and that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that 
Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, 
was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected 
this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on the facts 
of Mr Adams case.  
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim, on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically 
different to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams 
appeal didnt so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had 
dismissed the COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.  
I note that in Adams v Options SIPP, HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case 
would inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at paragraph 
148: 
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one 
has to identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the 
submissions of each of the parties that the context has an impact on the 
ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the 
context is the agreement into which the parties entered, which defined their roles and 
functions in the transaction. 
In my view there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged 
by Mr Adams (summarised in paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal judgment) and the 
issues in Mr Es complaint. In particular, as HHJ Dight noted, he wasnt asked to consider 
the question of due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept the store pods 
investment into its SIPP. 
The facts of Mr Adams and Mr Es cases are also different. I make that point to highlight that 
there are factual differences between Adams v Options SIPP and Mr Es case. And I need to 
construe the duties Westerby owed to Mr E under COBS 2.1.1R in light of the specific facts 
of Mr Es case. 
In the published decision it was noted that in Adams v Options SIPP HHJ Dight accepted 
that the transaction with Options SIPP proceeded on an execution only basis, i.e. without 
any advice from the business introducing the SIPP application. And the transaction between 
Mr E and Westerby in this complaint proceeded on the footing that Mr E was being advised 
by an authorised adviser. Again, I make this point simply to highlight that there are factual 
differences between Adams v Options SIPP and Mr Es case.
So, Ive considered COBS 2.1.1R  alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, 
and within the factual context of Mr Es case, including Westerbys role in the transaction.  
However, I think its important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And, in doing that, Im required to take into account relevant considerations which include: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in 
Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in 
Mr Adams statement of case.  
I also want to emphasise that I dont say that Westerby was under any obligation to advise 
Mr E on the SIPP and/or the underlying investments. Refusing to accept an application because it came about as a result of advice given by a firm which didnt have the required 
permissions to be giving that advice, and had been introduced by that same firm, isnt the 
same thing as advising Mr E on the merits of investing and/or transferring to the SIPP. 
So, Im satisfied that COBS 2.1.1R is a relevant consideration  but that it needs to be 
considered alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, and within the factual 
context of Mr Es case.   
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) issued a number of publications which reminded 
SIPP operators of their obligations and which set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles, namely:
The 2009 and 2012 Thematic Review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement: 
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to ensure the fair 
treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension scheme is a 
client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes clients. 
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks to 
themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.

We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP advice 
given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP operators cannot 
absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them to have procedures and 
controls, and to be gathering and analysing management information, enabling them to 
identify possible instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable 
SIPPs. Such instances could then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by 
contacting the members to confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and 
asking for clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental to 
clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and inadequate to 
the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of poor advice and/or 
potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of individual cases, we 
may take enforcement action against SIPP operators who do not safeguard their customers 
interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm 
must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with 
adequate risk management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken from 
examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to firms:Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they 
do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP investment) 
and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give advice and 
introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together with 
the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to seek 
appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is concerned about 
the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the intermediary 
giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for advice, having this 
information would enhance the firms understanding of its clients, making the 
facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed disclaimers 
taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering and analysing data 
regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the reasons for 
this.
The later publications 
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA stated: 
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms further 
guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or amended 
requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a requirement in 
April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 6 and 
treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension scheme is a client 
for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a SIPP operators 
responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF consumer outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members and 
SIPP operators 
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include the 
following: 
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that advise clients 
are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, nor its approved persons are 
on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and have a clear disciplinary 
history; and that the firm does not appear on the FCA website listings for un-
authorised business warnings. 
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm. 
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the firm, 
what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the levels of 
business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments they 
recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that they are 
appropriate to deal with. 
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small or 
large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares which may be 
illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, for example from 
the prospective member or their adviser, if it has any concerns. 
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation rights and 
the reasons for this. 
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice given, as a 
SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business it administers. 
Examples of good practice we have identified include: 
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the information 
they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm with, is authentic and 
meets the firms procedures and are not being used to launder money 
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern relationships and 
clarify responsibilities for relationships with other professional bodies such as 
solicitors and accountants, and 
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP operators 
have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business from non-
regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence 
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their business 
with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct and retain 
appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and monitoring introducers 
as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for personal pension schemes) to help 
them justify their business decisions. In doing this SIPP operators should consider: 
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, or 
where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed and the 
tax charge paid 
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the processes that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the members and the 
scheme 
having checks which may include, but are not limited to: 
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, qualifications and 
skills to introduce different types of business to the firm, and 
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House records, 
identifying connected parties and visiting introducers 
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been 
independently produced and verified 
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of benchmarks, or 
minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the firm is 
prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or accept investments, and 
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a firm to 
decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations such as 
instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may breach HMRC tax-
relievable investments and non-standard investments that have not been approved 
by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment
ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation
ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally enforceable)
ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of purchase 
and subsequently, and
ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous investors have 
received income if expected, or that any investment providers are credit worthy etc.)
Although Ive referred to selected parts of the publications to illustrate their relevance, Ive 
considered them in their entirety. 
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter arent formal 
guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, the fact that the reports and 
Dear CEO letter didnt constitute formal guidance doesnt mean their importance should be 
underestimated. They provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and are 
an indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure its treating its 
customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect, the publications which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators should be 
doing also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice, and 
Im therefore satisfied its appropriate to take them into account.
Its relevant that when deciding what amounted to have been good industry practice in the 
BBSAL case, the Ombudsman found that the regulators reports, guidance and letter go a 
long way to clarify what should be regarded as good practice and what should not. And the 
judge in BBSAL endorsed the lawfulness of the approach taken by the Ombudsman. 
Im also satisfied that Westerby, at the time of the events under consideration here, thought 
the 2009 Thematic Review Report was relevant, and thought that it set out examples of good 
industry practice. Westerby did carry out due diligence on Abana. So, it clearly thought it was 
good practice to do so, at the very least. 
Like the Ombudsman in the BBSAL case, I dont think the fact the publications, (other than 
the 2009 and 2012 Thematic Review Reports and the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator 
guidance), post-date the events that took place in relation to Mr Es complaint, mean that the 
examples of good practice they provide werent good practice at the time of the relevant 
events. Although the later publications were published after the events subject to this 
complaint, the Principles that underpin them existed throughout, as did the obligation to act 
in accordance with the Principles. 
Its also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports (and the Dear CEO letter in 2014) 
that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the recommended good 
practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst the regulators comments 
suggest some industry participants understanding of how the good practice standards 
shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, its clear the standards 
themselves hadnt changed.
That doesnt mean that in considering whats fair and reasonable, Ill only consider 
Westerbys actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and 
guidance gave non-exhaustive examples of good practice. They didnt say the suggestions 
given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO 
letter notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the 
circumstances. 
In response to the Investigators assessment, Westerby stated that s20 of FSMA provides 
that an authorised person acting without permissions doesnt make the transaction void or 
unenforceable and it doesnt give rise to any right of action for breach of statutory duty (save 
in limited circumstances). And that this is the opposite approach to someone acting without 
authorisation, as per s27 of the FSMA. Westerby has said that Parliaments intention was 
that an authorised party shouldnt be held liable for losses flowing from another authorised 
partys breach of their own requirements and that this Service shouldnt depart from statute. 
Westerby has also previously submitted that part of the regulatory publications weve 
referred to also appear to directly contradict the intention of legislation.
Ive carefully considered Westerbys submissions, and the contents of s20 and s27 of the 
FSMA. But, to be clear, with regards to the contents of s20, its not my role to determine 
whether an offence has occurred or if theres something that gives rise to a right to take legal 
action and Im not making a finding here on whether Mr Es application is void or 
unenforceable. Rather, Im making a decision on whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case  and for all the reasons Ive set out above Im satisfied that the 
Principles and the publications listed above are relevant considerations to that decision.In determining this complaint, I need to consider whether, in accepting Mr Es SIPP 
application from Abana, Westerby complied with its regulatory obligations: to act with due 
skill, care and diligence; to take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs 
responsibly and effectively; to pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly; and to act honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to the 
Principles and the publications listed above to provide an indication of what Westerby could 
have done to comply with its regulatory obligations and duties.
 
In this case, the business Westerby was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. Im satisfied 
that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include deciding 
whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of business. The 
regulators reports and guidance provided some examples of good practice observed by the 
FSA and FCA during its work with SIPP operators. This included confirming, both initially 
and on an ongoing basis, that introducers that advise clients have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice theyre providing. 
So taking account of the factual context of this case, its my view that in order for Westerby 
to meet its regulatory obligations, (under the Principles and COBS 2.1.1R), it should have 
undertaken sufficient due diligence checks to ensure Abana had the required permissions to 
give advice on and make arrangements in relation to personal pensions in the UK before 
accepting Mr Es business from it. 
Westerby says it carried out due diligence on Abana before accepting business from it. And 
from what Ive seen I accept that it undertook some checks. However, the question I need to 
consider is whether Westerby ought to have, in compliance with its regulatory obligations, 
identified that Abana didnt in fact have the top-up permissions from the FCA it required to 
be giving advice on, and arranging, personal pensions in the UK. And whether Westerby 
should, therefore, not have accepted Mr Es application from it. 
The regulatory position 
Abana is based in Portugal and is authorised and regulated in Portugal by Autoridade de 
Supervisao de Seguros e Fundos de Pensoes (ASF). As Ive mentioned above, Abana held 
an IMD branch passport from 8 January 2014 to 7 January 2016 and an IMD services 
passport from 12 March 2013 to 29 December 2015. 
Under Article 2 of the Insurance Mediation Directive 2002/92/EC, insurance mediation and 
reinsurance mediation are defined as: 
3. insurance mediation means the activities of introducing, proposing or carrying 
out other work preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of insurance, or of 
concluding such contracts, or of assisting in the administration and performance of 
such contracts, in particular in the event of a claim.

4. reinsurance mediation means the activities of introducing, proposing or carrying 
out other work preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of reinsurance, or of 
concluding such contracts, or of assisting in the administration and performance of 
such contracts, in particular in the event of a claim. 
In the FSAs consultation paper 201, entitled Implementation of the Insurance Mediation 
Directive for Long-term insurance business its stated (on page 7): 
We are implementing the IMD for general insurance and pure protection business 
from January 2005 (when they will require authorisation).Unlike general insurance and pure protection policies, the sale of life and pensions 
policies is already regulated. Life and pensions intermediaries must be authorised by 
us and are subject to our regulation.
Chapter 12 of the FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) offers guidance to persons, 
such as Westerby, running personal pension schemes. The guidance in place at the time the 
application was made for Mr Es SIPP confirms that a personal pension scheme, for the 
purpose of regulated activities (PERG 12.2): 
is defined in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 
2001 (the Regulated Activities Order) as any scheme other than an occupational pension 
scheme (OPS) or a stakeholder pension scheme that is to provide benefits for people:
on retirement; or
on reaching a particular age; or
on termination of service in an employment.
It goes on to say:
This will include self-invested personal pension schemes ('SIPPs') as well as 
personal pensions provided to consumers by product companies such as insurers, 
unit trust managers, contractual scheme managers or deposit takers (including free-
standing voluntary contribution schemes).
So, under the Regulated Activities Order, a SIPP is a personal pension scheme. Article 82 of 
the Regulated Activities Order (Part III Specified Investments) provides that rights under a 
personal pension scheme are a specified investment.
 
Westerby itself had regulatory permission to establish and operate personal pension 
schemes  a regulated activity under Article 52 of the Regulated Activities Order. It didnt 
have permission to carry on the separate activity under Article 10 of effecting and carrying 
out insurance.
At the time of Mr Es application, SUP App 3 of the FCA Handbook set out Guidance on 
passporting issues and SUP App 3.9.7G provided the following table of permissible 
activities under Article 2(3) of the Insurance Mediation Directive in terms of the attendant 
Regulated Activities Order Article number: 
Table 2B: Insurance Mediation Directive 2 Activities 
2 Part II RAO 
Activities Part III RAO 
Investments 
1.Introducing, proposing or carrying out other work 
preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of 
insurance.Articles 25, 53 
and 64Articles 75, 89 
(see Note 1)
2.Concluding contracts of insurance Articles 21, 25, 
53 and 64Articles 75, 89
3.Assisting in the administration and performance of 
contracts of insurance, in particular in the event of a 
claim.Articles 39A, 64 Articles 75, 89
I note this shows Article 82 investments arent covered by the Insurance Mediation Directive. The guidance in SUP 13A.1.2G of the FCA Handbook at the time of Mr Es application for 
the SIPP explains that an EEA firm wishing to carry on activities in the UK which are outside 
the scope of its EEA rights (i.e. its passporting rights) will require a top-up permission 
under Part 4A of the Act (the Act being the FSMA). In other words, it needs top-up 
permissions from the regulator to carry on regulated activities which arent covered by its 
IMD passport rights.
The relevant rules regarding top-up permissions could be found at SUP 13A.7. SUP 
13A.7.1G states (as at November 2013): 
If a person established in the EEA: 
(1) does not have an EEA right; 
(2) does not have permission as a UCITS qualifier; and
(3) does not have, or does not wish to exercise, a Treaty right (see SUP 13A.3.4 G 
to SUP 13A.3.11 G);
to carry on a particular regulated activity in the United Kingdom, it must seek Part 
4A permission from the appropriate UK regulator to do so (see the appropriate 
UK regulator's website: http://www.fca.org.uk/firms/about-authorisation/getting-
authorised for the FCA and www.bankofengland.co.uk/pra/Pages/authorisations 
/newfirm/default.aspx for the PRA). This might arise if the activity itself is outside 
the scope of the Single Market Directives, or where the activity is included in the 
scope of a Single Market Directive but is not covered by the EEA firm's Home 
State authorisation. If a person also qualifies for authorisation under Schedules 3, 
4 or 5 to the Act as a result of its other activities, the Part 4A permission is 
referred to in the Handbook as a top-up permission.
In the glossary section of the FCA Handbook EEA authorisation is defined (as at November 
2013) as: 
(in accordance with paragraph 6 of Schedule 3 to the Act (EEA Passport Rights)):
(a) in relation to an IMD insurance intermediary or an IMD reinsurance 
intermediary, registration with its Home State regulator under article 3 of the 
Insurance Mediation Directive;
(b) in relation to any other EEA firm, authorisation granted to an EEA firm by 
its Home State regulator for the purpose of the relevant Single Market 
Directive or the auction regulation
The guidance at SUP App 3 of the FCA Handbook (which Ive set out above) was readily 
available in 2013 and clearly illustrated that EEA-authorised firms may only carry out 
specified regulated activities in the UK if they have the relevant EEA passport rights. 
In this case the regulated activities in question didnt fall under IMD passporting, and they 
required FCA permission for Abana to conduct them in the UK. Westerby, acting in 
accordance with its own regulatory obligations, should have ensured it understood the 
relevant rules, guidance and legislation Ive referred to above, (or sought advice on this, to 
ensure it could gain the proper understanding), when considering whether to accept 
business from Abana, which was an EEA firm passporting into the UK. It should therefore 
have known  or have checked and discovered  that a business based in Portugal that was 
EEA-authorised needed to have top-up permissions to give advice and make arrangements in relation to personal pensions in the UK. And that top-up permissions had 
to be granted by the UK regulator, the FCA.
In my view, its fair and reasonable to conclude that in the circumstances of this case 
Westerby ought to have understood that Abana required the relevant top-up permissions 
from the FCA in order to carry on the regulated activities it was undertaking. 
Westerbys checks on Abanas permissions
Westerby says it took appropriate steps to conduct due diligence on Abana and it couldnt, 
and shouldnt, reasonably have concluded that Abana didnt have the required top-up 
permissions. Ive carefully considered all of Westerbys submissions on this point. 
The Register
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence, Im still of the view that Id previously set 
out in my provisional decision. As such, and while taking into account all of the submissions 
that have previously been made, Ive largely repeated what Id said about this point in my 
provisional decision.
Im satisfied that, in order to meet its regulatory obligations, Westerby ought to have 
independently checked and verified Abanas permissions before accepting business from it. I 
think its fair and reasonable to expect Westerby to have checked the Register entry for 
Abana in the circumstances. And I think its fair and reasonable to say that the checks 
Westerby ought to have conducted on Abanas Register entry should have included a review 
of all the relevant information available.  
Westerby says it checked Abanas entry on the Register. So, I think its clear that Westerby 
thought it should check the Register, rather than simply asking Abana what permissions it 
had and then merely relying on what Abana said. 
Westerby says that, at the time of Mr Es SIPP application, there wasnt information available 
or accessible on the FCA Register that would have shown Abanas permissions position. It 
says that screenshots show that the Register at that time didnt include a Passports 
section, or make any mention of any restrictions on Abana's permissions. Westerby also 
believes that the FCA would have been unable to confirm Abanas permissions if asked, as 
this information wasnt available on the then Register. 
Ive carefully considered everything Westerbys said about the format of the Register in or 
around 2013, when Mr Es application was submitted by Abana. 
Westerby has previously submitted that:
WTS [Westerby] searched Abana on the Financial Services register on 10 May 2013 
and established that they were EEA authorised. Please refer to the enclosed copy 
screenshot of the search dated 10 May 2013. This shows that the search results did 
not include a Passports section, or any mention in the notices or other 
information sections of any restrictions on Abanas permission, which would be 
usual if there had been any restriction. Whilst WTS accept that a present day search 
includes a Passports section, they dispute that a search in May 2013 did, as 
illustrated by the enclosed screenshot. Acting reasonably, WTS could not have found 
details of the passport permission from a search of the Financial Services register at 
that time. 
The following print out from the Register was provided to us: The third-party report on the Register, provided by Westerby during the investigation of the 
complaint which was the subject of the published decision, is helpful to discussions about 
the format of the Register at the time of Mr Es SIPP application. The report included the 
following screenshot of the archived Register for Abana (dated 24 July 2013):
Each of the red titles at the top of the entry for Abana (Regulators, Basic details, Contact for 
complaints, Disciplinary History and so on) is a hyperlink to another page of Abanas entry 
on the Register. So, this screenshot shows that Abanas 2013 entry on the Register would 
have included, amongst other things, both Permission and Passports pages. And its 
reasonable to conclude from the above screenshot that the format of the Register, in or 
around the time Mr Es SIPP application was submitted to Westerby in 2013, included pages 
which provided information in relation to both a firms passport details and in relation to a 
firms permissions. 
Elsewhere in the third-party report it says theres no evidence that in 2013 the Register 
contained any Permissions data relating to Abana that could have been searched by 
Westerby. The report refers to paragraph 24 as forming the basis for this conclusion. 
Ive carefully reviewed the third-party report. Paragraph 24 only confirms that if the hyperlink 
to the Permission page is clicked, theres no archive of that specific Permission page. In 
my view, the fact this hyperlink yielded nothing when clicked just speaks to the limitations of 
the internet archive in question. So, I dont think paragraph 24 shows that no Permission 
page for Abana existed in 2013. However, I do think that evidence provided elsewhere in the 
third-party report strongly suggests a Permission page did exist for Abana.   
Only the Regulators page has been archived for Abanas entry on the Register from 2013. 
But the third-party report provides examples of several Permission pages for other firms 
which were archived, dating from around the time of Mr Es SIPP application or earlier. The 
below example, dating from 2012, and relating to a Cypriot firm which, like Abana, was an 
incoming EEA firm, is particularly helpful:
 
This shows that the Permission page for this incoming EEA firm did exist in 2012, and that 
it showed No matches found. This is strong evidence that the format of the Register for 
EEA firms did include a page with information on a firms permissions, even if all it recorded 
was that no matches are found, (i.e. it had no permissions from the FCA).  
The third-party report also includes a screenshot of a 2013 Permission page for a UK firm 
which ceased to be authorised in 2008 (which also shows No matches found), and a page 
for a UK firm which was authorised and held FCA permissions at the relevant time, which 
shows the firms permissions set out in detail. 
Im satisfied that all of this information taken together demonstrates that, when Mr Es 
application was received by Westerby, the format of the FCA Register contained a page 
labelled Permission where a firms permissions would be set out on the Register. And, 
where a firm didnt have any FCA permissions at the time of the search, the Permission 
page on their Register entry would simply state No matches found (as there were no 
permissions to display).  
This is consistent with the information we received from the FCA when we asked it to 
confirm whether top-up permissions appear on the Register, and whether this has changed 
since 2013. In response, the FCA confirmed that top-up permissions do appear on the 
Register under the Permission page, and that it understands the same information was 
available on the Register in 2013. In other words, the FCAs response to our question 
accords with what Ive already said Im satisfied has been demonstrated by the evidence 
thats available in this case. 
Westerby has said, amongst other things, more information should be provided about the 
details of the contact with the FCA. But, Westerby has already been provided with the FCAs 
response to our question. So, Im satisfied that Westerby has had the opportunity to consider 
the response, and that its also had the opportunity to make further submissions to us on this 
point. And Im satisfied that I can fairly determine this complaint now and that Westerby 
doesnt need to be provided with further information on this point.
Further, and as Ive already mentioned above, the FCAs response to our question accords 
with what Ive already said Im satisfied has been demonstrated by the evidence thats 
available in this case. So, my decision on this complaint would still be the same without the 
FCAs response to our question. 
Accordingly, Im satisfied that:
In order to meet its regulatory obligations, Westerby ought to have independently 
checked and verified Abanas permissions before accepting business from it. And its 
fair and reasonable to expect Westerby to have checked the totality of Abanas 
Register entry in the circumstances. 
The format of the Register in 2013 included a Permission page. And it follows that 
the entry for Abana on the Register, at the time of Mr Es application, would have 
included a Permission page which Westerby ought to have checked. 
In previous submissions to us, Westerby seemed to suggest that the Basic details page 
was the totality of the Register entry available for Abana at the relevant time. But, as I 
understand it, Westerby now seems to accept that the Register did include other sections. 
But says that, at the relevant time, these sections didnt contain any further information about 
Abanas passports or permissions.
Westerby has been unable to produce evidence to demonstrate that it did in fact check the 
Permission page for Abana before it accepted Mr Es SIPP application from it. But even if it 
did check the Permission page for Abana at the relevant time, Westerby appears to have 
failed to have kept a record of this check and, unfortunately, the 2013 record of the 
Permission page for Abana hasnt been archived. So, weve no evidence of what specific 
information was available on the Permission page for Abana at the relevant time. 
However, in light of the evidence Ive set out above, Im satisfied that there would have been 
a Permission page available on Abanas Register entry. And, if this page had erroneously 
failed to contain any information on whether or not Abana held the relevant permissions, (for 
example, if the Permission page had erroneously been left blank), Westerby ought to have 
taken further steps to ascertain what the correct position was. So, I dont agree with 
Westerbys submission that information about a firms permissions wasnt available for an 
online user in 2013. And, in my view, the third-party report submitted by Westerby 
demonstrates the contrary to be the correct position.
Westerby has previously referred to a Complaints Commissioners report that highlights 
some issues with the Register. I appreciate that there have been criticisms of the Register 
and that it may, on occasion, have contained errors. However, Im satisfied that a regulated 
market participant such as Westerby, acting in accordance with its regulatory obligations, 
ought to have understood that Abana needed permission from the FCA to give advice on 
and make arrangements for personal pensions in the UK. Therefore, before accepting 
business from Abana, Westerby needed to confirm that Abana held the required 
permissions. And, for the reasons Ive detailed above, Im satisfied that Abanas entry on the 
Register at the relevant time would have included a Permission page. And, if this page 
hadnt set out any information (for example, if the Permission page had erroneously been left blank) Westerby, in accordance with its regulatory obligations, shouldnt have accepted 
Mr Es application from Abana before carrying out further enquiries to clarify the correct 
position on Abanas permissions.    
Westerby says that the FCA wont confirm details about a firm that arent available on its 
public register, I accept that. However, and for all the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied 
that top-up permissions are something that are recorded on the FCAs public register, and 
that this was also the case at the date Westerby accepted Mr Es application from Abana.
Westerby says that Abana not holding the relevant permissions wouldnt have been a matter 
of public record. Further, that the FCA could only confirm what was on the Register, not what 
was missing from it and that the FCA would have been unable to provide any more 
information than that which was provided on the Register.
As Ive mentioned above, we dont have evidence of exactly what did appear on Abanas 
Permission page in 2013. However, this was information that ought to have been publicly 
available on the Register, so Im satisfied that whether Abana had top-up permissions was 
a matter of public record. And, if the Permission page had erroneously been left blank, I 
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that, if asked, the FCA would have been able to 
confirm the position that Abana didnt have the required permissions. 
So, I think contacting the FCA was a sensible and proper route open to Westerby to verify 
Abanas permissions before accepting business from it. And if Westerby had contacted the 
FCA directly to confirm Abanas permissions because the Register didnt contain the relevant 
details, I dont think the restriction Westerby has referred to regarding what the FCA could 
confirm would have prevented Westerby getting the information it needed. Abana didnt have 
any top-up permissions. That was a matter of public record. So, I think the FCA would have 
been able to confirm this to Westerby. 
To be clear, even if there was an issue with Abanas Register entry, or if Im wrong in my 
finding that Abanas entry on the Register at the relevant time included a Permission page, 
(and the Basic details page was the totality of the Register entry for Abana in 2013), I dont 
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that it was appropriate  or in accordance with its 
regulatory obligations  for Westerby to have proceeded with Mr Es application from Abana 
in those circumstances. 
Westerby ought to have independently checked and verified Abanas permissions before 
accepting business from it. And if there was no information available or accessible on the 
Register at the relevant time to reveal the permissions position of Abana, then Westerby 
ought to have either found another way to verify Abanas permissions, or it ought to have 
declined to accept any applications from Abana until it could verify the correct position on 
Abanas permissions. 
And if Westerby was simply unable to independently verify Abanas permissions  a position 
that I think is very unlikely given the available evidence  I think its fair and reasonable to 
say that Westerby should have then concluded that it was unsafe to proceed with accepting 
business from Abana in those circumstances. In my opinion, it wasnt reasonable, and it 
wasnt in-line with Westerbys regulatory obligations, for it to proceed with accepting 
business from Abana if the position wasnt clear. 
So, to summarise, Im satisfied that:
It wasnt fair and reasonable for Westerby to proceed to accept business from Abana 
if, as Westerby says, it was unable to establish what permissions Abana held. In that case Westerby should have sought confirmation from the FCA as to whether 
Abana held any top-up permissions. And, as Im satisfied this would have been a 
matter of public record, I think the FCA would have been able to confirm whether 
Abana held any permissions. 
Alternatively, if it was unable to independently verify Abanas permissions, Westerby 
should simply have declined to accept business from Abana. 
Could Westerby have relied on what Abana told it? 
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence, Im still of the view that Id previously set 
out in my provisional decision. As such, and while taking into account all of the submissions 
that have previously been made, Ive largely repeated what Id said about this point in my 
provisional decision.
Westerby says that it agreed Terms of Business with Abana (the Agreement) and, in 
signing the Agreement, Abana confirmed it held the permissions it required. 
Westerby has referred to meetings that took place between it and Abana. It says Abana 
confirmed its permissions in these meetings. And that, as Abana was an authorised firm, it 
was entitled to rely on what Abana had told it.
Westerby has also previously referred to the FCAs Thematic Review TR16/1, and to Gen 4 
Annex 1 of the FCA Handbook. These set out respectively that: firms can rely on factual 
information provided by other EEA-regulated firms as part of their due diligence process 
(TR/16/1, Para 5), and the statutory status disclosure incoming EEA firms are required to 
make. 
COBS 2.4.6R (2) provides a general rule about reliance on others: 
(2) A firm will be taken to be in compliance with any rule in this sourcebook that 
requires it to obtain information to the extent it can show it was reasonable for it to 
rely on information provided to it in writing by another person. 
And COBS 2.4.8 G says: 
It will generally be reasonable (in accordance with COBS 2.4.6R (2)) for a firm to 
rely on information provided to it in writing by an unconnected authorised person or 
a professional firm, unless it is aware or ought reasonably to be aware of any fact 
that would give reasonable grounds to question the accuracy of that information.
So, it would generally be reasonable for Westerby to rely on information provided to it in 
writing by Abana, unless Westerby was aware or ought reasonably to have been aware of 
any fact that would give reasonable grounds to question the accuracy of the information. 
Westerby, in previous submissions, has confirmed that it kept no records of the discussions 
it had with Abana during the meetings its referred to, nor did Westerby record in writing 
specifically what Abana told it about the permissions it held. Westerby has said that SIPP 
operators arent required to meet with introducing IFAs before accepting business from them 
and, as such, it didnt have formal records of the discussions it had with Abana. 
However, Westerby now seeks to rely on these meetings to evidence that it did take steps to 
ascertain Abanas permissions and that Abana had confirmed to Westerby that it had the 
required top-up permissions. In my opinion, if these meetings were the way Westerby was 
intending to evidence Abanas permissions, in order to comply with its regulatory obligations, 
in particular Principle 2, (to conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence), and Principle 3, (to take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and 
effectively), Westerby should have had processes in place to ensure that it was able to 
evidence the due diligence it had carried out on Abana, including the steps taken to confirm 
Abanas permissions. 
Further, I dont think any meetings Westerby had with Abana amounts to Abana providing 
something in writing on which it may have been reasonable for Westerby to rely, as it was a 
verbal exchange only and there appears to be nothing in writing arising from these meetings. 
The corollary of this is that I dont therefore think COBS 2.4.6R (2) applies to the meetings. 
Westerby says that the meetings it had with Abana culminated with Westerby establishing a 
legal document  the Agreement  in which Abana warranted that it had the required 
permissions to introduce SIPPs business. 
Ive noted what Westerbys said about the Written Agreement. And Ive reviewed the 
contents of the Terms of Business Agreement of a different SIPP provider that Westerby has 
provided to us.
Having carefully considered everything, its my view that the Agreement appears to be a 
generic document and not specific to Abana. It doesnt refer to, nor require either party to 
confirm or warrant the accuracy of information supplied during a prior due diligence process 
(i.e. the meetings at which Westerby claims Abana gave verbal assurances as to its 
permissions). 
The Agreement provides as follows: 
The Intermediary warrants that he/she is suitably authorised by the Financial 
Services Authority in relation to the sale of the SIPP, and advice on underlying 
investments where appropriate, and will maintain all authorisations, permissions, 
authorities, licences and skills necessary for it to carry out its activities under this 
contract and will in all aspects comply with all Applicable Laws. 
In my view this doesnt amount to a clear statement that Abana had the required top-up 
permissions for it to advise on and arrange personal pensions in the UK that Westerby would 
be entitled to rely on. 
In addition, the activity of advising on rights under personal pension schemes isnt 
mentioned; rather, the authorisation is said to relate to the sale of the SIPP which I think is  
an ambiguous term in this document. And, the warranty that he/she is suitably authorised is 
generic and doesnt refer specifically to top-up permissions being required and Abana 
warranting that it has top-up permissions to conduct personal pensions business in the UK.  
After carefully considering the terms of the Agreement, and all the submissions Westerby 
made in relation to what it says Abana told it about the permissions held, Im not satisfied on 
the evidence provided that Westerby did establish what top-up permissions Abana required 
to be arranging and giving advice on personal pensions in the UK and that it requested, and 
received, confirmation from Abana that it held those permissions. Im also not satisfied, for 
the reasons given above, that Westerby met its regulatory obligations in seeking to rely on 
the terms of the Agreement to conclude that Abana warranted it had the required top-up 
permissions. 
In any event, its my view that Westerby should have done more to independently verify that 
Abana had the required top-up permissions. If Westerby had carried out independent 
checks on Abanas permissions as required by its regulatory obligations, it ought to have 
been privy to information which didnt reconcile with what Abana had told it about its permissions. So, in failing to take this step, I think its fair and reasonable to conclude that 
Westerby didnt do enough in order to establish whether or not Abana did have the 
permissions it required.   
So, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think COBS 2.4.6R (2) applies to either the 
meetings Westerby had with Abana or the Agreement the parties entered into. However, Ive 
also given careful thought to whether it was reasonable for Westerby to rely on these things 
generally. Westerby has referred, in previous submissions, to the FCAs Thematic Review 
TR16/1 and to Gen 4 Annex 1 of the FCA Handbook, and Ive considered this question with 
those details in mind. However, Im not satisfied there was any other basis on which it was 
reasonable for Westerby to rely on the meetings and Agreement, and for much the same 
reasons as Ive given above in relation to COBS 2.4.6R (2). 
As the 2009 Thematic Review report makes clear, good practice, consistent with a SIPP 
operators regulatory obligations under the Principles, included: 
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they 
do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
The 2009 report also makes it clear that a SIPP operator should have systems and controls 
which adequately safeguarded their clients interests. So, it was good practice to confirm a 
firm had the appropriate permissions and to do so in a way which adequately safeguarded 
their clients interests. And I dont think simply asking the firm if it had the permissions or 
requiring it to sign something providing this confirmation was sufficient to meet this standard 
of good practice. This is a view Westerby itself appears to have shared at the time. Its told 
us it checked the Register at the point that it received Mr E's SIPP application. Its also told 
us its procedure was to check the Register every time a SIPP application is received from an 
introducer, and every time adviser fees are paid from the SIPP. It says that, in its view, this 
demonstrates good practice, as per the FSAs 2009 Thematic Review Report. And thats a 
view I share. 
So Westerby shouldnt have  and didnt  rely solely on the Agreement. And, as mentioned 
above, for all the reasons Ive given, I think Westerbys check of the Register ought to have 
led to the conclusion that Abana didnt have the required top-up permissions (i.e. if the 
information on Abanas Permission page had been correctly recorded), or in the alternative, 
that the Register didnt record the information on Abanas Permission page in order for 
Westerby to confirm the position one way or the other (for example, if the Permission page 
had erroneously been left blank).
This means that either Westerby ought to have become aware of information which didnt 
reconcile with what Abana had told it about its permissions in the meetings and the 
Agreement, or that it was still under a regulatory obligation to undertake further enquiries to 
independently check Abanas permissions, and by failing to do so, it didnt meet the 
requirements it was under as a regulated SIPP operator.
Anomalous features 
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence, Im still of the view that Id previously set 
out in my provisional decision. As such, and while taking into account all of the submissions 
that have previously been made, Ive largely repeated what Id said about this point in my 
provisional decision.In my view, Westerby ought to have identified a risk of consumer detriment here. Mr E was 
taking advice on his pension from a business based in Portugal. That advice was to transfer 
the monies from his existing personal pension plan into a SIPP, and then to send the 
majority of the money transferred into the SIPP to investments based in Mauritius (with one 
later moving to the Cayman Islands). The investments involved were unusual, and 
specialised. And the chances of them being suitable investments for a significant portion of a 
retail investors pension were very small. So, given the relevant factors, Westerby ought to 
have viewed the application from Mr E as carrying a significant risk of consumer detriment. 
And it should have been aware that the role of the adviser was likely to be a very important 
one in the circumstances  emphasising the need for adequate due diligence to be carried 
out on Abana to independently ensure it had the correct permissions to be giving advice on 
personal pensions in the UK.  
I dont expect Westerby to have assessed the suitability of such a course of action for Mr E  
and I accept it couldnt do that. But, in order to meet the obligations set by the Principles 
(and COBS 2.1.1R), I think it ought to have recognised this as an unusual proposition, which 
carried a significant risk of consumer detriment. So, it ought to have taken particular care in 
its due diligence  it had to do so to treat Mr E fairly and act in his best interests. 
In any event, regardless of the points Ive made above about anomalous features of the 
proposed business, Im of the view that Westerby ought to have properly checked Abanas 
permissions in order to comply with its regulatory obligations. I make the above point only to 
highlight the importance of carrying out this check. 
Further points
Westerby has previously said its contrary to European Union law to discriminate against a 
firm on the basis of the EEA country in which its been established. However, in my view, 
carrying out adequate checks on Abanas permissions doesnt equate to treating Abana 
differently by virtue of its location. Westerby should have carried out these checks on any 
firm introducing advised business to it. 
Westerby has said it provided quarterly Product Sales Data reports to the regulator, and that 
the regulator never expressed any concerns about it accepting business from Abana. Ive 
seen no evidence to suggest that at the time Westerby accepted Mr Es application from 
Abana, a factor in its decision to do so was that it had been reporting the previous business 
it had been doing with Abana to the regulator, and that the regulator hadnt raised any 
concerns with it about this business. In any event, Im of the view that this is irrelevant, 
because if Westerby had acted in compliance with its regulatory obligations, it wouldnt have 
accepted business from Abana at all and Abana would therefore not have featured in its 
reporting to the regulator. 
Westerby has previously said that its able to accept applications from non-regulated 
introducers. But there seems to be no basis on which Mr Es application could, or would, 
have proceeded on the understanding Abana was an unregulated introducer. Westerby 
seems to have understood from the outset that Abana wasnt simply an introducer of 
investments to its customers. It was carrying on the regulated activities of advising and 
arranging. It seems that in any event, Westerby had a policy not to accept introductions from 
unregulated businesses. So, in the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
make any findings based on the fact that Westerby was able to accept introductions from 
unregulated businesses, as that was not the circumstances involved in this case.
I appreciate that theres an argument that if it had been identified that Abana didnt have the 
required top-up permissions, Abana might have applied for, and been granted, the relevant 
top-up permissions. However, I find no merit in this line of argument. Im required to consider whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case. And in this case, 
Westerby accepted business from a firm which didnt have the required permissions to be 
carrying on the business that it did. And, Westerby failed to identify this fact prior to 
accepting Mr Es application. So, this is what I need to consider here  not a possible 
situation that could have happened.
Westerby has submitted that where complaints have been received by this Service against 
both Abana and Westerby, that we should decide the complaint against Abana before, or at 
the same time as, the complaint against Westerby. Later in this decision, Ive addressed the 
question of whether its fair to ask Westerby to pay Mr E compensation in the circumstances 
of this complaint. But, before going on to address that issue in detail below, and just in case 
theres been a misunderstanding, I wanted to clarify that Mr E previously made a complaint 
about Abana to us, but that case was subsequently closed after Abana had ceased trading. 
And we hadnt issued an opinion or view on the merits of that complaint before then. 
In conclusion 
Westerby ought to have identified that Abana needed top-up permissions to advise on and 
make arrangements for personal pensions in the UK, and taken all the steps available to it to 
independently verify that Abana had the required permissions. 
If Westerby had taken these steps, it would have established Abana didnt have the 
permissions it required to give advice or make arrangements for personal pensions in the 
UK, or that it was unable to confirm whether Abana had the required permissions. 
In either event, it wasnt in accordance with its regulatory obligations nor good industry 
practice for Westerby to proceed to accept business from Abana. 
Additionally, Westerby ought to have considered the anomalous features of this business 
Ive outlined above. These were further factors relevant to Westerbys acceptance of Mr Es 
application which, at the very least, emphasised the need for adequate due diligence to be 
carried out on Abana to independently ensure it had the correct permissions to be giving 
advice on personal pensions in the UK. 
Its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to conclude that none of the points 
Westerby has raised are factors which mitigate its decision to accept Mr Es application from 
Abana.
Im therefore satisfied the fair and reasonable conclusion in this complaint is that Westerby 
shouldnt have accepted Mr Es SIPP application from Abana. 
Due diligence on the underlying investments
In light of my conclusions about Westerbys regulatory obligations to carry out sufficient due 
diligence on introducers, and given my finding that in the circumstances of this complaint 
Westerby failed to comply with these obligations, Ive not considered Westerbys obligations 
under the Principles in respect of carrying out sufficient due diligence on the underlying 
investments. Its my view that had Westerby complied with its obligations under the 
Principles to carry out sufficient due diligence checks on Abana, then this arrangement 
wouldnt have come about in the first place.
Is it fair to ask Westerby to pay Mr E compensation in the circumstances? 
Would the business have still gone ahead if Westerby had refused the application? Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence, Im still of the view that Id previously set 
out in my provisional decision. As such, and while taking into account all of the submissions 
that have previously been made, Ive largely repeated what Id said about this point in my 
provisional decision.
I think its more likely than not that if Westerby had refused to accept Mr Es application from 
Abana and Mr E had received an explanation as to why his application hadnt been accepted 
(as Abana didnt have the necessary top-up permissions it needed to provide such advice, 
or alternatively as Westerby hadnt been able to independently verify that Abana had the 
necessary top-up permissions to provide such advice), Mr E wouldnt have continued to 
accept or act on pensions advice provided by Abana. And I think its very unlikely that advice 
from a business that did have the necessary permissions would have resulted in Mr E taking 
the same course of action. I think its reasonable to say that a business that did have the 
necessary permissions would have given suitable advice. 
I appreciate that Westerby might say that its contract was with Abana not Mr E and that if 
Mr Es application was refused it wouldnt have been at liberty to, or had reason to, contact 
Mr E. But Westerby did receive Mr Es application, so Im considering what it ought to have 
done having received Mr Es application. And for the reasons Ive explained at length above 
Im satisfied that, having received Mr Es application from Abana, it shouldnt then have 
accepted Mr Es SIPP application.
Mr E went through a process with Abana that culminated in him completing paperwork to set 
up a new Westerby SIPP and with the expectancy that monies from his existing pension plan 
would be transferred into the newly established SIPP. Having gone to the time and effort of 
doing this, I think its more likely than not that if the Westerby SIPP wasnt then established, 
and if his pension monies werent then transferred to Westerby, that Mr E would have 
wanted to find out why from Abana and Westerby. 
And I wouldnt think it fair and reasonable to say that Westerby shouldnt compensate Mr E 
for his loss on the basis of any speculation that Abana and/or Westerby wouldnt have 
confirmed to Mr E the reason why the transfer hadnt proceeded if asked by him. 
So, I think its fair to conclude that one or more of the parties involved would have explained 
to Mr E that his application hadnt been accepted as Abana didnt have the necessary top-
up permissions it needed to provide the advice, or alternatively as Westerby hadnt been 
able to independently verify that Abana had the necessary top-up permissions to provide 
the advice. And that Mr E wouldnt then have continued to accept or act on pensions advice 
provided by Abana.
Further, I think its very unlikely that advice from a business that did have the necessary 
permissions would have resulted in Mr E taking the same course of action. I think its 
reasonable to say that a business that did have the necessary permissions would have given 
suitable advice. And if Mr E had sought advice from a different adviser, who was qualified to 
give pension switching advice, I think its more likely than not that the advice would have 
been to retain his existing pension plan. Alternatively, Mr E might have simply decided not to 
seek pensions advice elsewhere from a different adviser and still then retained his existing 
pension plan.
In Adams v Options SIPP, the judge found that Mr Adams would have proceeded with the 
transaction regardless. HHJ Dight says (at paragraph 32):  
The Claimant knew that it was a high risk and speculative investment but 
nevertheless decided to proceed with it, because of the cash incentive.But, in this case, Ive seen no evidence to show Mr E proceeded in the knowledge that the 
investments he was making were high risk and speculative, and that he was determined to 
move forward with the transaction in order to take advantage of a cash incentive offered by 
Abana. Ive not seen any evidence to show Mr E was paid a cash incentive. It therefore 
cannot be said he was incentivised to enter into the transaction. So, in my opinion, this 
case is very different from that of Mr Adams.
Westerby has contended that Mr E would likely have proceeded with the transfer and 
subsequent investments regardless of the actions it took. Its highlighted that other SIPP 
providers were accepting such investments at the time, and says the transactions would 
have been effected with another provider.
Westerby might argue that another SIPP operator would have accepted Mr Es application, 
had it declined it. But I dont think its fair and reasonable to say that Westerby shouldnt 
compensate Mr E for his loss on the basis of speculation that another SIPP operator would 
have made the same mistakes as Ive found it did. I think its fair instead to assume that 
another SIPP provider would have complied with its regulatory obligations and good industry 
practice, and therefore wouldnt have accepted Mr Es application from Abana. 
Further, and in any eventuality, even if another SIPP provider had been willing to accept 
Mr Es application from Abana, that process would still have needed Mr E to be willing to 
continue to do business with Abana after Westerby had rejected his application for another 
application to proceed. And, for the reasons Ive given above, Im not satisfied that Mr E 
would have continued to accept or act on pensions advice from Abana in such 
circumstances. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to conclude that if Westerby had 
refused to accept Mr Es application from Abana, the transaction wouldnt still have gone 
ahead. 
The involvement of Abana
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence, Im still of the view that Id previously set 
out in my provisional decision. As such, and while taking into account all of the submissions 
that have previously been made, Ive largely repeated what Id said about this point in my 
provisional decision.
Westerby has said that a complaint against Abana, ought to have been decided first or, at 
the very least, complaints against it and Abana ought to have been decided together. 
Westerby has also said that weve upheld complaints against Abana where there was 
another SIPP operator involved and that weve not pursued or invited consumers to pursue 
complaints against that other SIPP operator. Ive carefully considered these points but, as I 
explain below, Im satisfied that its fair to require Westerby to compensate Mr E for the full 
measure of his loss.
In this decision Im considering Mr Es complaint about Westerby. While it may be the case 
that Abana gave unsuitable advice to Mr E to transfer the monies from Mr Es existing 
pension plan into a SIPP and make unsuitable investments, Westerby had its own distinct 
set of obligations when considering whether to accept Mr Es application for a SIPP. 
Abana had a responsibility not to conduct regulated business that went beyond the scope of 
its permissions. Westerby wasnt required to ensure Abana complied with that responsibility. 
But Westerby had its own distinct regulatory obligations under the Principles. And this 
included to check that firms introducing advised business to it had the regulatory permissions to be doing so. In my view, Westerby has failed to comply with these obligations 
in this case. 
Im satisfied that if Westerby had carried out sufficient due diligence on Abana, and acted in 
accordance with good practice and its regulatory obligations by independently checking 
Abanas permissions before accepting business from it, Westerby wouldnt have done any 
SIPP business with Abana in the first place. 
Im also satisfied that if Mr E had been told that Abana was acting outside its permissions in 
giving pensions advice, or alternatively that Westerby hadnt been able to independently 
verify that Abana had the necessary top-up permissions to provide such advice, he 
wouldnt have continued to accept or act on advice from it. And, having taken into account all 
the circumstances of this case, its my view that its fair and reasonable to hold Westerby 
responsible for its failure to identify that Abana didnt have the required top-up permissions 
to be giving advice and making arrangements on personal pensions in the UK. 
The DISP rules set out that when an Ombudsmans determination includes a money award, 
then that money award may be such amount as the Ombudsman considers to be fair 
compensation for financial loss, whether or not a court would award compensation (DISP 
3.7.2R). 
As I set out above, in my opinion its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to 
hold Westerby accountable for its own failure to comply with the relevant regulatory 
obligations and to treat Mr E fairly. 
The starting point therefore, is that it would be fair to require Westerby to pay Mr E 
compensation for the loss hes suffered as a result of Westerbys failings. Ive considered 
whether theres any reason why it wouldnt be fair to ask Westerby to compensate Mr E for 
his loss, including if it would be fair to hold another party liable in full or in part. And Im 
satisfied its appropriate and fair in the circumstances for Westerby to compensate Mr E to 
the full extent of the financial losses hes suffered due to its failings. 
I accept that it may be the case that Abana, in advising Mr E to enter into a SIPP, is 
responsible for initiating the course of action that led to Mr Es loss. However, its also the 
case that if Westerby had complied with its own distinct regulatory obligations as a SIPP 
operator, the arrangement for Mr E wouldnt have come about in the first place, and the loss 
he suffered could have been avoided. 
I note Westerby says that after Mr E signed and returned his redemption form in January 
2016, Mr E recovered a total of £98,004.13. And that it has seen correspondence confirming 
that a redress letter was sent to Mr E. But Westerby itself says the indications are that 
Abanas insurers have failed to meet any of the redress offers made by Abana. So while it 
may be that Abana offered Mr E redress, Im not persuaded that redress has in fact been 
paid to Mr E. 
Westerby could have the option to take an assignment of any rights of action Mr E has 
against Abana before compensation is paid (including the right to any future payment Abana 
may make to Mr E as part of the settlement agreed following the third-party review). And the 
compensation could be made contingent upon Mr Es acceptance of this term of settlement. 
Westerby has previously said that as Abanas ceased to trade then any indemnity from 
Abana and/or assignment of any action against it is effectively worthless. 
I accept that may be true. However, the key point here is that but for Westerbys failings, Mr E wouldnt have suffered the loss hes suffered. As a result, the trading/financial position 
of Abana, and the fact that Westerby may not be able to rely on an indemnity from Abana 
and/or the fact that any assignment of any action against Abana from Mr E might be 
worthless, doesnt lead me to change my overall view on this point. And, as such, Im of the 
opinion that its appropriate and fair in the circumstances for Westerby to compensate Mr E 
to the full extent of the financial losses hes suffered due to its failings, and notwithstanding 
any failings by Abana.
Westerby has also highlighted that in a previous decision involving an EEA firm that had 
acted outside its permissions, a different Ombudsman made an apportionment between the 
SIPP provider and the adviser on a 50/50 basis. 
The circumstances and facts of the other complaint Westerby has mentioned appear to be 
very different to Mr Es complaint. And it also looks like the SIPP provider in the other 
complaint had already compensated the consumer for half of their losses before the 
Ombudsman was asked to decide the complaint against the EEA firm.
Importantly, we consider each complaint on its own merits, and the question I have to 
address in this case is whether, in all of the circumstances of this specific complaint, its fair 
to ask Westerby to compensate Mr E to the full extent of the financial losses hes suffered 
due to its failings and, for the reasons Ive already given above, Im satisfied it is. 
I want to make clear that Ive carefully taken everything Westerby has said into 
consideration. And Im of the view that its appropriate and fair in the circumstances for 
Westerby to compensate Mr E to the full extent of the financial losses hes suffered due to 
Westerbys failings. And, taking into account the combination of factors Ive set out above, 
Im not persuaded that it would be appropriate or fair in the circumstances to reduce the 
compensation amount that Westerby is liable to pay to Mr E.    
Mr E taking responsibility for his own investment decisions 
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence, Im still of the view that Id previously set 
out in my provisional decision. As such, and while taking into account all of the submissions 
that have previously been made, Ive largely repeated what Id said about this point in my 
provisional decision.
I note the point has been made by Westerby that consumers should take responsibility for 
their own investment decisions. Ive considered the actions of Mr E in relation to the 
mitigation of loss, in the section below. Beyond that, Im satisfied that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable to say Mr Es actions mean he should bear the loss arising as a result of 
Westerbys failings. 
Mr E took advice from a regulated adviser (albeit one acting outside the permissions it held  
a fact unknown to Mr E) and used the services of a regulated personal pension provider, 
Westerby. And Im satisfied that in the circumstances, for all the reasons given, its fair to say 
Westerby should compensate Mr E for the loss hes suffered. I dont think it would be fair to 
say in the circumstances that Mr E should suffer the loss because he ultimately instructed 
the investments to be made. 
Opportunity to mitigate losses
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence, Im still of the view that Id previously set 
out in my provisional decision. As such, and while taking into account all of the submissions 
that have previously been made, Ive largely repeated what Id said about this point in my 
provisional decision.Westerby says it wrote to Mr E to highlight issues with the funds his SIPP invested in and to 
inform him of an opportunity to realise some of his investment value. It says Mr E had a 
responsibility to take appropriate action to safeguard his funds and so should be responsible 
for the losses hes suffered. 
Ive carefully considered this point but dont think its fair for any reduction to be made to fair 
compensation on the basis of a failure by Mr E to mitigate his loss.
I dont think it would be fair to say Mr E should have made a redemption request when 
Westerby wrote to him in November 2014. The November 2014 letter required Mr E to seek 
advice, and urged him to contact his financial adviser, Abana. Westerby has told us that its 
process was to check an advisory firms permissions every time it received an application to 
open a SIPP, and every time an advisers remuneration was to be paid. Westerby had 
received a number of introductions from Abana before November 2014. So, by the time 
Westerby wrote to Mr E in November 2014, it would have had many opportunities to 
discover that Abana didnt have the top-up permissions it needed to give advice or make 
arrangements on personal pensions in the UK. As such, its my view that for Westerby to 
have suggested that Mr E seek advice from Abana once problems with the funds hed 
invested in had come to light, is a further failing of Westerby in relation to its regulatory 
obligations and the requirement to treat Mr E fairly. 
In its June 2015 letter to Mr E, Westerby had mentioned that Abana clients were being 
moved over to Abana (FS) Ltd  a UK based firm authorised by the FCA. Westerby then 
explained to Mr E in July 2015 that clients were no longer being moved over to Abana (FS) 
Ltd. And said it understood the reason for this was that Abana didnt consider Abana (FS) 
Ltd to be suitably independent to provide advice on Mr Es SIPP. 
Westerby also urged Mr E to have his SIPP reviewed by an IFA with the necessary 
permissions. I think that was a fair and reasonable step to take in the circumstances, which 
goes some way towards correcting Westerbys earlier failure to meet its regulatory 
obligations by referring Mr E back to Abana. 
There was then the letter of 10 September 2015, that explained that trading in the ePortfolio 
Solutions platform had been suspended pending the completion of a buy-out.
Mr E doesnt appear to have taken much action following these letters. In the June 2015 
letter Mr E was told of an investigation into the Kijani Fund, but he was told at the same time 
that hed be getting his money back. And the letter of 10 September 2015 then explained 
that all trading on the ePortfolio Solutions platform had been suspended. So, I dont think it 
fair to say Mr E could, or should, have done anything further at that time. Thats because I 
think following the June 2015 update it was reasonable for Mr E to think he didnt need to do 
anything, and following the September 2015 update it was reasonable for him to conclude he 
couldnt do anything.
And Ive also noted that in the complaint that was the subject of the published decision 
Westerby has confirmed in a letter dated 21 December 2015 that it summarised the situation 
with the Kijani fund to the complainant in that case, in October 2015, as suspended, in 
liquidation. Likely to take a number of years. Unclear as to what will come back.
So, in any eventuality, I also think theres insufficient evidence to show any redemption 
request made in relation to the Kijani fund after Westerbys July 2015 letter would have been 
successful. There was then the December 2015 letter in which it was explained that a suspension on the 
SAMAIF might lift, but I think its fair to consider that by that point there was a lot of 
uncertainty surrounding the status of the fund and it wasnt at all clear what level of loss 
Mr E might be crystallising if he were to sell his investment. 
In the December 2015 letter, Westerby referred to there being liquid funds of about £100,843 
available, but I dont think this was accurate as the majority of this was the SAMAIF holding 
which was suspended, and there was no independent verification of this value. And I see 
Westerby itself noted in its letter there was uncertainty around these funds. So, I dont think 
it fair to say there was (around) £100,843 available to Mr E at this time, or that he ought to 
have concluded that was the case.
And I also think the December 2015 letter is somewhat contradictory as it says the 
suspension of SAMAIF has been lifted but then says that the lift of the suspension is not yet 
active (i.e. its still suspended).  
Nonetheless, Mr E signed and returned his redemption form soon after the December 2015 
letter, in January 2016. And Westerby says that as a result, Mr E recovered a total of 
£98,004.13 - £78,328.88 on 19 May 2016 and £19,675.25 on 9 September 2016. 
Ive seen a copy of a 24 April 2016 update from SAMAIF to investors, this explains that the 
re-structured SAMAIF has (since 22 April 2016) been licensed by the MFSC and suggests 
that work to begin trading is still ongoing. And I note that in June 2016 Westerby stated in a 
letter it sent to us in another complaint that SAMAIF still wasnt trading yet.
All of which suggests SAMAIF was still suspended for quite some time after the 23 
December 2015 letter and its not clear if that suspension was ever lifted. This appears to be 
consistent with what was said in the published decision, in which it was stated that the 
amount paid to the SIPP in that case likely came from another investment rather than the 
Kijani or SAMAIF funds, as both appeared to have been suspended over the relevant period 
in that case.
So, theres insufficient evidence to show a further redemption request submitted after July 
2015 would have been successful, even if Westerby had received a redemption form from 
Mr E at that time. All in all, I think it is fair to take account of the amounts paid to Mr E 
following his January 2016 redemption request, but that no further reduction should be made 
to fair compensation on the basis of a failure by Mr E to mitigate his loss.
fair compensation
Westerby says that responsibility for Mr Es loss should lie with Abana.
As set out above, I accept that it may be the case that Abana, in advising Mr E to enter into a 
SIPP, could be responsible for initiating the course of action that led to Mr Es loss.
However, the complaint against Westerby is the complaint Im considering here. And for the 
reasons Ive set out earlier in this decision, I consider that Westerby has failed to comply 
with its own distinct regulatory obligations under the Principles. Its therefore my view that its 
fair and reasonable for Westerby to compensate Mr E for the full measure of his losses  as 
Westerby could have put a stop to things if it had acted fairly and reasonably by rejecting 
Mr Es application.
I therefore consider that in the circumstances, its fair and reasonable to direct Westerby to 
compensate Mr E to the full extent of his losses.In addition to the financial loss that Mr E has suffered as a result of the problems with his 
pension, I think that the losses suffered to Mr Es pension provision has caused Mr E 
distress and I think that its fair for Westerby to compensate Mr E for this as well.
Putting things right
My aim is to return Mr E to the position he would now be in but for what I consider to be 
Westerbys failure to verify that Abana had the correct permissions to be providing advice on 
pensions in the UK and before accepting Mr Es SIPP application from it.  
As Ive already mentioned above  if Mr E had sought advice from a different adviser, who 
was qualified to give pension switching advice, I think its more likely than not that the advice 
would have been to retain his existing pension plan. I think its unlikely that another adviser, 
acting properly, would have advised Mr E to transfer away from his existing pension plan. 
Alternatively, Mr E might have simply decided not to seek pensions advice elsewhere from a 
different adviser and still then retained his existing pension plan.
In light of the above, Westerby should calculate fair compensation by comparing the current 
position to the position Mr E would be in if he hadnt transferred from his existing pension 
plan. In summary, Westerby should:
1) Obtain the current notional value, as at the date of this decision, of Mr Es 
previous pension plan, if it hadnt been transferred to the SIPP.
2) Obtain the actual current value of Mr Es SIPP, as at the date of this decision, less 
any outstanding charges.
3) Deduct the sum arrived at in step 2) from the sum arrived at in step 1).
4) Pay a commercial value to buy Mr Es share in any investments that cannot 
currently be redeemed.
5) Pay an amount into Mr Es SIPP, so that the transfer value of the SIPP is 
increased by an amount equal to the loss calculated in step 3). This payment 
should take account of any available tax relief and the effect of charges. The 
payment should also take account of interest as set out below.
6) Pay Mr E £500 for the distress and inconvenience the problems with his pension 
have caused him.
Lastly, in order to be fair to Westerby, it should have the option of payment of the redress 
being contingent upon Mr E assigning any claim he may have against Abana to Westerby 
(including the right to any future payment Abana may make to Mr E as part of the settlement 
agreed following the third-party review)  but only in so far as Mr E is compensated here. 
The terms of the assignment should require Westerby to account to Mr E for any amount it 
subsequently recovers against Abana that exceeds the loss paid to Mr E. 
If Westerby elects to take an assignment of rights before paying compensation, it must first 
provide a draft of the assignment to Mr E for his consideration and agreement. Any 
expenses incurred for the drafting of the assignment must be met by Westerby.
Ive explained how Westerby should carry out the calculation, set out in steps 1 - 5 above, in 
further detail below:1) Obtain the current notional value, as at the date of this decision, of Mr Es previous 
pension plan, if it hadnt been transferred to the SIPP.
Westerby should ask the operator of Mr Es previous pension plan to calculate the 
current notional value of Mr Es plan, as at the date of this decision, had he not 
transferred into the SIPP. Westerby must also ask the same operator to make a 
notional allowance in the calculations, so as to allow for any additional sums Mr E 
has contributed to, or withdrawn from, his Westerby SIPP since outset. To be clear 
this doesnt include SIPP charges or fees paid to third parties like an adviser.
Any notional contributions or notional withdrawals to be allowed for in the calculations 
should be deemed to have occurred on the date on which monies were actually 
credited to, or withdrawn from, the Westerby SIPP by Mr E. 
If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation from the operator of 
Mr Es previous pension plan, Westerby should instead calculate a notional valuation 
by ascertaining what the monies transferred away from the plan would now be worth, 
as at the date of this decision, had they achieved a return from the date of transfer 
equivalent to the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index (prior to 1 
March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index).
Im satisfied thats a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have been 
achieved over the period in question. And, again, there should be a notional 
allowance in this calculation for any additional sums Mr E has contributed to, or 
withdrawn from, his Westerby SIPP since outset.
2) Obtain the actual current value of Mr Es SIPP, as at the date of this decision, less 
any outstanding charges. 
This should be the current value as at the date of this decision.
3) Deduct the sum arrived at in step 2) from the sum arrived at in step 1).
The total sum calculated in step 1) minus the sum arrived at in step 2), is the loss to 
Mr Es pension provisions.
4) Pay a commercial value to buy Mr Es share in any investments that cannot 
currently be redeemed.
Im satisfied that Mr Es Westerby SIPP only still exists because of the illiquid 
investments that are held within it. And that but for these investments Mr Es monies 
could have been transferred away from Westerby. In order for the SIPP to be closed 
and further SIPP fees to be prevented, any remaining investments need to be 
removed from the SIPP. 
To do this Westerby should reach an amount its willing to accept as a commercial 
value for the investments, and pay this sum into the SIPP and take ownership of the 
relevant investments.
If Westerby is unwilling or unable to purchase the investments, then the actual value 
of any investments it doesnt purchase should be assumed to be nil for the purposes 
of the redress calculation. To be clear, this would include their being given a nil value 
for the purposes of ascertaining the current value of Mr Es SIPP in step 2).If Westerby doesnt purchase the investments, it may ask Mr E to provide an 
undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive 
from these investments. That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and 
charges on the amount Mr E may receive from the investments, and any eventual 
sums he would be able to access from the SIPP. Westerby will need to meet any 
costs in drawing up the undertaking.
5) Pay an amount into Mr Es SIPP, so that the transfer value of the SIPP is 
increased by an amount equal to the loss calculated in step 3). This payment 
should take account of any available tax relief and the effect of charges. The 
payment should also take account of interest as set out below.
The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax 
relief. Compensation shouldnt be paid into a pension plan if it would conflict with 
any existing protections or allowances.
If Westerby is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Es SIPP, or if doing so 
would give rise to protection or allowance issues, it should instead pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Es actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax in retirement at his selected retirement age. 
Its reasonable to assume that Mr E is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at his 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr E would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
6) Pay Mr E £500 for the distress and inconvenience the problems with his pension 
have caused him. 
In addition to the financial loss that Mr E has suffered as a result of the problems with 
his pension, I think that the loss suffered to Mr Es pension provision has caused Mr 
E distress. And I think that its fair for Westerby to compensate him for this as well.
SIPP fees
If the investments cant be removed from the SIPP, and it hence cannot be closed after 
compensation has been paid, then it wouldnt be fair for Mr E to have to continue to pay 
annual SIPP fees to keep the SIPP open. As such, Westerby should pay an amount into 
Mr Es SIPP equivalent to five years worth of the fees that will be payable on the SIPP 
(based on the most recent years fees). Five years should allow enough time for the issues 
with the investments to be dealt with, and for them to be removed from the SIPP. As an 
alternative to this, Westerby can agree to waive any future fees which might be payable by 
Mr Es SIPP.  Interest
The compensation resulting from this loss assessment must be paid to Mr E or into his SIPP 
within 28 days of the date Westerby receives notification of Mr Es acceptance of my final 
decision. Interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement if the compensation isnt 
paid within 28 days.
My final decision
For the reasons given, its my final decision that this complaint is upheld and that Westerby 
Trustee Services Limited must calculate and pay fair compensation to Mr E as set out 
above.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make an award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. 
If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may recommend that Westerby 
Trustee Services Limited pays the balance.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated as set out above. My decision is that Westerby Trustee Services 
Limited must pay the amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £150,000 
(including distress and/or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest set out 
above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that Westerby Trustee Services Limited pay Mr E the balance plus 
any interest on the balance as set out above.
If the loss does not exceed £150,000, or if Westerby Trustee Services Limited accepts the 
recommendation to pay the full loss as calculated above, Westerby Trustee Services Limited 
should have the option of taking an assignment of Mr Es rights in relation to any claim he 
may have against Abana, and an assignment of the right to any future payment Abana may 
make to Mr E as part of the settlement agreed following the third-party review.
If the loss exceeds £150,000 and Westerby Trustee Services Limited does not accept the 
recommendation to pay the full amount, any assignment of Mr Es rights should allow him to 
retain all rights to the difference between £150,000 and the full loss as calculated above.
If Westerby Trustee Services Limited elects to take an assignment of rights before paying 
compensation, it must first provide a draft of the assignment to Mr E for his consideration 
and agreement. Any expenses incurred for the drafting of the assignment should be met by 
Westerby Trustee Services Limited.The recommendation isnt part of my determination or award Westerby Trustee Services 
Limited doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr E could accept a decision 
and go to court to ask for the balance and Mr E may want to get independent legal advice 
before deciding whether to accept a decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman