DRN-3862705
The complaint
Mr D and Ms M complain about Nationwide Building Society.
They say that Nationwide mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
alongside a loan they took out in 1999. 
What happened
Mr D and Ms M were sold a PPI policy alongside a loan in 1999. The loan was in joint names 
but the policy only covered Mr D.
Mr D and Ms M complained about the PPI policy to Nationwide. It didnt uphold their 
complaint, so they brought their complaint to this Service.
Our Adjudicator looked at their complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld. As Mr D 
and Ms M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr D and Ms Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold their complaint. I know that this will be 
disappointing for Mr D and Ms M, so Ill explain the reasons why.
Nationwide as provided the credit agreement that Mr D and Ms M signed when taking 
out the loan and PPI policy. On this, I can see that the PPI is clearly presented as an 
optional, separate product from the loan itself. So, with this in mind, I think Nationwide 
made Mr D and Ms M aware that they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they 
chose to take it out.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D and Ms M, so it didnt have to check if it 
was right for them. But it did have to provide Mr D and Ms M with enough information for 
them to decide if they thought it was right for them.
Its possible that some of the information provided wasnt as clear as it shouldve been  
but Mr D doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things that the policy 
didnt cover. And although he had sick pay from his employer at the time, the policy 
couldve provided cover on top of this.  
The cost of the policy was shown  including the amount of the premium, the interest 
payable on the premium and the total cost. So, I think Mr D and Ms M would have 
understood how much the PPI would cost if they kept the policy for its full term. 
Given how long the policy could have paid out for, if Mr D made a successful claim, he 
and Ms D couldve got back quite a bit more than they paid for it. 
Had Mr D and Ms M decided to cancel the PPI policy early, they wouldve got back a 
proportionate refund of the PPI policy, meaning that its cancellation terms were not as 
limited as other policies.
Ive taken into account everything that Mr D and Ms M have said, including what they have 
said about not knowing what the insurance was for. But I think that the information provided 
by Nationwide showed what the policy covered  and if Mr D and Ms M didnt understand 
what they were signing for, they couldve asked Nationwide for clarification. So, the points 
they have raised dont change my conclusion. 
Other considerations
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin v 
Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who make the 
rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses to 
follow when theyre looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses will sometimes need 
to give consumers back some of the commission paid on certain PPI policies.
But this only applies to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements 
taken out before then which were still running on 6 April 2008. From the information Ive 
seen, Mr D and Ms Ms credit agreement doesnt fit into these dates - and so Nationwide 
doesnt have to refund any of the commission they paid on the policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman