DRN-2775367
The complaint
Miss P complains Santander UK Plc (Santander) closed her account, and then unfairly 
applied an adverse fraud marker against her.   
Miss P is represented by her mother. Where possible, and to keep things simple, I will refer 
to Miss P in my decision. 
What happened
Around £1,700 was credited into Miss Ps Santander account on 15 November 2019. This 
money was then spent over the next few days through a combination of ATM withdrawals, 
CHIP and PIN; and contactless transactions. 
All the transactions are well known to both parties, so I wont list them in detail here. 
On 18 November 2019, three days after the above funds had come into Miss Ps account, a 
third-party bank  who I will know refer to as Bank A  spoke to Santander. Bank A said a 
second transfer from its customer had been attempted to Miss Ps account. It said that this 
was from the same account as where the £1,700 was sent from. 
Bank A suspected an unauthorised individual had impersonated its customer by having 
transferred funds to Miss Ps Santander account  and then tried to do so again.  
Santander blocked Miss Ps account and called her. Miss P said she did not recognise the 
large transfer that credited her account three days earlier. Santander say the call 
disconnected prematurely. And when it called Miss P back there was no answer. 
Two days later, Santander wrote to Miss P telling her it has been attempting to contact her at 
that it had temporarily blocked Miss Ps account until it can discuss matters with her.  
Miss P called Santander on 25 November 2019 and reiterated she did not recognise the 
large sum that came into her account ten days before. In early December 2019, following a 
review, Santander sent Miss P a letter saying it had decided to close her account with 
immediate effect.   
Santander also loaded a CIFAS fraud marker against Miss P under the category of misuse 
of facility.  Miss P tried to open a new bank account with another bank but was refused. 
Miss P and her representative then complained to Santander. 
In summary, Santander said the following in its final response: 
As its attention was drawn to a potentially fraudulent payment on Miss Ps account, it 
had no alternative to suspend the account until she was able to provide information 
about the source, and her entitlement to the funds 
Based on the information given, Santander decided to withdraw Miss Ps banking 
facilities. Santander had done so in accordance with its terms and conditions 
Organisations will review any information held with fraud prevention agencies, and 
they will make decisions based on their own policies and procedures. Santander has 
no power over any decisions other financial institutions make. 
Unhappy with what Santander said, Miss P referred her complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators then looked into the matter. In short, they found: 
The transactions made on Miss Ps account following the £1,700 being paid in were 
all authenticated. They had seen records which showed the genuine CHIP, card and 
smart-phone payment were read - and the correct PIN entered 
It appears Miss P has authorised - or given someone else consent  to carry out the 
transactions made from her account which dispersed the fraudulent funds. Thats 
because:
- Miss P told this service she had her card in her possession. But said she didnt 
to Santanders branch staff. This questions Miss Ps credibility
- Miss P said no one knew her PIN and she had never lost it. There was also 
quite a gap between when Miss P says she genuinely used her card and PIN. So 
there doesnt seem to be a point of compromise for someone to have seen 
Miss Ps PIN 
- Its unlikely an unknown fraudster would have taken her card and then returned 
it to her without her knowing 
- Santanders records show Miss Ps online account was logged into several 
times between the time the fraudulent funds come in and they were spent. So its 
difficult how she wasnt aware of the activity, and why she didnt do anything to 
prevent it
- After listening to the calls, its most likely Miss P and the person that called 
Bank A impersonating its customer to make a payment, were the same person 
Santander have acted in line with its terms and conditions when deciding to close 
Miss Ps account with immediate effect 
Santander has done enough to show the CIFAS marker was recorded correctly  
Miss P and her representative were unhappy with what our investigator said. They wanted to 
listen to the call our investigator said showed Miss P called Bank A and pretended to be the 
victim to release funds to her Santander account.  
Our investigator did this. Miss P and her representative dont agree this is her and have 
asked for an ombudsman to decide the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint 
Miss P, so Ill explain why. Account restrictions and closure  
Santander has important legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing 
accounts to customers. These obligations are ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an 
account is opened. 
To comply with its obligations Santander may need to review an account and/or restrict its
customers access. If Santander didnt comply with its obligations it could risk serious
sanction. In order to meet these requirements, Santander is entitled to ask a customer for
more information about how they use their account, including payments which are made into
an account. 
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances
for Santander to block Miss Ps account and ask her for information relating to activity on the
account. So, whilst I accept this matter would have caused Miss P inconvenience, I cant say
Santander treated her unfairly when it blocked her account. 
A few weeks after restricting Miss Ps bank account, Santander took the decision to
close it. A bank is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with 
a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the 
terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which Santander and Miss P had to comply with, 
say that it could close the account. The terms go onto explain what those circumstances are, 
and when Santander can close it immediately.
Given the information presented to me by Santander, and other relevant parties; and having
looked at the wording of the applicable terms, I cant say Santander acted unfairly in closing
Miss Ps account with immediate effect. I understand its concern.
So it follows that Im satisfied Santander was entitled to close the account in the way that it
has done.
CIFAS marker 
Ive moved on to consider the loading of the CIFAS marker. 
The marker Santander have filed with CIFAS is intended to record theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. 
In order to file such a marker, Santanders not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt 
that Miss P is guilty of a fraud of financial crime, but they must show there are grounds for 
more than mere suspicion or concern. CIFAS says:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
 
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police. 
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show fraudulent funds have 
entered Miss Ps account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. Secondly, 
Santander will need to have strong evidence to show the consumer was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate 
payment. 
A marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there should be 
enough evidence to show deliberate complicity. So, I need to consider whether Santander 
has enough evidence to meet the standard of proof and load a marker for misuse of facility 
with CIFAS. 
Miss P said she doesnt recognise the large payment that entered her account in 
November 2019 for around £1,700. Having looked at the account records Santander have 
given me, I note these funds where pretty much spent within three days of them entering the 
account. 
As Ive said above, they were spent through a combination of ATM withdrawals, CHIP and 
PIN and contactless transactions. Im satisfied from Santanders technical evidence that 
Miss Ps genuine card and PIN were used to make the transactions. Thats because they 
show the genuine CHIP was read, and where applicable, a PIN number was entered to carry 
out the transactions. Few of the payments were made using a payment facility on a mobile 
phone. 
Miss P has told this service that around the time of the fraudulent funds entering her account 
she tried to withdraw money using her debit card but had problems with this. As a result she 
went into a Santander branch to tell them and a replacement card was ordered. She says 
her mother advised her to cut her previous card into pieces and throw it away. 
I note from Santanders internal records Miss P said she didnt have the card in her 
possession when she went into branch. This sounds discrepant with what shes told this 
service.  But based on what Miss P has told us, and given this is whats been said most 
frequently, Im persuaded the debit card which was used to carry out the transactions was in 
Miss Ps possession. After all, she says her mother told her to go straight to the branch when 
she had problems with the card.   
Miss Ps representative suggests the card may have been cloned. But I think thats highly 
unlikely. Thats because based on what our service has seen, and the industry guidance 
available to us, we have yet to see a complaint where the CHIP on a card has been cloned. 
So Im satisfied Miss Ps genuine card was used. 
Miss P says she hasnt written her PIN down or shared it with anyone other than her mother. 
So because of that, and as the genuine card and PIN were used to make payments that 
dispersed the fraudulent funds, I find it difficult to understand how these payments happened 
without Miss Ps involvement or knowledge. 
And, given the card was in Miss Ps possession, I find it even more unlikely that someone 
unbeknownst to Miss P took her card, carried out all these transactions, and then returned it 
without her knowing. 
Santander have given me screenshots of Miss Ps online login records. Having looked 
through these, I note that there are around thirty logins between the 15 and 
18 November 2019.  As I understand it, some of these also required touch ID to login. 
Miss P has said she completed the mobile logins.
Miss P has said she suspected her account was being hacked. That said, and given the 
online logins, I find it very unusual Miss P would have seen an unexpected large sum enter 
her bank account, and then see it quickly get spent without reporting this with any urgency to 
Santander. It was only when Santander called Miss P that she confirmed she didnt recognise the 
amount. I also find it difficult to understand why Miss P called Santander a week later to 
follow up on the matter and not any sooner given the seriousness of what was happening.  
Miss P says she couldnt have carried out the transactions because they occurred in 
locations that were far away from where she lived. Shes also sent in information she says 
shows she was in college. 
Its not entirely clear if Miss P was in college or work placement, given shes said thats 
where she was when her card wasnt working properly. But I dont think that makes much 
difference to the outcome of this complaint. I say that because somebody else, authorised by 
Miss P, may have carried out these transactions. 
It follows, for the reasons Ive explained above, that Im satisfied Miss P, or someone she 
authorised, carried out the transactions which spent the fraudulent funds.   
Importantly, I know need to consider if Santander has fairly loaded the CIFAS marker to 
Miss P. 
To that end, Im satisfied Santander and Bank A have given me enough information to 
conclude fraudulent funds entered Miss Ps account. Im also satisfied, from what Ive said 
above, that Ive seen strong enough evidence to show Miss P was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment.       
To have reached this finding, I need to be satisfied that the evidence must be clear, relevant 
and rigorous such that the member could confidently report the conduct of the subject to the 
police  and I think it is. 
Miss P will note I havent said anything about the call from Bank A which it says shows she 
was impersonating its customer and attempting to commit fraud. Thats because what Ive 
said above is evidence enough to conclude Santander have fairly loaded the CIFAS marker 
against Miss P. 
That said, and for the sake of completeness, I have listened to both calls. Its possible the 
call with Bank A and the call Ive heard Miss P carry out with our investigator are the same 
person. They sound similar. But I dont need to determine if theyre the same person, as 
there is evidence enough here to conclude Santander acted fairly in loading the CIFAS 
marker against Miss P without having to make that finding. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman