DRN-3788583
The complaint
Mr E has complained about the service received from Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) 
under his home emergency policy.
For the avoidance of doubt, Aviva includes its agents, intermediaries and contractors
What happened
Mr E had experienced on-going leaks with his water and heating system, to include his hot 
water cylinder and a toilet since 2019. Leaks had caused some staining and damage to two 
ceilings below. Avivas engineers carried out various works to these items. Mr E however 
contacted Aviva in 2021 with a detailed account of his complaints and a timeline of events. 
The account stated that Aviva had failed to fix the leaks, missed several appointments, and 
had failed to communicate with him. Mr E also said hed continued to pay large premiums. 
He was therefore seeking an increased compensation payment and a refund of premiums.
Aviva commissioned an experts reports and acknowledged that there had been failings in its 
service. It offered Mr E a cash settlement of just over £640 for repair works to the ceilings 
and £750 in compensation but didnt think that it should be required to refund Mr Es 
premiums. Mr E didnt feel that these sums covered his full losses, including lost income. 
Aviva maintained its position however and Mr E then referred his complaint to our service. 
The relevant investigator upheld Mr Es complaint. He said the service would expect insurers 
to arrange appointments within a reasonable timescale, keep a policy holder informed and 
progress claims in a reasonable manner. It was his view that Aviva hadnt fulfilled these 
expectations. However, he thought that Aviva had acted reasonably in then accepting liability 
for damage and in offering a cash settlement. He said that an excess would be generally 
applicable for each separate event and didnt think it was unreasonable for Aviva to have 
charged excess amounts here. He thought that the compensation offered by Aviva was in 
line with what the service would expect it to pay in such circumstances. He also thought that 
Aviva made it clear to Mr E that he could cancel his policy at any time, and he couldnt 
recommend that Aviva repaid Mr Es premiums in the circumstances.
Mr E remains unhappy with the outcome of his complaint and the matter has been referred 
to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to consider is whether Aviva provided a fair and reasonable service to 
Mr E under his home emergency policy. I dont think that it did so in all respects, I do 
consider however that it subsequently offered a fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Es 
complaint. In the circumstances, whilst I uphold Mr Es complaint, I wont be requiring Aviva 
to do anything other than to ensure payment of the cash settlement sum of just over £640 
and compensation of £750 already offered to Mr E. 
Turning to what the parties have said about the matter, Mr E complained about many 
aspects of the service provided by Aviva. In summary he complained about the following: -
- that there were at least six missed appointments, which had a financial impact as hed 
taken time off work.
- Aviva didnt fix the initial issue with the cylinder pipework which caused on-going damage 
to the ceiling and took eight months to resolve.
- that damage was caused to a second ceiling from another leak. 
- delays due to failure to order parts.
- the lack of response and explanations from Aviva during 2020 and throughout 2021.
- that he should receive premium refunds after staying with Aviva until all was resolved.
- the number of times he was charged an excess for call outs.
- failure to use the landline and not mobile number as requested dozens of times.
Ive seen examples of Mr Es attempts to chase Aviva for responses about the issues he was 
experiencing; I have still had no response to my emails and still have a hole in my celling. 
Can somebody please respond to me asap. From the case notes Ive also noted Mr Es 
frustration as he told Aviva it might feel he was a serial complainer, however he said hed 
had to complain after each job as, quite simply, there had been a problem after each job. Mr 
E explained his personal circumstances and that he worked from home, with 60% of that 
time from the study which was one of the rooms affected. He also explained that hed kept 
his policy open as I was at my wits end with trying to get help and support from [Aviva]. Mr 
E had also been told by the expert that he could have an on-going leak. He considered that 
hed paid large monthly payments for a service that he didnt receive.
As to the policy excess on each claim, Mr E didnt see why he should have to pay an excess 
amount on an incorrect repair which then caused damage. As to continuing to pay premiums 
while the issue was ongoing, Mr E was sure that Avivas agent had agreed that keeping his 
policy open was the best course and the agent wanted to resolve issue rather than for Mr E 
to cancel the policy. He said To be honest I don't care whether he said that or not my 
reasons for keeping the policy open are stated as above As hed failed on several 
occasions to get anyone from Aviva to respond, he didnt consider that cancellation would be 
easy in any event. He since regretted keeping the policy open. Mr E felt that Aviva only 
responded once this Service became involved.
Aviva set out an account of its involvement in its final response letter of February 2022. It 
went back to events in 2019 when two issues were reported, including a leaking toilet bowl 
and a hot water cylinder issue. It replaced the cylinder pump in September 2019. Issues 
reoccurred however in June 2020 and Aviva ordered and fitted new cylinder parts. In July 
2020 Mr E reported another toilet leak and this time Aviva fitted a new flush. In August 2020, 
an Aviva engineer attended following a report of a further leak in the airing cupboard. He 
found no fault and asked Mr E to monitor this. It said that it instructed experts following Mr 
Es initial complaint in 2020 and recognised that there may have been an intermittent leak 
connected with the cylinder. It said that an engineer attended and found an issue with the 
discharge pipe from the hot water cylinder. Three weeks later, an engineer again visited. 
There was no leak, however he changed two valves as a precaution. Two weeks later Mr E 
contacted Aviva for a further appointment, but Aviva failed to book this in and two days later, 
Mr E informed Aviva that a separate insurer had attended and resolved the issue. In 
February 2021, Avivas engineer attended and reported that the parts Aviva had fitted the 
previous year had failed due to faulty parts, so new parts were fitted.
In November 2021, Aviva didnt at that stage agree it was liable for damage caused to the 
ceiling as its plumbers had found no evidence of a leak on two visits following the repair 
completed in June 2020. It said that the repair that was carried out hadnt been found to be defective or faulty. It did add however, that Mr E should get back in touch if Mr E found that 
the leak reoccurred or the damp stain got bigger. It said Alternatively, if you feel we have 
misdiagnosed and there is a leak from the cylinder, please contact your own plumber and 
send me a copy of their report and invoice If they are able to locate a leak I will be happy 
to assess this with a view to a reimbursement and I may be able to reassess my complaint 
outcome. It had accepted fault as regards the missed appointment in November 2020 and 
lack of communication and offered £85 compensation for this.
By 2022 and following the commission of a second expert report, Aviva said that the details 
of the complaints were not in dispute and it apologised to Mr E. It also acknowledged that it 
had closed Mr Es complaints at the end of 2020 in error and said this resulted in no 
communication from ourselves to discuss the issues raised. It accepted liability for damage 
caused to Mr E's ceiling and offered a cash settlement amount to rectify the damage caused. 
It accepted that it had taken some time to resolve the complaints and failed to respond to 
Mr E when he attempted to contact Aviva regarding the damage. Therefore, it also offered 
£750 compensation for the overall distress and inconvenience and the delays caused in 
dealing with the complaint. 
As to the expert reports, the first commissioned in October 2020 related to the work carried 
out by Aviva in July 2020. The damage in the downstairs cloakroom at this stage was 
referred to as light staining to the ceiling and coving . The report noted that It is worth 
noting in our opinion there is still an ongoing issue within the airing cupboard as the 
plasterboard below is soaking wet. If there wasnt an ongoing leak this would dry very quickly 
with the heat from the tank and the heating downstairs. The report also noted that The 
customer had a bowl underneath here, this may have overflowed again after the leak was 
caused. Following Mr Es complaint, Aviva again commissioned experts in January 2022. It 
provided a further detailed analysis and noted that a stain had appeared on the lounge, 
kitchen and study ceilings, the kitchen ceiling having been damaged from a bathroom leak.
As to excess payments, Aviva said there had been two, one when it replaced the faulty 
pump and re-wired the cylinder and one when the overflow issue in the airing cupboard was 
reported nine months later. An additional excess payment charged in July 2020 was 
refunded in July 2020 as no issue had been found by Avivas engineer. As to Mr Es request 
for a refund, Aviva noted that Mr E had indicated that he wished to cancel but said that he 
felt he had a better chance of the matter being resolved as a customer rather than as a non-
customer and he was persuaded to keep the policy going. It also said that its letter of 
November 2020 had informed Mr E to let it know if he wished to cancel. It considered that it 
had been Mr Es independent decision to continue with the policy in the circumstances.
Ive carefully considered all the available documentary evidence to include case notes, 
reports and photographic evidence. Ive also carefully noted both the submissions of Mr E 
and Aviva. Whilst I have considerable sympathy for what Mr E has been through, I have to 
consider whether Aviva has now responded in a fair and reasonable way due to its central 
role in the difficulties which Mr E faced.
Water leaks in themselves can cause considerable stress and inconvenience and often 
cause consequential damage as in this case. Here, Mr Es property suffered various water 
leak issues, and this clearly involved disruption, some of which is to be expected, some of 
which should not be expected. Its inevitable that some disruption is caused to the 
policyholder in contacting and liaising with an insurance company and its engineers. Its also 
inevitable that disruption is caused by engineers visiting, diagnosing, ordering parts and then 
fixing the problem. What we dont consider to be reasonable is a series of failed repairs, 
missed appointments, failure of communication and a generally poor service. Here, the 
service which Aviva provided was poor and Aviva has accepted this to be the case.I note that Aviva has said that one of the repairs was hard to get to due to limited space in 
which to work. Its accepted that some repairs are more complicated than others and the 
judgment as to whether an insurer had acted fairly and reasonably would take into account 
such factors. I havent seen any report produced by a plumber instructed by Mr E and I note 
that Aviva had advised Mr E in November 2020:- Alternatively, if you feel we have 
misdiagnosed and there is a leak from the cylinder, please contact your own plumber and 
send me a copy of their report and invoice If they are able to locate a leak I will be happy 
to assess this with a view to a reimbursement and I may be able to reassess my complaint 
outcome. Nevertheless, its most unfortunate that it took so long for Aviva to accept Mr Es 
concerns that the water leak was on-going and that it took so long to resolve.
Its not clear from the evidence whether the on-going issues have since been traced and fully 
repaired and if so by whom and at what cost. There is no expert evidence available to 
confirm this point. Nevertheless, Aviva has stated that its accepted liability for damage 
caused to Mr Es ceilings and offered a cash settlement for repairs in the sum of just over 
£640 being the estimate provided in the expert report of January 2022. Aviva also accepted 
that it had taken some time to resolve Mr Es complaints and that it had failed to respond 
appropriately when Mr E attempted to contact Aviva regarding the damage. I note that it then 
offered £750 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused and delays.
Regarding the excess payments, Aviva explained that it had taken three excess payments, 
firstly for the initial replacement of the faulty pump, secondly when he reported the overflow 
issue in the airing cupboard and again in summer 2020. This last payment was refunded 
however as the engineer didnt carry out any work. In the circumstances, I cant say that 
Aviva acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner, as it is to be expected and within the terms 
of the policy that an excess amount would be charged for any new claim. 
As to Mr Es request for reimbursement of premiums, from the available evidence, Mr E 
accepts that he made a mistake in continuing with his policy for so long. I can understand 
why he might feel that retaining the policy would assist in resolving all remaining issues. I 
cant however say that Aviva induced Mr E to continue with his policy as the written evidence 
makes it clear that he would be entitled to cancel his policy. In the circumstances, I cant say 
that Aviva has acted unfairly and unreasonably in declining to reimburse premiums.
In conclusion, its most unfortunate that Mr E has had to deal with leaks and incidents at his 
property since 2019. I consider that the distress and inconvenience caused by the incidents 
themselves will have been compounded by the fact that it appears that intermittent leaks 
continued both from the hot water cylinder and the toilet and were not properly addressed. 
There is unfortunately no expert report which finally clarifies the cause of the apparent 
intermittent cylinder problem. Aviva has accepted responsibility for damage to the ceilings 
and as such, Im satisfied that Aviva didnt carry out work in a fair and reasonable manner.
I note however that Aviva has now taken responsibility for and made an offer of a cash 
settlement of just over £640 for the work to repair the ceilings. The offer is in line with the 
estimate provided in the expert report of January 2022. In the absence of any other expert 
evidence, I cant say that this offer is unfair and unreasonable. I also conclude that the offer 
of £750 is in line with what the service would expect in terms of compensation for the 
number of service issues suffered by Mr E over a lengthy period of time. As Aviva has now 
recognised its failings and offered what I consider to be a reasonable solution, I dont require 
Aviva to do anything more in response to Mr Es complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Es complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited 
to pay to Mr E:- The sum of £642.29 as cash settlement for the cost of ceiling repairs
- The sum of £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman