DRN-2773670
The complaint
Mr L has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy about 
the way it treated him in relation to money it is trying to recover from him.
What happened
Advantage has asked Mr L to pay for a third partys damages and associated costs following 
a road traffic collision Mr L was involved in. Mr Ls policy was voided due to non-disclosure. 
Advantage has now sought to recover from Mr L the amount it has paid for the third partys 
claim. And it passed this issue to solicitors which represents it to collect the amount it says it 
is owed from Mr L. Mr L has felt it hasnt done this properly or fairly. Mr L says Advantage 
could have dealt with matters differently and feels the Solicitors were brought in very quickly.
Advantage says it told Mr L what it was going to do. It says initially Mr L agreed to pay but 
then changed his mind. It says its entitled to recover the money from Mr L due to the terms 
of the agreement with him. So it wants Mr L to pay it now. Mr L feels this is unfair, so Mr L 
brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator felt Advantage hadnt done anything wrong. So didnt uphold Mr Ls 
complaint. Mr L remains unhappy with Advantages position, so this complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L previously complained to this Service about Advantage voiding his policy and the 
consequences of that. He received our Investigators assessment in January 2020 but didnt 
contact this service for many months after. He has been told that complaint wont be 
considered further. So I make no comment on that complaint other than to provide context to 
this complaint.
This decision is solely about how Advantage has acted. It is not about the solicitors, or the 
other party in the collision or indeed anyone or any party other than Advantage. I must 
decide whether Advantage has treated Mr L fairly and reasonably.
Mr L feels Advantage has treated him unfairly in pursuing him for money in relation to the 
collision he was in and feels the way it has pursued him is also unfair. I dont agree and now 
explain why.
In May 2020 Advantage wrote to Mr L explaining how much he needed to pay it and 
explained if it didnt hear from him soon it would engage solicitors to recover the money 
owed. This money stems from the collision Mr L was involved in and relates to damages and 
costs incurred by the other party involved in the collision. Advantage paid these to the other 
party and as Mr Ls policy was voided it seeks to recoup what it has paid to the other party 
directly from Mr L.
Ive considered the agreement terms and those terms make clear that in the event of the 
policy being voided in circumstances such as these, it can recover any money it has paid out 
to other parties directly from Mr L. So I think it fairly can ask Mr L to pay. Ive considered the 
amount it is looking to recover from Mr L and the evidence supporting this. Im not 
persuaded it has made any mistake here or treated Mr L unfairly in asking him to pay.
Ive seen correspondence from April and May 2020 when it asks him to pay. I note it says 
the amount is significant and Advantage is willing to set up a repayment plan for Mr L so he 
can pay monthly rather than all in one go. I also note it says it will engage solicitors to 
recover the debt if Mr L doesnt contact it. All of which I think is fair in the circumstances. 
From the evidence available I can see an alternate payment plan was discussed but later Mr 
L decided not to pay. Im not persuaded Mr L has been treated unfairly here.
Ive considered what Mr L has said in its entirety. I note that when faced with our 
Investigators position he doesnt dispute any of the facts relied upon. Mr L doesnt even give 
any significant reasons for why he disagrees, just that he wants an Ombudsmans decision 
on the matter. Having considered everything that has happened here, I see no persuasive 
reason to uphold Mr Ls complaint or to think differently on this matter from the Investigator. 
The facts of the matter are clear, and Mr L is liable for the amount Advantage is asking him 
to pay. So his complaint does not succeed.
I appreciate my decision is not what Mr L wants to hear. I appreciate Mr L doesnt feel the 
amount he owes is fair considering what happened and that he is unwilling to pay. But it is 
clear that Advantage has been acting in order to fulfil its obligations around paying the other 
party. It has sought evidence to support these costs and paid the other party accordingly. 
And it is entitled to recover these costs from Mr L and has fairly tried to do so and 
consequently it is clear to me that Advantage has treated him fairly in the matters of this 
complaint. 
So Mr Ls complaint does not succeed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman