DRN-2560334
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a life assurance 
policy.
What happened
On 18 December 2009 Mrs F attended a Halifax branch to complete a balance transfer. She 
was offered a meeting with a Halifax adviser to discuss her life protection needs in relation to 
a mortgage she held jointly with her husband. 
During the meeting with the Halifax adviser (the adviser) a fact find was completed. This 
noted that Mrs F had a joint interest only mortgage with her husband with a balance of 
£190,000 and a remaining term of 20 years. The fact find recorded that Mrs F didnt want to 
discuss the protection needs of both her and her husband but just her own needs. The 
adviser also recorded that Mrs F had no other life cover  the note said Mrs F had cancelled 
a policy previously held. The fact find noted that Mrs F wanted the cover to make sure her 
mortgage was paid in the event of her death.
At the meeting the adviser recommended a term assurance policy on a level basis for the 
remaining term of the mortgage  this was designed to provide a lump payment to cover 
Mrs Fs interest only mortgage in the event of her death. The initial recommendation was to 
take out a policy to cover the full amount of the mortgage at a cost of £31 each month but 
the cover was adjusted to £150,000 as Mrs F didnt want to pay more than £25.
On 21 December 2009, the adviser sent a Financial Report (suitability letter) to Mrs F  this 
set out a summary of what was discussed at the meeting held on 18 December and the 
reasons for the recommendation. Enclosed with the suitability letter was a key features 
document which summarised the policys main features. And on the same day, Mrs F was 
sent a Welcome Pack directly from the insurer  this pack included the policy schedule, a 
right to cancel letter and the policy booklet. 
In 2019 Mrs F complained to Halifax. She explained that at the time of the advice she 
already had a joint term assurance policy and didnt need the additional cover. She said 
shed told the Halifax adviser about the cover but was still advised take out additional cover 
on the basis that you could never have enough life cover. Mrs F said she had no reason to 
doubt the advice shed been given. And said she didnt receive any paperwork following the 
meeting so had forgotten all about the policy. Mrs F said it was only when she was being 
advised (not by Halifax) about a re-mortgage in 2019, that she found out what the premiums 
were being paid towards.
Halifax rejected Mrs Fs complaint. It said that its adviser made the recommendation based 
on the information provided by Mrs F. It acknowledged that if the adviser had known about 
the other policy, the advice would have been different. Halifax said that the adviser had no 
way of knowing about the other policy as it hadnt sold it to Mrs F.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. In brief, she considered the 
recommendation was suitable based on the information provided to the Halifax adviser. 
Mrs F disagreed. She didnt think Halifax had been honest about the conversation that took 
place between her and the adviser in 2009. So she asked for an ombudsmans decision on 
the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my findings, I understand that Mrs F has raised a number of points during 
her contact with this service. Although I may not mention every point she's raised, Ive 
considered everything Mrs F has said but limited my findings to the areas which impact on 
the outcome of the case.
The main issue in dispute is what Mrs F was told by the Halifax adviser on the day of the 
meeting on 18 December 2009. I can see the fact find notes that Mrs F said she previously 
had cover but this had been cancelled. Mrs F doesnt dispute giving details of the other 
policy, which she held jointly with her husband from 2007, but says she made it clear the 
policy was still active. And that the adviser knowing this, responded by saying you cant 
have too much cover or words to that effect. Given this dispute, I need to decide on balance, 
what is more likely than not to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Ive taken into account Mrs F submissions. But given the advice was provided more than ten 
years ago, I also need to balance her recollections with the contemporaneous notes that 
were made by the adviser. As Ive said, the fact find clearly records that the adviser was told 
by Mrs F that she no longer had any cover in place as this had been cancelled. 
Halifax have confirmed that a copy of the fact find wasnt provided to Mrs F. But I can see a 
suitability letter was sent to Mrs F by post on 21 December 2009  this document reflects 
information contained in the fact find including that Mrs F had no other life assurance cover. I 
can also see a key facts document was enclosed with the suitability letter. And that Mrs F 
was sent policy documents directly from the insurer.
Looking at the information that Mrs F was sent following the meeting, I think if the documents 
hadnt correctly reflected what was discussed a few days earlier with the adviser  in 
particular, that it was based on her having no other suitable cover  I think its likely she 
would have raised this Halifax at that time. In this case, Mrs F only complained to Halifax ten 
years later. So I think its more likely than not that fact find accurately reflects what the 
adviser was told at the meeting with Mrs F. It follows that I consider the advice was provided 
on the basis that Mrs F no longer had any cover in place. Mrs F says the adviser has lied 
on the fact find form. But I havent seen any persuasive evidence of this. And as Ive said, 
Mrs F is recalling facts that happened quite some time ago. 
Mrs F says she didnt receive the suitability letter from Halifax or the insurer who sent her the 
policy documents separately on 21 December 2009. She says this is why she didnt question 
the advice until much later. However, I can see that the letters sent in 2009 are all correctly 
addressed. Ive taken into account that the majority of correctly addressed mail is correctly 
delivered. So although I accept it is possible that Mrs F didnt receive these letters, Ive to 
assess what is more likely to have happened on the balance of probabilities. And I think that 
it is more likely that the documents must have been received by Mrs F and for whatever 
reason, perhaps due to the passage of time, she no longer recollects this.
Turning to the advice provided to Mrs F by Halifax, Ive considered whether this was suitable 
based on her known circumstances at the time. Mrs F was married with no dependents. Whilst I note she had a joint mortgage, Mrs F declined to have advice for her husband, so 
the advice was based on her needs only. From what I can see, the policy recommended 
provided life cover that matched the amount and term of the mortgage. It was also affordable 
to Mrs F based on her known income and expenditure.
Mrs F says she had other financial resources through owning property abroad to cover the 
mortgage debt in the event of her death. But even with other property, if Mrs F were to die 
suddenly the loss of an income would have had a significant impact on her husbands overall 
financial position. Life cover would have avoided her husband from having to rely on selling 
the house or other properties. Therefore, it would have avoided putting him under a 
significant financial burden if Mrs F were to die. So, on balance, Im satisfied the 
recommendation was a suitable one to make in light of what the adviser knew of her 
(Mrs Fs) circumstances at the time.
I think if the adviser had known about the other (joint) policy which provided sufficient cover 
for Mrs F and her husband in the event of either of them dying, the advice would have been 
different. But based on the information available to the adviser, Im satisfied the 
recommendation to take out a level term assurance policy to cover the interest only 
mortgage debt, was reasonable. So I dont think the policy was mis-sold to Mrs F by Halifax.
For all these reasons, whilst I appreciate Mrs F will be disappointed with this outcome, Im 
not upholding the complaint. I understand that Mrs F is also unhappy about the way Halifax 
handled her complaint. As our investigator said, this isnt normally an activity we cover. 
Halifax has paid Mrs F £50 for the delays. Given Im not upholding Mrs Fs main complaint, I 
wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman