DRN-3650122
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) unfairly 
turned down their claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs F bought a points-based membership from a business, Business X, in August 
2007. The cost of the timeshare was around £17,000 and that was paid for in part from a 
loan taken with GE Money. The loan was in joint names and set to run for 15 years but it 
was settled in March 2008.
Mr and Mrs F say that when they took out the timeshare they were told that they had the 
option of travelling to different parts of the world and that theyd be able to sell the timeshare 
in future.
So Mr and Mrs F say that Business X misrepresented this to them at the time of sale  they 
say they found it increasingly difficult to secure holidays when they wanted and they didnt 
realise they had a floating weeks timeshare rather than a specified apartment for a fixed 
week in the year. Mr and Mrs F said that had they known what Business X said wasnt right, 
they would not have taken out the membership in the first place.
Mr and Mrs F have also said that the interest rate applied to their loan was extortionate at 
16.56% and that this was an unfair contract.
In January 2021, Mr and Mrs F, using a representative, complained to GE Money. In 
summary, theyve said:
The timeshare agreement is null and void  referencing a European Directive (EU 
94/47/EC), Spanish Law (Law 42/1998) and a Spanish supreme court decision in 
January 2015.
The loan is null and void because the timeshare agreement is. 
The timeshare agreement was misrepresented and so Mr and Mrs F have a claim 
under s.75 CCA. 
There was an unfair relationship in place and so Mr and Mrs F have a claim under 
s.140A CCA. Specifically referencing that they had no choice of lender, a high 
interest rate, undisclosed commission, undue pressure to make the purchase and 
that appropriate affordability checks werent undertaken.
GE Money declined the claims saying, among other things, that the claims had been brought 
too late under the relevant provisions contained in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA).
Mr and Mrs F complained to our service. Their representative made these further points: 
Mr and Mrs F had twelve years to complain under s.8 LA, rather than six years.
Under s.32 LA, Business X had deliberately concealed important information, 
including the timeshare agreement being illegal.
Mr and Mrs F werent aware until they spoke to their representative that the 
timeshare agreement was illegal, and they raised their claim within 3 years of 
knowing this.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think GE Money needed to do 
anything further.
Mr and Mrs Fs representative requested the matter be passed to an ombudsman, and I 
reviewed the complaint. I issued my provisional decision on 8 July 2022 explaining why I 
didnt intend to uphold the complaint.
GE Money accepted my provisional decision, but Mr and Mrs F didnt. In particular, their 
representative explained why they thought s.14A LA applied in the circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, including reviewing Mr and Mrs Fs representatives response to my 
provisional decision, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
For clarity, Mr and Mrs Fs representative has provided information about a previous trial 
membership for context, but they have confirmed they arent asking us to consider the claim 
about this product as part of this complaint.
Can we consider a complaint about the claim under s.75 CCA?
The Financial Ombudsman Service cant look at all complaints. Before we can consider a 
complaint, we need to check, by reference to the Financial Conduct Authoritys Dispute 
Resolution Rules (DISP) and the legislation from which those rules are derived, whether its 
one we have the power to look at.
DISP 2 says that in order to be within the ombudsmans jurisdiction a firm (here GE Money) 
needs to be within the ombudsmans compulsory jurisdiction at the time of the event being 
complained about. For a firm to be included in our compulsory jurisdiction it must be (among 
other things) authorised to carry out regulated activities.
Mr and Mrs F say that Business X misrepresented to them the nature and benefits of the 
timeshare agreement. A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought 
under s.2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967. Here Mr and Mrs F brought a like claim 
against GE Money under s.75 CCA in January 2021.
GE Money ceased to be authorised in December 2019, this means that at the time of the 
event being complained about, GE Money was not authorised to carry out regulated 
activities. As GE Money has not signed up to our voluntary jurisdiction either, our service 
cant consider this part of the complaint.
The complaint issues we can consider
Our service does have jurisdiction to consider the remainder of this complaint because GE 
Money was a regulated business and part of our compulsory jurisdiction at the time those events took place. I havent gone into detail on this point as it isnt in dispute and so Ill 
address each of those remaining points.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont think GE Money 
needs to do anything further, Ill explain why.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
I also have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision. And 
I want to assure Mr and Mrs F that if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not 
because I havent thought about it. I have considered whats been said and sent to us. But, 
Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to reaching a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Is the loan agreement voidable?
Mr and Mrs Fs representative say the timeshare agreement was null and void, and that the 
related GE Money loan was voidable as well. Mr and Mrs F now wish to exercise their right 
to rescind it. While this can be considered under s.140A CCA (which Ill come on to 
separately) I think its also a stand-alone point and so Ill address it as such.
Mr and Mrs Fs representative has asked me to consider an EU Directive, some Spanish 
legislation, and a Spanish court judgment. They say these show that the timeshare 
agreement was illegal because requirements of the EU Directive werent met and because 
the type of timeshare isnt allowed under Spanish law. This includes references to 
misleading or incomplete information, the right of withdrawal, and it being a points-based 
membership.
The timeshare agreement states that it is governed by English law, not Spanish law, so I 
dont think the Spanish judgment or Spanish law can be applied directly to the question as to 
whether the contract is voidable under English law.
The 1994 Directive was implemented into English law in the Timeshare Regulations 1997, 
which in turn amended the Timeshare Act 1992 (the 1992 Act). Whilst this does cover 
information requirements and cancellation rights, it doesnt say that an agreement will be 
voidable when these requirements arent met. Points based timeshare models were common 
and arent prohibited under English law. The 1992 Act makes provision for timeshare 
accommodation being from a pool of accommodation, so I think it was drafted with those 
types of arrangement in mind. Nothing in the 1994 Directive makes me think an English 
court would come to the conclusion Mr Cs timeshare agreement was voidable.
As I dont think the points put forward by Mr and Mrs Fs representatives mean the timeshare 
agreement is null and void, it follows that I dont think the loan agreement is voidable on 
that basis either.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under s.140B CCA in connection with a credit 
agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising out 
of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination, but I think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
The LA applies to a claim under s.140A CCA. It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] EWHC 
3264 (QB) that when considering s.140A CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran from the 
date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still running at the time the claim was 
made. As this is an action recoverable by statute under s.9 LA, they had a period of six 
years to bring a claim. So, Mr and Mrs F would have needed to have brought an action 
within six years of March 2008 as this is when they settled the loan. As they didnt do that, I 
think they brought their claim too late.
I dont agree that the time limit should be twelve years, as Mr and Mrs Fs representative has 
proposed. This isnt concerning a claim of actions on a speciality under s.8 LA, as 
explained this concerns a claim for sums recoverable by statute under s.9 LA. But I note the 
claim was raised more than twelve years after March 2008.
GE Money didnt think s.140A CCA applied as the loan was settled before April 2008. I dont 
think this was right as the loan was taken out after April 2007. But for the reasons set out 
above, I dont think it would have upheld the claim if it had properly considered it. So I dont 
think it needs to do anything further.
Mr and Mrs Fs arguments on limitation
I appreciate Mr and Mrs F may say they didnt know about the time limits Ive referred to 
above in the LA, but Im afraid thats not generally accepted as grounds for extending the 
limitation period. Mr and Mrs Fs representatives have made several arguments on why they 
dont think our investigator is correct about limitation. I will deal with each in term.
Mr and Mrs Fs representatives say theyve raised the claim within the three years of 
knowledge rule. Whilst under our own rules, a consumer can make a complaint to a 
business within six years of the event happening or three years of when a consumer realised 
they had a reason to complain. The rules the representatives are referring to set out the time 
limits within which a consumer needs to complain to a business about a regulated financial 
activity. Those rules apply to Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) governed complaint 
handling, which in the current context, is a complaint that GE Money unfairly turned down 
their claim. But the reason it decided to turn down the claim was because it didnt think it was 
legally liable due to the operation of the LA, so that is why I have considered that legislation.
The LA does not have a provision allowing any claim to be brought within three years of a 
claimant realising they could issue legal proceedings. 
Mr and Mrs Fs representative have raised s.14A LA and said GE Money ought to have 
known (or carried out due diligence) about the EU Directive regulations before providing 
finance on the points-based timeshare which were regulated by the EU Directive. Theyve 
since added that advance payments should not have been requested or accepted during the 
extended withdrawal period and so they believe there has been a breach of contract of both 
the purchase agreement and the loan agreement. They say GE Money owed a duty of care 
to Mr and Mrs F to ensure neither GE Money or the supplier breached the 1992 Act.
Im not persuaded that s.14A LA applies to Mr and Mrs Fs claim under s.140A CCA for the 
following reasons:
S.14A is titled Special time limit for negligence actions where facts relevant to cause 
of action are not known at date of accrual - this applies to an action for damages for 
negligence. It provides a second period in which those types of claims can be made. Looking at what happened, when Mr and Mrs F purchased the timeshare and took 
out the finance, I think there was an obligation to give Mr and Mrs Fs sufficient, 
appropriate and timely information to enable them to make an informed choice about 
whether to take out the loan. But Im not persuaded a duty of care arose or advice 
was provided that could give rise to a claim to which s.14A LA could apply. There 
was no fiduciary relationship between the supplier and Mr and Mrs F - the supplier 
wasnt acting as an agent of Mr and Mrs F but as the supplier of contractual rights 
they obtained under the purchase agreement.
The initial claim didnt allege that the relevant debtor-creditor relationship was unfair 
because of someones negligence. Under s.14A LA, the facts would need to be 
relevant to the cause of action Mr and Mrs F are seeking to extend the time available 
to make a claim.
Ive been asked to consider s.32 LA, which states that in cases of fraud, concealment or 
mistake, the limitation period only starts to run from when a claimant discovers the fraud, 
concealment or mistake (or could have discovered it using reasonable diligence). Mr and 
Mrs Fs representatives have said they couldnt have known that the points-based timeshare 
was illegal under the EU Directive. Based on what Ive seen so far, I cant see that there was 
any fraud, concealment, or mistake. Mr and Mrs Fs representative is referencing a publicly 
available EU Directive. Ive explained above why I dont think Mr and Mrs Fs representative 
has shown the agreement is null and void, but aside from this I cant see that theyve 
explained how they any relevant regulations were concealed.
I have also considered what Mr and Mrs F says about the amount of commission that might 
have been paid by GE Money to Business X for arranging the loan  they think GE Money 
should have told them about that. GE Money says it doesnt have details of what, if anything, 
was paid in Mr and Mrs Fs case due to the passage of time.
From what Ive seen across the industry, if commission was ever paid it tended to be low 
and of less than 10%. Im satisfied GE Money didnt breach any duty in making such a 
payment  nor was it under any regulatory duty to disclose the amount of commission paid in 
these circumstances. And I dont think the levels of commission that are normally paid in this 
situation were sufficiently high to mean that GE Money should have appreciated not 
disclosing commission to Mr and Mrs F risked the relationship being unfair under s.140A 
CCA.
For these reasons, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs F are able to rely on s.32 LA here. 
For the avoidance of any doubt, I should also make it clear that Ive seen nothing to show 
that Business X was acting as agent to Mr and Mrs F. I cant see that its role was to make an 
impartial or dis-interested recommendation about taking out the loan. And I dont think 
Business X needed to disclose the fact that it might have received a commission to Mr and 
Mrs F.
As Ive said, I think any commission paid here was unlikely to be more than 10%. So, even if 
I was satisfied that Mr and Mrs F could rely on s.32 LA to assist with this part of his 
complaint, Im not persuaded its likely a court would conclude that any commission paid 
created an unfair debtor-creditor relationship.
Overall, I think GE Money fairly considered the things it needed to when it said the claim was 
brought too late. Its ultimately for the courts to decide whether any claim that Mr and Mrs F 
may have against the supplier or GE Money has expired under the LA. But, as far as I can 
see from the information available, any claim that Mr and Mrs F might have against the 
supplier and/or GE Money has most likely exceeded the time limits set out in the LA. I think it 
is reasonable to take this into account in these circumstances. And I am not persuaded that GE Money acted unfairly in declining the claims.
Unaffordable lending
Mr and Mrs Fs representative says it was irresponsible of GE Money to provide this loan 
and proper credit checks were not carried out. I cant see that Mr and Mrs F have provided 
much by way of further evidence about this in response to the view. Even if I were to find 
GE Money didnt do all that it should have when it agreed to lend, Id still need to be satisfied 
that the lending was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs F and they lost out as a result in order to 
uphold this part of his complaint.
I havent seen any evidence to show that this loan was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs F at the 
time or that theyve had any affordability issues during the life of this loan. So, I dont think 
there is sufficient evidence for me to uphold this part of the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman