DRN-2794968
The complaint
Mr O complains that Santander UK Plc blocked and closed his account. 
What happened
Mr O had an account with Santander. 
In February 2020, Santander reviewed Mr Os account. Whilst it completed its review it 
blocked the account  meaning Mr O wasnt able to use it normally. Mr O discovered the 
bank had blocked his account when he tried to make a purchase online. Following its review 
Santander decided to close Mr Os account immediately. 
Mr O complained to the bank about his account being blocked and then closed. He asked 
the bank to explain why it no longer wanted him as a customer. And said the bank shouldve 
told him it had blocked his account. In response, Santander said it had reviewed and closed 
Mr Os account in line with the terms and conditions. Unhappy with this response, Mr O 
brought his complaint to our service where one of our investigators looked into things for 
him.
The investigator didnt think the bank had done anything wrong when it had closed Mr Os 
account. And said that the bank wasnt obliged to provide its reasons for no longer wanting 
Mr O as a customer. Mr O disagreed and said the bank hadnt treated him fairly and made 
managing his finances difficult.  He wants the bank to provide a proper explanation why it 
closed his account.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr O is upset that Santander blocked and closed his account. I can also 
understand that this was no doubt stressful for him especially as the banks actions made it 
difficult for him to manage his finances including direct debits. But for me to uphold this 
complaint, I must be satisfied that the bank has done something wrong. And in this case, I 
dont think it has.
As the investigator has already explained, Santander has a wide variety of legal and 
regulatory obligations it must follow when providing accounts to customers. To comply with 
its obligations Santander may need to review an account and/or restrict its customers 
access. Santander has said that Mr Os account was blocked to meet these requirements. 
Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Santander was within its rights to review 
Mr Os account and that it was entitled to block it while it carried out that review. So, I cant 
say the bank did anything wrong. The bank also wasnt obliged to tell Mr O why it was 
carrying out a review, and I dont believe it would be appropriate for me to require it to do so, 
as much as hed like to know. 
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Os account. As the investigator explained, its 
generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, 
banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless, theres a very good reason to do so, 
this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer or require it to compensate 
a customer who has had their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days, but it can be less depending on the circumstances. In this case, Mr Os 
account were blocked from the end of February 2020; he was unable to gain access to the 
funds in it or use the account. Whilst the account was formally closed on 2 March 2020 
(without notice) I believe it was effectively closed in February 2020  since after that time 
Mr O couldnt use the account. Having looked at the information the bank relied on to close 
Mr Os account, in my view that was reasonable. So, it was entitled to close the account as it 
has already done. 
In summary, I appreciate that it was inconvenient for Mr O when Santander blocked and 
closed his account. So, I realise he will be disappointed by my decision. But I dont believe 
Santander acted unreasonably or treated Mr O unfairly in taking the actions it did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman