DRN-3840698
The complaint
Mr E (through a representative) has complained that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as 
SafetyNet Credit (SNC)) didnt complete enough affordability checks before providing him 
with the facility. Mr E says by granting the facility it pushed him further into debt. 
What happened
Mr E approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in April 2018. This was a running credit 
account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would 
be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing. Mr E was not advanced a payday loan. 
Mr E was initially given a facility with a £200 credit limit in April 2018. His limit was increased 
on seven occasions, with the final increase taking the credit limit to £960 in August 2019. 
From May 2021, Mr Es credit limit was reduced to £440. 
 
The statement of account provided by SNC in May 2022, shows that Mr E had repaid the 
facility in April 2022. It isnt clear whether the facility was used after this date. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Es complaint. She thought the checks SNC carried out 
before granting this facility showed SNC that Mr E was regularly borrowing from two other 
high-cost lenders, and in the three months leading up to the facility being approved, Mr E 
had borrowed nearly £1,400 of such credit. The adjudicator thought this use of high-cost 
credit  taking close to 50% of Mr Es income was an indicator that hed be unlikely to be 
able to afford the repayments to SNC in a sustainable manner. 
The adjudicator concluded Mr E shouldnt have been approved for this facility. 
Neither Mr E nor his representative appear to have disagreed with the outcome.  
SNC disagreed with the assessment, and Ive summarised its response below. 
The bank transaction data showed a lack of priority bills throughout Mr Es use of the 
facility. 
The spending on other credit was affordable. 
Mr E had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments that he was 
committed to making. 
Although SNC did say it is our view that some of the later lending may not have 
been fully appropriate with the level of other credit spending seen towards the end of 
2019, we wish for a final view to be issued.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
To start with, Mr E wasnt given a payday loan. Instead, he was provided with a credit facility 
where there was an expectation it would be repaid within a reasonable period of time. 
Interest is charged on any balance at 0.8% per day for the first 40 days following the 
drawdown. After the 40 days, a consumer will pay no further interest on that drawdown. 
Throughout the lifetime of a consumer having the facility SNC maintained read-only access 
to Mr Es bank statements, in order to allow it to monitor a consumers finances and to carry 
out additional affordability assessments. 
Finally, Mr Es expected repayment would be 5% of the amount owed plus any interest, fees 
or charges. But a minimum amount of £20 would be expected to be paid. Therefore, when 
Mr Es facility was approved for £200 SNC needed to satisfy itself that Mr E would be in a 
position to make the repayment of £20, by carrying out a proportionate check. 
In this case, SNC had a fairly good idea of Mr Es income and expenditure because it had 
read only access to his bank statements for around 90 days preceding the facility being 
granted. It then used an algorithm to establish what Mr Es income and what his expenditure 
was, after completing this check, in this case, SNC was satisfied that Mr E could afford the 
minimum repayment towards the facility.
It also carried out a credit search before the facility was granted. Ive considered the 
summary of results SNC has provided, and there doesnt appear to have been anything in 
those results which wouldve led SNC to either decline the application or prompted it to have 
carried out further checks before the facility was approved. 
Having reviewed the bank transaction data in the 90 days leading up to the facility being 
granted, I agree with the adjudicator that based on what SNC saw it shouldnt have granted 
the facility.  
The facility was approved at the end of April 2018, and SNC wouldve been aware from the 
transaction data, that Mr E had started to take a number of payday loans each month. For 
example, in March 2018, SNC was aware that Mr E had taken out 3 new payday loans 
taking £796  this was only capital and therefore with interest Mr E wouldve owed 
considerably more. One of these loans was repaid at the end of March 2018 for £433 which 
is worth around a third of Mr Es income, a not insignificant amount. 
However, Mr E then returned within a week for a new one. By 8 April 2018, he owed two 
payday lenders, across three loans a total amount of £825. Given, his modest income of 
around £1,200 per month, I do think Mr E was already significantly indebted to two high-cost 
lenders across three payday loans. 
Ive thought about SNCs comments about his other bills and the expenses it wouldve been 
aware of in the transaction data. I do agree, there does appear to be very little in the way of 
other credit expenditure i.e., to other loans or to credit cards for example. But there are 
payments for subscription services. 
In addition, given Mr Es job, it seems that he wouldve not likely had for example rent 
payments (or if he did these arent visible in the transaction data) but there are lots of other 
transactions for food. Which is likely as a result of where Mr E was based. So, I dont think the absence of other credit commitments or living costs, means this 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. Especially, when Mr E had a significant amount of capital due 
to payday lenders when the facility was approved, which to me is a sign that he was 
overindebted and therefore the repayments for this facility were unlikely to be affordable. 
Im therefore upholding Mr Es complaint in full and I dont think SNC shouldve approved the 
facility.  
Putting things right
If there is a debt which has been sold to a third party, SNC should, if it wishes, buy the debt 
back and then carry out the redress below. If it isnt able to or doesnt wish to buy the debt 
back then it needs to work with the third party to achieve the same results.
A) Remove all the unpaid interest, fees and charges from the account from the start of 
the facility.
B) Treat all payments Mr E has made towards his account since 4 May 2021 as though 
they had been repayments of outstanding principal.
C) If at any point Mr E wouldve been in credit on his account after considering the 
above, SNC will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date the 
refund is paid.
D) If there is an outstanding principal balance, then SNC can use any refunds calculated 
as part of C to repay this. If a balance remains after this, then SNC should try to 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr E. If SNC has previously written-off any 
principal, then it shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up only of principal it 
has already written-off.
E) SNC should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Mr Es credit file 
from the start of the facility.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give 
Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Es complaint in part.
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Mr E as directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman