DRN-3835265
The complaint
Mr P complains about advice he received to transfer the benefits from a defined-benefit 
(DB) occupational pension scheme, the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a self-
invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes 
this has caused a financial loss. The advice was given by a business which I understand 
AFH Independent Financial Services Limited trading as AFH Wealth Management is 
responsible for answering complaints about. So, for ease of reading this decision, Ill just 
refer to AFH throughout.
Mr P is being represented by a third party but again for ease of reading this decision Ill 
largely refer to representations as being made by Mr P.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ps employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members of the BSPS were informed 
they could transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Ps employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
On 18 September 2017, the BSPS provided Mr P with an updated summary of the transfer 
value of his scheme benefits, following the RAA taking effect. These benefits had a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £375,358.67.
AFH says Mr P first met with it to discuss his BSPS pension on 25 September 2017. AFH 
completed a fact-find to gather information about his circumstances and objectives. Mr P 
was 49, in good health, single with one child. He was employed, he held savings of roughly 
£18,000 and had no recorded liabilities.
AFH recorded that Mr P hoped to retire at age 55 and expected to need an income of around 
£15,000 per year. He didnt have a recorded need to take a lump sum from the pension. The 
ability to retire early, control over his pension, the flexibility to draw income as he required 
and the option to pass the pension to his daughter as a lump sum if he were to pass away 
were said to be Mr Ps priorities.
AFH also carried out an assessment of Mr Ps attitude to risk. Its assessment deemed this to 
be adventurous. But it said it agreed with Mr P that a low moderate approach to risk was 
more appropriate.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
On 21 November 2017, AFH advised Mr P to transfer his pension benefits into a SIPP. The 
suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were AFH thought Mr Ps 
objectives could be best met through a pension with flexible drawdown features. It said this 
would enable Mr P to access the income he wanted without restriction and use his tax-free 
cash entitlement gradually. It would also give him the opportunity to leave a lump sum to his 
daughter and avoid the concerns of the pension potentially moving to the PPF. AFH was 
also to provide ongoing servicing of the SIPP, for a cost.
Mr P complained in 2022 to AFH as he didnt think the advice hed received was suitable. 
AFH didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said the advice was based on Mr Ps objectives and 
that hed felt, at the time, achieving these was more important than the guarantees hed 
given up. AFH also thought Mr P had been adequately warned about the risks involved.
Mr P referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators 
looked into the complaint and said it should be upheld. He thought Mr P was always unlikely 
to improve his pension benefits by transferring. And he didnt think Mr P needed to transfer 
to achieve his objective of retiring early  as this was allowed under the scheme and the 
investigator thought Mr P could still meet his income needs by doing so. He also didnt think 
the alternative death benefits meant a transfer was in Mr Ps best interests. So, the 
investigator recommended that AFH compensate Mr P for any losses caused by the 
unsuitable advice and pay him £300 for the distress hed incurred. 
AFH didnt respond to the Investigators opinion. So, we have assumed it did not agree.
Mr Ps representatives agreed with the Investigator that the complaint should be upheld. But 
they said they didnt think making an overall 15% notional deduction from the compensation 
amount to account for income tax was fair as this didnt allow for ongoing charges that Mr P 
may incur. And they said they thought a much larger payment for distress should be made 
as Mr P has taken periods of leave from his work due to suffering with his mental health.
As agreement could not be reached, the complaint was referred to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of AFH's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, AFH should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ps 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests. Ill explain why.
AFH was required, by the regulator, to produce a transfer value analysis (TVAS). 
This included calculating critical yields which showed how much Mr Ps pension fund 
would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB 
scheme.
The critical yield required to match the full pension the BSPS wouldve provided him 
from age 65 was 7.86%. And to match the pension the BSPS wouldve provided from 
55, the age it was noted Mr P was interested in retiring at, the critical yield was 
22.56%. But Mr P didnt have the option to remain in the BSPS as it was. So, I 
understand AFH calculated the critical yields required to match the benefits the 
BSPS2 and the PPF wouldve offered.
For retiring at age 65, AFH has said the critical yield to match the full pension the 
BSPS2 wouldve provided was 6.04%. And the critical yield to match the pension the 
PPF wouldve paid from 65 was 4.47%. The relevant critical yields to match the 
benefits the BSPS2 and PPF wouldve paid from age 55 have been noted as 11.8% 
and 7.98% respectively.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 
as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments 
where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 
2017 similar rates were published by the Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension 
transfers, they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been 
considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor. The relevant discount rate if 
Mr P retired at age 65 was 4.3%. And for retiring at age 55, was 3.1%.
I dont think it is likely that Mr P genuinely had an adventurous attitude to risk with 
regard to this pension, given his level of experience and that it represented the 
majority of his retirement provisions. Which I think is supported by a lower attitude to 
risk being agreed upon following discussions with AFH. And given the agreed attitude 
to risk, the regulators standard projection rates  which at the time were 2%, 5% and 
8% for low medium and high rate returns respectively  and the discount rates, I think 
Mr P was always likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than hed have 
been entitled to under the PPF or the BSPS2, by transferring. And this is particularly 
so, if retiring at age 55.And AFH has acknowledged this, noting, in response to the complaint, that it had 
said in the recommendation that based on the critical yields it was highly unlikely 
Mr P would be able to match the benefits of the DB scheme on the open market. And 
in nearly all circumstances hed be unable to purchase equivalent benefits.
AFH has said there were other reasons that Mr P was interested in transferring, 
which he thought were more important that the guarantees he was giving up. Ill go 
on to address these other reasons. But Id also add, notwithstanding that Mr P 
doesnt seem to have had a great deal of relevant decision making experience about 
the management of a pension of this size and importance, that AFHs role wasnt that 
of wish fulfilment or to put in place what Mr P mightve thought he wanted when 
seeking advice. It was to give him objective advice about what was in his best 
interests.
AFH says Mr P was interested in being able to retire early, from age 55, that he 
expected to need an income of £15,000 per year in retirement and so wanted 
flexibility in terms of how he could draw his pension benefits. 
Mr P couldve taken benefits under the BSPS2 or the PPF from age 55. It is true that 
these wouldve been subject to actuarial reductions. But that was to reflect the fact 
that benefits wouldve been payable for longer than if he waited until his normal 
retirement age. This reduction was not a penalty.
AFH estimated that under the BSPS2 Mr P couldve taken a full pension from age 55 
starting at £12,733 per year. Or he couldve taken tax-free cash (TFC) of £61,910 
and a reduced starting pension of £9,286 per year. Or under the PPF he couldve 
taken a full pension starting at £12,275 or TFC of £67,997 and a reduced pension 
starting at £10,236. It appears true that the starting annual pension amounts on their 
own would not have been sufficient to meet his expected income needs if he had 
retired at age 55. But the annual pension amounts wouldve escalated while in 
payment. And it was recorded that Mr P did not have any planned expenditure that 
required access to TFC. So, he couldve drawn TFC under either the BSPS2 or the 
PPF and retained this. And he couldve used this TFC, and the £18,000 of savings he 
was recorded as having, to top up the income from the pension under either the 
BSPS2 or the PPF to meet his expected income needs until he began receiving his 
state pension. 
And that was before even accounting for the fact that Mr P appears to have been a 
member of his employers new defined contribution pension, which he wouldve 
continued to build benefits in until he retired, and which couldve been accessed 
flexibly to assist towards his income needs. So, I dont think he needed to transfer in 
order to retire early.
And, in any event, Mr P was still several years away from when he could retire. I 
dont doubt that Mr P likely aspired to retire early. I think, when asked, most people 
would say they would like to do so. But, for the majority, early retirement means a 
significant drop in income. So, when it had come to it, he mayve felt differently or 
opted not to retire early. And so, I think it was too soon for Mr P to make an 
irreversible decision to transfer out of his DB scheme. Particularly when he had the 
option of joining the BSPS2, because by joining it he would retain the option to 
transfer out at a later date if his circumstances required it.
AFH says the lump sum death benefits afforded by a SIPP, and the option of being 
able to leave his pension to his daughter, appealed to Mr P. But AFHs priority should 
have been to advise Mr P about what was best for his retirement, not what was the best vehicle to leave a legacy on his death.
While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. It wouldve been impacted by investment performance and wouldve been 
reduced by any income Mr P drew in his lifetime. Given this pension made up the 
majority of his pension provisions, Mr P was still relatively young and was recorded 
as being in good health, there was no reason to believe he wouldnt be reliant on his 
pension to meet his own needs in retirement into his old age. So, it may not have 
provided the legacy Mr P mightve thought it would.
If Mr P was concerned about leaving a legacy AFH ought to have explored insurance 
instead, which could have been considered on a whole of life or term assurance 
basis, which was likely to be a lot cheaper to provide. But I cant see that it properly 
considered this alternative. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer meant it was 
in Mr Ps best interests. And ultimately AFH should not have encouraged Mr P to 
prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a SIPP over his security 
in retirement. 
AFH said Mr P wished to break ties with his employer and take control of his pension. 
But I think Mr Ps desire for control over his pension was overstated. I cant see that 
he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his 
own. And the recommendation seems to have been on the understanding he was 
going to take ongoing advice about how his pension was invested. So, I dont think 
that this was a genuine objective for Mr P  it was simply a consequence of 
transferring away from his DB scheme.
I dont doubt that Mr P was likely to have been upset by what had happened with his 
pension to that point. Or that he had negative feelings about his employer and 
mightve thought moving his pension away from it was appropriate. I think that would 
have been a very natural emotional response to what was happening. But again, 
AFHs role was to give impartial, objective advice. Mr Ps employer and pension 
scheme were not one and the same. And Mr P intended to continue in his job and 
was paying into a new pension scheme with his employer. So, the relationship may 
not have irretrievably broken down as suggested.
Mr P may have held concerns about the prospect of his deferred benefits entering 
the PPF. But there had been a number of key announcements that all pointed toward 
the BSPS2 being established as an alternative. Which was expected to provide 
better benefits than the PPF and still provide Mr P the option to transfer closer to 
retirement. But even if this hadnt happened, the PPF still provided Mr P with 
guaranteed income and the option of accessing his benefits early. Mr P was unlikely 
to improve on these benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as 
concerning as he mightve thought, and I dont think any concerns he held about this 
meant that transferring was in his best interests.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ps best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension.
AFH says that Mr P made an informed decision to transfer. And I can see that it did give him 
information about some of the risks involved in a transfer, when it made its recommendation. 
But ultimately, it advised Mr P to transfer. And I think he relied on that advice. If AFH, a 
professional adviser whose expertise he had sought out, had explained why it wasnt in his best interests to transfer I think hed have accepted that advice.
As a result, Im upholding this complaint as I think the advice Mr P received from AFH was 
unsuitable.
I think, had he received suitable advice not to transfer, Mr P wouldve opted into the BSPS2. 
He was still several years away from when he could retire. And although he was interested 
in retiring at age 55, his plans werent confirmed. By opting into the BSPS2, Mr P wouldve 
retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. 
The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous under 
the BSPS2.
Our Investigator recommended that AFH make a payment of £300 for the distress caused to 
Mr P. His representative has said that it thinks a significantly higher award should be made 
for the distress the advice has caused. It has said that Mr P has suffered with stress and his 
mental health since receiving advice, which necessitated some absences from work, which it 
has provided evidence of. And the representative said that this was because of the advice 
Mr P received to transfer his pension.
AFH advised Mr P about his pension in November 2017. He first raised concerns about the 
advice with AFH in February 2022, via his representative, after talking to it. Ive seen 
evidence that, in the intervening period, Mr P remained a customer of AFHs and sought 
advice from it in relation to other financial matters, including a mortgage. In respect of the 
pension, AFH continued to provide annual updates to Mr P until at least 2021. The value of 
his pension seems to have increased during that time  with the summary provided in May 
2021 putting it at over £411,000. And I cant see that Mr P indicated at any stage, up to the 
point he was in contact with his representative, that he had any concerns about the advice or 
service hed received from AFH. So, I dont think I can fairly conclude he was caused 
ongoing distress by the advice from the point it was given to when he made a complaint.
The information his representative has provided however indicates that the absences from 
work it has referred to, began in early 2021, before he expressed any concerns about the 
advice or his pension. Taking all of this into account, I cant reasonably conclude that the 
advice he received was the only cause of stress Mr P has experienced.
I accept that Mr P has likely been worried to find, when he discussed matters with his 
representative, that the advice might not have been suitable for him. The advice related to 
Mr Ps pension, which will be important for his longer-term financial planning. And given, 
what hes shared with us about the stress he was already experiencing, this is likely to have 
caused him further concern, likely above the level of frustration and annoyance he might 
usually experience on a day-to-day basis. But for the reasons Ive already explained I think 
the award of £300 recommended by the Investigator is fair in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr P, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr P would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if 
suitable advice had been given. 
AFH must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. AFH should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr P and the Financial Ombudsman Service 
upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what AFH based the 
inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, I understand Mr P has not yet retired. So, compensation should be based on the 
schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ps 
acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, AFH should:
calculate and offer Mr P redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr P before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his personal pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr P receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr P accepts AFHs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr P for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ps end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr P as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, AFH may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Ps likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
I've thought about Mr P's representative's point regarding the 15% deduction  they believe 
this is unfair as it doesn't account for the charges that would've been deducted from the fund 
value over that time. While I appreciate the representative feels this may unfairly reduce the 
redress payable, I'm mindful that it is not possible to provide exact compensation in these 
circumstances, as the only way to achieve this would be to put Mr P back into the scheme as 
if the transfer out hadn't happened. So, overall, I remain of the view that the redress 
proposed fairly compensates Mr P for the impact of the unsuitable advice he received.
AFH should also pay Mr P £300 for the distress and inconvenience the advice has caused 
him.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require AFH Independent 
Financial Services Limited, trading as AFH Wealth Management, to pay Mr P the 
compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
AFH Independent Financial Services Limited pays Mr P the balance.
If Mr P accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on AFH Independent 
Financial Services Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr P can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr P may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman