DRN-3324098
The complaint and background
Mr L, a healthcare professional, complains Travelers Insurance Company Limited mis-sold 
him professional indemnity insurance. He took out professional indemnity insurance with 
Travelers in 2000 which ran until 2002. Hes recently been presented with a claim 
concerning work he carried out between 1999 and 2003. Travelers said his policy only 
covered claims made against him during the period of insurance. 
This led Mr L to complain. He said this feature of cover hadnt been brought to his attention 
during the sale. He said hed told the adviser that he wanted cover equal to the cover hed 
had in place since 1995, but this evidently wasnt what had been provided. He didnt know 
he wouldnt be covered in the event of a retrospective claim. 
He said the organisations who provided him with indemnity before and after the Travelers 
policy had agreed to contribute towards his legal costs and any awards made against him. 
But hed now be personally responsible for any legal costs and awards made relating to the 
period between 2000 and 2002. His solicitors are estimating this will be in the region of 
£1,000 and are negotiating settlement on that basis. 
Travelers said it didnt carry out advised sales, and felt it had given Mr L enough information 
about how the policy would work to enable him to have made an informed decision about 
whether it suited his demands and needs. Our investigator didnt think there was sufficient 
evidence to show the policy was mis-sold. Mr L didnt agree, so I need to make a final 
decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 October 2021. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The nature of Mr Ls profession means hes at risk of negligence claims from patients. 
These can involve legal costs and damages awards, so its always been desirable to have 
indemnity cover. From 2005, it became a requirement for healthcare professionals in Mr Ls 
field to have appropriate arrangements in place for patients to seek compensation if they 
suffer harm. And from 2015, it became a legal requirement. The policy Travelers sold Mr L 
was designed exclusively for healthcare professionals. 
Patients generally have three years from the negligent treatment to begin court proceedings. 
But in some cases the limitation period runs from the date the patient became aware that 
treatment was negligent. This means theres an ongoing risk to healthcare professionals, 
in that they may be presented with claims well after treatment has been administered. 
Indemnity cover tends to be underwritten on a claims occurring or claims made basis. 
The former covers claims relating to treatment provided while the policy was in force, 
irrespective of when the claim is made against the policyholder. The latter typically covers 
claims made against the policyholder during a specific period (usually the duration of the 
policy), so the protection offered can come to an abrupt end if the policy isnt renewed. 
Bearing the context about Mr Ls profession in mind, its clear to see that this creates 
potential pitfalls. If someone moves away from a claims made policy and makes new 
arrangements on a claims occurring basis, they arent covered for any new claims made 
against them relating to treatment provided while the claims made policy was in force. 
Thats unless they have arranged run off cover for that period. Under the Travelers policy, 
this cover was only provided automatically if Mr L permanently ceased practicing or retired. 
I think the issue for me to decide here is, to what extent was it Travelers responsibility, in a 
non-advised sale, to explain the nature of claims made cover to Mr L. I know this sale took 
place in 2000, at which point the regulatory landscape looked very different. But it was still 
expected that firms selling insurance would highlight any key features of cover. 
For example, the Association of British Insurers (ABI) Code of Practice said intermediaries 
should draw attention to any restrictions and exclusions applying to the policy. Travelers 
isnt an intermediary, but the code is nonetheless a helpful indicator of what was considered 
to be good industry practice when selling insurance policies at the relevant time. 
I can also see that, at the time of the sale, Travelers was a member of the General 
Insurance Standards Council (GISC), who had recently published its code of practices. The 
GISC code for commercial customers said brokers and intermediaries should:
advise Commercial Customers of the key features of the insurance proposed, 
including the essential cover and benefits, any significant or unusual restrictions, 
exclusions, conditions or obligations, and the period of cover. In so doing, Members 
will take into consideration the knowledge held by their Commercial Customers when 
deciding to what extent it is appropriate for Commercial Customers to have the terms 
and conditions of a particular insurance explained to them.
This wasnt prefaced with If they are acting on behalf of the Commercial Customer in 
the same way that the point above it in the code was, but does repeat some of the same 
guidance. So, Im satisfied it likely applied to both advised and non-advised sales. Again, I 
recognise Travelers isnt an intermediary or broker, but I think the code is still a helpful 
indicator of what was considered to be good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Due to the significant period of time thats passed since the policy was sold, it isnt possible 
to know for certain what was discussed during the sale. Mr L says the policy was discussed 
over the phone. Understandably, recordings or transcripts of those conversations dont exist. 
So, I have to reach my findings based on what I thinks most likely to have happened. 
Travelers hasnt tried to persuade me the relevance of cover being claims made would 
have been discussed during these calls, as part of the sales script, for example. Its said it 
was for Mr L to read the policy booklet, make sure hed understood it and decide if the policy 
was right for him. Ive considered whether the policy literature in itself was clear enough. 
The proposal form and welcome letters didnt mention that the policy was claims made. 
Travelers sent Mr L a policy booklet and told him to read it carefully. This said the policy was 
on a Claims Made basis, and claims would be paid provided that the claim is first made 
while this Policy is in effect. 
But I dont think Travelers did enough to draw Mr Ls attention to this restriction, or advise 
him of the fact it was significant. He was just presented with the policy booklet as a whole, so 
they look like standard features of cover. 
Im not satisfied hed have recognised their significance for himself (which was that hed 
need to make specific arrangements to avoid being left with a gap in his cover for claims about historic treatment if he switched professional indemnity arrangements later on). 
Even if Travelers had drawn Mr Ls attention to the claims made restriction, and advised him 
of the fact it was significant, it should also have considered to what extent it was appropriate 
to explain the terms and conditions to him, considering his level of knowledge. As recently as 
2018, Mr Ls professional body noted the implications of having claims made cover is not 
always made clear nor fully understood by those taking out a claims-made policy. 
This shows there are still issues with those in Mr Ls field not appreciating the pitfalls created 
by taking claims made cover unless theyre made clear. There was likely to have been even 
less guidance about this available to Mr L in 2000, before it became a requirement for those 
in his field to have professional indemnity arrangements. This supports that it would have 
been appropriate for Mr L to have had this feature of the policy explained to him, considering 
the knowledge he held. I think any future providers were entitled to expect that Travelers 
would have followed good industry practice in this regard. 
Had Travelers done what I think it should have, I think the most likely scenario is that Mr L 
would have continued to make arrangements on a claims occurring basis (bearing in mind 
he made such arrangements at a cost which was evidently agreeable to him for five years 
before this policy started, and another 17 years after it ended). 
Failing that, Im satisfied Mr L would have taken some other steps to ensure he remained 
fully covered, either by continuing to renew this policy until automatic run off cover kicked in, 
purchasing run off cover if the policy ended before that, or ensuring any further policies were 
also claims made (until he could obtain automatic run off cover). In all these scenarios, there 
would have been valid arrangements under which he could have submitted his recent claim. 
My provisional decision 
I intend to uphold this complaint and direct Travelers to accept the share of the claim against 
Mr L relating to the period while its policy was in force. Thats predicted to be around £1,000, 
though negotiations are ongoing. Travelers may want to liaise with the other indemnity 
providers and Mr Ls solicitors for further updates. Should these negotiations break down 
and the matter proceed to court, I think Travelers should continue to fund its share of the 
legal costs, and any damages awards made against Mr L. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr L said my decision didnt reflect that, due to the issues complained of, hes now open to 
potential future losses if further claims relating to the same period are made against him. He 
reiterated that he wouldnt have purchased claims made cover in the first place if the nature 
of such cover had been made clear. And he said Travelers should accept a larger proportion 
of the contribution towards the legal costs and damages against him to reflect that it mis-sold 
the policy. 
Travelers responded to say the following:
There wasnt any further documentary evidence it could provide given how long ago 
the policy was taken out. 
As it has never carried out advised sales, its imperative that its customers take 
reasonable care to understand the policies theyre purchasing. 
It would have provided sufficient information to meet its regulatory obligations at the 
time. The type of cover being provided was made clear in the policy booklet, and it likely would have explained it either during the sales call or in the membership pack 
(but it couldnt produce a copy of either due to the time thats passed). 
Mr L could have called back (or spoken to a colleague) if he had any questions, and 
it was his responsibility to ensure the suitability of any future arrangements. If hed 
maintained claims made cover, or purchased run off cover (as I suggested he would 
have done had the nature of claims made cover been explained) this issue would not 
have arisen. 
The comment Id made reference to from Mr Ls professional body was a sweeping 
generalisation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To recap, I set out guidance from the relevant time in my provisional decision, and explained 
why I thought it applied to non-advised sales. I said that, whilst it made specific reference to 
intermediaries and brokers, I thought it offered an insight into what was considered to be 
good industry practice at the relevant time. I also set out why I thought the fact that cover 
was claims made was a significant feature of cover (especially to a healthcare professional).
Travelers highlights that, ultimately, in a non-advised sale, its for the customer to decide 
whether the policy theyre taking out is suitable for them. But any decision a customer makes 
should be informed by an appropriate level of information from the seller. The guidance Ive 
referred to makes clear that this should include advising commercial customers, not of the 
suitability of the product (importantly), but of:
 the essential cover and benefits, any significant or unusual restrictions, 
exclusions, conditions or obligations, and the period of cover. In so doing, Members 
will take into consideration the knowledge held by their Commercial Customers when 
deciding to what extent it is appropriate for Commercial Customers to have the terms 
and conditions of a particular insurance explained to them. 
The comments of Mr Ls professional body are at odds with Travelers statement that the 
nature of claims made cover should be reasonably obvious to professionals requiring 
indemnity insurance. Travelers has also argued that it would have explained the nature of 
claims made cover, separately from the policy booklet, which seems to acknowledge that 
this would have been appropriate given the knowledge held by Mr L.  
I still dont think a reasonable person would have appreciated the implications of having 
claims made cover (and therefore, its significance) from the policy booklet alone. So, Ive 
thought about Travelers assertion that it would likely have explained the nature of claims 
made cover separately, either in the membership pack or during the sales call.
I acknowledge the time thats passed since the sale. If evidence is unclear or incomplete, I 
need to reach my decision based on whats most likely to have happened. I do note though 
that Travelers previously emphasised that it was up to Mr L to review the policy booklet, 
which it felt was clear in itself, and to have queried anything he was unsure about. 
It hasnt provided evidence which leads me to conclude, on balance, that as a matter of 
standard practice, it would have given a separate explanation of the nature of claims made 
cover to Mr L. It hasnt, for example, shown me that the oldest versions of its membership 
pack and / or sales script that are still available contain such an explanation, or directed me towards any other information or data which might support a finding of this nature. 
Unless Mr L received an appropriate level of information about the nature of claims made 
cover when the Travelers policy started, I dont think hed have appreciated the implications 
of moving away from claims made cover (without any run off cover) when the policy ended. 
Im satisfied Mr L wouldnt willingly have left a hole in his otherwise continuous indemnity 
arrangements had Travelers done more to explain the nature of claims made cover in 2000. 
Mr L says Travelers should accept a larger proportion of the contribution towards the legal 
costs and damages against him to reflect that it mis-sold the policy. I dont agree. The loss 
Mr L has realised as a result of the issues addressed in this decision is the proportion of 
legal costs and damages relating to the period during which this policy was in force. Its 
that loss Travelers needs to account for to put Mr L back in the position he should be in. 
Mr L also highlights that he may, in the future, incur further losses, if he receives another 
claim relating to the same period. Given the passage of time since the policy expired, 
potential future claims are likely to be limited in numbers. The Dispute Resolution (DISP) 
rules in the regulators handbook require Travelers to ensure that lessons learned as a result 
of determinations by the ombudsman are effectively applied in future complaint handling. 
So, in the event Mr L is presented with another claim against him, and which relates to the 
period during which he was insured with Travelers between 2000 and 2002, he should 
present the claim to Travelers for consideration under the terms of the policy. If a complaint 
arises as a result of Travelers handling of the claim, Id expect it to keep in mind my 
determination of this complaint (i.e. that Mr L would otherwise have had valid arrangements 
under which he could have submitted such a claim).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Travelers Insurance Company Limited to accept the share 
of the legal costs and damages relating to the period its policy was in force. I understand 
from Mr L that, since I issued my provisional decision, progress has been made in the 
negotiations with the other party and his contribution to the settlement may be lower than 
previously anticipated. Travelers should liaise with Mr Ls solicitors and the other indemnity 
providers for further updates. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman