DRN-3268210
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) allowed him to transfer money to a 
fraudster, hasnt accepted any responsibility for its involvement, and wont provide a refund.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill summarise them and focus on giving the reasons for 
my decision.
- Mr A came across a company (Company X) online when looking for somewhere to 
invest. After making an enquiry with it, Company X called Mr A back to ask him 
questions about his goals and how much he was willing to invest and to let him know 
hed receive respectable returns. 
- Mr A made two international bank transfers in December 2018 and January 2019 for 
£4,078.66 and £2,617.95 respectively. He also made an online bank transfer to a 
third-party online payment provider of £3,892 in February 2019.
- Mr A said he was asked to invest more but refused. When he wanted to withdraw the 
funds, he found he couldnt. The balance reduced significantly soon after, an email to 
Company X bounced back and its website disappeared. Mr A notified HSBC when he 
realised hed been the victim of a scam but it wasnt able to recover any of the 
money. 
- Our investigator considered this complaint. He didnt think it was unreasonable that 
HSBC hadnt identified Mr A might potentially be the victim of a scam. He didnt think 
the payments were particularly unusual or suspicious, given his normal account and 
payment activity, including a recent payment of ~£6,000 and other international 
payments. So he didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong overall, or that it should 
provide a refund of the money.
- Mr A disagreed. He didnt think it was reasonable to assume that, because hed 
made larger payments to one of his own bank accounts, the payments to Company X 
werent unusual. He also didnt think it fair to use other international payments hed 
made as a reason to think these international payments to Company X were normal. 
He said hed made the other international payments while abroad and that he notified 
HSBC before doing so. Mr A also thinks HSBC shouldve done more when it didnt 
receive a response from the beneficiary bank about the second payment. 
- So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
- The payment of £3,892 was to a third-party payment provider which was then moved 
on, probably to Company X. But I cant see that Mr A has raised an issue with the 
legitimacy of the third-party payment provider. So if Mr A is unhappy with the 
payment ultimately reaching Company X, hed need to raise this with the third-party.  
- As Mr A authorised these payments, the starting position is that HSBC would have 
been expected to process them. But, having said that, Id expect HSBC to recognise 
particularly unusual activity on the account. And, had there been any unusual or 
suspicious activity on the account, Id expect HSBC to take additional steps, or make 
additional checks, before processing them. Or, in some cases, declined to make a 
payment altogether.
Ive thought about the first payment to Company X in December 2018. And I note 
there was a comparable payment in the months leading up to the scam  August 
2018. With this payment, Mr A had paid a sum of money into the account first of 
around £6,000, and then paid out around £6,000 too. With both the international 
payments made, Mr A first transferred an amount into his account and then made the 
payment  £4,200 for the payment of £4,078.68 and £2,655 for the payment of 
£2,617.95. So I dont think these sums appear particularly unusual and, as our 
investigator said, theres a pattern of behaviour here. Furthermore, the time between 
the payments  with one being in December 2018 and one being the following month 
 adds to an apparent pattern, as the payments are spread out and mean that in 
three of six months, Mr A was making payments of several thousand pounds. 
I note that the payment of £6,000 was for Mr As own account with another provider. 
Mr A believes that a long relationship with the other account provider isnt 
comparable to a brief encounter with Company X. But the key here is that making 
payments of this size wasnt unusual and the payments in question were for much 
smaller sums. 
In addition, the two payments were international transfers. But Mr A did make other 
international payments during the 12 months prior. Mr A has said that the other 
international payments were made while he was abroad and that he notified HSBC 
ahead of making them. But I dont think this means that these international payments 
would have looked suspicious or unusual to HSBC  it would have known that Mr A 
sometimes made international payments.
- Im satisfied that HSBC did what it could to recover Mr As money shortly after it 
became aware of the fraud. The beneficiary bank said the money from the first 
payment had been removed on receipt. While HSBC didnt chase up what had 
happened to the money from the second payment, I dont think its fair to say HSBC 
did something wrong here. Id expect it to have made contact, which it did. But, in all 
likelihood, the money had been swiftly removed, just like with the first payment. I 
cant expect HSBC to chase beneficiary banks, especially where theyre based 
abroad. It took reasonable action to recover the money. 
I appreciate this will be extremely disappointing to Mr A and Im sorry hes lost such a 
substantial sum of money. But I dont think HSBC has acted in error here and I wont be 
upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman