DRN-2437873
The complaint
Mr W complained about problems he has had trying to repay the balance on his credit card 
account provided by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS). 
What happened
Mr W has a credit card account with RBS. He was making monthly payments of £100 by 
direct debit.
 
Mr W wanted to change the direct debit to clear the full balance on his card. He was 
frustrated by his failed attempts to change the direct debit so contacted the RBS Chief 
Executives office. During a telephone conversation, he discussed his options and Mr W 
explained that he was struggling to change the direct debit instruction online. So, he asked 
that RBS investigated this and returned with clear instructions.
 
The next day RBS emailed Mr W. It provided a contact number to help with the direct debit 
change. It also suggested that he could set up his credit card as an online payee on his 
personal bank account. This would mean he could pay the balance using his personal bank 
account online without needing to change the direct debit. RBS told Mr W the details needed 
to do this. Mr W asked how he could cancel the direct debit instruction. RBS agreed to check 
this.
 
The following day, RBS emailed Mr W to confirm that they had cancelled the direct debit for 
him. RBS believed that he was making the payment through his personal online banking and 
that the matter was resolved.
 
Instead of making an online payment, Mr W rang the number he had been given to pay by 
telephone. He was unhappy as he was kept waiting so decided to set up the direct debit 
again instead. This time to clear the full balance.
 
RBS didnt claim the new direct debit in December 2019 as Mr W had expected and he 
received a late payment notice. RBS charged a £12 late payment fee. Mr W complained to 
RBS  he wanted an apology and compensation for stress and embarrassment. RBS told Mr 
W that the direct debit wasnt set up in time for the December payment and that the first 
payment would be in January 2020.
RBS waived interest, refunded charges and offered compensation payments. The 
compensation payment was made to his credit card account instead of his personal current 
account, despite Mr Ws instructions. This was corrected by RBS after Mr W complained.
In January, the direct debit was claimed. However, a balance remained on the account. 
Mr W complained to RBS again. He felt that RBS hadnt resolved his problems. At this point, 
Mr W decided to bring his complaint to the service. 
The case was reviewed by one of our investigators. They agreed to uphold Mr Ws overall 
complaint.  They acknowledged the steps already taken by RBS and proposed that further 
compensation be awarded of £50. RBS accepted this but Mr W wasnt happy with the 
outcome as he believed that £150 should be refunded to him. He asked that his case be 
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Overall, there have been several problems here, but I believe that the additional £50 
compensation is fair. It wouldnt be fair to say that Mr W should get the £150 he wants 
refunded to him and Ill explain why this is.
I can understand why Mr W would think that the direct debit would be claimed in December. I 
think it could have been made clearer to him that the payment wouldnt be made until 
January. RBS helped by cancelling all charges and interest. They also made a payment of 
£20 to ensure that no further arrears letters would be issued. Thats fair, as this puts Mr W in 
the position he would have been in, were he correctly advised in the first place.
RBS also paid £150 in compensation in relation to these issues. I think that amount is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances to recognise the impact this had on Mr W and the 
confusion and frustration he was caused.
But this compensation was wrongly applied to Mr Ws credit card account instead of his 
current account. This was clearly avoidable, as Mr W had given clear instructions in an email 
to pay this to his personal current account. Im satisfied that RBS did correct this and sent 
the compensation of £150 to his personal bank account. That was the right thing to do, as 
this put Mr W in the position he shouldve been in if RBS acted correctly in respect of the 
refund.
I have then reviewed all the credit card statements in order to understand what has 
happened in respect of the payments and Mr Ws balance here.
 
The balance owed on Mr Ws credit card on 20 December 2019 was £674.29. Any 
spending after this date was carried over to the next month. This is normal as the 
purchases were processed after the statement date.
An online payment of £12 and the banks payment of £20 were credited on 30 
December 2019 resulting in a new balance owed of £642.29.
The compensation payment of £150 was credited on 6 January 2020, reducing the 
balance owed to £492.29. The direct debit was set at this amount on 7 January 2020, 
7 days before the payment date of 14 January 2020.
On 9 January 2020, the £150 compensation was taken off the credit card account to 
be sent to Mr Ws personal bank account at his request. This returned the credit card 
balance back to £642.29. However, this was after the direct debit amount had 
already been set.
On 14 January 2020 the direct debit was claimed for £492.29. This left a balance of 
£187.36.
This remaining balance reflects previous purchases made by Mr W and two further 
purchases on 29 December and 4 January.
 
The direct debit amount was calculated seven days before the direct debit was due. This is 
normal practice. However, RBS didnt consider the impact that the reversed compensation 
payment would have on this amount. This was important as Mr W had made it clear that he 
wanted the whole balance clearing. I believe that RBS should have identified this issue and told Mr W. He could then have arranged an additional payment to clear the remaining 
balance. By not telling him, this led to further frustration for Mr W, on top of an already 
difficult situation that he has had to deal with.
Putting things right
Mr W is now in the position he should be in and he has not lost out financially. The 
outstanding balance on the credit card has been correctly calculated by RBS and I think its 
entitled to ask him to repay it on this basis. However, in the circumstances, I believe that it is 
fair and reasonable for RBS to pay an additional £50 for how its handled this aspect of the 
complaint. But I make no further award than that here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint. In recognition of the additional 
frustration and inconvenience caused, I require The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay a 
further compensation payment of £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
David Morgan
Ombudsman