DRN-3231487
The complaint
Mr V complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas) approved a claim for 
a repair to his vehicle but then told him the claim wasnt covered. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties. So rather than repeating 
everything, Ill give an overview of whats happened so far, and then Ill focus on giving my 
decision and the reasons for it.
On 13 July 2020 Mr V took out a Breakdown Repair Cover policy with Acromas. On 3 August 
2020 Mr Vs car broke down so he called Acromas to make a claim under his policy. An 
engineer visited the scene but as the car couldnt be fixed, it was taken to a nearby garage 
for further inspection.
In correspondence between Acromas and the garage, it was established that the cause of 
the damage couldnt be identified, and the garage was unable to confirm whether the 
damage was related with wear and tear, and whether this was present when the policy 
started. Acromas appointed an engineer to inspect the vehicle to establish the cause of the 
damage. 
Following the engineers inspection they produced a report which deemed that the damage 
to Mr Vs vehicle was a result of pre-existing wear and tear. The engineer said the wear and 
tear wouldve been present at the time the policy started, so Acromas declined Mr Vs claim 
under one of the exclusions of the policy. 
Mr V complained as he said that when he initially reported the breakdown he was told that 
he could have the repair work carried out, and hed be reimbursed for the work if he provided 
his invoice. Acromas didnt agree with Mr Vs version of events, as it said it hadnt approved 
the claim. So as Mr V remained unhappy he referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered Mr Vs complaint but she didnt think Acromas had acted 
unfairly. She thought that it was fair for Acromas to rely on the engineers report and to apply 
the policy exclusions and decline the claim. 
Mr V didnt agree with the investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know its likely to come as a disappointment to Mr V but having done so, I agree with the 
outcome reached by the investigator. Ill explain why. 
The crucial piece of information here is what happened during the initial call between Mr V 
and Acromas  as the content of that call is in dispute. Mr V says he was told the claim had 
been accepted, but Acromas says it told Mr V he could have the repairs done and pay for 
them, but hed only be reimbursed subject to an inspection from the engineer. 
Our investigator attempted to obtain a recording of the call between Mr V and Acromas but 
its not available. So in its absence, Ive thought carefully about what Mr V has said in his 
complaint, and the evidence that Acromas has been able to provide. 
Although it doesnt have the call recording, Acromas has provide a fairly brief contact note 
from the time the call in question took place. The note says:
Call from member explained he can pay the gge [garage]  gge keep parts  he is happy to 
pay and send invoice to us  depends on report from inspector
So having considered this, and whilst it doesnt contain an awful lot of detail, it does suggest 
that Mr V was told that the claim would be paid subject to the report from the engineer. 
I havent lost sight of the fact that Mr V disputes this point. I fully accept that hes given his 
honest recollection of what he was told, or what he understood during this call. But on 
weighing up everything Ive seen from both sides I do think its more likely than not that Mr V 
was told about the need for an inspection before the claim could be paid. Its common 
practice for insurers to mitigate their losses by using specialist engineers to validate claims 
before payment, and for that reason, I dont think the call handler wouldve given assurance 
that the claim had been fully approved simply after having a telephone conversation with Mr 
V. 
Ive also thought about what mightve happened if things had been different  thats to say, if 
Mr V had been told during the call that the claim wasnt covered by his policy. Of course I 
cant be sure of this, but I do think its likely hed have gone ahead and had his car repaired 
anyway. So I dont think the situation has led Mr V to do something that has left him in a 
worse situation than hed otherwise have been in, albeit I do accept that the experience has 
been incredibly frustrating.
Turning to the declined claim itself, Ive now considered whether the wear and tear cited in 
the engineers report means the claim was in fact fairly declined under the terms of Mr Vs 
policy. 
Ive firstly looked at the engineers report and I can see that in their opinion, the fault was 
likely forming as wear and tear when the insurance policy was taken out. Its important to 
note at this point that the policy had been taken out around two weeks before the claim  so 
Im satisfied that it wouldve been apparent whether the wear and tear had been 
deteriorating for more or less time than that  and consequently, whether it was present at 
the point the policy started. As the engineer deemed that the damage had been present from 
before the start of the policy, and as a specialist in their field of work, I dont think its 
unreasonable for Acromas to rely on the engineers report when handling the claim. 
Ive now gone on to consider this alongside Mr Vs policy, to decide on whether I think 
Acromas has applied to findings of the engineers report fairly to decline the claim. The section of Mr Vs policy headed General exclusions (This policy will not cover): states:
1. Any costs for repairs following a Mechanical or Electrical Failure if:
a. The faults existed prior to the purchase of this cover;
So having considered this exclusion, alongside the engineers report confirming the damage 
to Mr Vs car was caused by wear and tear forming prior to the inception of the policy, Im 
satisfied that Acroamas fairly declined the claim. I do accept that Mr V may not have known 
about the fault, which Im sure is very frustrating for him, but that doesnt mean that Acromas 
declined the claim incorrectly. 
Id like to reassure Mr V that Ive thought very carefully about his complaint and I realise hes 
likely to be disappointed with my decision. But I hope he can gain some reassurance from 
my explanations that Acromas hasnt acted unfairly towards him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint against Acromas Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2022.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman