DRN-3791656
The complaint
Mr R complains that he was mis-sold three bonds by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd). 
He says that he was told the investments were fully asset backed and relatively low risk. 
He says the money he has lost has affected his retirement plans.
What happened
The B&G Plc Bonds
Mr R invested in a Basset & Gold Plc (B&G Plc) three-year Fixed Monthly Income IFISA 
Bond, a five-year Compounding High Yield Bond and a five-year Fixed Monthly Income 
Bond. Sales of these bonds were dealt with by BG Ltd, a separate business from B&G Plc, 
the issuer of the bonds. BG Ltd arranged applications for investments in the bonds through a 
website it operated. And it was responsible for advertising and marketing the bonds. 
Potential investors were also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss the bonds.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited 
(Gallium). B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium from 
17 February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Mr Rs investments in the bonds
Mr R said he saw the bonds advertised on comparison websites and the rates were shown 
alongside bank and building society products. He applied for the bonds between September 
and December 2017.
Mr R said he had received an inheritance and a large proportion of this money was used to 
invest in the bonds. He said he was an inexperienced investor and was looking for fixed rate 
savings products.
I have been supplied with some call recordings between Mr R and BG Ltd, but I dont 
consider them to be material to the outcome of this complaint, so Ive not relied on them 
when reaching my findings. 
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG 
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that 
nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay day 
lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck went into administration 
in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Mr R 
has not had his invested capital returned to him.
The application process
From Mr Rs recollections of the application process, and the other evidence Ive seen, Im 
satisfied that he applied online. 
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the online application process. These show the 
application journey that Mr R underwent. This consisted of two stages, designed to meet the 
rules restricting who the bonds could be promoted to and on how to test whether the 
investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was certification, where Mr R 
was categorised as an everyday investor. The second was the appropriateness test. 
Galliums response to Mr Rs complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mr Rs complaint. It said Mr R had been given sufficient information 
and risk warnings about the investments. It then made further submissions once Mr Rs 
complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also 
considered what Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out general 
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mr Rs complaint and concluded it should be upheld. 
They said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Mr R as a restricted 
investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bonds for him - was 
misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the FCAs rules.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so, Mr R wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have 
concluded that it shouldnt allow Mr R to invest. For these reasons, both cumulatively 
and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium to compensate 
Mr R for the loss he has suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said in summary:
Regardless of label, Mr R was required to confirm that he met the requirements of a 
restricted investor and confirmed that he did. It is not fair or reasonable to conclude 
that the use of the word everyday contributed to Mr R giving an incorrect 
declaration, and it was reasonable for it to rely on the declaration.  
The appropriateness test answers, and these confirmations, were sufficient for 
Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and 
experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the 
relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Mr R made the investments on the understanding they had risk associated with them 
and did not chose to surrender them when receiving the email in 2019 which warned 
of the concentration risk. So he would have proceeded with the investments 
regardless. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on 
behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bonds. In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are 
relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
The bonds were non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting who they 
could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the 
potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. 
I have considered the relevant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered 
these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for the same reasons. In summary:
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Mr R into certifying himself as belonging in 
a category to which he did not belong (a restricted investor) by changing the term 
used in the rules to everyday investor and describing the category as being one 
anyone could fall into. This was not treating Mr R fairly or acting in his best 
interests. Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled Mr R, it is unlikely he would 
have certified himself as being a restricted investor.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet 
the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the 
bonds were not an appropriate investment for Mr R. In the circumstances Mr R would 
either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have 
concluded it should not promote the bonds to Mr R.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Mr Rs complaint 
should be upheld. I am also satisfied Mr R would either not have proceeded to make the 
investments or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and 
reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to 
compensate Mr R for his loss.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr R 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not made the investments. 
I take the view that Mr R would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr R's circumstances and objectives when he invested.What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mr R fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mr R's investments with that of the benchmark shown 
below.
A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment. The resultant 
figures should then be added up. If the calculation still shows a loss, that would be 
the amount payable to Mr R.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pay to Mr R £350 for the distress caused by the loss of his investments. It is clear the 
loss came as a shock to Mr R and has caused him significant upset. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Three-year 
Fixed Monthly 
Income IFISA 
Bond Still exists but 
illiquidAverage rate from 
fixed rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Five-year 
Compounding 
High-Yield 
BondStill exists but 
illiquidAverage rate from 
fixed rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Five-year 
Fixed Monthly 
Income BondStill exists but 
illiquidAverage rate from 
fixed rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)For each investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date any investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr R agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take ownership, 
then it may request an undertaking from Mr R that he repays to Gallium any amount he may 
receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Gallium totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. 
If any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, 
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr R wanted to achieve a reasonable return and I do not think he wanted to take 
significant risk. 
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr R's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr R would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr R in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 Matthew Young
Ombudsman