DRN-1724661
Summary of complaint
Miss H is unhappy that Allianz Insurance Plc have turned down her claim on her pet 
insurance. Shes also unhappy with the service shes received when making her claim.
Background to complaint
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 12 March 2020. In it I explained the 
background and the findings I was planning on reaching. I said:
Miss H insured her cat, who Ill refer to as T in this decision. Miss H originally took this 
policy out in March 2019.
T had a medical issue so Miss H had tests carried out to understand what the problems 
were. These tests were carried out in April and May 2019, and the total cost of them came to 
around £165.
Miss H submitted a claim for tests Allianz say related to kidney disease. But Allianz didnt 
agree to pay it  they said clinical signs of the condition were showing before the start date 
of Miss Hs policy. They got this from Miss Hs vets record of Ts history  where in 
December 2018 T had been reported as drinking lots of water. So, if theyd known T had 
been drinking lots of water theyd have excluded kidney disease conditions  saying itd have 
been classed as a pre-existing condition. They also said because these conditions started 
within 14 days of the start date of the policy, they were excluded for this reason too.
Miss H complained about the decline of the claim. She was also unhappy with the tone of 
the email she received from Allianz when declining the claim  and told them to cancel her 
policy at this time. 
Allianz replied, and explained theyd considered everything, but still felt Miss Hs claim for T 
shouldnt be met. But did say sorry for the tone of the email shed received and offered her 
£25. Unhappy with the overall response Miss H brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator considered the complaint. He said Allianz had correctly declined the claim 
because it started within the first 14 days of the policy period, and that there was a pre-
existing condition. So he didnt think Allianz should meet the claim. 
Miss H didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
 
 
 
 
My provisional findingsIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator which I know will be very disappointing for Miss H. Shes made 
it very clear how much T means to her, and I want her to know Ive looked at all the 
information very carefully.
To provide a complete answer I need to address three issues:
The decline of the claim for Ts treatment
Cancellation of the policy
Customer service provided
 
The decline of the claim
Itll help to explain that my role when considering a complaint about a declined insurance 
claim is to assess whether the insurer has acted fairly in turning down the claim. 
So, to decide this I need to look at the reasons Allianz have given for turning down the claim 
and determine whether thats fair under the policy terms Miss H took out.
Allianz during the claim have given two main reasons for the decline:
The condition started within the first 14 days of the policy
There were clinical signs of the condition before the policy was taken out
The condition started within the first 14 days of the policy
Allianz have said on multiple occasions that because the condition started within the first 14 
days of the policy its not covered under the terms. We also gave this as a reason for not 
upholding this complaint. Allianz have since said this isnt the reason and Miss H has been 
clear she didnt visit the vet in this time, but given this has been said a few times, I think its 
helpful to cover this.
The terms and conditions do allow Allianz to exclude conditions that start within the first 14 
days. But based on what Ive seen it wouldnt have been correct to exclude the claim for this 
reason.
Miss H took T to her vets on 26 April 2019. Its written on the notes this is when she first 
realised T wasnt well. The treatment dates are recorded from 26 April 2019 also, but in one 
section the vet has written, in the box that says when the condition started, 26/3/19.
I think this is a typo, and the vet meant to write 26/4/2019  I say this because there are no 
notes to show T was seen by the vet on 26 March 2019. So I think this explains that issue, 
which unfortunately has caused some confusion.
But, even if the vet did mean 26 March 2019, rather than 26 April 2019, I still dont think 
Allianz would need to meet the claim for reasons Ill go on to explain.
There were clinical signs of the condition before the policy was taken out
The terms say that Allianz can exclude a condition if there were clinical signs before the 
policy started  known as a pre-existing condition.Allianz defines clinical signs as A change(s) in your pets normal healthy state, bodily 
functions or behaviour. And defines a pre-existing condition as one where any injury, illness 
that happened or first showed clinical signs before the policy was taken out.
Miss H has provided her vets comments to say the reason Allianz excluded it isnt for the 
same condition. The vet has said the lab work done each time showed Ts kidney function 
was acceptable, and that he was not showing signs of kidney failure.
But Allianz have provided their underwriting guide. This shows what they do and dont cover. 
I cant share this with Miss H as its commercially sensitive, but Ive seen it and am satisfied 
with the information it contains.
It says if a pet is drinking too much, thats a sign of potential kidney problems. The vets 
notes do show Miss H was worried about T drinking too much. So the key point here is that 
although kidney disease hadnt been diagnosed, and the vet says there were no signs of 
kidney failure, there were clinical signs according to Allianzs underwriting guide. This means 
if Allianz had been made aware of this, then they wouldnt have offered cover for kidney 
conditions. Ive not seen anything to suggest Miss H made Allianz aware of this. Allianz may 
have asked clear questions, as shes disclosed other conditions. But regardless of whether 
they did or didnt ask clear questions, T wouldnt have been covered under this policy for 
kidney related issues  because there were clinical signs of the condition before the policy 
was taken out.
And when Miss H took T to the vets in April 2019 theyve recorded the issue as chronic 
kidney disease. The costs Miss H has incurred for the tests relate to a chronic kidney 
disease condition  according to Allianzs underwriting guide. Because of this, Im currently 
planning to say Allianz arent responsible for paying the claim for Ts tests.
Cancellation of the policy
On 27 June 2019 Miss H called up to discuss the claim with Allianz. Ive listened to this call. 
In it she says initially she wants to cancel the policy and get a refund of her premiums. But at 
the end of the call she ends up saying not to cancel, as shell speak to the vet.
On 8 July she calls up again to discuss the claim, and at this point Allianz explain theyll 
contact her by email. They did this shortly afterwards, and in reply Miss H asked them to 
cancel her policy and refund all the premiums. Allianz write back to confirm theyve done so 
on 25 July.
Miss Hs argument here is she told them not to cancel her policy. This is true in the June 
phone call, but later on in July Ive seen she told them to cancel it  and they confirmed they 
did this. At this time, unlike in the phone call in June, there was no further instruction not to 
cancel the policy.
Miss H also said she wanted all of her premiums refunded. Allianz explained they wouldnt 
do this because theyve correctly followed their processes.
Based on what Ive seen Miss H had cover for T and another pet under this policy  and if 
she was able to make a claim that satisfied the terms then Allianz would have paid out. So, I 
dont think it appropriate for Allianz to refund all of Miss Hs premiums  but I can see theyve 
refunded some. Ive not seen anything to suggest what theyve refunded is incorrect.
This means Im planning to say I dont think they did anything wrong in cancelling Miss Hs 
policy  and arent required to refund her any further premiums.Customer service
During the exchange about cancelling the policy there was also a further explanation about 
why this claim was declined. This was written by the underwriting team, and just shared with 
Miss H with no empathy.
Allianz acknowledged theyd made a mistake here and should have explained it in more 
empathetic terms and offered Miss H £25 for this.
I agree that this was poor customer service. T clearly means a lot to Miss H. Shes told us as 
much so to be told about the rejection of her claim in these terms is disappointing.
But I dont think this was malicious on Allianzs part, just poor customer service. And Allianz 
increased the level of compensation to £50 to reflect that they gave her the wrong 
information for the outcome of her claim. Overall this doesnt seem unreasonable.
Responses to my provisional decision
Allianz replied and said they had nothing to add.
Miss H replied and said T didnt show any signs of illness prior to the insurance being taken 
out. She said any side effects hed shown were as a result of a different illness diagnosed 
the year before. Miss H also repeated that Allianz cancelled the policy when she hadnt 
asked them to.
My findings
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I still wont be upholding this complaint, which I know will be really 
disappointing for Miss H.
Signs of illness prior to the policy being taken out
Miss H made this argument previously in her submissions to us  and it is something I 
considered before. 
Miss H hasnt given me any new information to consider here, so for the reasons Ive 
explained above, Im satisfied Allianz were allowed to exclude this condition  and therefore 
not pay her claim.
Cancellation of the policy
Miss H has repeated her point here that she didnt ask them to cancel the policy in the end.
Ive explained above that the evidence I have shows Miss H asking Allianz to cancel her 
policy and to be sent a refund. Allianz followed Miss Hs instructions. I dont think its 
reasonable for me to say Allianz could or should have done anything different  when they 
were following Miss Hs instructions.
Summary
As I said before its clear T means an awful lot to Miss H. And Im genuinely sorry for the 
difficult time shes experiencing  both for her previous claim, and a current claim she may 
want to make.But for all the reasons Ive explained above, I cant reasonably ask Allianz to may Miss Hs 
claim for T or reinstate her policy to allow for a new claim to be made. 
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman