DRN-3780058
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy with what Soteria Insurance Limited did after she made a claim on her legal 
expenses insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms C contacted Soteria to make a claim on her legal expenses policy in July 2017. This 
related to a dispute with her neighbour. Soteria sought legal advice on whether the claim 
was covered by her policy and whether it had reasonable prospects of success (a 
requirement of the policy). One of its panel solicitors advised in December 2017 that parts of 
the claim did have reasonable prospects of success. 
The panel solicitors wrote to the neighbours solicitors the following month inviting their 
comments on the use of the land in question and suggesting possible ways forward. As the 
neighbour didnt accept Ms Cs position it was agreed expert advice should be obtained from 
a chartered surveyor. The experts approached by the panel firm werent able to carry out the 
work within the required timeframe and Ms C therefore instructed her own surveyor. A report 
was produced at the end of June 2018. 
Following this panel solicitors sent a letter of claim to the neighbours solicitors and 
mediation was agreed. That took place at the end of October but was unsuccessful. The 
panel firm instructed counsel to draw up particulars of claim. Ms C was unhappy with their 
actions to date and referenced potential legal action against them. In the light of that the 
panel firm said it would no longer act for her. Soteria said an alternative panel firm could be 
appointed under the policy or she could find her own solicitor. 
Ms C had difficulties in finding an alternative firm but did identify one in March 2019. Terms 
of appointment were agreed with Soteria and matters progressed. A court hearing took place 
in November 2019. Following that a full day hearing was scheduled for January 2020 as the 
judge wished to carry out a site visit. Soteria agreed to a request from Ms Cs solicitors for 
counsels opinion on the claim given comments the judge made at the hearing. Counsel 
advised towards the end of December the claim was unlikely to succeed and Ms C would be 
liable for costs. He recommended vacating the upcoming hearing by agreement. 
Soteria said as the claim no longer had prospects of success it wouldnt be providing further 
funding for court action. However, it agreed to fund negotiations with the neighbour over a 
settlement. Discussions took place but it wasnt possible to reach agreement. Ms Cs 
solicitors advised in April 2020 that they didnt recommend returning to court and if Ms C 
wasnt prepared to compromise then settlement wouldnt be possible. 
In the light of that advice Soteria confirmed it wouldnt be providing any further funding. I 
understand Ms C then acted as a litigant in person after her solicitors stopped acting for her. 
Soteria issued final responses issued to the complaints Ms C made in October 2017, 
November 2018 and February 2021. Our investigator said we couldnt look at concerns 
addressed in the October 2017 response because Ms C had referred these to us more than 
six months after that date. But we could look at issues covered in the subsequent final 
responses. 
However, having reviewed matters, he didnt think there had been significant delay by 
Soteria in moving matters forward and overall the claim had been progressed by it in a 
reasonable way. He noted Ms C had expressed concerns about the mediator but his actions 
werent something we could consider. And he didnt think it was unreasonable of Soteria to 
appoint a barrister to represent her at that mediation and the documents it provided to the 
mediator were ones he reasonably required. He thought Soteria acted in line with the policy 
terms in deciding not to provide further funding for the court hearing given counsels opinion 
that the claim no longer enjoyed reasonable prospects of success. 
Ms C didnt agree. In summary she said:
There had been delay in matters being progressed between January and July 2018 and 
Soteria should have issued proceedings for trespass and harassment at that time.
It should have taken issue with the mediator and the bundle of papers provided should 
have been agreed with her first and was too large. She reiterated concerns about what 
happened when the mediation took place. That included the barrister who attended not 
providing her with proper advice. She thought a local solicitors firm would have been 
better placed to assist.
Her solicitors should have sought to recover costs following a hearing in November 2019 
and she expressed more general concerns about other costs that had been incurred in 
relation to the claim  she argued this had depleted her insurance indemnity prematurely
Ms C also made comments about what she felt the judge who had heard her case got wrong 
and why she felt hed interpreted information incorrectly. She thought the court should have 
agreed to hear her claim for trespass and nuisance at the same as issues relating to a right 
of way were considered. She also disagreed with an order issued in July 2021 that she 
needed to pay the other sides costs in relation to the right of way issue. 
And she asked to be sent the instructions to counsel which informed the assessment her 
case didnt have reasonable prospects of success. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Soteria has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonablyWhat are the issues Im considering?
I appreciate Ms C has concerns about what happened after she first contacted Soteria in 
July 2017. However, our investigator explained we cant look at those issues because Ms C 
didnt contact us within six months of the final response Soteria sent her about this in 
October 2017. So those arent matters Im considering in this decision. 
And while I know Ms C continued to have contact with Soteria after it issued its February 
2021 final response any concerns she has about whats happened since then arent 
something Im considering either. Those are matters that would need to be considered as 
part of a separate complaint which it would be for Soteria to consider in the first instance. 
That would include Ms Cs concerns about the costs incurred under the policy (and the 
impact on her indemnity limit).  
Ms C has also gone into some detail about the reasons why she feels the judge made the 
wrong decision on her case. Again that isnt something I can consider. Nor can I look at the 
actions of the solicitors involved with the case when acting in their legal capacity. That 
applies to both the panel solicitors and the solicitors Ms C subsequently appointed (and so 
would include any concerns about their actions following the November 2019 hearing). 
I appreciate in this case the matter is complicated by the fact the panel solicitors were also 
acting as claims handlers. But that doesnt change the basic position which is that I can only 
consider what they were doing when acting on behalf of Soteria in a claims handling 
capacity. Soteria isnt responsible for the actions of the panel solicitors when carrying out 
their legal role (which would include the day to day management of the claim). If Ms C wants 
to pursue any concerns about what the panel firm or the solicitors she appointed did then the 
Legal Ombudsman is the appropriate body to consider these complaints. 
Were there delays by Soteria in the handling of the claim
Ive reviewed the progress of the claim but Ive havent identified any significant delays in it 
being moved forward which I think Soteria is responsible for or should have taken action in 
relation to. Its clear this was a complicated matter and given that I dont think there was 
anything further Soteria should have done to progress matters between October 2017 and 
December 2017 (when the panel solicitor produced their assessment of the claims 
prospects of success). 
Ms C has expressed particular concerns about the period from January 2018 (when an initial 
letter was sent by the panel solicitors to her neighbour) and June 2018 when a letter of claim 
was sent. I do understand Ms Cs frustration at the time taken to progress matters in this 
period but that appears to be largely due to the need to seek counsels opinion, difficulties in 
obtaining a report from a surveyor and a lack of clear responses from the solicitors acting for 
her neighbour. 
I understand the challenges that will have caused for Ms C given the ongoing issues she 
was having with her neighbour but I dont think those delays came about because of 
anything Soteria got wrong. And, as Ive said it isnt responsible for the day to day 
management of the claim which was for the panel solicitors (acting in their legal capacity) to 
progress. It was for them to decide whether and at what stage to issue proceedings. 
After July 2018 I again think matters progressed reasonably; there was correspondence with 
the neighbours solicitors which led to counsels advice being sought and he recommended 
mediation be attempted which then took place. As that was unsuccessful counsel was 
instructed to draw up particulars of claim. I appreciate after panel solicitors then said they would no longer act for Ms C in December 
2018 thats likely to have impacted the progression of the claim. But that wasnt something 
Soteria was responsible for. And I can see that, as Id expect, it then offered to appoint 
alternative panel solicitors or agreed Ms C could appoint her own. I appreciate it took time 
for Ms C to find her own firm but given Soteria had offered to appoint another panel firm I 
dont think any delay here is something its responsible for. And once the new firm were 
appointed they took responsibility for the day to day running of the claim. I can see a number 
of requests were made by that firm to Soteria for authorisation to incur costs which appear to 
have been considered within a reasonable timeframe. 
The mediation process
Ms C feels that information provided as part of the mediation process was too detailed and 
should have been agreed with her first. But Im not clear thats something Soteria is 
responsible for; the bundle appears to have been prepared by the panel solicitors acting in 
their legal capacity. And I think the decision on whether to agree the bundle with her was 
also for those panel solicitors to make. However, I can see that as part of their review of 
matters Soteria did look at the information provided and concluded this was information the 
mediator would have required. Ive looked at the list of documents provided and I dont think 
that was an unreasonable conclusion. The documents include material such as title 
documents, relevant photographs and correspondence between the parties. 
And while I appreciate Ms Cs concerns about the mediator I think Soteria took reasonable 
steps to check on their qualifications and experience prior to agreeing their appointment. I 
can see the chosen individual was an approved mediator with over twenty years of 
experience and particular expertise in boundary disputes. I recognise Ms C is unhappy with 
what the mediator did as part of the mediation process but I understand Ms C has made a 
complaint about that to the firm responsible. If shes unhappy with the response provided 
that will need to be progressed through any available escalation process; it isnt something I 
can consider as part of this complaint. 
I recognise Ms C doesnt feel she got proper advice from the barrister who attended the 
mediation. But I dont think Soteria acted unreasonably in agreeing to his appointment given 
the nature of the dispute and its particular complexities. Ms C feels that a local firm should 
have been appointed but I can see that barrister had particular experience in boundary 
disputes. So I think he was suitably qualified to represent Ms C at the mediation and I dont 
think Soteria did anything wrong in agreeing he could do so. If Ms C is unhappy with his 
conduct during the mediation shed need to raise that as a complaint against that barrister.
The decision to withdraw cover for the claim
I recognise it will have been distressing for Ms C that Soteria decided to withdraw funding for 
further court proceedings at the end of 2019. However, in common with other legal expenses 
policies hers doesnt provide cover for any claim (including an appeal) which we consider 
does not have a reasonable chance of success.
It was the advice of her solicitors that further advice should be sought on this, given 
comments the judge made at the November 2019 hearing. So I think it was right Soteria 
agreed to fund this. And that advice was clear the claim no longer enjoyed reasonable 
prospects of success. I think that advice was properly written and reasoned and from a 
suitably qualified barrister. So I think it was fair of Soteria to rely on that and conclude the 
policy terms in relation to a claim having a reasonable chance of success were no longer 
met. However, where cover is withdrawn with court action already underway I would expect 
funding to be provided to enable a policyholder to extricate themselves from those 
proceedings. And the evidence shows Soteria did that; it provided ongoing funding for the 
discussion around a settlement that took place with the neighbours solicitors. So I think its 
acted appropriately here. 
Those negotiations didnt result in a settlement but there was clear advice from Ms Cs 
solicitors in April 2020 that this wouldnt be possible unless she was prepared to compromise 
on a particular issue. As Ms C wasnt prepared to do that settlement of the claim wasnt 
possible and it didnt have reasonable prospects of success to pursue in court (her solicitors 
specifically advised her against doing so). On that basis I dont think Soteria did anything 
wrong in confirming it wouldnt be providing any further funding. 
Ms C says she wants to see the instructions to counsel that informed the prospects 
assessment. I can see counsels opinion said hed been instructed to provide advice on the 
current prospects of success and any appropriate exit strategies.  And he was already 
familiar with the case having represented Ms C at a previous hearing. For the reasons Ive 
explained Im satisfied it was reasonable of Soteria to rely on his opinion and I dont need to 
see any further instructions in order to reach a decision on this complaint. Ms C is of course 
free to request this from Soteria if she wants. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman