DRN-4305641
The complaint
Mr T complains about the way TSB Bank plc handled his claim for a partial refund in respect 
of a trip he paid for with his credit card that was curtailed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
In March 2019 Mr T and his partner booked a three-month cruise with a company Ill call C. 
The cruise was to depart in January 2020. The total cost of the cruise was around £40,000, 
made up of various different components.
Mr T said he paid a deposit to C of around £1,600 via a debit card with another bank. And he 
thinks around £400 was transferred from a previous booking he cancelled in favour of this 
one.
Mr T also paid around £29,000 to C via bank transfers from his TSB bank account over the 
course of 2019.
Mr T said his partner paid £299 for port car parking and £3,925.80 for additions packages 
for both of them which upgraded the refreshments they could benefit from.
In November 2019 Mr T said C offered him and his partner an upgrade to their cabin. He 
paid £5,000 to C for this using his TSB credit card. Following this C sent a confirmation 
invoice to Mr Ts partner showing the following:
Cruise Fare (listed against Mr Ts partner) £36,679
Cruise Fare (listed against Mr T)  £36,679
Discount Onboard Booking (listed against Mr Ts partner)  -£5,633.95
Supplement Paid Upgrade £5,000
Promotional Discount (listed against Mr T) -£36,679
Port Car Parking £299
C Additions Package (listed against Mr Ts partner) £1,962
C Additions Package (listed against Mr T) £1,962
Total £40,269.85
In March 2020, a little over halfway through the cruise, C told the passengers it would have 
to curtail it due to the developing situation with the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdowns in the 
destination ports. C arranged to ferry Mr T and his partner back to the UK port and told them 
it would be offering all passengers a full refund of monies paid from today, until the end of 
the cruise. C explained that it would take around a month to get them home.
In June 2020 C gave Mr T and his partner a Refund Credit Note for £16,358.86. Mr T and C 
agreed this represented the portion of the trip and associated add ons that hadnt been 
provided. This was based on a calculation that around 43% of the cruise was missed having 
been curtailed on 14 March 2020 and around 17.5% of the additions packages and port car 
parking were missed having been used up until 14 April 2020 (when Mr T and his partner 
were returned to the UK). The refund credit note said it could be presented as credit against 
a future booking with C or redeemed for a full refund.
In July 2020, before Mr T or his partner were able to use the refund credit note or redeem it 
for a cash refund, C entered administration.
Mr T tried to recover the cost of the trip via the relevant bonding agent but was told he would 
need to go to his bank.
Mr T asked TSB to help him get his money back. It successfully recovered around £2,166 of 
the £5,000 he paid to C using his credit card via the chargeback scheme (a mechanism a 
bank can use to recover money paid to a supplier).
Mr T agreed with TSB this sum represented the unused portion (i.e. 43%) of the supplement 
paid upgrade. TSB said it could not claim the remaining sums Mr T had paid to C via 
chargeback as he hadnt paid them via one of its plastic cards but instead via bank transfer 
or cards from another bank.
Mr T asked TSB to consider a claim under section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 
75) for the remainder of the money he paid to C. However, TSB said Mr T did not have a 
valid claim. It said this was because the value of the claim exceeded the financial limits of 
section 75 as the total cost of the booking for Mr T and his partner was more than £30,000. It 
also said Mr T had already agreed a remedy with C for its failure to provide the service in full 
as hed accepted the refund credit note. So, it said this effectively extinguished his claim 
under section 75 and it wasnt responsible for the failure of the remedy that the parties had 
agreed.
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr T referred his complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision in July 2023 explaining why I planned to uphold Mr Ts 
complaint in part. I said:
I am looking here at the actions of TSB and whether it has acted fairly and 
reasonably in the way it handled Mr Ts request for help in getting his money back. 
This will take into account the circumstances of the failed trip and how the supplier 
has acted, but there are also other considerations, such as the scheme rules a bank 
has to follow and its own obligations.
There are two main ways a bank can help a customer to recover money paid to a  
supplier who hasnt provided what was promised. It can try to recover the money 
from the supplier through a process known as chargeback. Or it can assess whether 
its customer has a valid claim under section 75).
Chargeback
In certain circumstances the chargeback process provides a way for a bank to ask for 
a payment Mr T made to be refunded. Where applicable, the bank raises a dispute 
with the supplier and effectively asks for the payment to be returned to the customer. While it is good practice for a bank to attempt a chargeback where the right exists 
and there is some prospect of success, the circumstances of a dispute means it 
wont always be appropriate for the bank to raise a chargeback. There are grounds or 
dispute conditions set by the relevant card scheme and if these are not met a 
chargeback is unlikely to succeed.
Here TSB raised a chargeback for Mr T in respect of the one transaction he made 
using his TSB credit card  the £5,000 supplement paid upgrade. TSB successfully 
recovered the sum Mr T asked to it charge back which was the portion of the service 
he said he paid for but did not receive as a result of the curtailment. It seems unlikely 
TSB could have recovered any more than this via the chargeback process as it could 
only recover sums Mr T had paid using its plastic cards and he didnt pay for any 
other parts of the trip with his TSB credit card.
Section 75
Section 75 provides that subject to certain criteria the borrower under a credit 
agreement has an equal right to claim against the credit provider if there's either a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services.
One limitation to this is contained in section 75(3)(b) which sets out that it does not 
apply to a claim so far as it relates to any single item to which the supplier has 
attached a cash price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000.
TSB said Mr Ts claim related to a single item to which C attached a cash price of 
more than £30,000. It said this was because it considered the whole booking, 
including both Mr T and his partners cruise fares to be a single item.
Ive thought carefully about this.
The invoice from November 2019 provided a breakdown of the various charges that  
had been paid by Mr T and his partner. Each of the line items were listed, and some 
items indicated to which passenger they referred. Two separate cruise fares were 
listed, one against Mr T and one against his partner.
I find that on balance both Mr T and his partners cruise fare were single items to 
which C attached separate cash prices for the purposes of section 75(3)(b). I say this 
for the following reasons:
The contract treated each passenger as (in some cases) individually liable for 
their fare, and they were able to transfer or cancel their passage (under 
certain conditions) for costs for which they would be individually liable.
The choice of one passenger to cancel did not appear to impact the ability of 
the other passenger to continue the journey. This suggests to me that each 
fare was a separate item. If they were one single item together, I would 
expect the cancellation of part of the booking to have affected the whole 
booking.
The discount promotion listed on the invoice was described on Cs website as 
being for 50% off per person suggesting each persons fare was a separate 
item to which the discount applied. Although this discount is described on the 
invoice under one line item and listed against Mr Ts name, without more 
information as to how the discount works, it seems reasonable to apply what 
was described on Cs website.Working on that basis, it appears that no other combination of discounts, additions or
supplements on the invoice (however one might argue they should be apportioned 
between Mr T and his partner) would have put the cost of either Mr T or his partners 
cruise fare over £30,000.
I am satisfied therefore that Mr Ts claim does not relate to a single item to which C 
attached a cash price of more than £30,000.
TSB has suggested the Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements 
Regulations 2018 (PTR) operated in such as a way so as to roll up both cruise fares 
into one overall package or single item.
The PTR imply certain terms in travel contracts where different travel services are 
combined in a particular way by an organiser. Generally, the legislation deals with:
the liability of an organiser to a traveller in certain situations and the specific 
remedies available to the traveller in the event of a lack of conformity with the 
contract by the organizer.
Protection against the insolvency of package organisers, ensuring travellers 
are refunded, or where applicable, repatriated should the organiser go bust.
Detailed information requirements that make it clear what product the traveller 
is buying and the associated protections.
Its likely Mr Ts trip fell within the definition of a package under the PTR as it involved 
the combination by C of transport and accommodation services. And Mr T was 
entitled to travel under the package contract so he met the necessary definition of the 
category of person that could rely on the provisions of the PTR.
Its likely therefore that the PTR would have some relevance in answering whether 
there was a breach of contract by C. Whether they were relevant in the way TSB 
suggested however (insofar as the effect of the legislation was that individually listed 
fares for two separate people were rolled up into one single item for the purposes of 
section 75 (3) (b) is questionable. There is no case law that I am aware of that 
supports such position. Neither have I seen anything within the legislation or the 
guidance produced by the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial strategy 
that would lead me to conclude this. And TSB has done little to convince me of that 
either.
Another of the criteria for a claim under section 75 was that the claim had to relate to 
a transaction financed by a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement. In other 
words, Mr Ts claim had to relate to a transaction between him and C that was 
financed by his TSB credit card.
From what I have seen, although Mr Ts partner was the booking party, there was still  
a contract between Mr T and C. The terms of the contract said:
In these Booking Conditions references to "you" and "your" include the first 
named person on the booking and all persons on whose behalf a booking is 
made or any other person to whom a booking is transferred...
By making a booking, the first named person on the booking agrees on behalf 
of all persons detailed on the booking that:-He/she has read these terms and conditions and has the authority to and 
does agree to be bound by them;
The contract was therefore binding on Mr T as an individual who was a named 
passenger. And while there were parts of the contract which held the parties jointly 
liable (e.g. for damage), there were other parts which said Mr T could have cancelled 
his participation in the cruise, and he would have incurred the relevant cancellation 
(or transfer) fees. It appears that this would not have affected Mr Ts partners ability 
to travel. So, it appears the contract was divisible between the travelling parties as it 
dealt with each passenger separately rather than dealing only with the lead 
passenger.
Mr T paid £5,000 to C using his TSB credit card for the supplement paid upgrade 
around six months after the initial purchase of the cruise was made. Although this 
was listed as a separate line item on Cs invoice, I find a reasonable analysis to be 
that in practice Mr T and C had agreed to vary his original agreement in return for an 
increase in the total price.
The upgrade did not add discrete goods or services to what Mr T was already entitled 
to receive from C; rather, it appears to have substituted one level of comfort for the 
same journey for another  a better class of cabin. It was the quality or specification 
of the already contracted services that changed, rather than there being an addition 
of some add-on service that could be seen as a separate supply transaction.
Accordingly, it appears that there was a transaction between Mr T and C under which 
he obtained the right to a cruise on the terms ultimately agreed and C received in 
return a price which comprised both the original amount and the supplement for the 
upgrade.
I find therefore that TSB did finance a transaction between Mr T and C which 
included the provision of his cruise.
Ive gone on to consider whether there was likely a breach of contract, and if so, what 
it would be fair to ask TSB to do.
Mr Ts agreement with C was for it to provide a cruise for 120 nights, stopping at 
several destinations around the world. The contract set out that if C became unable 
to provide a significant proportion of the travel arrangements after Mr T had departed, 
and was unable to make alternative arrangements, it would pay 
compensationsubject to section B of clause 6.
Ive looked at Section B of clause 6, It contains a number of exclusions and 
limitations on when C will pay compensation. It doesnt appear C sought to rely on 
any of these when it offered to pay a partial refund after the trip was curtailed. So, I 
think its reasonable to say they didnt apply.
Cs terms mirror somewhat the PTR insofar as the PTR implied terms in the contract 
that where a significant part of the package could not be performed and a suitable 
alternative could not be offered, the traveller was entitled to an appropriate price 
reduction.
Its clear that a significant proportion of the package was not provided by C, the  
cruise having been curtailed a little over halfway through. And it didnt offer to provide 
any form of alternative arrangements. So, Mr T was entitled to compensation under the express terms of the contract or an appropriate price reduction under the term 
implied by the PTR.
C appears to have accepted this was the case and provided a refund credit note of
£16,358.86.
TSB said that because C issued the refund credit note, it had remedied any breach of
contract that may have occurred as result of the cruise being curtailed. It said that 
anything that happened after this (i.e. C going into administration and being unable to 
honour it or exchange it for a cash refund) was not a breach of contract and therefore 
not its responsibility to put right.
However, I consider this unlikely to be the position here. Even if Mr T accepted the 
refund credit note, the note itself had some important details which suggest to me 
that he would still have been entitled to the refund, and that the breach of contract 
was not remedied by the refund credit note itself.
The refund credit note included a provision that it could be used to redeem a full 
refund, rather than only used as credit to make another purchase with C. And it 
contained a link to the Online Refund Form which could be completed to redeem it 
for a full cash refund.
All of this suggests that the refund credit note was effectively a confirmation that Mr T 
and his partner were entitled to a refund of £16,358.86, in line with Cs contractual 
obligations to compensate them or make an appropriate price reduction. The refund 
credit note is of course not the same as the refund itself. Credit notes are not refunds 
and unless the contract specifically allowed C to provide one in lieu of a refund 
(which even then might be subject to an assessment of fairness under the unfair 
contract terms provisions in the CRA), I dont think it discharged Cs obligation to 
provide compensation or an appropriate price reduction.
So, simply confirming that a refund was owed did not displace Mr Ts contractual 
right to that refund. It appears therefore that having become unable to honour the 
refund credit note, C remained in breach of its contract to provide compensation to 
Mr T or make an appropriate price reduction for the part of the trip which was 
curtailed.
That is not the end of the matter however. As I have explained already Mr T and his 
partner each had their own agreement with C to be carried on the cruise. Generally, 
an individual is only able to claim for their own losses unless the contract sets out 
otherwise. Mr T was not the lead name on the booking and it doesnt appear C had 
any obligations towards him in respect of the provision of his partners cruise ticket. 
So, it doesnt appear Mr T had a claim against C for breach of contract in respect of 
his partners cruise ticket. I recognise it was Mr T that agreed with C that it should 
provide a refund of £16,358.86 and this was the sum C offered on the refund credit 
note. But it appears this related to Cs obligations to both Mr T and his partner. I dont 
think it could be implied from C agreeing the overall refund with Mr T, that all of the 
refund related only to his own losses.
TSB is only liable to Mr T under section 75 in respect of any claim he may have for 
breach of contract, not one his partner may have. And, as far as I am aware, the 
appropriate sums in respect of all the other line items on Cs invoice (excluding Mr 
Ts partners cruise fare) have either been recovered by Mr Ts partner, or, in the 
case of the supplement paid upgrade, recovered by Mr T.Everything considered therefore, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable in this 
case to ask TSB to pay Mr Ts partners losses to Mr T i.e. the cost of her cruise fare. 
I think the fair and reasonable thing to require TSB to do here is pay Mr T the 
equivalent of an appropriate price reduction on his cruise fare. Mr T agreed refunds 
with C on the basis that around 43% of the cruise was curtailed. This appears to 
have been worked out on the basis that the cruise ended on the date C confirmed in 
writing it had been curtailed. In the absence of a fairer way of calculating this, I see 
no reason to depart from this as fair way of calculating the part of the cruise that Mr T 
didnt receive.
I therefore calculate Mr Ts loss as:
Cruise fare £36,679
Less
50% promotional discount £18,339.50
Less
50% of discount onboard booking honour* £2,816.97
Total £15,522
43.333% of total £6,726.43
*this discount was listed against Mr Ts partner on the invoice. This could have been
because she was the lead name on the booking. However, without further 
information and in view of the way the promotional discount was described on Cs 
website, it doesnt seem unreasonable to me that this discount should be apportioned 
equally across the two cruise fares.
TSB should therefore pay Mr T £6,726.43 plus interest from when it first declined to 
meet his claim in July 2020.
I know Mr T will be disappointed that I plan to tell TSB to pay him less than the 
investigator thought he should. But I have to take relevant legislation such as section 
75 into account when deciding what is fair. It wouldnt be fair to ask TSB to pay Mr T 
something he would not likely have been able to claim for under section 75.
My provisional decision
For the reasons I have explained above, I plan to uphold Mr Ts complaint in part. To 
put things right I intend to tell TSB Bank plc to pay Mr T £6,726.43 plus interest of 8% 
simple per annum from 31 July 2020 until the date of settlement
Both TSB and Mr T agreed with my provisional decision.  The complaint has therefore been 
returned to me to finalise matters. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As both TSB and Mr T agreed with my provisional decision, I see no reason to change the 
findings I made. So, for the reasons explained in the extract of my provisional decision 
above I still find TSB should treat Mr T as if it had met his claim to the extent I explained 
therein.  
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ts complaint in part. To put things right TSB Bank plc must pay Mr T £6,726.43 
plus interest of 8% simple per annum from 31 July 2020 until the date of settlement*.
* If TSB Bank plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should also give Mr T a 
tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman