DRN-3835962
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (C&G) 
has declined his claim for veterinary treatment for his dog on the ground that it is excluded 
by endorsements relating to a pre-existing medical condition.
 
What happened
Mr L took out a policy with C&G for his dog, who Ill refer to as T, on 2 February 2021.
On 20 September 2021, T was taken to his vet with lameness in his right hind leg. T was 
found to have a ruptured cruciate ligament. The treatment required x-rays and an operation. 
Mr L claimed for the cost of Ts treatment from C&G.
C&G referred to Ts previous veterinary history. It noted that on 3 February 2020 T had 
attended the vet for lameness which the vet thought to be a sprain to his left hind leg 
although no formal diagnosis was made. It says that if Mr L had disclosed the clinical signs 
and symptoms of this issue to it, it wouldve applied endorsements to his policy from 
inception, as its policies dont cover any claims where the condition or signs and symptoms 
were present prior to the inception of the policy. It therefore applied the following 
endorsements retrospectively:
Excludes cover on all claims with respect to Anything to do with the Lameness that 
occurred on 03 February 2020 and Associated Conditions with effect from 02 February 
2021."
Excludes cover on all claims with respect to Both Stifles with effect from 02 February 
2021."
It did this by reference to the following term of the policy:
General Exclusions
The following exclusions apply to the whole of this Policy. We will not pay claims for
any of the following reasons;
 If We are made aware of any Pre-existing Conditions at the time of a claim, these
Pre-Existing Conditions will not be covered and We reserve the right add a relevant
endorsement(s) to Your Policy in respect of these Pre-Existing Conditions.
A Pre-Existing Condition is defined as:
any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition and/or Associated Condition which has 
happened or has shown Clinical Signs or Symptoms of existing in any form before the 
Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period.
C&G therefore declined Mr Ls claim on the ground that the condition claimed for was 
present prior to the inception of the policy and was excluded by virtue of the above 
endorsements.
Mr L wasnt satisfied with C&Gs response to his claim and brought his complaint to this 
service. Our investigators view was that there was no support for C&Gs opinion that the 
condition diagnosed in 2021 was pre-existing or linked to the condition noted in 2020. She 
therefore didnt think it was fair or reasonable for C&G to decline the claim for Ts condition. 
C&G doesnt agree with our investigators view and has asked that the matter be referred to 
an ombudsman. Its therefore been referred to me for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding Mr Ls complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at Ts veterinary history and in particular the vets notes relating to Ts treatment 
on 3 February 2020 and on 20 September 2021 and following, including the intervening 
period. 
From these I see no evidence that the left hind leg issue that the vet suspected was a sprain 
necessitated any further visits to the vet, nor that the right hind leg displayed any problems 
until it was referred to the vet some 19 months later when T was diagnosed as having a 
ruptured cruciate ligament. Theres nothing in Ts veterinary history to suggest he had 
previously suffered a cruciate rupture or that the conditions are linked. 
C&G has argued that in the vast majority of dogs, the cranial cruciate ligament ruptures as a 
result of long-term degeneration, whereby the fibres within the ligament weaken over time. In 
my view that doesnt assist C&G as it doesnt provide a connection between Ts injury to his 
left hind leg in February 2020 and his ruptured right hind leg cruciate some 19 months later 
with no intervening signs of problems in either leg.  
Its clear that the policy doesnt cover pre-existing conditions, and it gives C&G the right to 
add an endorsement retrospectively if it is made aware of any pre-existing conditions at the 
time of a claim. But in my view, for any such endorsement to be fair, there must exist a pre-
existing condition, that is one that has shown clinical signs or symptoms prior to the 
inception of the policy or within the following 14 days, that is connected to the condition to 
which the claim relates.
I dont consider that it was fair for C&G to have introduced the endorsements to Mr Ls policy 
upon which it seeks to rely to decline his claim based upon what the vet thought was 
probably a sprain from which T appears to have fully recovered after some rest. T visited the 
vet on nine other occasions between 3 February 2020 and 20 September 2021 but these 
were for routine booster vaccinations and other issues, and at none of these visits was any 
reference made in the vets notes to any issues with either of Ts hind legs.
So I agree with our investigator that theres no evidence supporting C&Gs view that Ts right 
hind cruciate rupture in 2021 was connected to his left hind leg issue 19 months before. I 
consider it likely that if there had been clinical signs or symptoms of lameness attributable to 
a cruciate issue in 2020, these would have re-occurred in the period between February 2020 
and September 2021. My conclusion is therefore that I dont consider that the treatment for which Mr L is claiming 
relates to a pre-existing condition, or that C&G has acted fairly in declining his claim on the 
basis of the endorsements applied to his policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint.
I require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to settle Mr Ls claim 
subject to the other terms and conditions of his policy. If Mr L has already paid to the vet any 
part of the sum claimed, this should be reimbursed to him.
I also require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  to pay Mr L interest 
on any sum so paid to him by way of reimbursement at the simple rate of 8% from the date 
he made payment to the date that payment is made to him. 
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr L how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr L a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one so 
he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman