DRN-2605590
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (trading as Cashplus) gave 
him unaffordable loans which put in him further financial hardship.
What happened
Mr J took 10 loans from Cashplus between March and November 2012. A summary of his 
borrowing based on the information provided to us from the lender can be seen below.
LoanBorrowed 
DateDate RepaidLoan 
DurationAmount 
BorrowedRepayment 
Amount
1 26/03/2012 01/04/2012 5 days £30.00 £33.00
2 27/04/2012 17/05/2012 19 days £50.00 £69.00
3 17/05/2012 01/06/2012 14 days £50.00 £64.00
4 02/06/2012 17/06/2012 14 days £50.00 £64.00
5 18/06/2012 03/07/2012 14 days £50.00 £64.00
6 05/07/2012 20/07/2012 14 days £50.00 £64.00
7 21/07/2012 05/08/2012 14 days £100.00 £128.00
8 27/09/2012 08/10/2012 10 days £50.00 £60.00
9 19/10/2012 08/11/2012 19 days £50.00 £69.00
10 08/11/2012 30/11/2012 21 days £50.00 £71.00
Mr J had initially also brought a complaint about the sale of the bank account that Cashplus 
had provided him, but he has now decided not to proceed with this element of this complaint. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Js complaint. She didnt think Cashplus were wrong 
to approve his first six loans. But by loan 7, the adjudicator thought that Mr Js overall pattern 
of borrowing suggested he had become reliant on Cashplus lending and the borrowing had 
become unsustainable. So, the adjudicator upheld loans 7-10.
It appears that Mr J agreed with our adjudicators opinion.
Cashplus disagreed and provided the following points to consider;
No loans were approved while the account was in a negative balance. The balance 
on all occasions had been settled prior to any further loans being offered or credited.
The owed amount on all occasions was settled without issues. Mr J was never late 
with payments and always repaid on time, suggesting he was not struggling to 
manage the amounts that had been borrowed.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
Cashplus needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr J 
could repay these loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and 
the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Cashplus should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. 
The industry regulator defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Js complaint. And Ive decided to uphold Mr Js 
complaint in part. I will explain the reasons for this below.
The adjudicator didnt think it was wrong of Cashplus to have provided Mr Js first six loans. 
Following her investigation of these loans, Mr J didnt provide any further information or 
comments about them. So, it appears that both Mr J and Cashplus have accepted our 
adjudicators findings about these loans. 
Therefore, I wont be making any further findings about loans 1-6 because they no longer 
appear to be in dispute.Ive looked at the overall pattern of Cashpluss lending history with Mr J, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which the lender should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
And I think by loan 7, an emerging pattern of repeat lending had become clear. I say this 
because;
This was the seventh time in four months that Mr J had asked to borrow and loan 7 
was also his largest loan to date. Cashplus ought to have realised by then that Mr J 
was likely having to borrow further to cover a persistent hole in his finances  which 
isnt a sustainable situation.
Mr J was usually requesting a new loan within a few days of repayment of a previous 
loan. This is something which suggests he could not meet the repayment for a loan, 
without borrowing again.
The amounts that Mr J was borrowing wasnt significantly decreasing, which in my 
mind shows that he was reliant on the lending. 
Mr J wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Cashplus. He went on to borrow 
a further four loans, borrowing the same amount each time with no significant breaks in 
between these loans.
This pattern should have caused Cashplus to see that Mr J was having to consistently take 
out cash advances over a sustained period of four months, and the indebtedness caused by 
this type of borrowing was harmful, in my view. 
I acknowledge Cashplus has said Mr J was never late with payment and always repaid on 
time. But this doesnt mean that he wasnt experiencing difficulties, particularly in sustainably 
managing the repayments without a need to borrow. As Ive explained, Mr Js overall pattern 
of borrowing by loan 7 suggested problems, and that these loans had become 
unsustainable.
I think that Mr J lost out because Cashplus continued to provide borrowing from loan 7 
onwards because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Js indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use, over an extended period; and
The number of loans which Mr J borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on his ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market 
for these high-cost loans.
So, I think Cashplus were wrong to approve loans 7-10.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Cashplus should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not provided Mr J loans 7-10, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr J may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existedbetween him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr J in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr J would more likely than not have taken up any one of these
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Cashplus liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Refund all interest, fees and charges on loans 7-10
Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr J from the
date Mr J originally made his payment, to the date the complaint is settled.
Cashplus should remove loans 7-10 entirely from Mr Js credit file.  
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Cashplus should give 
Mr J a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Js complaint in part.
Advanced Payment Solutions Limited should put things right for Mr J as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman