DRN-4153602
The complaint
Mr G complains about the interest and fees Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money 
(VM) charged him on his credit card he held with them. He also complains about the date a 
default was recorded.
What happened
Mr G said he was in financial difficulty in around 2019 to 2020 due to a variety of issues. He 
had briefly explained that his wife visited a family member abroad several times during that 
year and that the family member unfortunately passed away. He also said that his salary 
was reduced in 2020. As a result of these two events, he said he ran up unexpected debts 
and was unable to make his contractual credit card repayments from November 2020 
onwards.
Mr G said that when he began to make repayments again in 2021, he wasnt any better off 
due to the interest that was being charged.
VM has confirmed that Mr G was placed on a payment plan which was due to end in 
January 2022. They also provided a copy of a letter they sent to Mr G where they 
summarised in writing the three-month plan which was agreed. Within the letter, it said:
Please note if you do not make the payment amounts detailed by the dates required, this 
temporary arrangement will be broken and we will have to start applying interest and 
charges you incur on your account..
VM said they did not receive a scheduled payment in December 2021.
VM has provided copies of a Notice of Sums in Arrears letters that were sent to Mr G in April 
2022, June 2022, August 2022, and October 2022. Within the August 2022 letter, it said Mr 
G made a partial payment in June 2022.
VM also provided copies of letters they sent Mr G from February 2022 to June 2022 
explaining that he had missed his monthly repayments. VM also provided a copy of a letter 
they sent to Mr G in May 2022 explaining that following his contact with them, they have 
allowed some breathing space to discuss setting up another payment plan. VM also 
provided a copy of another letter they sent to Mr G in September 2022 explaining that a 
Default Notice had now been issued as Mr G hadnt contacted them or made a sufficient 
payment.
Mr G said he defaulted on the credit card in October 2022 and the debt was sold, but 
believes it should have defaulted in February 2021 when he missed three of his monthly 
repayments.
Mr G said this has impacted him due to a recent re-mortgage application where he has only 
been offered high interest rate products due to the default.
Mr G complained to VM and they provided their final response. In summary, they said Mr G 
had contacted VM when his payment plan had ended in January 2022. They said they sent 
him an income and expenditure form in the post to complete and send back to them. They 
said once they receive it, they could arrange a new plan with him. VM said they tried to 
contact Mr G on multiple occasions between February 2022 to April 2022 as they hadnt 
received the form they sent him. And as they didnt receive a response, his account was 
returned to normal, with interest and fees applied in line with the terms and conditions.
VM also offered £25 as a gesture of goodwill to say sorry for the delay in getting back to Mr 
G with a response.
Mr G, unhappy with VMs response, referred his complaint to our service. He explained he 
would like:
1. The date of the default to be recorded as February 2021 rather than October 2022.
2. The outstanding balance from the new default date to be recalculated, less any 
interest or charges.
3. VM to increase the offer of £25 they made to £200 to reflect the delay in responding 
to them.
Our investigator found that VM didnt need to do anything further. In summary, she said that 
VM followed the relevant rules and guidance which meant that they had to signpost Mr G to 
organisations that can help when in financial difficulty. And that VM had contacted Mr G on 
multiple occasions to arrange a payment plan and gave Mr G breathing space on occasions 
to make repayments. The investigator concluded that VM followed their processes when an 
account falls into arrears and that they acted fairly and reasonably.
Mr G disagreed with the investigators findings and, among other things, said the default 
should have been applied in early 2021 when the account was three months or more in 
arrears. But, had actually applied the default 18 months later in October 2022 when they 
wanted to sell the account to a third party. Mr G also believed he hadnt been treated with 
forbearance and due consideration when interest and charges were applied to his account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive firstly turned to the terms and conditions which Mr G agreed to when he took out his 
credit card. Section 10 is titled What happens if I do not make a payment? and it says:
If we do not receive the Minimum payment by the payment date, we will apply the late 
payment default charges set out in our Tariff. We will also let credit reference agencies know 
you have not paid and this could make it more difficult for you to get credit. If you continue to 
miss payments we may sell the debt.
VM then set out their various interests, fees and charges they apply in their Tariff section, 
along with their default charges.
I think the terms are clear in setting out what will happen if the minimum repayments 
required arent made when they should be.
I now turn to whether I think it was fair for VM to register the default on Mr Gs account when 
it did.In its Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit 
Reference Agencies, the Information Commissioners Office says a business may register a 
default after a customer is behind with their repayments for three months. And that it expects 
a business to register a default by the time a customer is six months behind with their 
repayments. It goes on to say that there are exceptions to this which may result in a default 
being recorded at a later stage. And that if an arrangement is agreed, a default would not 
normally be registered unless the terms of that arrangement are broken. I consider this to be 
representative of good industry practice. And as a minimum would expect a lender to act in 
accordance with these principles when deciding whether to default a consumers account.
VM applied the default in October 2022, some 18 months or so after Mr G says he was 
behind on repayments for three consecutive months. And also, ten or so months after Mr G 
broke the terms of the arrangement plan. So, there is an argument to say VM didnt act in 
accordance with good industry practice here. 
However, Im mindful that Mr G continued to engage with VM in making partial payments 
and also agreed to a temporary arrangement that was initially set up for the first payment to 
be made in November 2021. Mr G also spoke with VM in January 2022 and May 2022 about 
putting in place a further temporary arrangement and that VM had allowed some breathing 
space to Mr G to allow him to submit the relevant income and expenditure form required.
Considering Mr G continued to make payments and engaged with temporary arrangements 
to be set up, I cant see that VM has acted unfairly here as they gave Mr G an opportunity to 
meet his contractual obligations under the agreement taken out. 
Mr G made a partial payment in June 2022, which from the letters provided seems to be the 
last payment made before the default was applied. So it follows that I dont think it was unfair 
or unreasonable for VM to report the default to credit reference agencies when it did, as it 
was around 4 months after a last payment was made.
Im also satisfied that Mr G received the correct notification that a default would be applied, 
given the Notice of Sums Arrears and the Default Notice letters sent to him.
Mr G says the date the default has been recorded has impacted his chances of obtaining 
favourable mortgage rates when he made a recent application. It is important that credit files 
are an accurate record of a persons financial history. This is because other lenders may rely 
on that information when making credit decisions. As I think the default was applied correctly 
and around the right time, it follows that I dont think VM are at fault for any less favourable 
rates Mr G may have obtained as a result of his mortgage application.
Once a lender is aware a borrower is experiencing financial difficulty, we would expect it to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration, in line with its regulatory obligations. Ultimately, 
wed expect a lender to listen to a borrower, get an understanding of their circumstances and 
then assess the most appropriate way to move forward.
Mr G says he doesnt think he was treated with forbearance and due consideration when 
interest and charges were applied to his account.
Ive noted that interest and charges which were accruing on his account were suspended 
whilst Mr G was placed on a plan they both agreed on. And there were times throughout 
2022 where VM confirmed interest and charges would not be applied to his account as they 
understood he was experiencing financial difficulties. 
VM discussed further options with Mr G, one of those being to complete an income and 
expenditure form to see whether another temporary arrangement could be set up. VM have confirmed that they contacted Mr G on several occasions over a three-month period and left 
Mr G voicemails to give him an opportunity to provide an income and expenditure form, but 
Mr G didnt provide it in time. Ive also noted that Mr G was informed in writing that if he 
didnt continue to make payments under the temporary arrangement, then interest and 
charges would be reinstated in line with his terms. So I cant fairly say VM are to blame here 
and I think they had treated Mr G with forbearance and due consideration and applied 
interest and charges in line with their terms.
VM have offered Mr G £25 for the time taken to respond to his complaint. Mr G would like 
this increased to £200 to reflect the delay. This is something which I am not able to comment 
on. How VM conduct their complaint handling process isnt something I can review as we are 
not a regulatory body. If Mr G wishes to accept the gesture of goodwill if he hasnt already, I 
suggest he contacts VM directly.
Overall I dont think VM treated Mr G unfairly or unreasonably when they reported the default 
on his account. And Im satisfied they treated Mr G with forbearance and due consideration 
when they were aware he was experiencing financial difficulty. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing to Mr G, but I hope hell understand the reasons for how I reached my 
decisions and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman