DRN-2291330
The complaint
Mr B complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited failed to effectively monitor 
his pension investments and so prevent a fall in their value. He complains that he was told it 
would take 28 days for a switch of his investments to be applied. And he says that Prudential 
has failed to correctly report the withdrawal of his pension savings to HMRC resulting in a 
delay to the payment of a tax refund.
What happened
Mr B held pension savings with Prudential. In 2016, when he turned 55 years of age, Mr B 
transferred those pension savings into a Pension Choices Plan that allowed him to take 
advantage of a flexi-access income drawdown option. At that time he took the maximum 
pension commencement lump sum (also known as tax free cash) permitted by the 
legislation. And he instructed Prudential to invest the remainder of his pension savings in its 
PruFund products. Prudential didnt provide any advice, or a recommendation, to Mr B 
before he completed the transfer.
Mr B says that he kept a close eye on the value of his pension savings. He says that they 
were valued at around £51,000 in March 2020. But, by the start of the following month, they 
had fallen to around £47,000. He says that, at that time, he contacted Prudential and asked 
if he could move his pension savings into a different investment fund. Prudential explained to 
Mr B that, in line with its terms and conditions, it would take 28 days for that transfer to be 
completed.
Mr B was unhappy waiting that long for his pension investments to be transferred. So he 
instead instructed Prudential to withdraw the whole amount and pay it to him. But when 
Prudential reported that transaction to HMRC it made an error, and appears to have reported 
it twice. So Mr B says that HMRC has been unable to pay him the rebate of the tax that 
Prudential was required to deduct from his payment until the end of the tax year.
Prudential has looked into Mr Bs complaint. It didnt agree that it was responsible for the fall 
in value of Mr Bs pension investments, and thought that it had correctly advised him of its 
terms and conditions in relation to any changes to his investments. But Prudential accepted 
that it had given incorrect information to HMRC, and hadnt dealt with Mr Bs complaint as 
quickly as it would have hoped. So it paid Mr B £600 in compensation for the trouble and 
upset hed been caused, and offered to pay him interest on the delayed tax rebate once it 
had been paid by HMRC.
Mr B didnt think the compensation Prudential had paid was sufficient so he brought his 
complaint to this Service. The complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He 
didnt think Prudential had done anything wrong either in terms of its management of Mr Bs 
pension investments, or what it told him about transferring those funds. And he thought that 
the compensation Prudential had paid Mr B in relation to the incorrect information supplied to 
HMRC was fair. So he didnt think Prudential needed to do anything further.
Mr B didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr B and by Prudential. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I have looked at the paperwork that was completed in 2016 when Mr B decided to transfer 
his pension savings to the Pension Choices Plan. From that I am satisfied that Prudential 
simply acted on his instructions and didnt provide him with any offer of ongoing advice or 
management of his pension savings. Mr B chose to invest his pension savings into the 
PruFund investment funds. And as part of the paperwork he was sent at the time, Prudential 
explained some of the risks he needed to bear in mind. One of those was that Mr B himself 
was responsible for deciding which funds he should invest in, and so his choice might not 
match his attitude to risk, or his future income objectives.
So I dont think Prudential owed any ongoing responsibility to Mr B to ensure the continued, 
or initial, suitability of his chosen pension investments. But I think there should reasonably be 
an expectation that Prudential would professionally manage the PruFunds in which Mr B 
placed his pension savings. 
Mr Bs complaint is about a fall in value of those funds between March and April 2020. At 
that time there was significant market turmoil resulting from the start of the global 
coronavirus pandemic. I dont think those events could have been reasonably foreseen and 
so many investment funds saw large falls in value at that time. But it should be remembered 
that the PruFund investments were intended to be held in the medium to long term. So falls 
in value from time to time might be expected. I can see Prudential has provided details to 
Mr B of a number of instances over the past years when similar falls have occurred. I havent 
seen anything to make me think Prudential has failed in its duties in regard to the 
management of the investment funds.
The PruFund investments operate by attempting to smooth out some of the normal 
fluctuations in value that might be expected. So, in times of good performance, some of the 
gains are retained by the fund. And those are then released back to the investments in times 
of poor performance to provide a less volatile return. But operating in that way requires 
Prudential to put some safeguards in place to ensure that all investors are treated fairly. So, 
generally, Prudential would require 28 days notice before investments can be transferred to 
another investment fund. That waiting period is clearly explained in the terms and conditions 
for the products.When Mr B asked to transfer his investments in April 2020 Prudential made him aware of 
that 28-day delay. Whilst I have no doubts how disappointing that information would have 
been for Mr B, I dont think that Prudential acted incorrectly by requiring the delay to be 
enforced. And given what I have said above about Prudential not providing any advice 
service, it was for Mr B to decide on his next course of action. Prudential says that it 
suggested he might want to seek some financial advice. But ultimately that wasnt something 
that Prudential could have, or should have, required Mr B to do.
Mr B chose to withdraw his pension savings. So he asked Prudential to complete the sale of 
his investments and pay him the proceeds. Prudential provided Mr B with an indication of 
how long that process might take. But Prudential actually completed things sooner and paid 
the proceeds to Mr B. HMRC required Prudential to deduct basic rate taxation from that 
payment  and Prudential told Mr B that if he found that too much tax had been deducted he 
could get in touch with HMRC to ask for a rebate.
But the information that Prudential sent to HMRC about the payment it made to Mr B was 
incorrect. Prudential says that it had a systems problem that it was initially unaware of, and 
then took some time to correct. But it says HMRC now has the correct information.
I can appreciate how frustrating those problems might have been for Mr B. Any rebate that 
he would have been due will have been delayed whilst Prudential corrected the information it 
was sending to HMRC. But I can see that Prudential has paid £600 to Mr B to compensate 
him for the trouble and upset this has caused to him. And it has offered to pay him interest 
for any delay once any rebate has been paid by HMRC. I think that what Prudential has 
done here is fair and reasonable. So I dont think it needs to do anything more in regard to 
this part of Mr Bs complaint.
In summary I dont think that Prudential has done anything wrong in the way it managed 
Mr Bs pension savings, or in its response to his request to transfer his funds to different 
investments. And I think the compensation it has paid to him in relation to the incorrect 
information it supplied to HMRC is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman