DRN-4227318
The complaint
Mr D complains about the service he received from Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management Limited (HL) when he tried to transfer some shares to an account he held with 
them. Hes unhappy with delays they caused during the transfer process which resulted in 
the shares being sold. 
What happened
Mr D tried to transfer some shares he owned to HL from another firm (B1) in February 2020. 
Hed acquired the shares through an employee sharesave scheme and as hed been made 
redundant, he was informed by B1 that he had 30 days from 14 February 2020 to sell or 
transfer his shares. If they didnt receive instruction for him within that time, the shares would 
be sold to cash. 
He contacted HL on 17 February regarding transferring the shares to an account he held 
with them. They advised him that they would action the transfer, but he would need to 
complete some documents. The documents were sent to him on 25 February, and he 
returned them on 2 March. 
Mr D contacted B1 and gained agreement for the deadline to be extended to 29 April. On 
22 April HL realised that they hadnt sent the documentation to B1 and emailed them to start 
the transfer process. B1 responded on 23 April and said the transfer couldnt proceed due to 
the type of stock being held. 
B1 have subsequently confirmed that they were provided with the wrong paperwork and 
because of this, Mr Ds shares were sold to cash on 29 April. HL informed Mr D about this on 
3 May, and the sale of the shares was completed on 6 May.
Mr D subsequently complained to HL, but they didnt fully uphold the complaint. They 
responded on 26 June 2020 and said they didnt think they were solely responsible. They 
apologised for the delays caused by their actions when forwarding the transfer request to 
B1. However, they said that they didnt inform B1 to sell the shares and as they hadnt been 
informed of any deadlines, they couldnt agree that they should be solely held accountable 
for any financial loss. They offered him £150 in compensation for the inconvenience and 
poor service hed experienced. 
Mr D didnt agree and asked us to look into the matter. The complaint was considered by 
one of our investigators who thought it should be upheld. He pointed to the delays caused by 
HL - seven days to send Mr D forms and six weeks to send the forms to B1. He thought that 
delays meant that there was little time to correct any errors or find an alternative business to 
make the transfer if HL were unable to. In order to put things right, he thought that HL should 
pay the difference between what Mr D received from the sale of the shares and the cost of 
repurchasing them. And also pay Mr D any missed dividend payments from the time he was 
out of the market. 
HL accepted most of the investigators findings but thought that Mr D hadnt mitigated his 
losses. They thought he should have repurchased as many shares as possible when the 
funds from the sale became available. They accepted this would have left him with around 
130 less shares than hed previously held and proposed alternative redress based on the 
cost of repurchasing the 130 shares in addition to missing dividends for 130 shares and a 
further payment of £330 for the inconvenience Mr D had suffered. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion. He said, in summary, Mr D waited 
for this service to reach a conclusion before doing anything with the money. Hed kept it to 
one side so not to complicate the outcome. He had less money at this point than he thought 
he would get so chose to wait and see what he was fully entitled to before making a 
decision.
HL didnt agree and said, in summary: 
They werent disputing that theyd caused a delay which had disadvantaged Mr D. 
But they didnt agree that the responsibility for the market risk for the entire 
investment rested with them. Mr D chose to hold his investment as cash and 
therefore had a responsibility to understand the implications of that decision. 
Mr D never informed them that it was his intention to keep the cash and not reinvest, 
had he done so, they would have explicitly told him to consider taking steps to 
mitigate. 
Even if they accepted that it was reasonable to hold the cash out of the market 
(which they didnt), the reason for the vast majority of the loss here is the length of 
time taken for the case to complete the FOS process. It wasnt reasonable that they 
were disadvantaged by something out of their control. 
Mr D had the opportunity to mitigate his loss and was made aware immediately that 
his shares were sold. His message of 18 May said the error cost him a few thousand 
pounds. This displayed that there was a crystalised loss at that point and given 
theyd made no further errors after that point, it wasnt fair and reasonable that the 
loss should increase. 
Mr D also said in an email of 29 June that hed be able to recoup his losses by 
transferring out  which again suggested that he was aware of a crystalised loss at 
that point. 
There were other reasons why someone could add the money to their bank account 
besides holding it to reinvest, such as wanting to take the cash out of the market to 
stop exposure to risk. Therefore, holding the money in an account did not in itself 
prove anything.
They believed this point went much wider than this individual complaint and they had 
concerns about the fairness and feasibility of such an approach should it be applied 
more widely. 
It wasnt feasible for a business to operate a process whereby a complainant could 
wait for the result of an investigation before mitigating their loss. This would leave a 
business with an undefined loss for an indefinite period and no means to mitigate as 
it was unreasonable to simply buy shares whenever a client complained but there 
was no barrier to the client reinvesting to mitigate. 
Even if they accepted that it was reasonable for Mr D to wait for a complaint 
response before taking any action to mitigate, then he should have done so after 
HLs complaint response and not that of the FOS. They noted what the investigator said about HL having had the chance to mitigate 
this previously, but they were satisfied that what they offered at the time of the 
complaint resolution was fair. 
They believed that B1s involvement was significant and hadnt been considered. B1 
had provided an assurance to Mr D that the shares would not be sold, but 
subsequently sold them. It was their view at the time, shared by Mr D, that they 
werent wholly responsible for the losses incurred. B1 had made no effort to redress 
Mr D and had shifted all the blame to HL. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion so the complaint was passed to me 
to decide. I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, and while I agree that this case is finely balanced, I agree with the redress 
methodology suggested by the investigator. I will now explain why. 
HL have agreed that they caused a delay which disadvantaged Mr D, so Ive mainly focused 
this decision on what would be fair redress. I appreciate the concerns HL have made about 
the potential wider implications of the redress suggested, but I must stress that my decision 
is solely about the very specific circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr D has told us about his situation at the time of the complaint. Hed been made redundant 
and had wanted to keep the shares and not sell them, as in his opinion the markets were 
low. Hed proactively taken steps to ensure that there was enough time for the transfer to 
proceed by contacting B1 and asking them to extend the original deadline for the transfer of 
the shares. 
I appreciate he didnt tell HL about the deadline, but hes said this is because they told him 
on 20 March 2020 that the transfer had been processed. Given that this was nearly six 
weeks before the deadline, I dont think its unreasonable that he didnt think he needed to 
make them aware of it. However, for completeness, Ive considered what would have 
potentially happened, had he made them aware of the deadline. The evidence shows that 
HL made an error and didnt send the request to B1. I dont think that even if Mr D had made 
them aware of the deadline, it would have prevented the error and resulted in the request 
being sent to B1.
I think a key point is the fact that HL recognised theyd made an error but did not attempt to 
put Mr D back to the position he would have been in had the error not occurred. I accept 
they thought that B1 had some responsibility, but I dont think this means that they shouldnt 
have done anything to try and put things right for Mr D. Mr D contacted B1 regarding the 
complaint and when they advised him that they didnt think theyd done anything wrong, he 
let HL know. 
Following on from this, HL didnt take any steps to address any of the loss Mr D had 
suffered, despite thinking at the time that they were jointly responsible. Arguably, had they 
taken some action at the time then the issue of mitigation would have arisen. I dont think its 
fair that they only offered Mr D compensation for the inconvenience and didnt do anything 
about the financial loss which they acknowledged he suffered. 
For the avoidance of doubt, I dont think that B1 can be held responsible for selling the 
shares, Im satisfied that the delays caused by HL were solely responsible for the shares 
being sold. I can see that B1 tried to help Mr D by extending the deadline for the shares to be transferred. I think that the issues stemmed from HLs failure to send the request in a 
timely manner, had they done so, then the shares wouldnt have been sold. 
Given Mr Ds circumstances at the time, I dont think its unreasonable that he didnt 
repurchase the shares. From what Ive seen, the share price started to rise from the time 
they were sold and by the time HL responded to Mr Ds email regarding B1 not taking any 
action - the share price had increased from c.$37 to c.$48. This meant that Mr D wouldnt 
have been able use the sale proceeds to purchase the same number of shares he originally 
held, and his circumstances - his uncertain financial position due to unemployment - meant 
that he wasnt able to commit additional funds to the purchase. 
Mr D has provided evidence to show that he moved the funds he received from B1 into a 
savings account. Having considered his comments, Im satisfied that this was to ring-fence 
the funds while he awaited a resolution in case had to return the funds in exchange for the 
original number of shares he held. 
While this isnt how Id usually expect someone to mitigate their losses in a scenario where 
shares have been incorrectly sold, in the particular circumstances of this case, I dont think 
that course of action wasnt unreasonable. And because I also think that HL should have 
done more to resolve the situation when they recognised that their actions had caused Mr D 
financial loss, I think they now need to put things right as Ive set out below. 
Putting things right
Mr D should use the funds he received from the sale of the shares in 2020 to repurchase as 
any of the shares as possible. He earned interest on the funds while holding them in his 
savings account, so Id expect him to use this towards the purchase too. He should then 
notify HL of the purchase and share his interest calculation and contract note. 
This will illustrate the shortfall between the number of shares he is able to buy and the 
number of shares he previously held. HL should then purchase the number of shares 
required to make up the difference and transfer them to Mr D. HL should also compensate 
Mr D for any dividends he missed while hes been out of the market and any dealing costs 
he incurs when reinstating his holding.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr D and HL both accepted my findings and had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has objected to my decision or provided any further submissions, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional findings. I remain of the view that this complaint should 
be upheld for the reasons in my provisional decision which Ive set out above.
Putting things right
Mr D should use the funds he received from the sale of the shares in 2020 to repurchase as 
any of the shares as possible. He should do so within 28 days of this decision. He earned 
interest on the funds while holding them in his savings account, so Id expect him to use this 
towards the purchase too. He should then notify HL of the purchase and share his interest 
calculation and contract note. This will illustrate the shortfall between the number of shares he is able to buy and the 
number of shares he previously held. HL should then purchase the number of shares 
required to make up the difference and transfer them to Mr D. HL should also compensate 
Mr D for any dividends he missed while hes been out of the market and any dealing costs 
he incurs when reinstating his holding.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited should put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman