DRN-2162784
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a hire 
purchase agreement in October 2001. 
I can see Mr H, and the company representing him, also refer to two other PPI sales, but Im 
only dealing with this one  an agreement ending 6041. His other complaints are being dealt 
with separately.
The credit facility for the borrowing was provided by a high street bank, but there has been 
a recent change in the company which is responsible for answering these types of 
complaint. The company now responsible is called AXA France IARD. Ill therefore refer 
mainly to AXA France IARD throughout this final decision, for consistency.
  
What happened
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and provided a view that it should be upheld. 
AXA France IARD disagreed with this and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.  Having done this, Ive decided to uphold 
Mr Hs complaint. 
Mr H was buying some electronic goods at the time in a well-known shop and the PPI was 
added on to his agreement which he signed, at £4.86 per month. In total, he ended up 
paying around £58 in PPI payments. Broadly, the PPI covered against him losing his job or 
being unable to work and it would have helped him pay off his hire purchase repayments in 
those circumstances.
Our adjudicator said they thought there was a strong probability that Mr H wouldnt have 
been able to make a successful claim on the PPI policy because he didnt meet the 6-month 
continuous working requirement, as laid out in the policy eligibility rules. On the other hand, 
AXA said Mr H hadnt provided any reliable evidence about his employment situation from 
that time period.
I note that the form Mr H was asked to sign during the sale wasnt particularly detailed. And 
on the PPI section, it didnt even ask about his job and I dont think its likely Mr H would 
have understood the importance of this. So, I think AXA asking him to prove all this now with 
hard evidence isnt fair  if AXA didnt consider this information important enough to ask him 
on the form he signed back in 2001, I think asking for proof almost 20 years later isnt fair. Mr 
H says he didnt meet the criteria and the PPI wasnt properly explained to him. For these 
reasons therefore, I also think the complaint should be upheld.
However, I also think there were other substantial flaws in the sale anyway and these all 
point strongly to the PPI being mis-sold. Our adjudicator didnt elaborate on these issues but 
it seems to me, for example, that two crosses (x) had been pre-placed on Mr Hs credit 
agreement by the person selling him the goods. One x indicated for Mr H to sign the credit 
agreement part of the form and the other x was next to the declaration about him also 
having PPI. But as a non-advised sale, I dont think the person selling the goods had any 
business in suggesting he signed the form like this, and in my view it implied Mr H needed to 
sign the form where the PPI was added.
Ive also seen other evidence of Mr Hs ill-health which in my view would also have affected 
his ability to claim for pre-existing medical conditions (for the October 2001 PPI sale). In 
short  there are numerous additional grounds for me to uphold this complaint.
As regards what the adjudicator said about Mr Hs employment, I have already carefully 
considered what AXA says and I think Mr H has provided his recollection of his employment 
history. I consider his testimony and evidence as more reliable in this case than AXAs. 
On that basis, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Putting things right
AXA France IARD should put Mr H in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken 
out PPI.
Pay Mr H the amount he paid each month for the PPI;
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year ;
If Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA France IARD can take off 
what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA France IARD to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr H a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and I require AXA France IARD to 
pay the compensation Ive mentioned above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman