DRN-2312510
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with Santander UK Plcs response to the complaint he made after he fell 
victim to fraud. 
He lost £633 to a scam, believing he was buying flights with his credit card when he was 
actually dealing with a fraudster.
What happened
Mr M was looking for flights online when he was contacted by someone claiming to be from 
a travel agency. They were in fact a fraudster. 
The caller was able to provide Mr M with convincing information about available flights and 
gave him a price that seemed reasonable and so he wanted to go ahead with the booking. 
Mr M was initially asked to complete a bank transfer but he refused to do so as he wanted to 
be protected by using his credit card. Mr M gave his card details over at the request of the 
fraudster, on the understanding that hed be taking payment for the flights.
Mr Ms credit card account was then debited, with the £633 payment being made via an      
e-money provider. It was the fraudster that put the payment through. And rather than the 
money going to a travel agency it was sent elsewhere, to a different account controlled by 
the fraudster. 
When Mr M received no booking confirmation, or any further contact from the fraudster, he 
contacted Santander. He was concerned hed been scammed.
Santander began to look into what had happened and agreed Mr M had likely been the 
victim of a scam. It transpired that there had been attempts to make payments of £1 to a 
different account provider the day before. And there was a further attempt to take funds a 
couple of days after the transaction that is the subject of this complaint. But its only the 
transaction for £633 that was actually processed.
Santander raised a chargeback on Mr Ms behalf, in an attempt to recover funds from the e-
money provider. It was the merchant in this case and the correct respondent to the 
chargeback.
It responded declining the chargeback. It explained that it had provided the service it had 
been paid for. That was the sending on of funds electronically. As the service had been 
provided it said it didnt have to return the money. Santander agreed and explained this to Mr 
M. It said it was unable to secure a refund for Mr M via the chargeback process and it 
couldnt otherwise refund him as hed authorised the payment.
It did recognise that it hadnt communicated clearly with Mr M over the course of the 
complaint though. Santander had temporarily refunded Mr M the £633 while it investigated. 
But it didnt explain that was a temporary refund, reliant on the outcome of its investigation. 
And so it came as a shock to Mr M when the amount re-debited his account. Santander paid 
£100 to Mr M as a result
Mr M was unhappy with the banks response and so brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened but didnt find Santander had acted 
unfairly. He found the bank had done what it could in respect of a chargeback and saw there 
was no valid claim against the e-money provider. That was because, as Santander had said, 
it had provided the service it was paid for. Our investigator also explained that another form 
of consumer protection  that afforded by section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  wouldnt 
result in a refund given the circumstances and for broadly the same reasons as the 
chargeback.
He also considered whether that bank ought to have stepped into question the payment 
before allowing it to be processed. But, given the value, he didnt think the bank ought to 
have thought something was wrong or suspicious. And so there were no grounds upon 
which to ask the bank to refund on the basis it hadnt properly protected its customer.
Santander offered a further £50 (making a total of £150) to Mr M to settle his complaint, after 
it was brought to our service. Our investigator said he believed that represented a fair and 
reasonable settlement. But Mr M didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not telling Santander to do more than its already offered to. Ill explain 
why.
Im satisfied that Mr M authorised the payment of £633. He intended to spend that money 
and understood there would be a debit against his credit card account. This is an important 
consideration when thinking about the applicable account terms and the relevant regulations 
(which are the Payment Service Regulations 2017). 
Broadly speaking, Mr M is responsible for any transactions on his account that he has 
authorised. And even though Mr M believed he was purchasing flights  and was in fact the 
unfortunate victim of a scam  he has still authorised the payment and so is responsible for 
it. He was aware of the payment coming out of his account and agreed to that happening, 
albeit under false pretences. 
I can see both the bank and our investigator have then correctly considered how else Mr M 
might recover his money. Im sorry to tell Mr M that my findings are along the same lines as 
have already been explained.
I can see the bank did attempt a chargeback and that it was successfully defended by the 
merchant. Theres little more the bank can do in such a situation. The merchant (the e-
money provider) was able to strongly defend the chargeback by showing that it did provide 
the service it was contracted for. And as the payment was authorised by Mr M there was 
nothing further to be done. Im afraid the sad fact that Mr M was the innocent victim of a 
scam doesnt change things here.
The same reasoning applies to a consideration of a claim under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act. Here, we would be looking at whether there had been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation on the part of the merchant, rather than considering whether there had 
been fraud per se. But, as with the chargeback, its clear that the e-money provider has 
neither breached the contract (it has, in fact fulfilled it) nor misrepresented the service it was providing. It was the fraudster that misrepresented what was going to happen but there is no 
valid section 75 claim against that person.
Fraud is a particularly upsetting and distressing crime. And I can see how it would be even 
more so given Mr M thought he was taking adequate steps to protect himself, by using his 
credit card. But, given the reasons Ive set out around authorisation, chargeback and section 
75, Im unable to say the bank should be responsible for refunding Mr Ms loss. 
I have also considered whether, despite Mr M authorising the transaction, the bank ought to 
have questioned the payment or been suspicious of it. I dont find it would be fair and 
reasonable to expect the bank to have done so. The amount, whilst a significant sum for Mr 
M to lose to a cruel scam, isnt such large amount of money that I find the bank should have 
been concerned. 
With all of that in mind I dont find it would be fair and reasonable to tell Santander to refund 
Mr M the £633 lost to the scam.
I can see there are some attempted payments to a different account provider. These are four 
attempts at £1 each and it appears all were unsuccessful. But given their low value, and the 
fact they are attempted almost a full day before the £633 loss, I dont find they give sufficient 
reason for Santander to have been on alert for later spending.
Mr M was understandably confused and upset when he discovered the £633 had been re-
debited by the bank after it appeared hed been refunded. The bank ought to have made 
sure Mr M knew what the fraud investigation would entail and that he understood the refund 
process in full. Santander recognised its own failing here and has offered Mr M a total of 
£150 in compensation (£100 when it issued the final response and a further £50 when the 
complaint came to this service). I find that to represent a fair and reasonable settlement of 
the complaint. 
Putting things right
Santander should pay Mr M the £150 in compensation its offered. I understand £100 has 
already been paid at the time the final response was issued. And so it should now pay the 
remaining £50. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part, and direct Santander UK Plc to pay the compensation set out 
above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman