DRN-3651835
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) intends to reduce the 
amount it will pay for a claim he made on his landlord insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the key points:
Mr J is a landlord who owns a number of properties and insured them with RSA.
The policy renewed in April 2021. Shortly after, there was a fire at one of the 
properties. Mr J got in touch with RSA, who appointed loss adjusters to look into the 
claim. Some initial queries arose, and all were resolved apart from one.
RSA said the damaged property was underinsured. It valued the cost of rebuilding it 
at £173,863 but Mr J had insured it for £116,818. That meant it was insured for 
around 67% of the value RSA thought it should have been.
RSA accepted the claim was covered by the policy. But because RSA thought the 
property was underinsured, it said the claim would be settled proportionately. I 
understand that meant it intended to pay Mr J 67% of the claim value.
Accepting there had been avoidable delays and communication problems during the 
claim, RSA offered Mr J £150 compensation.
Mr J didnt think this was fair, for a number of reasons. He questioned how RSA had 
calculated the higher figure and whether it had been based on local rates.
Our investigator thought it was fair for RSA to settle the claim proportionately. And as 
RSAs was the only valuation completed by an expert, she was persuaded it was 
reasonable to rely on it to determine the rebuild cost and degree of underinsurance.
Mr J disagreed. Much of his focus was on RSAs calculation of the rebuild cost. He 
also provided information to suggest the proportionate settlement should be 
calculated differently.
An agreement couldnt be reached, so the complaint has been passed to me.
I recently issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances Ive taken into 
account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
codes of practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Whilst Ive read and taken into account everything said by both parties, Ill only 
comment on the points I think are relevant when reaching a fair outcome to this 
dispute. Thats a reflection of the informal nature of this Service.
To recap, RSA has accepted the claim for fire damage is covered. This complaint 
has arisen because it intends to reduce the value of the claim settlement to 67%. 
RSA is relying on a policy term to do this. The wording and meaning of the term 
arent in dispute, so I dont see a need to repeat it all here.
In brief, if the cost of reinstating the property is significantly greater than the sum 
insured, the claim will be settled proportionately, based on the sum insured 
compared to the cost of reinstatement. This has been referred to by RSA as the 
average clause.
Most of the dispute has been about establishing the rebuild cost. And more recently, 
the method of calculating the proportionate settlement. In both cases to question 
RSAs proposed settlement proportion of 67%. However, I dont think thats the key 
point when deciding what a reasonable resolution to this complaint is. Ill explain why.
RSA has proposed to reduce the claim settlement because it doesnt think Mr J 
insured the damaged property for its full rebuild cost. Whilst I recognise RSA is 
seeking to rely on the average clause to reduce the settlement, its doing so because 
it doesnt think Mr J provided the right information at the 2021 renewal.
Mr Js is a commercial policy. So the relevant law relating to the information he had 
to give RSA at the renewal  is the Insurance Act 2015. Amongst other things, it 
requires Mr J to make a fair presentation of the risk to RSA. Relevant to this 
complaint, that meant providing a reasonable estimate of the cost of rebuilding the 
property.
Insurance Act 2015
The Act sets out the remedies available to RSA if Mr J breached that duty. For 
deliberate or reckless breaches, the Act entitles RSA to void the policy and decline all 
claims. Its accepted the claim, so it doesnt think Mr Js made a deliberate or 
reckless breach. For all other breaches, the remedy available to RSA depends on 
what it would have done had a fair presentation been made.
Relevant here is that if RSA would have offered the policy for a higher premium, it 
may reduce the claim proportionately  based on the amount of premium paid 
compared to the higher premium it would have charged.
RSA seemed to consider this point in July 2021. In reference to the damaged 
property possibly being underinsured, it said the premium would remain unchanged 
as a result of this one property in question.
More recently it said it would have charged a higher premium, but it hasnt said by 
how much or provided any underwriting evidence to support that. So based on the 
evidence available to me, Im not satisfied RSA would have charged a higher 
premium if Mr J had insured the damaged property for a greater amount.As RSA wouldnt have charged a higher premium, even if Mr J didnt make a fair 
presentation of risk, it has no remedy under the Act. That means RSA is unable to 
reduce the claim settlement.
RSA has argued that the Act doesnt prevent an insurer from relying on an average 
clause.
The Act includes a contracting out section. In summary it says that a term of a policy 
that would put the commercial customer in a worse position in relation to sections 2, 
3, or 4 would have no effect unless certain transparency requirements are met. The 
sections mentioned include the duty of fair presentation.
Im satisfied the average clause puts Mr J in a worse position than the Act. As noted 
above, under the Act RSA is unable to reduce the claim settlement, but under the 
average clause it intends to reduce the claim to 67%.
In my view, unless RSA met the transparency requirements, the Act makes clear that 
the average clause is of no effect in this situation. RSA hasnt sought to argue that it 
met the transparency requirements or otherwise contract out of the Act. Accordingly, 
Im satisfied the average clause is of no effect and therefore cant be applied in this 
case.
I note in its final response to Mr Js complaint, RSA said in view of  the fact that 
the presentation of risk was not correct, the proportionate settlement clause will 
stand. Thats consistent with the language of the Act and shows RSA thought Mr J 
breached his duty under the Act.
Other policy terms
If I were to accept what RSA has said about the Act  that it doesnt prevent RSA 
from applying the average clause  I would also need to consider the other policy 
terms.
RSA has pointed out that the policy contains a fair presentation of risk clause. In 
summary, this sets out the steps RSA can take if Mr J failed to make a fair 
presentation of the risk at renewal. It doesnt reference the Act but uses the same 
language of it and the steps are all in line with it. This clause says it operates in 
addition to any other terms of the policy relating to underinsurance.
RSA maintains it is only seeking to rely on the average clause. And it says its entitled 
to because the average clause is the primary underinsurance term  with the fair 
presentation of risk term acting in addition to it, not instead of it.
RSAs policy also contains a section entitled How we will deal with claims to comply 
with  The Insurance Act 2015. Within this section it sets out a number of steps it 
may take if claims are made and the policyholder hasnt provided accurate 
information. These steps are in line with the Act and the fair presentation of risk 
policy term. Including a point which says:
where a higher premium would have been charged we will reduce the amount of the 
claim settlement proportionate to the premium we would have actually charged had 
the circumstances been disclosed
It doesnt mention how it may interact with other policy terms.In summary, that means RSAs policy contains three separate terms that deal with a 
situation where Mr J may have breached his duty to make a fair presentation in 
relation to the sum insured:
1. The average clause, which puts Mr J in a worse position than the Act
2. A term which mentions and follows the Act
3. Another term which follows but doesnt mention the Act  and operates in 
addition to the average clause
Im not satisfied this provides for a clear and consistent set of policy terms. RSA has 
chosen to rely on the first term. It says its the primary term for dealing with 
underinsurance.
Even if that were the case, its difficult to understand and reconcile how the third term 
can operate in addition to the first, provide a different outcome to the first, yet have 
no impact according to RSA. And the second term appears to standalone  without 
reference to other terms  yet also have no impact according to RSA.
One of the terms explicitly references and relies on the Act  and another is 
consistent with it, mirroring its language. So RSAs policy relies on the Act in places. 
Despite that, its chosen to rely on a term which puts Mr J in a worse position that the 
Act.
In these circumstances, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable for RSA to 
disregard the Act, the two policy terms consistent with the Act  and rely on a 
separate term to reduce Mr Js claim settlement.
Other considerations
RSA has argued the Act doesnt prevent it from applying the average clause  and 
neither does its other policy terms.
Even if I were to accept those arguments, which I dont, Im required to look not only 
at the relevant law and the policy terms, but also at what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
At its simplest, the situation is as follows: had Mr J insured the damaged property for 
the amount RSA says he should have done, it wouldnt have charged a higher 
premium. It would have offered the same policy, with the same cover, for the same 
premium. And it would have covered this claim in full. Yet, because RSA considers 
the damaged property underinsured, it would like to be able to pay a reduced claim 
settlement.
Im not satisfied this amounts to a fair and reasonable position. In essence insurance 
is an agreement between policyholder and insurer. In return for the policyholder 
agreeing to pay the premium in full, the insurer agrees to pay valid claims in full. Here 
RSA seems to accept Mr J paid as much premium as he needed to  but hasnt 
agreed to pay the claim in full. That doesnt seem equitable or fair to me.
So even if my understanding and interpretation of the Act and the policy terms is 
incorrect, Im not satisfied RSA has treated Mr J fairly and reasonably. Because of 
that I intend to uphold this complaint and require RSA to put things right.
Putting things rightI think the appropriate remedy at this stage is to find that RSA cant rely on the 
average clause to reduce the claim value. The remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy will apply to the claim. Both parties will need to work together to determine how 
to settle the claim  and if thats by cash payment, to agree on a figure.
Mr J has a claim for loss of rent and associated expenses. He and RSA should also 
work together to progress that.
In its final response to Mr Js complaint in July 2021, RSA accepted there had been 
failures in the way the claim was handled up to that point. It offered £150 
compensation. That was around a year ago and I understand the claim hasnt 
progressed since.
Its clear Mr J has found this claim and complaint distressing to deal with. A number 
of different parties were involved on RSAs behalf, which seems to have slowed 
down the process and made communication less straightforward. I understand Mr J 
has had health problems and the way things have been handled has had an impact. I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest these problems were caused by the way RSA 
dealt with things, but Im satisfied they would likely have been made worse during 
this period of stress.
I know Mr J feels very strongly that RSA treated him unfairly, particularly in relation to 
its calculation of the rebuild cost. Hes suggested RSA tried to defraud him. Whilst I 
can understand his frustration at finding his claim settlement may be reduced and 
subsequent difficulties trying to find out why, I havent seen any evidence to suggest 
RSA or its agents have acted dishonestly or inappropriately.
I think RSA genuinely considered a higher rebuild cost was more accurate. In 
principle, its entitled to reach that view, although for the reasons above I havent 
made a finding about the rebuild cost  Ive found that RSA shouldnt have proposed 
to apply the average clause.
Had RSA reached this position when it should have done, Im satisfied Mr Js distress 
and inconvenience could have been lessened. Taking into account events up until 
now, Im satisfied a greater compensation award is proportionate. I intend to require 
RSA to pay a total of £500 compensation. If it has already paid the £150 it offered 
earlier, it can deduct that from £500 and pay the remaining £350.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA accepted the provisional decision.
Mr J said he was happy with my findings.
As neither party has challenged or questioned the provisional decision, I dont see any 
reason to change my findings or comment on them further. Ill focus on the other points that 
have been raised.
RSA has already been in touch with Mr J about the next steps, including the loss of rent 
aspect of the claim.The policy cover is limited to 12 months of loss of rent, but Mr J says his loss exceeds that 
timeframe as a result of the dispute about underinsurance. Hes concerned that RSA may 
not pay for all of those losses.
The complaint before me was about RSAs proposal to reduce the claim value as a result of 
alleged underinsurance. This decision resolves that complaint. The next steps are for RSA 
and Mr J to work together to settle the claim, without a deduction for underinsurance.
I wont be making any findings about those next steps as its for both parties to engage with 
one another and reach an agreement. But generally I would expect RSA to take into account 
the reasons for the timescale and consider whether it would be fair to limit the loss of rent 
settlement in the circumstances. I understand RSA has made Mr J an offer beyond the limit, 
so it seems to be aware of this general position.
If an agreement cant be reached, Mr J will be entitled to bring a new complaint about the 
way RSA has settled the claim.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to:
Settle the claim without reliance on the average clause and subject to the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy.
Pay a total of £500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman