DRN-3444033
The complaint
Mr G complains that a car that he acquired under a hire purchase agreement (agreement) 
with Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMFL) juddered, making it of unsatisfactory quality. 
Mr G would like to be able to reject the car and to be appropriately compensated for doing 
so.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I only provide a brief 
overview of some of the key events here.
In July 2021 Mr G entered into an agreement for a used car costing £7,000. The car was 
approximately 9 years old and had travelled approximately 74,000 miles. Under the terms of 
the agreement, everything else being equal, Mr G undertook to make 36 monthly payments 
of £248.41 followed by one monthly payment of £258.41  a total repayable of £9,201.17 at 
an APR of 19.8%. The finance was brokered on Mr Gs behalf by a credit intermediary that I 
will call Z. 
Shortly after taking delivery of the car Mr G complained (amongst other things) of a 
juddering. The car was returned to the supplying dealership (where it remained for about 
three weeks). Whilst at the supplying dealership repairs appear to have been undertaken to 
the passenger side wing mirror and the air conditioning. But it doesnt appear, as far as I can 
see, that any repair was undertaken in respect of the juddering Mr G had complained about.
In August 2021 Mr G took the car to a garage that I will call W. W, under cover of an 
invoice for £48 dated 10 August 2021, said that:
Checked for reported judder  worse when vehicle warm. Carried out various extended road 
tests. Checked for any software updates (not available as up to date). Checked for faults 
logged. No faults logged. Unable to reproduce at time of check. The recorded mileage was 
noted as 75,517.
In December 2021 Mr G took the car to a garage that I will call M. M, under cover of an 
invoice for 1 pence dated 9 December 2021, said that:
Investigation  Multiple codes stored relating to BSI module  vehicle needs to be taken to 
Citroen for further dianosis [sic]. The recorded mileage was noted as 0.
In late December 2021 Mr G complained to our service about the juddering and his wish to 
be able to reject the car and to be appropriately compensated for doing so.
In February 2022 (whilst Mr Gs complaint was with our service)  an inspection, instructed 
and paid for by Z, was undertaken on the car by a company that I will call A. A, under cover 
of its inspection report dated 26 February 2022, said (amongst other things) that:
Customer had originally reported a clutch juddering on the vehicle back in August 2021. 
The engine started satisfactorily from cold. No warning lights remained illuminated. 
We then undertook road testing covering 67 miles at speeds of up to 70mph in mixed road 
and traffic conditions. For the duration of the test the vehicle performed satisfactorily with no 
evidence of any issues with the transmission. 
On completion of the test we undertook diagnostic testing, which produced no fault codes 
stored or pending. 
In our opinion based on the available evidence at the time of the visit we would conclude as 
follows: After inspection and road test of the above vehicle we found no evidence of any 
issues. The vehicle appeared to perform satisfactorily with no faults found.
We would conclude, based on our inspection and road test, the vehicle presented no faults 
and appeared to be serviceable.
No defects found
The recorded mileage was noted as 81,678.
Mr Gs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that 
Mr G didnt acquire car that was of unsatisfactory quality on the grounds that, in certain 
circumstances/situations, it juddered.
Mr G didnt agree with the investigators view and so his complaint has been passed to me 
for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr G has very strong feelings about this complaint. He has provided detailed 
submissions in support of his view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr G will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. 
I would also point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or 
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.I know I cant say for certain that the car Mr G acquired, under an agreement with SMFL, 
wasnt suffering with juddering. But Mr Gs verbal testimony in this respect is simply not 
supported by the documented evidence that has been supplied to our service.
As noted by the investigator, and as outlined in the what happened section of this decision, 
both W (appointed by Mr G) and A (appointed by Z) have confirmed they were unable to 
replicate the juddering being complained about. Furthermore, A confirmed that, in its 
professional opinion, the car was of satisfactory quality when Mr G first acquired it.
Mr G has provided our service with an invoice from M, but I cant see how this helps Mr G. I 
say this because this invoice makes no reference to any juddering being noted or replicated 
by M.
I appreciate Mr G questions the quality of the inspection carried out by A, but taking what A 
has said in conjunction with what both W and A have said (and not said) I cant reasonably 
conclude that Mr G was supplied with a car that was of unsatisfactory quality on the grounds 
that, in certain circumstances/situations, it juddered.
I can see that Mr G has also provided our service with:
a copy of the cars dashboard showing a recorded mileage of 75,065 miles, a service 
light illuminated, and a warning light illuminated with the message Engine fault: 
Repair needed
evidence of a manufacturers recall for the type of car acquired by him 
a copy of the cars dashboard showing a recorded mileage 81,748 miles, a service 
light illuminated, and a warning light illuminated with the message Gearbox fault: 
Repair needed. 
a copy of a breakdown report (dated 26 April 2022) showing a recorded mileage of 
81,748 and various faults with the car
Ive considered the above and would make the following comments.
Like the investigator (and for the same reasons) Im satisfied that the car Mr G acquired 
wasnt caught by the manufacturers recall Mr G makes reference to. 
The dashboard photograph (with a recorded mileage of 75,065) simply shows that the car 
needed a repair after Mr G had added approximately 1,000 miles on it. It doesnt show what 
that repair might be, and it certainly doesnt show that the car had the juddering issue 
subject to this complaint. Furthermore, had any needed repair not been undertaken (whether 
by the supplying dealership or another party) I might have expected Mr G not to have added 
approximately 7,000 miles on the car.
The dashboard photograph (with a recorded mileage of 81,748) simply shows that the car 
needed a repair after Mr G had added approximately 8,000 miles on it. It doesnt show what 
that repair might be, and it certainly doesnt show that the car had the juddering issue 
subject to this complaint. 
The breakdown report, at least as far as I can see, makes no reference to the juddering 
issue subject to this complaint. It simply makes reference to a number of issues with the car 
after Mr G had added 8,000 miles on it.
I appreciate Mr G will be disappointed, but for the reasons given above Im satisfied, on the 
balance of probabilities, that Mr G didnt acquire car that was of unsatisfactory quality on the 
grounds that, in certain circumstances/situations, it juddered. My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman