DRN-3416292
The complaint
Mr S complained about how AXA Insurance UK Plc handled his claim under his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S s car was damaged in an accident. He was unhappy that when AXAs approved 
repairer ( their garage) collected his own car for repair they drove it to their garage rather 
than recover it, because he didnt think it was roadworthy. He also thought that theyd taken 
a longer route than necessary. 
He said that when he got his car back from AXAs garage it had a windscreen chip that 
hadnt been there beforehand. And he said that AXA that they gave him a courtesy car which 
had poor tyres and was dangerous to drive.
AXA said he hadnt told them or their garage or claims agent about any issues with the 
courtesy car at the time. But they did apologise if it wasnt roadworthy. They said theyd 
expected their garage to recover Mr S s car rather than drive it, so they apologised for that 
too. They offered him £150 compensation overall for his inconvenience. But they said that 
their garages route was only a little longer than his preferred route, and they chose it to 
avoid a dual carriageway. They didnt think it was reasonable for Mr S to specify what route 
the garage took. 
AXA offered to repair his windscreen and to not treat it as a claim under his policy, so it 
wouldnt appear as a claim on any database, and Mr S didnt have to pay any excess. 
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. She thought that  
AXA had acted fairly and that £150 was adequate compensation. Mr S didnt agree and so 
his case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S had been unhappy with other aspects of AXAs claim-handling and they have been the 
subject of a separate complaint to this service. That complaint has already been decided by 
another ombudsman and I wont deal with those matters here. Im only dealing with the 
complaint issues mentioned above. 
Mr S said the courtesy car AXAs garage gave him had poor quality tyres and was 
dangerous to drive, and that another garage had confirmed this. But AXA said he had not 
raised his claimed problem with the courtesy car at the time either with AXA or with their 
garage or claims agent and he hadnt shown them any report. He has now shown us a 
garage report which confirms some issues with a cars tyres. Its not clear if this car was the 
courtesy car. But even assuming it was, on the evidence before me, Im not persuaded that 
AXA or their garage or agents saw that garage report or were given the chance to do 
anything about it at that time. Nevertheless, AXA were willing to apologise and compensate 
and I think that was fair of them. 
AXA agreed to pay for a replacement windscreen for his car. Theyd checked the condition 
report on his car when it went into their garage. But there were two versions of that report.  
The garages one mentioned the chip, which suggested that it was there already. But Mr S s 
copy didnt mention any windscreen chip then. This suggested that the chip had happened at 
their garage. Despite these contradictory copies, AXA chose to believe Mr S . And so they 
agreed to pay to repair his windscreen. The investigator checked that AXA hadnt treated 
that as a claim under his policy, so it didnt go on any database and he didnt have to pay 
any policy excess for it. I think that AXA acted fairly here. They acknowledged responsibility 
for the windscreen chip and remedied it at no cost to Mr S . 
AXA said theyd expected their garage to recover his car to their garage rather than drive it, 
so they were not happy about that. Mr S felt that their garage had taken what too long a 
route to the garage, and they should have gone a different and shorter route. But their 
garage had a legitimate reason to choose that route and it was not much longer than Mr S s 
preferred route. I think that AXA were fair and reasonable to think that AXAs garage should 
have followed their instructions re recovering Mr S s car, but I dont think its up to Mr S to 
say what route they should have taken. 
 
I do appreciate that Mr S feels upset by AXAs actions, but overall I think that AXA havent 
acted unreasonably and their offer of compensation of £150 does reasonably reflect any 
inconvenience their actions have caused Mr S . This means that I dont require them to do 
anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
