DRN-3494091
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) misled him about an account 
incentive.
What happened
Mr M says he applied for a RBS account switch incentive of £150 in good faith. He said he 
was later told he was not eligible due to a condition he says was hidden in the small print of 
the terms and conditions. Mr M would like the incentive and compensation paid for the 
distress he was caused. He says the terms and conditions were not clear and transparent.
RBS says Mr M only met one of the four relevant conditions to be eligible for the incentive 
and has provided a copy of the two-page advert which contained the terms and conditions. It 
doesnt accept making a mistake.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Mr M didnt meet the incentive conditions and so RBS didnt act unfairly by not 
paying the £150.
Mr M doesnt agree and says the advert was inaccurate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I have looked at RBSs incentive advert which I can see was two pages and contained the 
eligibility conditions. Im satisfied the advert did not have the terms and conditions hidden in 
the small print as Mr M says but displayed the relevant conditions under what I think was a 
clear heading. Im also satisfied that there were about four conditions that Mr M needed to 
meet before the incentive would be paid but he only complied with one. So, I dont think RBS 
made a mistake or acted unfairly by refusing to pay the incentive in circumstances where Mr 
M clearly didnt meet the eligibility conditions. It follows that I cant fairly order RBS pay the 
incentive or compensation as Mr M would like.
There is no need for me to go through each of the eligibility conditions as Im satisfied that 
Mr M didnt meet them save for one. I have made clear that I find the advert to have been 
clear and would have expected Mr M to have spoken to RBS if he was unsure about what he 
needed to do. I have not seen any inaccurate information in the advert as Mr M suggests.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman