DRN-2038909
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Madison CF UK Limited has applied a default to his account, which is 
negatively impacting his credit file. And that it took several months to let him know he hadnt 
qualified for an offer which he thought wouldve cleared his account, preventing the default.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont t repeat them again
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) sets out when it considers it appropriate 
for a default to be registered  and Mr F hadnt made payments for this length of time 
(three months). He actually hadnt made payments previously for five months, before 
making one payment, and Madison didnt register a default at this time, although it 
could have. So it did treat Mr F with more leniency than it necessarily had to. But 
when he began not paying again for a further three months it registered the default. 
This doesnt seem unfair to me, as it should be accurately reporting on Mr Fs 
management of his account on his credit file.
Looking at the correspondence Mr F was sent, he was warned about the 
consequences of not making payments. And Madison contacted him by text 
message and email as well as letter. So Im satisfied he was notified of what was 
going on with his account and what could happen.
While I accept Mr F did make a payment in December 2019, this was his first 
payment in four months. So by this time, in line with the ICO guidance, Madison 
could and had already began the process of applying a default to his account  even 
if it took longer for it to communicate this to him. And by the time he made this 
payment he had missed the offer, as the payment deadline for benefiting from this 
was November 2019. So this doesnt make a difference to whether the default 
applied, as he didnt make any payment in November 2019.
I understand Mr F feels the default is having a disproportionate impact on him, 
compared to what he owed and what he thought he needed to do. However, our 
service cant ask Madison to remove the default for those reasons. We could only do 
this if it had been incorrectly or unfairly applied. And as Mr F was months behind on 
his payments, Im afraid that isnt the case.
I appreciate there was a miscommunication about the payment offer and Madison 
took far too long to let Mr F know he hadnt qualified for it. But, Ive set out above why 
I think the default has fairly been applied. So this doesnt change my decision and I 
think the £75 awarded for this poor communication is more than fair in this case.
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Fs frustration, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman