DRN-2746316
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco Bank)  
unfairly  declined  her claim  under  section  75 of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974  ("CCA"),  for a 
refund  of a service  fee paid to an estate  agency  which  subsequently  withdrew  from the 
contract  to sell a property.
What happened
In June 2017 Mrs M entered into a contract with an estate agency to market for sale a 
property. Mrs M paid the estate agency a fee of £995 for the Online Service using her 
credit card with Tesco Bank. She later upgraded to the High Street Service and under the 
terms and conditions of the contract the £995 fee then became credit towards any 
commission fees that would become payable by Mrs M to the estate agency once the 
property sold. 
Mrs M says that the estate agency mishandled the marketing of the house and in February 
2019 the estate agency cancelled the contract. Mrs M complained to the estate agency who 
did not uphold her complaint. Mrs M wasnt repaid the £995 fee she had paid.
Mrs M made a claim under Section 75 to Tesco Bank for her payment of £995 to be 
refunded. Her claim was investigated by Tesco Bank but declined. Tesco Bank said that 
there wasnt a breach of contract or any misrepresentation by the estate agency. It said that 
under the terms and conditions of the agreement, the estate agency was entitled to 
terminate the agreement after six months had passed from the date of the agreement 
commencing and following 14 days written notice having been served. Tesco Bank also said 
that the agreement contained no provision for a refund if the agreement was terminated by 
the agency.
Mrs M complained to Tesco Bank about the decision to decline her claim. Tesco Bank 
reviewed the decision but said that it was fair. It didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Mrs M complained to this service. Our investigator didnt recommend that her complaint 
should be upheld. He said that as the agreement had been terminated in line with its terms 
and conditions Tesco Bank had acted fairly when declining Mrs Ms claim under Section 75.
Mrs M disagreed with the view of our investigator. She said the contract to sell the property 
had been breached as a catalogue of errors by the estate agents had led to them 
terminating the agreement. It had failed to sell the property and it was unfair that the agency 
had retained the fee.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint had been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section  75 of the CCA  gives  a consumer,  in certain  circumstances,  an equal  right to 
claim  a refund  against  the supplier  of goods  or services  and the provider  of credit,  if 
there  has been  a misrepresentation  or breach  of contract  by the supplier.  And my role 
is to decide  whether  Tesco  Bank  handled  Mrs M's Section  75 claim  fairly  and 
reasonably.
Looking at the contract between Mrs M and the estate agency it sets out that the fee for the 
services to be provided are £995 and that this fee will be used as credit towards any 
commission that falls due when the property is sold if the service is upgraded to the High 
Street Service. However, it also says that the fee will not be refunded in any other 
circumstances than contained in the section headed Right to Cancel. This section sets out 
the right to cancel within the first 14 days and makes provision for part of the fee to be 
retained if marketing of the property has already commenced. So, Im satisfied there is no 
provision for the fee or part of it to be refunded when the agreement is terminated by the 
estate agency.
Tesco Bank says there was no breach of contract as the agreement provided the right to the 
estate agency to terminate the agreement after six months had passed and so long as it was 
put in writing with 14 days-notice. I dont think its disputed by Mrs M that these conditions 
were met however, she says it was due to errors made by the estate agency that caused 
them to bring the contract to an end. She says it wasnt fair as due to her circumstances she 
wasnt able to terminate the agreement herself. She says the contract between herself and 
the estate agency was breached.
Ive seen that Mrs M made a complaint to the Property Ombudsman about the service the 
estate agency provided her when marketing the property. And although I havent seen all of 
that services response to her complaint, I have seen that it upheld her complaints about the 
use of information and views regarding the propertys valuation. It suggested an amount of 
compensation was due to Mrs M from the estate agency.
However, while I appreciate there appeared to have been some failings in the business 
practices of the estate agency, I dont think I can reasonably say that the estate agency 
wasnt entitled to terminate the contract when it did. The contract provided the right to the 
agency to end the agreement, which it did in line with those terms and conditions. And I also 
cant say that Mrs Ms personal circumstances meant the agency lost its right to end the 
agreement.  Further, the level of service provided to Mrs M by the estate agency didnt 
amount to a breach of the terms and conditions of the agreement to market the property. So, 
on the evidence Ive seen, I cant reasonably say there was a breach of contract between 
Mrs M and the estate agency. 
I disagree with Mrs M that a failure to sell the property was a breach of the agreement as I 
cant see any promise or guarantee was give that this would be achieved. I also havent 
seen any evidence there was any misrepresentation on the part of the estate agency to Mrs 
M that induced her to enter into the agreement.
Im sorry that Mrs M has been through a stressful time but Im not upholding her complaint. I 
think Tesco Bank has acted fairly and reasonably in investigating her Section 75 claim and in 
reaching the decision to decline it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 05 July 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman