DRN-3753707
Complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) closed his savings account even 
though he asked for it to remain open.
Background
In June 2022, Mr G visited a Santander branch to enquire upon the status of a savings 
account he hadnt used for some time. He was told that he needed to provide identification 
documents to reactivate the account. Mr G provided the documentation required but 
subsequently received a letter notifying him his account had been closed. Mr G complained. 
Santander didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. As Mr G remained dissatisfied, he referred the 
matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Gs concerns. She didnt think that Santander had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr G unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr G disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Santander acted unfairly towards    
Mr G and so Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Mr G, a bank is under no obligation to continue offering an 
account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. I know that Mr G is unhappy that 
Santander closed his account but closing a customers account is a commercial decision that 
a bank is entitled to take. In this case, Mr Gs account was closed because his account 
hadnt been used for a number of years and when he asked for the dormancy block to be 
removed, this led to the closure process starting.
I realise that Santanders decision will have been very disappointing to Mr G and I can 
appreciate why the closure of his account will have caused him inconvenience. However, he 
hadnt used this account for a number of years and Santander were entitled to vary the 
terms including the interest rate. So while I realise that Mr G feels that he has lost out on 
more favourable terms, I dont think that this is the case. This is especially as Santander has 
said that Mr G can apply for a new savings account at its current rates and, in any event,  
this is more likely than not the position Mr G would find himself in if he were to have started 
using his dormant account. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Santander acted unfairly 
towards Mr G and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr G. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
appreciate why I think Santander hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably towards him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman