DRN-3600171
The complaint
Mr B complains that Monzo Bank Ltd allowed several transactions to be made through his 
account that he didnt recognise causing him to enter an unauthorised overdraft.
What happened
Mr B hired a car from a merchant Ill refer to as P and agreed to certain terms when he 
signed the hire contract. During the hire period the vehicle was stolen for several days 
before being recovered. Sometime later, Mr B noticed that P tried to take a large payment 
from his account, but this was unsuccessful. Soon after the failed attempt, P again tried to 
take the payment and this time they were successful. The additional charges appeared to be 
related to costs associated with the hire and theft of the vehicle whilst Mr B was using it.
 Mr B notified Monzo about it and couldnt understand how he now had a large unarranged 
overdraft when he hadnt authorised P to take such a large payment. Monzo explained that P 
were able to take such payments because they relied on a contract that Mr B had signed, 
and P could process transactions even though there were insufficient funds available in the 
account. Mr B asked Monzo to block his card from any future attempts by P to take 
payments but some smaller transactions still went through. Monzo explained that they were 
again unable to stop these as they related to the original authorisation signed by Mr B.
 Monzo advised Mr B to approach P directly and told him that if he failed, they could dispute 
the transaction on his behalf, but would need specific evidence before they did this. Mr B told 
Monzo that hed gone back to P but hadnt had any information, nor had he received any 
invoice concerning these additional charges.
Monzo delayed any charges or interest on the account for a number of weeks to assist Mr B. 
Monzo later asked Mr B to settle the outstanding debt and if it wasnt paid, the account 
would be defaulted. The account was eventually closed due to the outstanding debt on the 
account. Whilst in the unarranged overdraft Mr B received several payments in error which 
werent connected to P, and asked Monzo to return them to the original accounts. Due to the 
outstanding debt, there was a delay whilst Monzo worked out if they could return the funds 
because the account was in debit. Eventually Monzo arranged for these funds to be returned 
to the original accounts.
Mr B complained to Monzo about how theyd handled his situation and they re-looked into 
his situation. Monzo accepted they could have provided better service but didnt think theyd 
done anything wrong concerning the transactions made by P. Monzo offered £25 
compensation, although they later suggested to the Financial Ombudsman that this should 
be increased to £100. 
Several months after the large payment was taken from his account, Mr B received a partial 
refund from P. 
Mr B was unhappy with how Monzo had dealt with his complaint and brought it to the 
Financial Ombudsman for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our 
investigators who asked for evidence from both parties. Monzo provided information 
concerning the payments taken by P. Mr B wasnt able to provide anything further 
concerning his issue with P. 
Our investigator thought that Mr B hadnt authorised the transaction because he wasnt given 
an invoice explaining the costs by P prior to the payment going through his account. They 
thought this lack of information and the large bill was likely to be beyond what Mr B was 
reasonably expected to pay. There was no contract available to our investigator at the time 
the outcome was written, and Mr Bs complaint was upheld. 
Monzo disagreed with the outcome and asked for a further review. They argued that the 
transactions were authorised because Mr B had signed a contract with P, and this allowed 
for further payments to be taken. They explained that they couldnt have challenged the 
payments because Mr B didnt provide any evidence for them to do so, despite asking him 
for it, which is required by the rules governing the payment. 
I issued a provisional decision where I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I asked Mr B to provide any evidence he had concerning the contract with P. He was able to 
send in a copy of an agreement which is titled Rental agreement at rental end and dated 
about a week after the payment was taken from his account. I asked for additional evidence 
concerning the theft and correspondence with P, but Ive yet to see anything further. I would 
expect such an event (car theft) to have produced some correspondence between Mr B and 
P. 
When Mr B first arranged to take the car, he signed a contract which gave P permission to 
take payments from whichever payment method Mr P used, which in this case was his 
Monzo debit card. On the face of it, Mr P had his hire car stolen and it seems as though 
damage was caused to it  likely by the thieves. What isnt known are the circumstances of 
the theft and thats relevant because under certain conditions, the contract has a limit to 
what P can charge for such things like theft and damage. There are certain circumstances 
where these amounts can be increased depending on what happened and thats why I 
asked Mr B for information concerning the theft. 
When the payment was presented to Monzo it was initially rejected but was successful the 
second time. Monzo have explained that theyre unable to prevent these types of offline 
transactions due to how the card system they belong to works. Monzo went on to explain 
that the additional transactions that went through the account after Mr B had asked for his 
card to be blocked were all related to authorisations made prior to the card block and they 
were again unable to prevent these. Other payment requests from P were blocked because 
they were new requests not related to earlier authorisations. 
When Mr B signed the contract, he was in effect, providing authorisation for payments to be 
taken from his account in line with the agreement. So, I think that Monzo had the appropriate 
authorisation from Mr B when P presented their transaction to them and due to the offline 
nature of the payment, this took Mr B into an unarranged overdraft. Mr B has argued that he 
didnt authorise this payment, but the contract he signed with P allows for additional charges 
to be applied to the account once the rental is finished. P applied those charges to Mr Bs 
card at the end of the rental which included charges related to damage and the theft. 
When Mr B approached Monzo about the transaction, he asked for a full refund of the 
charges. But, presumably Mr B was expecting some form of additional charges to be applied 
to his account because the rental had finished, and his car had been stolen. It seems reasonable to think that other charges would have been due because of this. I appreciate Mr 
B didnt have paperwork when he first went to Monzo, but I dont think Monzo could have 
considered refunding Mr B without further information. In the chat logs, Mr B told Monzo on 
02/08/20 that he still didnt have any paperwork from P, although he was later able to supply 
a copy of the final invoice which was dated 24/07/20. 
Because the transactions used Mr Bs debit card using the Mastercard network, they could 
be challenged using a process called Chargeback. Monzo explained this to Mr B when he 
first contacted them and reminded him about this later. Chargebacks follow strict rules and 
time limits, they also require each party to provide evidence to support their respective 
cases. Theyre not a right, but we would expect a bank to mount a chargeback where there 
was a reasonable chance of success and theyd been supplied with the appropriate 
information with which to do so. Here, Monzo gave Mr B information about how he could 
challenge the transaction but were never provided with any information within the timeframes 
allowed by Mastercard. So, I dont think Monzos approach to the issue of Chargebacks was 
unreasonable, as they couldnt mount one without information from Mr B. 
Consideration was given by our investigator of the requirement of the Payment Service 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs) specifically section 79 which deals with refunds for transactions 
initiated by the payee (P). This says that the payer (Mr B) is entitled to a full refund if certain 
conditions can be met. The relevant part here is: 
(b) the amount of the payment transaction exceeded the amount that the payer could 
reasonably have expected taking into account the payers previous spending pattern, the 
conditions of the framework contract and the circumstances of the case. 
Essentially this section provides protection for the payer in cases where theyve 
preauthorised a payment and the resulting payment is more than they could have been 
reasonably expected to pay. Monzo have argued that because there was a theft of the 
vehicle and probable damage, its not possible to determine the charges that P could make. 
So, the question here is was the payment to P reasonable in the circumstances? It was 
known the car had been stolen and in such cases theres often damage caused, so I dont 
think the actual amount requested was particularly unreasonable. The difficulty faced by 
Monzo was that they had no specific information on which to decide if Mr Bs request met 
these conditions. As Ive already mentioned, its likely that additional charges would be 
forthcoming, so I think Mr Bs request for a full refund wasnt representative of the 
circumstances. But, when he provided a copy of the invoice, there does appear to be a 
restriction on the amount of money P could take due to theft/damage excesses. P later 
provided a substantial refund to Mr Bs account. 
I think its likely that a Chargeback could have simplified the situation as that would have put 
the onus on P to supply information about their charges  but as Ive already mentioned, I 
dont think Monzo could have made a request because they werent provided with the 
relevant information by Mr B. So, whilst its now apparent that P overcharged Mr B (because 
they subsequently made a refund to him), I dont think Monzo could have determined that at 
the time. Monzo were acting on the authorisation provided by Mr B when he signed a 
contract with P. 
Overdraft 
The result of the charge by P put Mr B into an unarranged overdraft and this caused Mr B 
some financial difficulties. Monzo gave Mr B a few months without additional charges for this 
unarranged overdraft and then asked for the full amount to be repaid. Monzo explained to Mr 
B the impact of not paying his outstanding overdraft and offered additional support. Mr B stopped responding to Monzo and the account was eventually closed. I dont think Monzo 
had to do anymore at this stage  theyd told Mr B what was happening and the likely impact 
on him and offered additional support. 
Returned funds 
Mr B received payments into his account which he told Monzo were by mistake and to return 
them to the original senders account. This presented Monzo with some difficulties, thats 
because there was now a debt on the account from the overdraft. Monzo were eventually 
able to return the funds to the senders account and I dont intend to add anything further 
about this aspect of the complaint. 
Account closure 
Both banks and consumers have a choice with who they bank with and Monzo decided they 
didnt want to continue to offer services to Mr B on this account. Monzo eventually closed the 
account after it defaulted due to lack of payment of the outstanding debt. I dont think this 
was unreasonable considering Monzo had notified Mr B about this. I currently dont intend to 
ask them to do anything further about this.
Customer Service 
Monzo did recognise that they could have been clearer with their messages to Mr B and 
initially offered £25. Theyve subsequently suggested that a payment of £100 is more 
appropriate and I agree. Im not currently intending to increase this amount  whilst I think 
that Monzo could have dealt with Mr B with more clarity, I dont think it ultimately would have 
changed the outcome. Monzo were clear about what they could do about the disputed 
transaction and because they never received any evidence about it  they were unable to 
challenge it on Mr Bs behalf. 
Overall, the situation Mr B complained about was complicated, resulting in a large payment 
made to P. P also took several other payments from Mr Bs account which appear to relate 
to other outstanding contracts. Monzo blocked any new attempts by P but were unable to 
prevent preauthorised payments to be taken. Mr B asked for a full refund which I dont think 
was reasonable in the circumstances. It does appear that he was overcharged by P, but 
taking the various charges applied to his account and the refund, Mr B would still have 
entered an unarranged overdraft, albeit for a lower amount. 
In my provisional decision I didnt uphold Mr Bs substantive complaint about the charges, 
but I did uphold the increase in the payment to £100 for the customer service provided to Mr 
B. I invited Mr B and Monzo to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me 
to consider before issuing my final decision. Both Monzo and Mr B accepted the provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as both parties accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
reach a different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in my 
provisional decision.Putting things right
I do not uphold Mr Bs substantive complaint about the charges applied to his account, but I 
do uphold the increase of £100 to recognise the poor customer service he received.
My final decision
I uphold, in part, Mr Bs complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd are instructed to pay Mr B a total of £100 
as set out above. For the avoidance of doubt, I do not uphold the complaint concerning the 
charges applied to Mr Bs account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman