DRN-3719304
The complaint
Mr P complains that Society of Lloyd's has unfairly settled his claim on his residential let 
insurance. 
What happened
Mr P had insurance for a property he owns and rents out that is underwritten by Lloyds. He 
took out the policy through a broker. 
In June 2020 he made a claim on the policy after he discovered an escape of water at the 
property and malicious damage caused by the tenants. Lloyds sent someone out to 
investigate and accepted the claim. However it said the sum insured for the property wasnt 
a reasonable estimate. And it said the tenants were in receipt of housing benefit and this 
hadnt been declared when the policy was taken out. Lloyds said that if both of these had 
been declared then it would have charged a total of 70% more for the policy. And due to this 
it said it would reduce the settlement by 70%, in line with the relevant law. This amounted to 
a settlement of £2,178.
Mr P didnt think this was fair. He said hed based his estimate for the sum insured on the 
selling price of a similar property and didnt realise this was different to the re-build cost that 
was required. He also said he hadnt been asked about whether his tenants were in receipt 
of benefits so didnt agree hed given incorrect information. He made a complaint. 
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint so he brought it to this service.
After the complaint came to us, Lloyds reassessed the settlement it had offered. Instead of 
reducing the settlement by 70% overall, it assessed the escape of water and malicious 
damage claims separately. It then applied the average clause in the policy that allows it to 
reduce the settlement based on the amount the property was underinsured by. This resulted 
in a revised settlement offer of £3,368.04.
Our investigator considered the issues and agreed that as Mr P hadnt made a fair 
presentation of the risk when he took out the policy, then it was fair for Lloyds to reduce the 
settlement paid proportionately as this is in line with the relevant law. However she didnt 
think it was fair for Lloyds to apply the policy limit for malicious damage of £5,000 before 
calculating the settlement, but thought instead this would apply after. So she thought Lloyds 
should pay the settlement without applying the policy limit first.  
Lloyds didnt accept the outcome. It said it didnt agree the policy limit should be applied 
after the calculation. Mr P accepted the outcome but didnt agree with it. He said it wasnt 
clear that the amount he was being asked for in answer to the sum insured was the rebuild 
cost rather than the value and he said he had never been asked about his tenants benefits. 
So he didnt think it was fair he was penalised so strongly for giving wrong information when 
he didnt realise he was. 
As agreement hasnt been reached, the complaint has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has said that Mr P was underinsured, as the value of the property covered by the 
policy was less than it should have been. Because of this, its said it will apply the average 
clause in the policy and offer a proportionate settlement. Its also said that it would have 
charged more for the policy if it had known that the tenants were in receipt of benefits, so it 
reduced the settlement further because of this. 
I can see the policy contains a term that allows Lloyds to settle claims on a proportionate 
basis where underinsurance has occurred. However as this dispute has arisen due to the 
information that was provided when the policy was first taken out, I think its fair to first 
consider whether Mr P fulfilled his duty under the relevant law. Mr Ps policy is a commercial 
one so the law that applies here is the Insurance Act 2015.
Under the Act a commercial customer has a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk to 
the insurer. In order to fulfil a fair presentation of risk, the Act says a commercial policyholder
must disclose everything they know, or ought to know, that would influence the judgment of
an insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms. If it is found that they
didnt fulfil this duty then in order to say there has been a qualifying breach, the
insurer needs to show that it would have either not offered the policy at all, or offered it on
different terms.
Here Lloyds has said Mr P failed to make a fair presentation of the risk with two bits of 
information provided when the policy was taken out  the sum insured and the fact the 
tenants were receiving benefits. So Ill consider each in turn. 
Sum insured
Mr P estimated this to be £75,000 while Lloyds say a reasonable estimate is £120,000. Mr P 
has said he wasnt aware that the sum insured represented the rebuild cost rather than the 
sale price, and because of this misunderstanding he used the price of a similar property that 
had sold in the area.
Mr P bought the policy through a broker, so he would have been provided with the 
information about the policy by them. However Lloyds are responsible for providing enough 
information to make it clear to the broker what will influence its judgement when assessing 
the risk.
Ive looked at the documents provided. The statement of fact shows details of the 
information Mr P has provided when taking out the policy and would have been given to Mr 
P directly at inception. It states as follows:
You must take reasonable care to provide complete and accurate answers to the questions 
we ask when you take out, make changes to or renew your Policy. If you fail to do so, your 
Policy may be void, or may be cancelled, or your claim may be rejected or not fully paid. If
you are in doubt as to whether you have answered any questions completely and accurately, 
you should check your records rather than guess
It then goes on to say:
If at the time of a loss the sum insured is only half of the amount required to fully cover all the property, then we will only pay up to half of the claim, less any excess applicable. Sums 
insured must be enough to fully cover all the property, throughout the life of the policy 
including after each renewal. Otherwise a claim payment may be reduced by the application 
of average.
Please consider taking professional advice to help you set adequate sums insured, eg from 
a surveyor in respect of buildings insurance.
A guide to setting buildings sums insured is available from the BCIS website.
From this, I think it would have been clear to the broker and Mr P that the information given 
at the point of taking out the policy is important and the particular importance of getting the 
sum insured right. The fact that the document highlights that guidance should be sought, 
suggests that it is likely to be a difficult number to calculate. The document also points to a 
website that would give Mr P an estimate for the sum insured. 
Based on this, I think Lloyds provided clear enough information to show what was required 
to provide a reasonable estimate for the sum insured. And as this document was not only 
provided to the broker but to Mr P directly when he bought the policy, I think he should have 
been aware that his estimate wasnt accurate and he hadnt made a fair presentation of the 
risk. So I agree hes made a misrepresentation according to the act.
Tenants
As part of the same document the following question is included:
(c) to tenants receiving unemployment, housing or disability benefits? No
Mr P has confirmed he was aware, and had agreed to, his tenants paying rent through 
housing benefits. And I think the statement of fact makes it clear that this information is 
something Lloyds take into account when assessing the risk. I therefore think Mr P made a 
misrepresentation in not disclosing this information as well. 
Qualifying breach
In order to determine if these amount to a qualifying breach under the Act, Lloyds has 
provided details of the premiums it would have charged Mr P if he had made a full 
disclosure. Based on this I can see it would have charged a total of 70% more for the policy. 
Im therefore satisfied that there has been a qualifying breach. 
Under the Insurance Act, where an insurer has shown that it would have charged a higher 
premium if the correct information had been provided, it allows the insurer to settle the claim 
on a proportionate basis based on the proportion of premiums that were paid, compared to 
those that should have been.
Lloyds originally offered a settlement based on the remedy outlined in the Insurance Act. 
However it has since offered a higher settlement by applying this combined with the average 
clause contained in the policy. 
The Insurance Act allows firms to contract out from the remedies in the act, as long as 
certain requirements are met that are called the transparency requirements. This means it 
can provide a different remedy in the policy terms that isnt covered by the act if it makes this 
clear enough.
However this applies to where the term is disadvantageous to the customer. Here, Lloyds has shown that by applying the average clause, rather than just relying on a proportionate 
settlement based on the premiums as laid out in the act, the customer is in a better position 
than they would have been. I therefore dont need to consider whether it has met the 
transparency requirements as it hasnt disadvantaged the customer.
Based on this I think Lloyds has acted fairly by reducing the claim settlement based on the 
proportion of the premiums paid and the average clause. And I wont interfere in its decision 
to do so.
Policy limit
As part of its calculations for the settlement for the malicious damage, Lloyds has applied 
the policy limit before working out the proportion of the claim it will pay. As the full amount 
was over £6,000 and the policy limit for this section is £5,000.
However I dont agree this is a fair way to calculate the settlement. The policy limit applies as 
the policy wont pay out above that amount. And as the full value of the claim is not what 
Lloyds will pay under the policy, due to the qualifying breach, its not fair to reduce the claim 
amount based on that. If the reduced claim value (once the proportionate reduction is 
applied) was over £5,000 then Id think it fair to reduce the amount paid based on this, as 
thats in line with the policy terms. But I dont think its fair to apply the limit before this is 
calculated.
For these reasons, I require Lloyds to recalculate the claim settlement without applying the 
policy limit before reducing the settlement proportionately. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I require Society of Lloyd's to:
Pay the settlement based on its most recent offer, but without applying the policy limit 
for malicious damage before the proportionate settlement is calculated.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman