DRN-3066358
Complaint
Mr C is unhappy with what Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has agreed to do to put things right 
after he complained it irresponsibly provided him with an overdraft, which it then unfairly 
added interest, fees and charges to causing him to experience financial difficulty.
Background
When it investigated Mr Cs complaint, Lloyds agreed to refund all the interest, fees and 
charges that were added to the overdraft from the outset. Mr C remained dissatisfied and 
referred his complaint to our service.
Mr Cs complaint was then looked at by one of our adjudicators who thought that what 
Lloyds had done to put things right was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case. Mr C disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Lloyds has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr C is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his complaint. 
Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
Lloyds has agreed that it shouldnt have provided the overdraft to Mr C. And it has agreed to 
refund all the interest, fees and charges added it to Mr Cs overdraft to put things right. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. However, thats not possible in cases where funds that shouldnt have been advanced 
were advanced because typically those funds will have already been spent. 
So we have to look at a way of asking a business to put things right in a fair and reasonable 
way. And where a business provided, or continued to allow a consumer to use, a credit 
facility which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the 
consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges 
on that credit.
This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any 
credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those 
interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year. 
In this case, Mr C has been left with an outstanding balance even though the credits hes 
made to his account have been factored in and hes been refunded all of the interest, fees 
and charges applied. So while Mr C has been left with an outstanding balance to repay and 
he might be unhappy with this, Lloyds has done what Id normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Mr C believes that Lloyds should do more. He hasnt said what more he expects Lloyds to 
do. But he says our adjudicator didnt consider that the overdraft charges led to him taking 
out loans upon loans, some of which are in payment plans to this day.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr C has said. However, Mr Cs initial complaint to Lloyds 
was that it shouldnt have provided this overdraft to him as he was already in financial 
difficulty. And Lloyds has presumably accepted this is the case as it upheld his complaint. 
Ive also looked at Mr Cs account statements prior to him having been provided with his 
overdraft, which clearly show that hed already been borrowing from a number of different 
payday lenders for some time. In these circumstances, I dont agree that it was the overdraft 
charges which was the main cause of Mr C taking out loans and Ive not been persuaded 
that there is a strong reason to depart from our usual approach to putting things right in this 
case. 
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Lloyds has already done to put things right 
for Mr C  reworking his account so that all the interest, fees and charges are removed  is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case and Im not requiring it to do anything 
more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already done to 
do to put things right for Mr C is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his complaint. 
So Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint or requiring Lloyds to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman