DRN-4009020
The complaint
H and Mr H complain about a delay by Financial Administration Services Limited (FASL) in 
completing the sale of a holding of shares.   
What happened
Mr H contacted FASL in October 2021 to instruct the sale of some shares held in a Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). It became apparent that the trustees of the SIPP had 
changed, so to action the request FASL required several documents to be provided by the 
new trustees (H). FASL asked that Mr H request the documents from H.  
Most of the documents were received by FASL in January 2022 but a stock transfer form 
and pension trust application form were missing. A further request was sent to H and the 
additional documents were received in March 2022. FASL needed to carry out some further 
verification checks on H and the sale was eventually instructed and settled in April 2022. 
Mr H made a complaint about the ongoing delay during the process, in early March 2022. 
FASL issued a final response, which Mr H received in May 2022, briefly explaining what had 
happened but not upholding the complaint. 
Mr H referred the matter to this service, seeking compensation for the loss incurred as result 
of the share price falling between October 2021 and April 2022.  
Our investigator also didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied the delay 
in selling the shares was mainly due to FASL not initially receiving all the documents 
requested from H, so it was unable to proceed with the sale. She felt that once all the 
documents had been received, FASL had acted within reasonable timescales.
Mr H didnt accept the investigators view. He felt that FASL had not provided a reasonable 
level of service and that it had owed a duty of care to him from the point at which he first 
instructed it in October 2021. 
He said it had blocked communication with him, not issued a client reference number as 
promised at the outset and generally failed to take ownership of the matter. It had 
unnecessarily lengthened the process by issuing a cheque for payment and further, its 
response to his complaint has been confusing with letters issued to him in the wrong date 
order.    
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the matter was referred to me 
to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator. I dont think the 
complaint should be upheld.
Firstly, it seems clear that the majority of the delay was a result of H not sending documents 
to FASL until 25 January 2022, more than three months after it had written to 
Mr H in October 2021 explaining what was required from H, the new trustees. There was no 
indication given in Hs covering letter of 25 January 2022 that it had made any earlier 
attempt to provide the documents.  
And when the documents were sent, they didnt include a couple of forms that had been 
among those requested in the October 2021 letter. FASL requested these on 7 February 
2022, but they werent then received from the trustees until 15 March 2022 following further 
communication from Mr H. There then followed a period where address documents were 
provided for verification purposes and then the sale proceeded.      
In all the circumstances, I cant see that FASL can reasonably be held responsible for the 
time it took for the sale to complete. It couldnt act until all the administration associated with 
amending its records in respect of H had completed. On each occasion during the process 
when it required further information or documentation, it acted reasonably promptly.
I note Mr Hs concerns about the delay in receipt of his customer reference number. But that 
doesnt appear to have impacted the sales process in any way. Similarly, the issue with the 
dates on FASLs letters sent in response to his complaint, whilst confusing, wouldve had no 
bearing on the sale itself. And Ive not seen that FASL acted incorrectly, outside its normal 
procedures, in paying the sale proceeds by cheque.
In respect of a stop on sending correspondence to Mr H, the stop had actually been applied 
to the primary account holder  the previous pension trustee that had been dissolved. The 
inability to contact the dissolved party was why FASL had needed to write to Mr H, as the 
secondary account holder, to instruct him to contact H and arrange the relevant documents 
be supplied.
In summary, I can appreciate this wouldve been a frustrating process for Mr H. But with the 
involvement of H and particularly given the additional administration required as a result of 
the previous trustees dissolution, it was always likely to be a more complicated and lengthy 
process than a normal share sale. 
Having carefully considered all the evidence and the chronology of events, Im satisfied 
FASL caried out its role in the process reasonably and therefore dont find it responsible for 
any loss that may have occurred.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman