DRN-1744683
 
Complaint
Mrs H says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD has taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this 
decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs H took out in 1998. It was added to her 
account when she applied for the card in-store.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case. 
Ive decided this PPI policy was mis-sold, and Ill explain why.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H, so it didnt have to check it was right for her. But it 
did have to give her information about the policy that was clear, fair, and not misleading, so 
that she could decide for herself whether it was right for her.
I cant see that AXA gave Mrs H clear enough information about the exclusions for pre-
existing medical conditions. And I think this wouldve mattered to her, as Mrs H had a 
condition which wouldnt have been covered.
Mrs H had only recently needed an emergency operation for her condition, which had then 
resulted in significant time off work. And she says she still needed regular check-ups and 
medication at the time of the sale.
AXA has pointed out that its possible Mrs H could have fully recovered from the operation 
and then not been affected by the condition anymore. While I understand its point, its also 
possible that it couldve reoccurred. And given that Mrs H had only had her operation fairly 
recently by the time of this sale, and that she was still receiving treatment, I think it wouldve 
been very reasonable for her to still be concerned that it would continue to affect her.
This condition had only recently caused Mrs H to take significant time off work, so if 
anything, it wouldve been at the forefront of her mind  theres a good chance she wouldve 
considered it the most likely thing to cause her to need time off in the near future. But this 
policy wouldnt have covered her if shed needed such time off  so Mrs H couldnt have 
claimed on the policy for everything she might have reasonably expected to be able to.I dont think Mrs H wouldve bought the policy if AXA had given her enough information 
about its exclusions. So I think its most likely that Mrs H has lost out because of the flaws in 
this sale.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs H in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.) AXA should find out how much Mrs H would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs H owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.) AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs H would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% simple a year.
C.) If  when AXA works out what Mrs H would have owed each month without PPI  she 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs H paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs H wouldve 
owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should again be 8% simple a 
year.
D.) AXA should tell Mrs H what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
AXA France IARD should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman