DRN-2567600
The complaint
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mrs L under a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo Finance 
that she electronically signed in December 2018. She says that she was told by a mechanic 
that the car was manufactured with a petrol engine but had been converted to a diesel 
engine. She complained to MotoNovo Finance in July 2020 that the car had been 
misrepresented to her.
It arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert and then upheld her 
complaint. It said that it would cancel the agreement and take the car back. It said that the 
expert had quoted an approximate repair cost of £1,194.41 for some damage to the car but it 
would waive those charges and charge her for any further damage that was identified when 
the car was collected. It also said that it would keep the monthly payments that shed made 
for her use of the car. But it said that it would pay her £100 in recognition of the distress that 
may have been caused due to the length of time it had taken to investigate and resolve her 
complaint. 
Mrs L wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that her complaint should be upheld. He thought that MotoNovo Finance 
should pay her £200 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience of losing a car 
and having to deal with the uncertainty of what the cars conversion meant for her insurance 
which caused her to stop using the car.
Mrs L says that she should receive more compensation than that and that MotoNovo 
Finance has recorded adverse information on her credit file. MotoNovo Finance has 
explained why it considers that £100 compensation and waiving the damage charges is a 
fair outcome for Mrs L. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
MotoNovo Finance has agreed that it will collect the car from Mrs L and that it will 
cancel the hire purchase agreement;
it arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert in August 2020 and 
the report records the cars mileage as 128,115 and that the car had been driven for 
more than 26,000 miles since it was supplied to Mrs L  it also identified damage to 
the car and MotoNovo Finance says that the expert estimated the repair cost as 
£1,197.41;
MotoNovo Finance said that Mrs L had made 17 monthly payments for the car and 
that it would keep those as payment for the use that shed had from the car  Mrs L 
says that she stopped using the car in February 2020 but it had been driven for more 
than 26,000 miles between December 2018 and August 2020 and I consider that its 
fair and reasonable for her to pay for the use that she had from the car and for it to 
keep those payments for that use;
MotoNovo Finance said that it would waive the damage charges in light of the 
inconvenience that Mrs L had been caused but that it would charge her for any 
further damage identified when the car was collected from her;
the inspection report clearly identifies some damage to the car but doesnt include a 
quote for repairing the damage  I consider that its fair and reasonable for MotoNovo 
Finance to waive charges for the damage identified in the inspection report;
MotoNovo Finance can charge for further damage identified when the car is collected 
from Mrs L but I would expect it to take into account that the car hasnt been driven 
since February 2020  if Mrs L doesnt accept any damages charges that are made 
after the car is collected, she should complain about those charges to MotoNovo 
Finance and then, if shes not satisfied with its response. she may be able to make a 
complaint to this service about those charges; and
MotoNovo Finance has paid £100 to compensate Mrs L for the distress caused by 
the length of time that it had taken to investigate and resolve her complaint  but I 
agree with our investigator that Mrs L has been caused further distress and 
inconvenience, including that shes been paying for the car for 17 months under an 
agreement with a term of 25 months and that she had concerns about her insurance 
being invalid so stopped using he car, and in these circumstances I find that it would 
be fair and reasonable for it to pay her a further £200 to compensate her for that 
distress and inconvenience  but Im not persuaded that a higher award of 
compensation than that is justified.
Putting things right
In addition to the actions that it has agreed to take, including ending the agreement, 
collecting the car, removing any adverse information about the agreement from Mrs Ls 
credit file and paying £100 compensation to her, I find that it would be fair and reasonable for 
MotoNovo Finance to pay £200 to Mrs L to compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience that shes been caused. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Ls complaint and I order FirstRand Bank Limited, trading as 
MotoNovo Finance, to pay her a further £200 to compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience that shes been caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman