DRN-2121790
The complaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK Plc blocked and then closed his accounts.  Hes also 
unhappy about the way Santander handled things. He wants Santander to pay him 
compensation for the trouble and upset he was caused.
What happened
Mr R had a number of accounts with Santander. On 30 July 2019 the bank blocked Mr Rs 
accounts  meaning Mr R was unable to use them during that time. The bank wouldnt tell 
Mr R much about what was happening  only that it was complying with its legal and 
regulatory obligations. Following this, Santander decided it no longer wanted Mr R as a 
customer and closed his accounts in August 2019. 
Mr R complained to the bank about the lack of information and his direct debits not being 
paid. He said as a result of blocking his accounts he had to use money out of his ISA 
account. Hes wants Santander to provide a proper explanation why it blocked and closed 
his accounts. He believes that the bank has treated him unfairly based on his race. Mr Rs 
also unhappy that when he called Santander he was placed on hold, passed from pillar to 
post and says the staff he spoke to were rude and made him feel like a criminal.
Santander said it hadnt done anything wrong and had acted in accordance with the terms of 
the accounts and relevant regulations. As a gesture of goodwill, it offered Mr R a refund of 
his account fees and said its actions hadnt impacted Mr Rs credit file. Mr R wasnt happy 
with the banks response. So, he referred his complaint to us. 
When Mr R referred his complaint to this service one of our investigators considered it. He 
said Santander hadnt done anything wrong. He also explained that the bank didnt have to 
provide an explanation why it had decided to block and close his accounts.
Mr R disagreed. He said Santander hasnt treated him fairly and has discriminated against 
him. He wants Santander to provide a proper explanation why it blocked his accounts and no 
longer wants him as a customer. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from what Mr R has told us and the bank that he feels strongly about his complaint.  
I appreciate that hes upset that Santander blocked and closed his accounts. I can also 
understand that this was no doubt stressful for him especially as the banks actions made it 
difficult for him to manage his finance and pay his bills. But for me to uphold this complaint, I 
must be satisfied that the bank has done something wrong. And in this case, I dont think it 
has. Ill explain why.
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. Banks are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of 
an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to restrict customers 
accounts. Santander has said that Mr Rs access to his accounts was blocked to meet these 
requirements.
Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied first of all that Santander was within its rights 
to review Mr Rs account and that it was entitled to block it while it carried out that review. 
Santander also werent obliged to tell Mr R why it was carrying out a review of his account  
as much as hed like to know. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it do so. The 
terms and conditions also permit Santander to block an account. So, I cant say the bank has 
done anything wrong by not providing this information to Mr R. 
Ive no doubt that not having a functioning bank account made things quite difficult for Mr R. 
So, I can understand why he found this experience with Santander stressful and upsetting. 
But as Ive explained, banks have a legal obligation to comply with various laws and 
regulations. Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Santander was complying 
with its obligations when it blocked Mr Rs accounts. So, whilst I accept this caused Mr R 
inconvenience, I cant say Santander treated him unfairly. 
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Rs accounts. As the investigator explained, its 
generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, 
banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this 
service wont usually say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a 
customer who has had their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. Mr Rs 
accounts were blocked from 30 July 2019; he was unable to gain access to the funds in 
them until 9 August 2019. Whilst the accounts were formally closed on 9 and 12 August 
2019 (without notice), I believe that the accounts were effectively closed on 30 July 2019  
since after that time Mr R couldnt use them. Having looked at all the evidence, in my view 
that wasnt unreasonable. And the bank acted line with the account terms and relevant 
regulations. So, I cant say the bank has done anything wrong when it closed Mr Rs 
accounts.
Mr R says that he is a victim of discrimination by Santander. And the bank only blocked and 
closed his accounts on the grounds of his race. But while I appreciate this is his perspective, 
it is not my role to decide whether discrimination has taken place as a matter of law  only 
the courts have the power to decide this. I have, however, considered the relevant law in 
relation to what Mr R has said when deciding what I think is the fair and reasonable 
outcome. Part of this has meant considering the provisions of The Equality Act 2010 (The 
Act). 
The Act describes race as a protected characteristic and sets out that a person (A) 
discriminates against another (B) if, because of a protected characteristic, A treats B less 
favourably than A would treat others. So, in considering whether Mr R has been unlawfully 
discriminated against, I need to determine whether there is evidence to suggest that he was 
treated less favourably on account of his race. But after looking at all the evidence, Ive not 
seen anything to suggest that this was the case. So, I havent found that Santanders 
behaviour was improper when it decided to block and close his accounts.
Mr Rs also unhappy about the service he received when he called the bank to find out what 
was happening with his accounts. In particular, hes upset that was put on hold for long periods and he says the staff he spoke to were rude to him and made him feel like a 
criminal.
I can appreciate having to wait on the end of the phone wouldve have been frustrating for 
Mr R  especially as he wasnt being given the information he wanted. But as the 
investigator has already explained, we cant tell a business to change it processes. I also 
fully accept that Mr R is upset about whats happened. But I must base my decision on the 
available evidence. I can see Mr R made several calls to Santander and Ive looked at the 
transcript of each conversation he had with the bank. Having done so, I cant say the call 
handlers were rude, dismissive or unhelpful to Mr R. Ive also noted that Santander wrote to 
Mr R on more than one occasion to explain things to him and addressed his complaint fully  
albeit he wasnt happy with the outcome. 
In summary, I recognise how strongly Mr R feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt it 
was a frustrating and worrying time. So, I realise Mr R will be disappointed by my decision. 
But overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Santander have acted unreasonably 
and treated Mr R unfairly when it blocked and closed his accounts. So, Im not going to ask 
the bank to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman