DRN-2378229
The complaint
Ms R says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a regular premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1991. 
Ms R applied for the PPI at a meeting.
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I was planning to uphold this complaint and 
that Bank of Scotland should refund the premiums paid, plus interest for the time Ms R was 
without that money. That was due to new information that had come to light during the 
course of our investigation, and which Bank of Scotland was not aware when it considered 
the complaint. 
However, I said that I was not planning to award any additional compensation in respect of 
the trouble and upset Ms R experienced as a result of how Bank of Scotland had dealt with 
the complaint. 
Bank of Scotland accepted my provisional decision. Ms R provided some additional points to 
clarify some matters and asked that I reconsider whether she should receive additional 
compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Rs case.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Rs complaint, but in line with my provisional decision, I dont think 
any additional compensation is warranted beyond the refund of premiums, plus interest. This 
doesnt mean that I think Bank of Scotland handled her complaint perfectly, or that Ms R 
didnt suffer any trouble or upset because of how it was handled, only that I dont think the 
impact  where Bank of Scotland was at fault  was significant enough to warrant further 
compensation. 
Ive decided the PPI was mis-sold because Bank of Scotland recommended the policy to 
Ms R, but I dont think it was right for her. She has provided evidence to show that her 
employer provided 13 weeks full sick pay, followed by 13 weeks half sick pay then a long-
term disability (or income protection) plan. So, I think she couldve managed without the 
PPI for long enough not to really need PPI. 
I dont think Ms R wouldve bought the policy if Bank of Scotland had made clear it wasnt 
right for her. So, I think Ms R has lost out because of what Bank of Scotland did wrong.
Ms R has also complained about how Bank of Scotland handled her complaint. Ms R first 
contacted Bank of Scotland about her PPI on 23 April 2019. Bank of Scotland acknowledged 
this the same day and replied on 7 May 2019, to ask for more information. This letter gave 
Ms R fourteen days to respond with the requested information. It said that if Ms R didnt 
respond within that time the complaint would be closed. But that if the information was 
provided at a later date, Bank of Scotland would reopen the complaint and investigate her 
concerns. 
Ms R called Bank of Scotland on 16 May 2019 to explain that responding within 14 days was 
impossible, due to having only just received the letter and because she was about to go on 
holiday. She said she would provide the requested information upon her return. She was told 
that this was okay. Her understanding was that the complaint would be kept open in the 
meantime. 
Despite this, Bank of Scotland wrote to her on 22 May 2019 to explain that it couldnt locate 
her account  and that it had closed the complaint. Although it didnt state this in its letter, it 
is likely that this was to comply with complaint handling rules, which meant that Bank of 
Scotland had to issue its final response to the complaint within eight weeks of receiving it. 
The letter did, however, say that the complaint would be reopened upon receipt of 
information that would allow it to find Ms Rs account. 
Ms R was very frustrated to discover this on her return from holiday, given the earlier 
conversation had left her under the impression the complaint would be left open. She wrote 
to Bank of Scotland on 20 June 2019 with evidence that she had PPI. This allowed Bank of 
Scotland to trace her account and PPI policy. Bank of Scotland wrote back on 27 June 2019 
to acknowledge this and confirm it was investigating further. Ms R didnt receive this letter, 
so was unaware of what was happening. 
On 8 July 2019, Bank of Scotland wrote to Ms R to ask her to complete a PPI questionnaire. 
But before she received this, and having not received the letter of 27 June 2019, Ms R wrote 
to Bank of Scotland, on 10 July 2019, chasing a response. On 19 July Ms R wrote to Bank of 
Scotland enclosing a completed PPI questionnaire. On 29 July 2019, Ms R spoke to Bank of 
Scotland over the phone and provided more information, which allowed it to finalise its 
investigation.
On 1 August 2019, Bank of Scotland sent Ms R its final response letter, explaining that it 
was not upholding the complaint. This was within eight weeks from the complaint being 
reopened and Ms R providing more information to Bank of Scotland which allowed it to find 
her policy. Ms R didnt receive the final response letter, even though it was correctly 
addressed.
Ms R wrote to Bank of Scotland on 29 August 2019, saying she was still awaiting a final 
response to her complaint. She called Bank of Scotland on 4 October 2019. She was told 
that a final response letter had been issued on 1 August 2019 and that a copy would be sent 
to her. This was sent by Bank of Scotland on 9 October 2019. Ms R received the final 
response letter on 14 October 2019 and contacted Bank of Scotland to request further 
consideration of her complaint. The same day, Bank of Scotland sent a letter saying it was 
investigating her concerns further.
On 13 December 2019, Ms R called Bank of Scotland to ask for an update. On 19 December 
2019, Bank of Scotland sent an update letter to say it was still investigating her concerns 
expressed during the phone call of 13 December 2019.Having had no further response, Ms R wrote to us on 22 January 2020. In this letter she 
asked us to look into her PPI complaint. She mentioned that she felt Bank of Scotland had 
not responded to her in a timely manner and was concerned about the six-month deadline
set out in the final response letter or 1 August 2019. Bank of Scotland wrote to Ms R on 27 
February 2020 explaining the complaint had been dealt with previously and providing a copy 
of the final response letter issued on 1 August 2019.
Ms R is also unhappy that Bank of Scotland initially said it couldnt find her PPI policy and 
asked her for more information. But thats not unusual given how long ago the sale took 
place. Once Ms R provided evidence showing she had PPI, Bank of Scotland provided its 
final response to her in the time allowed under the financial regulators complaint handling 
rules. Thats in line with what I would expect.
Overall, I dont think Bank of Scotlands handing of the complaint merits any additional 
compensation to be paid to Ms R beyond what Ive set out below. This is because, while it 
did not respond to her complaint and her request for its reconsideration as quickly as she 
wouldve liked, Bank of Scotland did provide a final response letter within the eight weeks 
allowed (albeit Ms R didnt receive this until 14 October 2019 after a copy was sent to her). 
Ms R took the option of contacting Bank of Scotland again to ask it to reconsider. 
Bank of Scotland took some time to reply fully to Ms R after that. But this coincided with an 
influx of complaints around the PPI deadline of 29 August 2019. So, I think that was 
understandable. Bank of Scotland then acknowledged Ms Rs concerns and explained that it 
would look into them. It updated her when that took longer than may have been expected. 
However, I think Bank of Scotland couldve done more to manage Ms Rs expectations and 
explain the likely delay.
I acknowledge that all of this caused Ms R frustration and inconvenience. However, there 
were several contributing factors which were beyond Bank of Scotlands control. Such as 
correctly addressed letters not being received by Ms R, and delays caused by the influx of 
complaints around the PPI deadline. This contributed to the impact on Ms R. But, because 
these issues were outside of Bank of Scotlands control, I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to take into account their impact when considering awarding 
compensation.
Bank of Scotland could have handled some other aspects better. For example, it couldve 
explained clearly to Ms R that her complaint would be closed in May 2019. But that it would 
be reopened once Ms R provided more information. Rather than leaving her thinking it would 
remain open. But overall, I dont think additional compensation is warranted in this case. So, 
Ive decided to make an award that only compensates the financial loss Ms R suffered 
through being mis-sold PPI. 
Putting things right
If it hasnt done so already, Bank of Scotland should put Ms R in the position shed be in now 
if she hadnt taken out PPI.
The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Bank of Scotland 
should:
- Pay Ms R the amount she paid each month for the PPI
- Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.- If Ms R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Bank of Scotland can take off 
what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Bank of Scotland to take off tax from this interest. Bank 
of Scotland must give Ms R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. Bank of Scotland plc should put 
things right by doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman