DRN-4140826
The complaint
Mrs H complained that Aston Lark Employee Benefits Limited didnt pass her medical history 
through to the insurer when setting up her policy.
What happened
Mrs H took out a new private medical insurance policy through Aston Lark Employee 
Benefits Limited in November 2021. She declared her medical history and understood and 
her pre-existing conditions would be covered. However although some medical history was 
passed through by Aston Lark to the insurer, it didnt mention the diagnosis of adenomyosis. 
This meant that when Mrs H made a claim for adenomyosis, the insurer rejected the claim. 
Mrs H went through the NHS for ultrasound scans and saw a gynaecologist privately.
She complained to Aston Lark and to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended that Mrs H be paid £100 in compensation. Aston Lark accepted the 
recommendation. Mrs H didnt she didnt feel that a payment of £100 was commensurate 
with the upset and anguish caused because of Aston Larks error. 
I issued a provisional decision on 28 April 2023 as I was minded to award greater 
compensation than that recommended by our investigator. I said as follows:
It is not disputed that Mrs Hs adenomyosis wasnt disclosed by Aston Lark to the insurer. 
This meant that her claim wasnt accepted, although I can see that the insurer accepted a 
later claim for a similar condition. She incurred gynaecologists fees and had a scan on the 
NHS  rather than under her private medical insurance policy. I appreciate that this would 
have been confusing and upsetting for Mrs H as she had disclosed the condition to the 
adviser. Im pleased to note that Mrs H has been refunded the fees she incurred when 
seeing the gynaecologist privately.
I agree that compensation is due to Mrs H for the upset caused and the fact she wasnt able 
to use her policy as she had intended. I fully accept that this caused her great upset and 
inconvenience. Like our investigator Im satisfied that compensation is due, and Im minded 
that a greater sum than recommended by our investigator is appropriate. I provisionally find 
that the sum of £250 is fairer in the circumstances. 
Mrs H feels strongly that her complaint isnt about compensation, but about the principle that 
a financial business can operate in this way. I understand her strength of feel but this 
services remit is the resolution of financial disputes, not to regulate financial businesses. 
That falls to the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority. 
I invited the parties to make further representations. Aston Lark said it had no further 
comments to make. Mrs H didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there have been no further representations, I see no reason to change my provisional 
findings, which I adopt here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. For the reasons given above I require Aston 
Lark Employee Benefits Limited to pay Mrs H £250 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman