DRN-2329175
The complaint
Mr U complains that MYJAR Limited gave him a loan that he couldnt afford. 
What happened
Mr U took out one instalment loan with MYJAR for £550 on 8 July 2018. The loan was 
repayable by six monthly repayments. The repayment for the first month was £128.69 and 
the five remaining monthly repayments were around £162.63. Mr U hasnt been able to 
make any of the loan repayments. 
Mr U has provided this Service with information about his mental health issues. He suffers 
with long term mental health issues and isnt working due to his mental health. 
The adjudicator sent MYJAR Mr Us Debt and Mental Health Evidence Form in         
February 2020. In late February 2020, MYJAR responded by offering to waive all interest 
and charges on Mr Us loan, leaving an outstanding principal balance of £550, and to 
arrange a suitable repayment plan for Mr U to repay the principal balance to allow sufficient 
time for the principal amount to be repaid.
Mr U rejected MYJARs offer. 
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. But he noted that 
MYJAR had said that its offer was still valid.
Mr U disagreed. He said that he was on a low income from his mental health. The loan 
wasnt affordable. He asked that MYJAR further reduce the balance. He had been through a 
period of immense stress due to his mental health. He said that some of his creditors had 
agreed it was not correct to lend to him.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr U 
and to MYJAR on 22 October 2020. I summarise my findings:
I noted that at the time of Mr Us loan, the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The 
CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
I said that MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr U 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might have pointed to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors included:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I noted that MYJAR was required to establish whether Mr U could sustainably repay his loan 
 not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow this 
was the case. This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments sustainably if they were 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Us complaint.
Id thought about whether MYJARs checks were proportionate for the loan. I noted Mr U 
needed to make a highest monthly repayment of around £162 to repay the loan for five of his 
six monthly repayments and that Mr U was going to be tied in to repaying this loan every 
month for the next six months. And he was going to have to repay altogether £941.81. 
Nevertheless, it seemed on the face of it that the repayments would have looked relatively 
modest compared to Mr Us declared income. However, I thought the information MYJAR 
gathered should have raised concerns and prompted further checks.
I noted that Mr U had told this service that he was suffering with mental health issues. But I 
couldnt see that hed told MYJAR about these before he took out the loan. So, at the time 
the loan was provided I couldnt fairly say MYJAR ought to have known about these.
MYJAR had told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr U. It had asked for his 
income which Mr U declared as £1,462, and for his outgoings. MYJAR had asked for details 
of three categories for Mr Us outgoings: his housing, his credit commitments and other. I 
noted that Mr Us loan application showed that his housing costs were £399 but that he had 
no credit repayments and no other expenses. MYJAR then made adjustments to those figures using its own internal affordability 
calculations. I could see on MYJARs records that they showed Mr Us expenses as 
£1,130.44. 
I also noted that MYJAR had carried out a credit check before the loan and had seen a 
summary of that check. This showed that Mr U had an overdue high cost short term credit 
account. It also showed that Mr U had estimated monthly repayments of unsecured debt of 
£175.44. 
So, I thought the results of MYJARs credit checks ought to have given MYJAR concerns 
that Mr U already had an adverse credit record and that his finances might be under 
pressure. MYJAR had also seen from its credit checks that Mr Us expenses were higher 
than hed declared. Mr U hadnt declared any credit commitments. 
I could also see that MYJAR had adjusted Mr Us expenses to reflect statistical expenditure 
and what it had seen in its credit checks. I also noted that it determined a monthly affordable 
amount (MAA). It had explained the data used for this calculation. 
In its Monthly Affordable Amount Report, MYJAR said that the MAA was £202.80. As the 
highest monthly loan repayment was around £162.63 for five months, this would have left  
Mr U with around £40 a month (for five months) to meet any unexpected or seasonal costs. I 
thought leaving Mr U with this margin for each of those months meant it would be highly 
likely he would have difficulty meeting his loan repayments without borrowing further. Given 
this, I thought that MYJAR should have been concerned that this loan wasnt sustainably 
affordable for Mr U. 
So, I thought that MYJAR should have been concerned about Mr Us adverse credit history, 
the discrepancy between what hed declared about his credit repayments and what it had 
seen in its credit checks and the small amount of monthly disposable income it appeared   
Mr U would have been left with according to its own calculations. So, altogether I thought all 
this should have alerted MYJAR to do much more thorough checks and to have looked into 
Mr Us financial situation in more detail before lending to him. So far as I could see MYJAR 
didnt verify Mr Us income or his expenses  for example by asking to see payslips or bills. 
I would normally have looked at the borrowers bank statements and credit report to see 
what proportionate checks would likely have shown. I asked the adjudicator to ask Mr U to 
supply these, but he hadnt been able to do so.
 
But Mr U had supplied payment confirmation that he was in receipt of universal credit at the 
time hed applied for the loan. So, it appeared that he wasnt working and was actually in 
receipt of a far smaller income than hed declared to MYJAR. Hed received £692 each 
month. He had also provided this service with an undated income and expenditure form to 
show that his monthly expenditure was £691.70 at the time hed received the universal credit 
amount. 
So had MYJAR made what I considered to be proportionate checks and better understood 
Mr Us financial situation, it wouldve known that its proposed lending wasnt sustainable and 
as a responsible lender it would have declined to provide him with the loan. Instead MYJAR 
provided Mr U with the loan and he wasnt able to make any repayments to it. So overall, I 
thought MYJAR was irresponsible to have provided the loan to Mr U and I said that I 
intended to uphold Mr Us complaint.What MYJAR should do to put things right
Id said that in most cases, where we find a loan to have been agreed irresponsibly, this 
Services usual approach to putting things right was to refund any interest and charges paid 
by the borrower together with a refund of 8% per annum simple interest on these payments. 
Wed usually expect the borrower to repay the capital borrowed as theyd had the use of 
these funds. 
As Id mentioned above, MYJAR had offered to write off the interest and charges on the loan 
as Mr U hadnt paid any of these. But I needed to consider whether in Mr Us circumstances 
this redress alone would have been a fair way to settle this complaint. 
Id reviewed the provisions in CONC with regard to arrears. I noted that CONC 7.2.1 said 
that a firm must establish and implement clear, effective and appropriate policies for dealing 
with customers whose accounts fall into arrears and for the fair and appropriate treatment of 
customers who the firm understands or reasonably suspects to be particularly vulnerable. 
CONC 7.2.2 said that customers with mental health difficulties or mental capacity limitations 
may fall into the category of particularly vulnerable customers. CONC 7.2.3 said that in 
developing procedures and policies for dealing with customers who may not have the mental 
capacity to make financial decisions, firms may wish to have regard to the principles outlined 
in the Money Advice Liaison Group (MALG) Guidelines - Good Practice Awareness 
Guidelines for Customers with Mental Health Conditions and Debt. And CONC 7.3.4 said 
that a firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration. 
In addition I noted that CONC 7.10.1R stated that a lender must suspend the pursuit of 
recovery of a debt from a customer when the firm had been notified that the customer might 
not have the mental capacity to make relevant financial decisions about the management of 
the customer's debt and/or to engage in the debt recovery process at the time; or the firm 
understands or ought reasonably to be aware that the customer lacked mental capacity to 
make relevant financial decisions about the management of the customer's debt and/or to 
engage in the debt recovery process at the time.
Id also considered in particular Chapter 13 of the third edition (2015) of the MALG 
Guidelines and noted that these say that creditors should consider writing off unsecured 
debts when mental health conditions are long term and hold out little likelihood of 
improvement and are such that it is highly unlikely that the person in debt would be able to 
repay their outstanding debts. 
Id reviewed the medical evidence that the consumer had supplied to us. I could see that    
Mr U had suffered from severe anxiety since childhood. He also suffered from stress and 
depression. His anxiety was caused in part by debt. He struggled to make decisions. I noted 
that a letter from the NHS in May 2018 said that Mr U was out of work which affected his 
finances and that he struggled to cope with the pressure of this. Mr U had told this service 
that hed been out of work due to his mental health and was not looking for work because of 
it. He was in receipt of Universal Credit and PIP and had priority debts with his electricity and 
water providers. He also had other outstanding debts with other lenders. 
MYJAR appeared to have acknowledged that some degree of forbearance was warranted in 
this case as it had already offered to write off the interest and charges on the loan. I also 
noted that it had tried to agree repayment plans with Mr U, but these had all failed. I could see from the medical evidence supplied to this Service and the information provided 
by Mr U that he was vulnerable and suffered from a long term mental health condition which 
was affecting his ability to work. Because of this, it appeared unlikely that Mr U would be 
able to repay his outstanding debt with MYJAR for at least the medium term. And Mr U had 
told this Service that the thought of his debt with MYJAR was causing him sleep issues. 
Bearing the above in mind and taking everything into account, in the context of this case, I 
thought the fairest thing to do to put Mr U back into the position he would have been in had 
he not been granted a loan by MYJAR was for the lender to write-off the full balance of the 
outstanding debt.
Subject to any further representations by Mr U or MYJAR my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to say that MYJAR should:
a) write-off the outstanding balance, including the capital, on Mr Us loan agreed in July 
2018; and
b) remove any adverse information from his credit file in relation to this loan. 
I said that if MYJAR had sold this debt to a third-party and if it couldnt or didnt wish to buy it 
back, then it needed to work with the third-party to bring about the above steps.
Mr U responded to my provisional decision to say that he was happy with it.
MYJAR responded to my provisional decision to say that it accepted it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Given that Mr U and MYJAR have accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold the 
complaint and require MYJAR to take the steps set out below.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order MYJAR Limited to put things right as follows:
1. Write-off the outstanding balance, including the capital, on Mr Us loan agreed in 
July 2018; and
2. Remove any adverse information from his credit file in relation to this loan. 
If MYJAR has sold this debt to a third-party and if it cant or doesnt wish to buy it back, then 
it needs to work with the third-party to bring about the above steps.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman