DRN-4068041
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Santander UK Plc has been unable to find an account after she 
presented it with some passbooks. 
Mrs B, and her sister, bring this complaint in their capacity as the executors of their late-
fathers (Mr Ps) estate
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
Mrs B found three linked passbooks when she was sorting out her late-fathers estate. 
These show the account activity between 2003 and 2010 with the last entry reporting a 
balance of £1,845.16. She presented these to Santander and asked it to release the 
money, along with interest.
Santander searched its records but could find no trace of the account. It advised that 
account records are retained for a minimum of six years and the absence of any records 
relating to the account indicate it was likely closed (and any money withdrawn) more 
than six years previously. So it refused to pay out any money. Mrs B didnt accept this 
and asked us to look into the matter.
Our investigator concluded that it was more likely than not the money had been 
withdrawn and the account closed some years ago. Mrs B remained unhappy with this 
answer, so the complaint has come to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more 
likely than not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances. 
I appreciate Mrs B might feel that finding an old passbook showing a balance present on the 
account must mean the account should still exist and still hold a balance. And that she 
should be able to withdraw that balance on behalf of her late-fathers estate. But I think 
Santander has done enough to show that the money was, more likely than not, withdrawn 
and the account closed at some point following the last entry in the passbook.
I say this having taken into account that:
As explained on Santanders current website, savings accounts are made dormant if 
there are no transactions for three years, it will try to contact the account holder before 
making the account dormant and it participates in the Dormant Assets Scheme. Its my 
understanding that the same has been true for a number of years. The website also 
suggests that money in a dormant account will remain the accountholders so continues 
to accrue interest and wont be passed to the Reclaim Fund Ltd until 15 years have 
passed. We have not yet reached the 15-year point in this case  the last accountholder-
instigated activity showing in the passbook was in October 2010. In the circumstances, if 
the account still had money in it then I would expect this to show on Santanders records.
Santander still has a record of Mrs Bs father, with an address that matches the one 
Mrs B has given us and which she says is the only one hed lived at. But there are no 
active or dormant accounts linked to his customer profile.
The bank has recently provided evidence which indicates the passport account was 
converted to an account with a sort code and account number and then closed on 
2 December 2010 with a balance of £1,846.03 being withdrawn. This is slightly more 
than the £1,845.16 balance showing in the last passbook entry dated 6 October 2010, 
indicating that 87p interest was added at closure. This seems in line with the amount of 
interest that had been added in May 2010.
I appreciate Mrs B has possession of the passbooks. But passbooks can be mislaid at 
times and sometimes found at a later date. Account holders are entitled to access their 
money, so banks usually allow withdrawals to be made without them, even if the 
passbook says explicitly that it must be presented. In such circumstances the bank will 
usually verify the accountholders identity using other methods.
Ive seen nothing to support Mrs Bs suggestion that a bank employee has 
misappropriated her fathers money. In all the circumstances, that doesnt seem like the 
most likely explanation.
I dont feel that the existence of the passbook provides a compelling reason to doubt 
Santanders position here. And, given everything Ive said above, I cant fairly instruct it to 
pay out the balance thats showing on the most recent passbook, or any interest.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the executors of 
Mr Ps estate to accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman