DRN-3382026
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wrongfully prevented a payment he 
instructed for an investment through a third-party company.   
What happened
Mr P holds a bank account with Barclays. He also holds an account with a third-party 
company which buys, trades and hold cryptocurrencies. 
In or around August 2021, Mr P instructed Barclays to make a payment from his account 
with them to his account with the third-party company. But he says Barclays prevented him 
from doing so without providing a valid reason.
On 11 August 2021, Mr P contacted Barclays using their online chat system. He wanted to 
complain about their decision to prevent his payment. Mr P says that Barclays told him the 
decision to block the payment was made to protect his money. Barclays didnt agree theyd 
made a mistake or done anything wrong. So, they didnt progress Mr Ps complaint any 
further and sent him a summary resolution letter to confirm this.
Mr P wasnt happy with Barclays response, so decided to refer his complaint to this service. 
He told us that the payment related to an investment. He said that had Barclays allowed him 
to make payments to the third-party company, he would have made gains of 50% so far. 
He thought Barclays actions were inappropriate.
Having considered Mr Ps complaint together with all the information provided, our 
investigator didnt agree that Barclays had acted unfairly or unreasonably. Our investigator 
thought Barclays account terms and conditions allowed them to prevent any transaction 
where they considered it might expose Mr P to a fraud or scam or any other criminal related 
activity. They believed they were protecting his funds.
Our investigator went on to explain that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had 
published a warning in June 2021 in relation to the third-party company receiving the funds. 
The warning said that this company was offering UK customers products and services for 
which it doesnt hold UK registration or authorisation. Our investigator also said the company 
was reported as being subject to investigation for other illegal and fraudulent activities.
Mr P didnt agree with our investigators view on the circumstances. He said he was 
experienced in these types of investments and that the company hadnt been found guilty of 
any crime. He didnt agree Barclays shouldve been able to prevent a payment that hed 
authorised. He thought Barclays had acted negligently and inappropriately and that their 
terms and conditions didnt permit them to retain his funds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed Barclays account terms and conditions. In particular, they include:
Well do all we can to carry out your instructions. However, we dont have to follow an 
instruction for any of these reasons
It would mean we might break a law, regulation, code or other duty that applies to us.
It could expose us to claims from third parties.
We reasonably believe it might expose us (or another Barclays company) to legal 
action or censure from any government, regulator or law enforcement agency. 
We reasonably think that a payment into or out of an account is connected to a fraud, 
scam or any other criminal activity. This includes where we reasonably think the 
funds are being obtained through deception.
They also say, We may make changes to your agreement with us for any of these 
reasonsA change in the law, a regulation, an industry code we follow, or a decision of the 
court, a regulator or the Financial Ombudsman means that we need to make changes.
Barclays say they took the decision to decline and stop payments to the third-party company 
by credit/debit card. They also explained that some Faster Payments have also been 
affected but this was not due to action taken by them. They said these changes were 
brought about as a result of a warning issued by the FCA. Having followed FCA guidance, 
Barclays dont believe theyd acted unfairly or unreasonably here.
Barclays have a duty to protect their customers and their money from fraudulent and criminal 
activity. Stopping payments to the third-party company was a commercial decision made by 
Barclays following an FCA announcement. I can see from the announcement the FCA 
published, its alongside information about investing in cryptocurrency more generally and 
the risks associated with it.
While I appreciate and understand Mr Ps frustrations, Ive considered what Barclays have 
said alongside the FCAs guidance. While I appreciate Mr P will be disappointed, I dont 
believe Barclays actions were inappropriate here, and Im satisfied they acted in the best 
interests of Mr P, as a consumer. Its up to Barclays to make a commercial decision about 
the risks theyre willing to take, and our service doesnt have the powers to change that.  So, 
Im satisfied that Barclays have acted fairly and reasonably, in line with their terms and 
conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman