DRN-2054678
The complaint
Mrs M complains National House-Building Council (NHBC) provided her with poor service 
during its handling of a claim.
Mrs M has a representative on this complaint, but for ease, Ill refer to them collectively in 
this decision as Mrs M unless specified.
What happened
The parties are acutely aware of the detail surrounding this complaint. So, I dont intend to 
set it out in full here again. But, in summary Mrs M made a claim under her new homes 
policy with NHBC. And during the handling of this claim Mrs M says that;
NHBC failed to send her the terms and conditions of her policy which shed 
repeatedly asked for over a period of three years;
NHBC communicated with her husband (Mr M), had a meeting with him and sent him 
payments in relation to the claim, even though the policy is only in Mrs Ms name. 
She said this was a breach of data protection.
Mrs M wanted an explanation from NHBC about why these errors occurred and also 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
NHBC said it emailed Mr M the policy terms and conditions and resolution guidance notes in 
June 2016, so it didnt agree that numerous requests for this information had been ignored. It 
accepted that itd communicated with Mr M for a significant time before it realised he had no 
insurable interest in the property. But it said that any payment forms were signed by both 
Mr and Mrs M. So it didnt accept Mrs M wasnt aware the payments were being made or 
that it had been dealing directly with her husband.
Our investigator looked into the matter and explained that it wasnt our role to decide if a 
business has breached data protection laws  this is for the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO) to decide. But she said that she could consider whether a business had acted 
fairly, and whether any impact of its errors warranted compensation.
The investigator found that the policy was only in Mrs Ms name and that she hadnt given 
explicit or signed authority for Mr M to correspond on her behalf. But from what shed seen, 
she was satisfied Mrs M was aware that her husband was corresponding with NHBC and 
had seen copies of forms theyd both signed to release payments. 
So the investigator didnt uphold the complaint or award any compensation for NHBCs 
actions as she didnt think thered been a negative impact on Mrs M as a result. She was 
also satisfied the terms and conditions had been sent in June 2016.
Mrs M disagreed with the investigators findings. She said the investigator ignored the fact 
that shed refused to sign a letter from NHBC that wouldve authorised Mr M to act as her 
representative. And that shed also ignored the point that Mrs M had raised two complaints 
about NHBC corresponding with her husband that were never investigated by it. So she 
thinks NHBC failed to adhere to its complaint procedure.
The complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Policy terms and conditions
Mrs M says NHBC failed to send her a copy of the policy terms and conditions after 
numerous requests over a three-year period. 
Ive seen a copy of an email that was sent from NHBC to Mr M in June 2016 which enclosed 
a copy of the policy terms and conditions, guidance on the builders responsibilities and the 
resolution service and the NHBC claims charter.
This information seems to have been sent to Mr M instead of Mrs M. But from the wording in 
the email NHBC sent alongside the terms and conditions, it seems Mr M was the party who 
requested the information. Its evident however, that both individuals have been involved in 
the progress of the claim with NHBC. So I think its reasonable to expect that Mr M wouldve, 
or at least couldve shared this information with Mrs M when he received it.  
It follows based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied NHBC sent a copy of the policy terms and 
conditions when requested. 
NHBCs communication with a party other than Mrs M
NHBC has acknowledged that Mrs M is the only party named on the policy. And it hasnt 
disputed that it corresponded with Mr M without her consent.
In this decision, I can only consider the impact this error had on Mrs M. She says NHBC 
doesnt know her family set up and that it incorrectly had meetings with her husband, sent 
him payments and spoke with him. So Ive thought about this carefully.
NHBC says both Mrs and Mr M signed payment forms before any payments were released 
and it sent us evidence which shows both of their signatures on these forms. So Im satisfied 
Mrs M wouldve been aware of, and had accepted the payments NHBC sent under the claim.
While I understand Mrs M is unhappy NHBC had meetings and corresponded with Mr M 
when hes not named on the policy, Ive not seen any information about how this negatively 
impacted her. From what I have seen, it seems both Mrs and Mr M have been actively 
involved in the progression of the claim with NHBC. And in the circumstances, Im satisfied 
Mrs M was aware of Mr Ms involvement.
Based on what Ive seen, besides an understandable disappointment that NHBC failed to 
recognise Mrs M was the only named party on the policy, Im not persuaded shes been 
further negatively impacted by this error to an extent that should be compensated for. So I 
wont be directing NHBC to pay compensation for this.
NHBCs failure to respond to complaintsMrs M says NHBC breached its complaints procedure by not responding to her complaints 
about why it was corresponding with Mr M. But as a general rule, under the rules we have to 
follow, complaint handling isnt a regulated activity. And Im satisfied it isnt something I can 
consider in this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman