DRN-3759730
The complaint
Miss F says Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) irresponsibly granted her 
two accounts, each with a running credit facility. She has requested that the interest and late 
payment charges she paid on each account be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about two catalogue accounts provided by Shop Direct to Miss F. The first 
account was a Littlewoods account that was opened in April 2010 with Miss F being given 
an initial credit limit of £900. This limit was then increased eight times, reaching £3,500 in 
October 2011. The second account was a Very account that was opened in September 
2010 with Miss F being given an initial credit limit of £1,000. The credit limit on this account 
was increased seven times, reaching £2,900 in October 2011.
Each account unfortunately went into arrears in August 2011 following a series of missed, 
late or under-payments. No further payments were made after October 2012. They were 
then both sold on to a third party in December 2012.
Miss F says shes unhappy that Shop Direct allowed her to open an account and continued 
to increase her credit limits when she was already experiencing financial difficulties. 
As Shop Direct said it had acted unfairly when it granted Miss F a second credit limit 
increase in February 2011, it has compensated her by refunding interest and fees, as is 
recommended by this service.  I understand this has been paid to Miss F. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Shop Direct had acted unfairly in any other way with either 
account. As Miss F didnt agree her complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shop Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
In making my decision Ive looked at the overall pattern of Shop Directs lending history with 
Miss F for both of these accounts, so as to see if there was a point at which Shop Direct 
should reasonably have seen that further lending was likely unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. If so, that would mean Shop Direct should have realised that it shouldnt have 
granted Miss F the account or gone on to further increase her credit limit.
Based on what Ive seen about this complaint, Ive reached a conclusion thats broadly 
similar to that of our adjudicator. Thats because, aside from agreeing that the complaint 
for the Very account ought to be upheld from the point that the credit limit was increased 
in February 2011, I dont think Shop Directs actions have caused Miss F other financial 
loss. Ill explain why. 
Before providing credit and increased credit to Miss F for each account, Shop Direct says it 
carried out credit checks using a credit reference bureau to arrive at the amount of credit it 
was able to offer. Shop Direct also told us it monitored the way Miss F managed both her 
accounts and used this information to help assess if credit limit increases on each account 
would be affordable. Ive seen that Miss F had some existing credit elsewhere at the time 
of being granted each account. But she didnt have any recent adverse account findings, 
such as defaults or county court judgments registered against her, or other issues that 
might be of concern when Shop Direct was deciding whether to grant her credit. 
Its certainly possible that the initial checks at the time of each account opening werent as 
thorough or sufficient as they might have been. I note Shop Direct didnt ask Miss F about 
her income or do more to check on her total level of committed expenditure. Without this I 
dont think it could adequately assess whether the credit it was providing for each account 
was affordable or not. 
I next need to consider what better checks would have been likely to show, had they been 
carried out. Miss F has sent us bank statements covering 2010 to 2012. I agree with our 
adjudicator that these only show limited information about Miss Fs committed expenditure at 
the time. I understand that when the accounts were opened Miss F was living at home and 
she told our adjudicator she was paying rent to her parents. But unfortunately, this cant be 
seen from the statements Ive looked at. And Ive not seen enough evidence of other 
committed expenditure, such as regular food, insurance or travel costs. Given this lack of 
information, and whilst I can see that Miss F was receiving benefits and wasnt working at 
this time, I dont have enough evidence to be able to make a finding that she didnt have 
enough disposable income each month to make regular, sustainable repayments towards 
this new credit facility. Had Shop Direct completed proportionate checks, I think its likely it 
would have discovered this too. I cant therefore say it acted unfairly by granting the opening 
credit limit. 
As Ive said above, Miss F was having difficulty with both accounts from around 
August 2011. The last credit limit increase before that for the Very account was in 
February 2011 and so it seems that the account and level of credit was becoming 
unaffordable for Miss F from that point going forwards. I think at the time of each increase 
it would have been sensible for Shop Direct to carry out proportionate checks to make 
sure that Miss Fs financial situation was such that she could afford these increases. 
For the Very account I can see that Miss F had gone over the credit limit of £1,300 shed 
been given in February 2011. That means shed lost out because of the credit limit 
increase. But the position for the Littlewoods account is a bit different because Miss Fs 
credit limit never went over the £1,800 credit limit increase shed been granted in 
January 2011. In fact, Miss F was only using around 10% of the available credit at this 
time. So for the Littlewoods account the issue of whether credit limit increases were 
reasonable or otherwise is something that is less relevant. I say this because financial 
redress is designed to put someone back in the position as if the failing had not happened. 
So, even were I to think the later credit increases were unreasonable, there would not be 
any redress to pay. This is because Miss F has suffered no detriment as a result of the 
actions of Shop Direct.   It follows that, in the specific circumstances of this complaint, I dont require Shop Direct 
to do anything more. And Im not persuaded that further enquiries into Miss Fs 
circumstances would have led Shop Direct to conclude that it should have taken a 
course of action that was significantly different to what it did in relation to the Very 
account. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman