DRN-2361083
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (when it was trading as C&G) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L took out PPI alongside their joint mortgage which started in October1997. This 
protected their mortgage repayments in the event that Mr L couldnt work as a result of 
accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion. 
Mr and Mrs L mainly said that Lloyds didnt properly explain PPI or draw the main features of 
the policy to their attention so they didnt understand what it was  and this meant they didnt 
make a claim on the policy when they couldve done. 
Mr and Mrs L said they had felt pressured into taking out the PPI. And they say its unfair 
that the burden of proof rests with them to show the policy was mis-sold when they feel the 
lender should be able to show it acted in accordance with its duty of care. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Neither Lloyds nor Mr and Mrs L could provide any signed paperwork that shows how or 
exactly when the PPI was sold. I appreciate this is very frustrating for Mr and Mrs L. But this 
isnt surprising given how long ago this sale happened. A financial business isnt required to 
keep paperwork indefinitely. When personal private information is no longer likely to be 
needed, it can be destroyed. Data protection laws set out rules about this. Destroying old 
paperwork helps to keep customers private details secure. The fact that Lloyds cant now 
produce the sale documents isnt a reason for me to uphold this complaint. 
The PPI was set up alongside Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage from the start. And Mr and Mrs L 
told us they made their application during a meeting. So I think thats most likely when 
Lloyds sold them PPI. 
I cant know exactly what was discussed when Mr and Mrs L arranged their mortgage and 
took out this PPI. After so long, it wouldnt be reasonable to expect them to recall exactly 
what was said at the time. This means that what Mr and Mrs L say about the way they were 
sold this PPI isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint. 
In order to be able to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls mis-selling complaint, Id have to find that its 
likely that Mr and Mrs L werent given a fair choice about PPI or that it was added to their 
account without their consent. 
I must look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely. This means 
making some reasonable assumptions where theres only limited information. And I must be 
impartial. 
Based on the information Ive seen, I cant fairly say that the policy wasnt presented as 
optional or that it was added to Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage without their consent. 
I say this because their mortgage was a major financial commitment which they signed up to 
pay back over 25 years. Mr and Mrs Ls home wouldve been at risk if their mortgage 
payments werent kept up to date. PPI provided dependable cover and better protection than 
they had otherwise. So it looks to me as if Mr and Mrs L couldve found PPI useful if theyd 
needed to claim. And I can see why they mightve felt that having PPI was worthwhile for 
them.  
I dont know how Lloyds presented or explained PPI to Mr and Mrs L. But, as far as I can 
see, there wasnt anything on the mortgage application they completed or in their mortgage 
offer that wouldve been likely to make Mr and Mrs L think that the mortgage was conditional 
on them taking out PPI. 
Overall, I dont find the evidence is strong enough for me safely to say that Lloyds didnt 
make it clear that it was open to Mr and Mrs L not to choose PPI if they didnt want to have it. 
On balance, I think its likely that they decided they wanted to have the benefits PPI offered 
and they chose to buy the policy to cover Mr L  even if theyve forgotten this now.  
Lloyds wasnt sure how it sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs L. So, in fairness to them, it looked at 
their mis-sale complaint on the basis that its advisor had recommended PPI during the 
meeting Mr and Mrs L recalled. Given the lack of paperwork showing how Lloyds sold the 
PPI to Mr and Mrs L, I think this is the fairest way to assess this complaint as it imposes 
extra obligations on the lender. If a business makes a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt 
just have to give important policy information in a clear way. It also has to take reasonable 
steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable.   
Ive looked carefully at what Mr and Mrs L told us about their situation at the time to see if 
PPI was right for them when they took out this mortgage.  
It looks to me as if PPI wouldve been a suitable recommendation based on what 
Mr and Mrs L have said about their circumstances at the time. 
Mr L was eligible for the PPI policy. 
The policy couldve paid out a monthly benefit that covered Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage 
repayments for up to 12 months per claim if Mr L had an accident or was too sick or disabled 
to work.
I've taken into account what Mr L told us about his entitlement to sick pay through his 
employer. The PPI was guaranteed for up to 12 months per claim and it wouldve paid out on 
top of any work benefits providing useful help at what mightve a difficult time, especially if 
Mr L mightve had some extra costs as a result of being off work sick or with a disability. As well as this, the policy wouldve also paid out in the event that Mr L lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
There was no guarantee when Mr and Mrs L took out this mortgage that they would always 
have savings to rely on because everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. And 
the PPI wouldve covered their mortgage monthly repayments for longer than its likely the 
amount of savings theyve mentioned wouldve lasted if Mr and Mrs L had found they had to 
rely on their savings to cover outgoings if Mr L wasnt able to work. 
The mortgage was taken out when only Mr L was in paid work and based on his earnings. 
So I dont know how easy it wouldve been for Mr and Mrs L to keep up the mortgage 
monthly repayments for very long if Mr L couldnt work as losing his income wouldve had a 
significant detrimental impact on their joint household finances. 
So, overall, I find that the PPI Lloyds sold Mr and Mrs L with their mortgage was suitable. 
Its possible some information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. Its likely that there were some things the policy didnt cover  it mightve 
been difficult for someone doing only limited part time hours to claim for unemployment, and 
existing medical conditions mightnt have been fully covered. But as Mr L told us he was in 
good health when he took out the policy and he had a full time job then I don't think any of 
the main policy limitations are likely to have affected Mr L. 
So I dont think being given clearer information about the policy terms and conditions 
wouldve changed Mr Ls mind about taking it out as he could potentially have taken 
advantage of all the main benefits the policy offered. 
I dont know how the PPI cost was explained. But Mr and Mrs L havent complained about 
the policy being unaffordable for them when they signed up for it. Mr and Mrs L paid for this 
policy each month. So they couldve cancelled it at any time without incurring any extra cost 
if their circumstances changed and they didnt want to continue paying for it. 
Taking everything into account I think Mr and Mrs L probably still wouldve decided to buy 
the policy to protect Mr L even if theyd better informed as it provided useful protection in 
their particular situation. I dont think its likely that having clearer information wouldve put 
them off buying it. 
In coming to my decision, Ive taken into account everything Mr and Mrs L told us, including 
what theyve said in response to the adjudicators assessment. But, on balance, I dont find 
theres enough information for me to say that Mr and Mrs L have lost out as a result of 
anything Lloyds did wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
Mr L has told us that he didnt make a claim on the insurance when he was unable to work. 
This information doesnt affect my decision. But he may wish to approach the insurer to see 
if it would be prepared to accept and consider a retrospective claim. If he does so and finds 
that he has concerns in this regard, then he should first tell the insurer why hes unhappy. 
And if hes unable to reach a satisfactory conclusion, he may be able to bring a complaint 
relating to the retrospective claim to this Service as a separate matter. 
In my decision I've concentrated on dealing with the main points raised that affect the 
outcome of this complaint. I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. 
But I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my 
decision.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman