DRN-2967239
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Glover & Howe Ltd (G&H) breached date protection laws by 
storing his credit card details without his consent as part of him purchasing a photographic 
equipment insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr H had an insurance policy through G&H. In 2019, Mr H paid to renew the policy over the 
phone using his credit card. In 2020, G&H told Mr H that it could automatically renew his 
policy using the credit card details he had used to pay in 2019.
Mr H complained to G&H. He said he hadnt given his consent for G&H to store his credit 
card details. When G&H replied it didnt uphold the complaint. It said it abided by data 
protection laws and that it didnt store Mr Hs credit card details.
When Mr H complained to this service, our investigator upheld the complaint in part. She 
said G&H had acted in line with its terms and conditions. However, G&H had given Mr H 
some incorrect information about its processes, which it then apologised for. She said G&H 
should also pay £30 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
As Mr H didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint in part. I will explain why.
It isnt my role to decide if G&H has breached data protection laws. That is for the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to decide. I have looked at whether G&H acted 
fairly and in line with its processes and, if it hasnt, whether Mr H suffered any detriment.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions when Mr H took out the policy in 2019. These said:
We will process any personal information we obtain in the course of providing our services 
to you in accordance with the Data Protection Act 1998 and in line with our Data Protection 
Policy. In administering your insurances and where applicable arranging premium finance or 
you are paying by card it will be necessary for us to pass such information to insurers and 
other relevant product or service providers that may also provide us with business and 
compliance support.
In 2020, G&H told Mr H it could now automatically renew his policy. G&H later explained to 
Mr H that it didnt store his card details but instead used a third-party payment service to 
process any payments. G&H confirmed to this service that it didnt used Mr Hs card details, 
or renew the policy, without his consent. 
So, from what Ive seen, G&H did what it said it would by passing Mr Hs card details to a 
payment service provider. When G&H later changed the way it renewed policies, it told Mr H 
this. When Mr H objected to this change, G&H didnt use his card details or renew his policy 
without his consent. As Ive already said, it is for the ICO to decide whether data protection 
laws have been breached.
Im aware that G&H also accepted that it had provided Mr H with incorrect information. G&H 
apologised for this. But, like our investigator, I think G&H should pay Mr H £30 compensation 
to recognise the impact on him by providing this incorrect information.
Mr H has also said that G&H didnt respond to his complaint about specific concerns he 
raised about a member of staff and some emails he had been sent. Mr H then provided an 
email he said G&H hadnt fully addressed. Having read this, I can see that Mr H said he was 
unhappy with the service he had received. But, I think G&H did try and address Mr Hs 
concerns in its response. So, based on what Ive seen, I dont require G&H to do anything 
further on this issue.
  
Putting things right
G&H must pay Mr H £30 compensation.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Glover & Howe Ltd to pay Mr H £30 compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman