DRN-2348515
The complaint
Ms K says Erudio Student Loans Limited has treated her unfairly in the way it is pursuing her 
in relation to debts.
What happened
Erudio says Ms K has four student loans which Erudio has managed since March 2014, 
three under one account number (ending 3714) and one under another account number 
(ending 3722). It says the lending agreements were terminated in July 2016 with Ms K owing 
money on both at that time. Erudio then outsourced the management of the debts from these 
two accounts. These debts are managed now by a company (which Ill call Company A).
Erudio says that Ms K paid monthly payments on both accounts up until September 2018 
when she stopped paying on the account ending 3714. So Erudio passed this account to a 
solicitor in May 2019 to pursue the debt through legal action. Erudio says that Ms K has paid 
towards the account ending 3722 throughout. 
Erudio has issued a cheque to Ms K for £50 for some customer service issues but maintains 
she owes money from the original debts it took over in 2014 on both accounts and it is 
entitled to ask her to pay.
Ms K says that its Erudios fault she stopped paying on account 3714 because it cancelled 
her payment instruction. She says she hasnt broken the agreement and has been paying 
throughout. She says Erudio agreed to put it all under one account but continues to run two 
accounts for her.
Ms K complained to Erudio about what happened, and it said that it had treated her fairly 
overall. Ms K disagreed, so she brought her complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator decided that Erudio had treated Ms K fairly. As Ms K remains unhappy, this 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Erudio and Ms K dont agree to some of the key issues here. So I can only make my 
decision based on the evidence provided to me by the parties. In short I must decide what is 
most likely to have happened. Or in other words, what happened on the balance of 
probabilities.
Ive considered what has happened here and everything that has been said by the parties, 
and I think Ms K has been treated fairly here and I shall explain why.
Ms K says shes paid throughout. And I can see that on the account ending 3722 this is true. 
But Erudio isnt chasing her for this account as it recognises shes been paying throughout. 
But Erudio points to the account ending 3714. Its records show that Ms K made an 
arrangement with Company A to make payments to both accounts on a monthly basis in 
August 2017. Its records show Ms K made payments relating to account ending 3714 until 
September 2018. Its records also show that Ms K didnt make any more payments relating to 
this account, so In May 2019 it arranged for the solicitors to help it get the money Ms K owes 
back. Its clear from the evidence that Ms K has been in contact with both Erudio and 
Company A off and on for many years about these debts. Its clear she has applied for the 
debts to be deferred on a number of occasions over the years and there is no persuasive 
evidence of Ms K arguing that these debts arent hers. Its also clear from what she has said 
to this service that shes aware she has two accounts with Erudio. And that Erudio, 
Company A and the solicitors have been in contact with Ms K regularly and that although 
she has on many occasions not responded to such correspondence, on many other 
occasions she has engaged with these firms about these debts.
Ms K says Erudio cancelled her direct debit in relation to account ending 3714. Ive seen no 
persuasive evidence of the payments stopping due to something Erudio has done. And Im 
satisfied Ms K owes the money and that Erudio is entitled to ask for it. Its clear that since she 
stopped paying on this account in September 2018 shes been asked to pay and since that 
time regular payments havent been made. Nor is Ms K saying shes been paying throughout 
on this account. Erudio have asked her for evidence of payments during this time and she 
hasnt provided any. She says shes not been paying since then because the payments 
stopped. But shes had a significant amount of time to make payments towards the debt she 
owes. So Im not persuaded Erudio has done anything wrong here.
Ms K points to correspondence issues and say this is the reason there is a problem. Erudio 
has offered £50 for this. Ive considered the evidence and in relation to the account ending 
3714 which Ms K hasnt been paying there is only one letter which had an issue with the 
address and that was sent in 2017 which was a long time before she stopped paying this 
account. So I dont think it had an impact on what happened on that account.
Ms K has in the past referred to issues from some years ago. In this decision I can only 
consider what Erudio has done or those companies working on its behalf. I cant consider 
what happened before Erudio starting dealing with these debts in March 2014.
Ms K she says shes been shocked and stressed by what has happened. She says shes 
been harassed for the money. But Ive considered the evidence of what has happened here, 
and I dont think Ms K has been treated unfairly in the way Erudio or Company A on its 
behalf has asked her to repay the money she owes.
Ms K says she wants to defer payment again. If this is the case she should speak directly to 
Erudio and come to an arrangement to pay the money she owes. But Erudio or the 
companies it uses to manage this debt are entitled to ask Ms K to pay it.
I appreciate that this isnt the decision Ms K wants. However it is my decision Erudio hasnt 
treated her unfairly. Accordingly this complaint doesnt succeed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint against Erudio Student Loans 
Limited. It has nothing more to do with regard to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman