DRN-2965191
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy that Target Servicing Limited has made mistakes in relation to a 
monthly fee and then said they were in arrears and demanded the amount be repaid.  
What happened
In 2016 Mr and Mrs F purchased a property. They took a mortgage from a high street lender 
and also used a help-to-buy scheme to assist with the purchase. Target is responsible for 
administering the help-to-buy lending.
In October 2020 Target wrote to Mr and Mrs F saying that their agreement required them to 
pay a monthly management fee of £1 but this had not been done since the loan started. The 
letter said Mr and Mrs F were in breach of their agreement and in arrears and said they were 
required to set up a direct debit to cover this fee moving forward. It also said they would 
need to pay all of the fees that had been missed  totalling £49  when making their first 
direct debit payment.
Mr and Mrs F complained to Target. They said that this letter had come as a shock and were 
unhappy that there was no acknowledgement of a mistake or apology from Target for this. 
They also questioned why Target hadnt noticed the issue sooner. They explained that their 
finances had been impacted by the pandemic and changes to their circumstances and they 
werent able to pay the backdated payments. They also felt that it wasnt fair that they were 
being asked to do so given Target was at fault. During the call in which the complaint was 
made, the representative of Target apologised for its error.
Target then issued its final response. This suggested that the error was potentially due to 
Mr and Mrs F cancelling the direct debit payment rather than an error by Target. And it said 
that full payment was required.
Mr and Mrs F asked our service to consider their complaint. One of our investigators looked 
into matters. He was satisfied that Target was at fault for the problem with collecting the 
direct debt payment. He agreed it was fair that Mr and Mrs F needed to pay the monthly fee 
from the point that the error was found. But as the only reason the earlier payments were 
missed was because of Targets error, he felt it should write off and refund these fees (which 
had since been paid). He also thought Target should pay Mr and Mrs F £75 for the upset 
caused by how it had handled matters.
Target agreed that it had made an error with the direct debt. But it still felt Mr and Mrs F 
needed to make the payments so didnt agree to refund these. And it didnt think it had 
handled matters incorrectly and as a result said it didnt think it should pay any 
compensation.
As Target did not agree with our Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the agreement that Mr and Mrs F made when taking out the loan. And this 
does confirm that a monthly management fee of £1 was payable from the outset. 
In Targets final response it suggested that Mr and Mrs F mightve cancelled the direct debit 
for this fee. But Mr and Mrs F have provided evidence from their bank to show that they 
didnt do so. And Im satisfied that they didnt cancel the direct debit and the error in 
collecting the payment was due to Target  which it now accepts.
So as Target has made an error, Ive thought about what the fair way to address this is.
Target says, even though it made an error, Mr and Mrs F should be required to pay all of the 
fees, including those that it failed to collect. But I dont think that is entirely fair.
I think it is reasonable that Mr and Mrs F are responsible for the fees from the point the error 
was discovered in October 2020. The fees formed part of the agreement and Target made 
them aware of the issue at that time. So, I think it is reasonable that they needed to pay the 
fees from that point  when they became aware of the problem.
But the reason the fees before this were missed was because of Target doing something 
wrong. Without which Im satisfied Mr and Mrs F would likely have paid the fees on time as 
required. And they wouldnt have been required to pay a larger lump sum, when this issue 
was found, at a time when theyve explained their finances were stretched. With that in mind, 
in the circumstances I think, on a fair and reasonable basis, Target should write off the fees 
that were missed due to its error, totalling £49, and refund this amount to Mr and Mrs F. 
I also think Target must ensure that no negative information is recorded with credit reference 
agencies in respect of these fees having been missed. I understand that when Mr and Mrs F 
complained, they said they couldnt pay the full amount. And Target said, if they did not, 
theyd be considered in breach of their agreement. But again, without Targets error, the 
need for this larger sum wouldnt have come about. And Im satisfied the agreement would 
likely have been maintained. So, in the event negative information has been recorded with 
credit reference agencies by Target, this needs to be removed.
Mr and Mrs F have said that this caused them unnecessary stress. I know it wouldve been 
upsetting to learn of the error by Target. But I dont think Target was wrong to send them the 
initial letter it did, notifying them of the problem when this was found, as Im happy it needed 
to let them know about this. That letter could though have been worded better in my view as 
it didnt acknowledge an error by Target. 
Ive listened to a recording of the call in which Mrs F raised the complaint. She made it clear 
to Target, as well as being unhappy about the error, that she and Mr F couldnt afford to pay 
the fees that had been missed as their finances were stretched at the time based on their 
circumstances. While during the initial complaint call, Im glad to note Target acknowledged 
its error and said it would pass the information about Mr and Mrs Fs financial position on, it 
did continue to say theyd be in breach of their agreement if they didnt pay. And the written 
response to their complaint then made no reference to their financial circumstances  
despite this information having been provided. Which I dont think is very good service when 
Mr and Mrs F had informed it they would have difficulty making the payment. To make matters worse, the written complaint response backtracked on the apology given 
over the phone and suggested Mr and Mrs F were at fault for the payments not having been 
made as they mightve cancelled their direct debit. Which I havent seen any evidence to 
support.
Taking all of this into account, while Target did need to make Mr and Mrs F aware of the 
issue, I think it couldve handled matters better, particularly after Mr and Mrs F raised their 
complaint. And I think the way the matter was handled likely caused Mr and Mrs F 
unnecessary additional upset. Our Investigator recommended that Target make a payment 
of £75 to address this. And in the circumstances, I think this is a fair way to resolve matters. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint.
To put things right I order Target Servicing Limited to;
Refund Mr and Mrs F £49  representing the management fees that were not 
collected due to Targets error.
Remove any adverse information it might have registered with credit reference 
agencies about Mr and Mrs F in respect of the account management fees having 
been missed.
Pay Mr and Mrs F £75 for the upset caused by its handling of this matter.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman