DRN-3407885
The complaint
Mr Os complaint is about charges hes been asked to pay by Mercedes-Benz Financial
Services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I know it will disappoint Mr O, I agree with the investigators findings. 
Ill explain why.
Mr O acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr O responsible for keeping the car in good 
condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct 
condition.
The damage charges that remain
MBFS have their own vehicle return standards (VRS) but the industry guidelines for what is
considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned at the end of their lease, is
provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). I understand that
MBFS arent members of the BVRLA but I think its only fair to consider that standard in
tandem with the VRS when considering if the damage in the inspection reports can fairly be 
considered to be beyond normal wear and tear and chargeable.
Our investigator has set out the relevant parts of the BVRLA guidance for dents (less than 
15mm), scratches (less than 25mm and not through to the primer), alloy wheels (less than 
50mm of scuffing on the circumference and no spoke damage), tyre condition (no gouges), 
interior trim (no tears), and the door seal (damage reflecting normal use only). 
Ive reviewed the photographs taken by the inspector and I think there is clear evidence that 
each area of damage that MBFS have sought to charge for is in excess of the BVRLA 
guidance and therefore chargeable.
Ive also considered the VRS which differs a little from the BVRLA standard. The VRS says 
that dents are acceptable as long as they are less than 13mm and having considered the 
dents to the sill cover (which is also scratched), front door, quarter panels and rear bumper, I 
think the damage to those panels exceeds the VRS guidance too.
The VRS says that scratches light surface scratches that Any chipping and scratching of 
paintwork that has penetrated the base coat and/or has caused corrosion of any kind which 
cannot be polished out is not acceptable. I think the scratches to the front and rear bumper 
are in excess of this guidance and chargeable.
The VRS says that Any gouge, crack, cut, torn or plugged tyre side wall is not acceptable 
and I think all three tyres in the inspectors photographs show gouges and are chargeable. 
The VRS says that Dents on the wheel rims and wheel trims are not acceptable. Chips, 
scratches or scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel are acceptable, 
providing they can be repaired to a professional standard. Any damage to the wheel spokes, 
fascia or hub of the alloy wheel is not acceptable. There should be no rust or corrosion on 
the alloy wheels. This is similar to the BVRLA standard and I think the damage on the four 
alloys is outside of this guidance and therefore chargeable.
The VRS shows photographs of what would be considered acceptable and unacceptable on 
door seals. I think the inspectors photographs show the extent of the damage to the door 
seal is in excess of this standard. 
The VRS says that tears through seat covers are unacceptable and theres a clear tear 
through the seat so the charge MBFS have made is a fair one.
Whilst the first inspection didnt explicitly identify charges for damage, MBFS chose to 
complete a further inspection on this car. Its for MBFS to decide their processes and its for 
them to decide how they identify any excess wear and tear that could be chargeable under 
the agreement. I think the second inspection clearly evidences the damage on return and as 
the second inspection took place only five days and eight miles after the first I think its likely 
the damage was present on collection.
The car was almost four and a half years old when it was returned to MBFS and Id expect 
them to take that into account when they considered its condition. But it hadnt completed a 
high mileage and I think the damage thats been evidenced was significantly in excess of the 
standards Ive set out. I dont therefore think the age of the car means that charges havent 
been made fairly.
Overall, Im not persuaded that MBFS have been unreasonable and Im not asking them to 
take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman