DRN-3044376
The complaint
The executors of the estate of the late Mrs H have complained that in 2011 Mrs H was 
mis-sold an equity release mortgage by Key Retirement Solutions Limited.
To settle the complaint, the executors want Key to refund the interest accrued on the loan 
and refund the fees paid. They would also like to see greater control on the marketing of 
equity release products.
The complaint has been dealt with throughout by one of the joint executors, Mrs G.
What happened
I will keep my summary of what happened fairly brief. There are several reasons for this. 
First, the details of the sale of the mortgage are set out in the final response letter and point 
of sale documents, including the suitability report and the Key Facts Illustration (KFI). All 
parties have seen those documents. Furthermore, our decisions are published, and so its 
important that I dont include any information that might identify Mrs H or Mrs G. 
On 5 October 2011 Mrs H met an adviser from Key and, after discussing her wishes and 
needs, Key issued a suitability report on 14 October 2011, summarising everything that had 
been discussed. Key recommended an equity release mortgage of £90,300 with a lender I 
will refer to as A. Of the total borrowed, £84,000 was to pay off an existing mortgage, a loan 
and other credit, with the remaining balance for home improvements and the cost of setting 
up the mortgage.
One of As requirements was that Mrs H needed to have independent legal advice before it 
would agree to complete the mortgage. Mrs H was given advice by an independent firm of 
solicitors on 15 November 2011, and I understand the mortgage completed shortly 
thereafter. In common with this type of loan, no repayments are due; instead interest rolls up 
into the debt, which is repayable either when the borrower dies or goes into long-term care.
By 2019 Mrs Hs health had started to fail and she moved into a nursing home. Mrs G, who 
had Power of Attorney, discovered for the first time that Mrs H had taken out the mortgage. 
Mrs G raised a complaint with Key on 14 May 2020 that the mortgage had been mis-sold. 
Mrs G said that in 2011 Mrs H lacked financial acumen and was incapable of handling her 
own affairs. Mrs G said that the fact Mrs H had a mortgage, loan and credit at the time of the 
application showed she was financially illiterate. Mrs G says that by 2014 Mrs Hs finances 
were in a mess again.
Key didnt uphold the complaint, and so it was brought to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
I am sorry to note that Mrs H passed away in July 2020 and so the complaint is brought on 
behalf of her estate by Mrs G.
An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He was satisfied Keys sales process had been followed and that Mrs H had 
received independent legal advice.
Mrs G didnt agree with the investigators findings. She reiterated that Mrs H lacked financial 
acumen and sent in again a copy of her complaint letter. Mrs G was also unhappy at the role 
the solicitor played in the transaction. She said that this was not Mrs Hs own personal 
solicitor. 
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will begin by explaining the extent of what this decision covers. 
Mrs G has explained that she would like greater control over the marketing of equity release 
plans. But thats not something I can consider here. If Mrs G is concerned at the way Key 
markets or advertises its products, she will need to contact the Advertising Standards 
Authority, which is the organisation which oversees and regulates the marketing and 
advertising of products. 
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer. Mrs H was a consumer, and 
so met the definition of an eligible complainant set out in our rules. For the purposes of this 
complaint, the rules say that a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant 
by a person authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this respect, 
Mrs G is bringing the complaint on the estates behalf, and as Executor is authorised by law 
to do so.
But I must explain that, although Mrs G is representing the estate, it is Mrs H who was Keys 
customer (or at least was at the time of the events complained about). Mrs Gs role is to 
bring Mrs Hs complaint on the estates behalf, in the same way that other consumers might 
instruct a relative, solicitor or accountant to represent them in a complaint. But this does not 
entitle Mrs G to air her own grievances about Key, because she is not its customer; her role 
is limited to putting forward the estates complaint.
I note from the detailed correspondence that Mrs G has expressed her own concerns about 
what she perceives to be Keys failings  and I do not doubt her strength of feeling about 
this. But because Mrs G is not Keys customer, her concerns about Key dont form part of 
this complaint.
Mrs H hadnt complained about the mortgage previously, and it seems that it was only when 
Mrs G looked closer at Mrs Hs financial affairs after Mrs Hs health deteriorated that a 
complaint was raised with Key. So in this final decision I have looked at the sale of the 
mortgage. Without a specific complaint from Mrs H about it, I have considered generally 
whether Key did anything wrong when the mortgage was taken out.
The Financial Conduct Authority and the Equity Release Council (formerly the Safe Home 
Income Plan  or SHIP) are aware that there is potential, years down the line, for family 
members to find out their parents had taken out an equity release mortgage without 
consulting them first. These scenarios  and the fact that equity release mortgages are sold 
to elderly customers  is why this type of mortgage is (and always has been) subject to a robust and rigorous sales process, with the need for borrowers to have advice from a 
financial adviser, as well as from an independent solicitor.
Mrs H was given independent legal advice. Mrs G has pointed out that the advice wasnt 
given by Mrs Hs own family solicitors, but from a different firm. There is nothing untoward 
about this. Equity release mortgages are specialist products, and borrowers need to be 
advised by solicitors with the required expertise in those products. Mrs H was provided with 
a list of solicitors to choose from with the necessary expertise. There is nothing wrong with 
Key doing this. Mrs H made her own selection from the list of solicitors.
The documents from 2011 show that Mrs H went through a very detailed questionnaire with 
Keys adviser. Mrs H didnt want to have a family member present  which was her right. 
There is no suggestion in the documentation that Mrs H was suffering from any cognitive 
impairment which prevented her from understanding what she was doing. 
Im satisfied that the suitability report explains in full how the mortgage works, all the relevant 
conditions that apply and the implications for Mrs H of entering into this transaction. The 
report gives some detail about Mrs Hs circumstances, wishes and needs. I am also satisfied 
that it reflects what was recorded at the time by Key, based on the information provided by 
Mrs H.
Ive noted that Mrs G said Mrs H was financially illiterate. Shes provided what I am told is a 
statement made by Mrs H to a solicitor in 2015. I do not know in what context the statement 
was made, but it is unsigned and so its evidential value is limited. It appears to relate to 
issues with a family member dating back several years.
Assuming this statement was made by Mrs H in 2015, Im afraid it doesnt help Mrs Gs 
argument that in 2011 Mrs H lacked the capacity to make decisions about her finances. 
Whilst I cannot verify the accuracy of what the statement says, on the face of it, it sets out a 
history of financial irresponsibility and possible criminal behaviour by a member of Mrs Hs 
family. 
But it also shows that Mrs H, from time to time over the years, decided to give financial and 
other support to this person, and in the statement she gives cogent and clear reasons for 
doing so. The statement was, I am told, made four years after the mortgage was taken out. 
Mrs Hs clarity and reasoning in that statement do not persuade me that four years earlier 
she lacked the capacity to make decisions about her finances. In fact, the statement leads 
me to conclude the opposite  that Mrs H was able to make an equally clear and reasoned 
decision to take out the mortgage in 2011.
Mrs G might not agree with Mrs Hs decision to take out an equity release mortgage. But, 
being an independent person with agency to act as she wished, Mrs H was entitled to make 
this decision  and to do this without telling her family about it. The reasons Mrs H gave Key 
for wanting the money were entirely plausible. It wasnt Keys job to check up on Mrs H or 
police her spending to make sure shed used the funds as she said she was going to.  
I fully appreciate it was a shock for the family to discover in 2019 that Mrs H had taken out 
this mortgage in 2011. As Ive noted, Mrs H explained to Key that she didnt want her family 
to be involved, as is her absolute right. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied, from the evidence at the point of sale, that the 
advice and recommendation were suitable and that the mortgage wasnt mis-sold. This 
means that I dont think Key has done anything wrong.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs H 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman