DRN-1322251
 
The complaint
 Mr W complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt help him recover 
payments hed made to a third party in relation to building works.
What happened
Mr W made several large payments to a business which Ill call T. The payments were for 
building works to be carried out at Mr Ws property and were made in advance of the work 
being done. Mr W says that T didnt complete the works and what it had done wasnt 
satisfactory. He says he later found out that T was a rogue trader. In 2019, Mr W asked 
NatWest to make a chargeback claim to recover the money hed paid to T.
NatWest said that, because the payments had been made by bank transfer, they werent 
able to help. Mr W wasnt happy with their response and raised a complaint. He says that 
NatWest didnt deal with the complaint promptly and he feels they didnt give it due attention.
NatWest accepted that their service hadnt been up to the standard Mr W was entitled to 
expect when he raised the complaint. They made a payment of £50 to him as an apology for 
this. But they didnt think theyd done anything wrong in relation to the chargeback request. 
NatWest said that the method of Mr Ws payments to T meant there were no avenues open 
to them to pursue a chargeback claim or help him to recover the money.
Mr W wasnt happy with NatWests response so he brought his complaint to this service. He 
says NatWests approach is unfair and that they seem to pick and choose where they are 
willing to help.
Our investigator thought that NatWest had acted fairly and didnt ask them to do any more. 
But Mr W didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. I realise that Mr W feels very strongly about whats happened 
and I have great sympathy for him and the situation he finds himself in. But I dont think 
NatWest have done anything wrong here, so I cant fairly ask them to do any more. Ill 
explain why.
Chargeback is a process for resolving disputes between card issuers (here, NatWest) and 
merchants (here, T). It applies to payments made on a plastic card, generally a debit or 
credit card. Chargeback schemes are voluntary codes which banks can sign up to. Theyre 
run by the card scheme (that is, the business which runs the payment network)  not the 
bank. And chargeback claims are processed and decided on the basis of the relevant card 
schemes rules.Mr Ws payments to T were made by bank transfer. They werent made using his debit card, 
so they arent covered by the chargeback rules. I realise that, when logged on to his online 
banking facility, Mr W may have used his debit card to authorise the transfers to T. But thats 
not the same thing as making the payments on the card. And it isnt covered by the 
chargeback rules. Theres no provision for payments made by bank transfer to be reclaimed 
through the chargeback scheme. So Im afraid what NatWest told Mr W was correct. And I 
cant see that there were any other avenues available to NatWest here to help Mr W recover 
the payments. So I dont find that they did anything wrong.
I realise Mr W will find my decision disappointing. But Im only looking here at NatWests 
actions, not those of T. There may be other ways for Mr W to pursue this matter through 
different routes and against other parties. But I can only decide whether NatWest acted fairly 
by not processing Mr Ws chargeback request. And on the facts here, I dont think they did 
anything wrong. So Im not going to ask them to do anything.
As to the payment of £50 which NatWest made to Mr W, that was an apology that the 
service they provided wasnt up to the standard they aim for when they initially responded to 
his complaint. I think thats a fair amount here, so Im not going to ask them to do any more 
on that issue either.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2020.
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman