DRN-1476344
complaint
Mrs C complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
AXA, as the insurer, has taken responsibility for this sale, so Ill refer to them as the seller in 
this decision.
background
Mrs C took out a store card in 1998. At the same time she was sold a PPI policy which 
wouldve helped cover her repayments on the card for up to 12 months at a time if she 
couldnt work. 
Mrs C says that she didnt know the PPI had been added to her account. wasnt mentioned 
to her. She says she wouldnt have been eligible for the policy because she had a pre-
existing medical condition at the time of sale. 
The adjudicator thought that Mrs Cs complaint shouldnt be upheld. AXA disagrees, so Mrs 
Cs case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not holding this complaint. Ill 
explain why Ive reached this decision.
AXA has provided a copy of Mrs Cs application form. She clearly selected the PPI. But the 
form doesnt provide much information about the terms and conditions of the policy.
The policy excluded Mrs C from claiming if her absence from work was as a result of an 
existing medical condition. Mrs C had a chronic medical condition which could easily have 
led to her needing to take an extended period of time off work. And given her occupation and 
the nature of her condition I think it would have been the most likely reason for her being off 
work sick. 
AXA had a responsibility to ensure Mrs C got all the information she needed to make her 
decision about buying the PPI. AXA didnt make this exclusion clear enough to Mrs C. 
I am satisfied that if Mrs C had understood that she wouldnt have been able to make a 
successful claim for her chronic condition that she wouldnt have thought the policy offered 
her value for money and she wouldnt have bought it. So I think Mrs C lost out as a result of 
what AXA did wrong.
 putting things right
AXA should find out how much Mrs C would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added. It should remove the PPI premiums added, as well 
as any interest charged on those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were 
caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs C owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount it owes her.
AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs C would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year.
If  when AXA works out what Mrs C would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs C paid 
more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the extra 
Mrs C paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs C wouldve owed 
AXA something on her card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
AXA should tell Mrs C what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mrs 
C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 
my final decision
Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint and direct AXA France IARD to pay compensation as Ive 
described above.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman