DRN-4034946
The complaint
The estate of Mr D complains about the proposed settlement offered by 
Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd for a claim under their buildings insurance policy.
Mr D and Mrs P have brought the complaint on behalf of the estate of Mr D. For ease I shall 
refer to them below. 
All references to Accredited also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
As a commercial customer, under the Insurance Act 2015 it is the responsibility of the 
customer to make a fair presentation of the risk. 
The rebuild value of the property was provided by Mr D and Mrs P, via their broker, 
was £140,000. Mr D and Mrs P said they obtained they figure from documentation 
relating to the estate of Mr D, but Ive not seen anything that specifically lists this 
figure as a rebuild cost.
Accredited have provided calculations from the Royal Institute of Chartered 
Surveyors (RICS) generated with measurements of a drone survey it commissioned 
of the property. This shows the rebuild costs to be around £425,000.
Accredited have provided information from its underwriter, I cant detail what this 
information says as it is commercially sensitive. However, I can confirm it shows if an 
accurate rebuild value had been provided, Accredited would have still offered the 
policy, but at a higher premium.
Under the Insurance Act 2015, Accredited are therefore able to offer a remedy as a 
qualifying breach has occurred. One of the remedies available is to offer a 
proportionate settlement. Which is what Accredited have done here. And considering 
everything available to me, I dont think it has acted unreasonably in doing so.
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Accredited initially calculated its proportional settlement on the proposed rebuild costs, 
however I can see it has since recalculated these on the proportion of the correct premium 
paid, as recommended by our investigator. I think this is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the estate of Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman