DRN-3750059
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A have complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale) mis-sold Mr A a 
private bank account in October 2007.
What happened
Mr and Mrs As private bank account was opened in October 2007, they have explained that 
at the time their account was opened Mr A was finding it difficult to open a bank account due 
to his previous financial circumstances and poor credit score.
When Mr A approached Clydesdale to open an account, he says he was told the only option 
available to him was the fee-paying private account.
Mr and Mrs A have also told us that the account they took out came with travel insurance 
and it was not explained to them that exclusions applied to this policy, this was particularly 
important to them as Mr A had a pre-existing medical condition, and would want to travel to a 
particular country.
One of our Adjudicators considered Mr and Mrs As complaint but didnt think it should be 
upheld. As Mr and Mrs A didnt agree this complaint has passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything that has been provided, I dont think the package bank 
account was mis-sold. I will explain why.
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I
must base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything
that is available.
Mr and Mrs A have told us that when their account was first opened Mr A was in a desperate 
position struggling to open an account because of his credit score. He had been declined by 
other banks when attempting to open an account.
Mr and Mrs A say that Mr A was told by Clydesdale that the only account available to him 
was the private account and Mr A took the fee-paying account as he had no alternative. 
There is limited information available from the time Mr and Mrs As account was opened, but 
this isnt surprising as the account was opened a long time ago and Clydesdale is not 
required to keep this type of information indefinitely. 
I think its unlikely Mr A was unable to open a fee-free bank account at any bank. Generally, 
when a customer has a poor credit score and no bank account, they are offered a basic 
bank account. This type of account will often have limitations imposed on the account but will 
provide a basic banking function. It would be unusual to say the least to find a private bank 
account being offered to a customer with a poor credit score and who was apparently unable 
to access even basic banking.
I havent seen enough evidence to support Mr and Mrs As explanation that they were not 
able to open a basic bank account elsewhere and that Clydesdale was their only option. 
While I cant know exactly what was said at the time Mr A opened the private bank account I 
think its unlikely Clydesdale would have told Mr A that his only banking option was the 
private bank account I say this because other accounts were available and I have seen no 
evidence to suggest applying for a private bank account would improve Mr As chances of 
being accepted for an account.
To uphold Mr As complaint on the basis he was told the private bank account was the only 
option available I would need to see strong information that this was the information he was 
provided by Clydesdale at the time. Which I havent seen.
Mr and Mrs A have told us that they were not given information about the exclusions and 
limitations of the travel insurance policy that was included with the private bank account and 
that this was important to Mr A as he had a medical condition and would want to travel to a 
particular county.
I have thought about what Mr and Mrs A have said but there is no evidence to show Mr A 
would not be covered by the travel insurance. The information available shows Mr A would 
need to declare his condition to the travel insurance provider for it to be considered. As there 
is no evidence of Mr A attempting to make a claim on the travel insurance policy, I am 
unable to say he would not have been covered by the policy. 
Mr and Mrs A have told us they were not told they would need to contact the travel insurance 
provider about Mr As condition. Clydesdale have told us eligibility letters were sent to Mr 
and Mrs A telling them about the need to declare medical conditions. But as I have 
previously said its not possible for me to know with certainty what was discussed when the 
account was sold to Mr A.
Had Mr A attempted to make a claim under the travel insurance policy that the insurance 
provider had refused we could consider any detriment caused by Mr and Mrs A potentially 
not receiving the information about needing to declare Mr As condition. But I am unable to 
consider what might have happened, only what did actually happen, and I cant see that not 
knowing about the need to declare Mr As medical condition has caused Mr and Mrs A any 
loss.
Mr and Mrs A have further said they did not receive annual calls from their bank manager to 
discuss their circumstances as promised when taking the account. I dont know what was 
agreed at the time, but it appears Mr and Mrs A had access to all of the benefits that came 
with the private account should they have had the need to use.
In summary, I dont think Clydesdale told Mr A that his only banking option was the private 
account, and I havent seen enough to say Mr A didnt choose to have the account knowing 
the fee that would apply. So, I dont think Clydesdale mis-sold Mr A the private account.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman