DRN-4396219
The complaint
Mr P complains about information provided to him by ReAssure Limited to do with the 
surrender of a whole of life policy. He says ReAssure Limited has failed to provide details of 
the unit values he requested to allow him to establish whether he has received the correct 
value for his policy. 
What happened
In February 1999, Mr P took out a whole of life policy with an initial sum assured of 
£150,000. 
In early May 2022, Mr P contacted ReAssure made enquires to how he could establish the 
whether the unit value on his policy had been calculated correctly. He was given details of 
the policy value but wasnt able to obtain all the information he required. Mr P went on to 
complete a surrender request, which was received on 11 May 2022. After this Mr P made 
several calls and continued to pursue the information he requested as he believed the value 
might be higher than he received. ReAssure told him it cannot provide backdated values, 
and also explained that backdated values are not provided unless for divorce purposes, 
ombudsman requests, FSCS requests, a miss-selling complaint, or emigration. Mr P raised a 
complaint as he wasnt satisfied with the way ReAssure dealt with his requests for policy 
information. 
ReAssure responded. It apologised for some incorrect information about the surrender 
process during an initial call on 6 May 2022. It also apologised for the handling of his request 
information on the policy. It said it should have explained the monthly premium is used to 
purchase units, and then units are surrendered to cover the cost of the benefits provided. It 
explained this is why the unit holding will be different to the value of the premiums paid. It 
also arranged for a cheque for £100 to be sent to Mr P to recognise the inconvenience 
caused. 
Mr P didnt find the offer acceptable and remained unhappy that he hadnt received the 
information he requested. He referred his complaint to this service for an independent 
review. 
I issued a provisional decision in September 2023. This is what I said:
The crux of this complaint is about whether Mr P has been paid the correct surrender value 
for his policy by ReAssure. It is reasonable for him to question this and want assurance that 
he has been treated fairly. He isnt satisfied with the responses hes received to his requests 
for further information  and has suggested that because of this the cancellation shouldnt 
have gone ahead. But in my view just because he hasnt been provided with everything he 
requested; this doesnt mean he has been paid an incorrect surrender amount.  
From the evidence Ive seen Mr P did make a clear request to surrender. I understand, after 
first contacting by phone, he followed an online process to request a surrender. Ive seen 
that he followed this up with an email, and this confirmed he had used the submission 
process online and wish to cash in my policy. He did also request information about the 
number of units held in the policy, so he could verify the amount paid. So, Im satisfied when 
he gave an instruction to surrender, this wasnt a conditional surrender but rather Mr P 
wanted to verify the amount he was to receive. So, I dont think the surrender should be 
reversed. It follows that I need to make a judgement on is whether ReAssure has failed to 
correctly pay Mr P the surrender value of his policy. 
Reassurance has provided evidence to support the value it paid Mr P for his policy. It has 
confirmed the value paid to Mr P for his policy was £5,320.67.  It has provided data to 
support how the value of the policy has calculated. Ive reviewed the evidence available. 
Based on what Ive seen, I havent found he has been paid an incorrect amount. Ill explain 
why.  
Firstly, ReAssure has provided a 63-page document that shows the number of units held, 
the unit price and fund value variation month on month throughout the lifetime of the policy. 
Ive noted from this:
-There is data that shows the units held in the policy from its start in February 1999, 
and entries for every month to the point it was surrender in May 2022. This shows an 
increasing number of units being added each month. It also shows the variation in 
price of the units month on month, which does go up and down according to 
underlying performance of the fund. All of this is then used to give a fund value for 
the policy for each month. 
-In the early months the fund value was slow to increase, but after not long the value 
steadily starts to grow. There are the occasional months where a decrease in the unit 
price has led to a dip in the fund value. The most prominent of these happened in 
late 2008 where market conditions suggest an impact on the fund performance. This 
appears to coincide with the credit crunch that impacted UK markets around this 
time. But from mid-way through 2009 the fund value, and unit price steadily 
increases, Over the next 10 or so years the fund value increases continue, with the 
odd minor fluctuation, until the eventual policy surrender. 
-The unit price started at 12.5 and this had increased to just over 30 at the end. And 
naturally the number of units has increased from none at the start to around 175 by 
point of surrender. 
Reassurance has provided a copy of the May 2022 statement, which is relevant to time 
period of surrender. Ive noted the following from this:  
-The number of units, unit price and fund value correlate with the other information it 
sent in the 63-page document. 
-A large proportion of the premium being paid each month was being used to cover 
the cost of the life cover benefit provided - £58.87 out of £86.73 paid. So, once 
charges had been taken into account the amount of monthly premium available for 
purchasing units was relatively small at £24.05. 
My observations is that the reason the value of the policy hadnt increased as much as Mr P 
might hope is largely to do with the fact the cost of providing life cover meant the scope for 
the additional units purchased each month (through premiums paid) to increase the fund 
value was limited. I havent seen anything to suggest that excessive charges were a 
predominant factor here. But if Mr P has further evidence on this point, I will be happy to 
reconsider this. I also havent seen anything to suggest that Mr P has been paid an incorrect 
vale for his policy when he surrendered it. Im satisfied from the information Ive received that 
I am able to make a finding on this. While Mr P has asked for more information to help him 
establish if he has received the correct value for is policy, I dont currently think this is 
required. Again, Im happy to reconsider this point if Mr P can provide further arguments 
and/or evidence to indicate that there is reason to believe what ReAssure has provided is 
inaccurate. Mr P has requested that he is refunded what he has paid into the policy. In order to 
recommend compensation for a financial loss, Id have to reach a finding that ReAssure has 
failed to pay correct amount on surrender. As Ive explained above, I havent found the 
balance of evidence supports this. So, Im not intending to ask ReAssure to pay 
compensation in this respect.  
However, I do acknowledge that the way ReAssure has dealt with Mr Ps request for 
information has had a considerable impact on him both in a practical and emotional sense. 
This in my view has led him to continuing to pursue the matter when he would otherwise not 
have needed to. I also understand why it has caused a lack of trust and confidence in what 
he is being told. There have been delays in him receiving information. He was also given 
incorrect information when making his initial inquiries about surrender and details of his 
policy. All of this has caused him considerable distress and inconvenience. While I dont 
agree this means he should be refunded all his premiums, I do think a compensation 
payment is warranted. 
I also note since the complaint has been with service it has taken a considerable amount of 
time to receive further information from ReAssure about the surrender value and unit prices. 
This has caused Mr P further frustration and led to several more months of delays in him 
receiving an explanation to his queries. Ive also taken this into account when considering 
what fair compensation looks like in the circumstances. 
I think it is fair and reasonable for ReAssure to pay Mr P compensation totally £500 for the 
impact of its handling of the situation. It is unclear whether Mr P has received the £100 
compensation that ReAssure initially offered him. If it has been paid, then this amount can 
be deducted from the amount ReAssure needs to pay. If Mr P hasnt been paid this, then it is 
my intention for the full £500 to be paid to him in resolution of the complaint.  
Mr P responded. He didnt accept the provisional decision and provided further submission 
for me to consider. In summary he said:
- ReAssure failed to follow its own cancellation process. They asked him if he 
understood the policy he was cancelling and if someone had explained that to him, 
he answered clearly no.
- ReAssure advised the value of the fund incorrectly and what it covered.
- Reassure advised that the fund was in joint names, which caused further confusion 
and even asked to speak to his wife to verify bank details on where the cancellation 
money was going. 
- From the outset he wanted to know how the units where calculated. He was told they 
would be sent out within seven days but received incomplete data. ReAssure then 
advised they would not send out the data unless requested by the Financial 
Ombudsman. The data now supplied does not verify the number of units are correct.
- He did receive a £100 cheque from ReAssure but it was never cashed as that would 
be seen as an acceptance. He still has the cheque. 
ReAssure responded to say it didnt anything further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the further submissions Mr P has made. Having done so I havent found 
reason to change the outcome I set out in my provisional decision. Ill explain why. Firstly, I note Mr P has questioned the cancellation process that ReAssure followed and his 
understanding of the policy. As previously explained, I havent considered the sale of the 
policy or how the features of it were explained to him when he took it out as part of this 
complaint. Ive seen that Mr P made a request to cancel and this was executed. I appreciate 
that he also queried how the value had been established at the same time as he was looking 
to ensure he had been paid the right amount. The evidence Ive seen demonstrates that he 
no longer required the policy and understood he was giving up the benefits it provided. So, 
what is at the crux of the dispute is whether ReAssure provided him with the information he 
wanted to allow him to understand whether he had been paid the correct surrender value. 
I note that Mr P seeks more granular data than ReAssure has provided on the policy value. 
But Ive made a finding that what it has provided is sufficient to make a finding on whether he 
has been paid the correct amount. There isnt anything in what Ive seen that suggests errors 
have been made in the surrender value that was paid. Mr P also hasnt provided evidence to 
indicate why the information from ReAssure is not accurate. I understand he is disappointed 
with the surrender value he received compared to the premiums he paid into the policy, but I 
dont find this in itself is reason to indicate the information that has been provided with is 
wrong. I explained previously why I dont think that in the circumstances I require ReAssure 
to provide further information to reach a finding or that it is reasonable to continue 
investigating. 
I acknowledge the problems Mr P has encountered in his dealings with ReAssure about the 
policy surrender. This includes the points he raises about the confusion and hassle caused 
by the references to the policy being in joint names. I also acknowledge that the time it took 
and the effort required for him to gain information from ReAssure. Because of all of this I 
recommended that he is paid compensation. I note Mr P has rejected the amount I 
suggested but I remain of the view this is fair compensation for what has happened.  Mr P 
says he still has the original £100 cheque he was sent but didnt cash it as it implied an 
acceptance. I recommend ReAssure cancels this cheque and Mr P destroys it, so that one 
single compensation payment can be made. 
In summary, I acknowledge Mr Ps frustration with how ReAssure has handled his requests 
for clarification on the surrender of his policy and agree he should be paid compensation of 
£500 for the distress and inconvenience caused. But I havent found that it has paid him an 
incorrect surrender amount. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above and those in my provisional decision, I uphold the complaint 
and direct ReAssure Limited to pay Mr P compensation of £500. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman