DRN-2326646
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs N complain that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) hasnt accepted liability for 
a leak in their home under their home emergency policy. 
What happened
In April 2020 Mr C and Mrs N had no water coming into their property. BG were contacted 
and sent an engineer. The engineer couldnt find a reason why there was no water going into 
the property. So he inspected the outside water meter to find that there was no water going 
inside. He advised them to contact the water board. 
The engineer from the water board attended and turned the water back on. A few hours later 
Mr C and Mrs Ns neighbour contacted them to tell them that there was a leak coming from 
their property going into the neighbours property. Mr Cs relative located the source of the 
leak and managed to tighten the pipe, which stopped the leak. 
Mr C and Mrs N believed that it was the BG engineer who had loosened a pipe and when 
the water was restored the leak occurred. So they complained to BG. 
In its final response, BG said that the engineer visually checked the pipework but didnt 
touch it, as there was no running water inside the property. It said that it wasnt responsible 
for the leak and the resulting damage. Mr C and Mrs N werent happy with the outcome and 
referred the complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
concluded that there wasnt enough evidence to show that the engineer loosened the 
pipework and caused the leak. So she didnt think that there was enough evidence to show 
that BG were responsible for the leak. 
Mr C and Mrs N didnt agree with our investigator as they maintained that it was BGs 
negligence that caused the leak and the resulting damage. So they asked for a decision from 
an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I understand this wont be the outcome 
that Mr C and Mrs N wouldve liked but Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
I have reviewed the policy documents, job records and the comments from both parties.  Mr 
C and Mrs N had a plumbing, heating and drainage policy. The main issue of this complaint 
was whether BG were negligent and so responsible for the damage caused. 
It isnt in dispute that the engineer attended as there was no running water coming into the 
property. What is disputed is whether the engineer touched the pipework where the leak 
came from and consequently caused damage. 
I have reviewed the engineer notes, which as far as Im aware is the only expert evidence 
available. Mr C and Mrs N recall that the engineer had been at the property around 45 
minutes checking all the pipes. But the notes that the engineer made about the visit 
indicated that he had been there for around 20 minutes and found: No water to apartment. 
Checked just at stop cock and no water. Advised customer to call water board to check. So I 
am persuaded by BGs position that the engineer carried out a visual assessment of the 
pipework. And, in the absence of any expert evidence to the contrary, I dont think it would 
be fair or reasonable for me to conclude that the BG engineer loosened the pipes, which 
then caused the leak. 
Mr C and Mrs N maintain that the following policy term doesnt apply as they believe that BG 
caused the leak: Were not responsible for any loss of or damage to, or cleaning of
property, furniture or fixtures as a result of your boiler, appliance or system
breaking or failing unless we caused it. For example damage caused by water
leaks.  I asked Mr C and Mrs N if they would be able to provide an independent engineer 
report on what caused the leak. They said that they didnt have a report, nor could they 
obtain one now. 
Consequently, I must consider the evidence as it stands. BG has relied upon its engineers 
report on what he found when he attended. It has said that there was no reason for the 
engineer to have touched the pipework as there was no water going into the property. So in 
the absence of any further expert evidence, I am persuaded by BGs comments that it didnt 
cause the leak. And I am satisfied that BG can reasonably rely on this exclusion clause.  
In addition, the policy says where there is any damage caused as a result of problems with 
the supply (which was the case here) BG wont be liable for it. It says: We wont repair any 
damage that is caused by, changes in or problems with, the supply of your gas, water or 
electricity. So I cant say that BG were unreasonable to rely on this clause either. 
Given the circumstances, I dont think that BG were unreasonable in concluding that it wasnt 
liable for the leak nor for the resulting damage that was caused. So, I cant reasonably ask 
BG to do anything more to resolve this claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman