DRN-2311790
The complaint
Miss H has complained about the way UK Insurance Limited (UKI) and its agents handled a 
claim she made under her motor insurance policy held with it.
What happened
Miss H was involved in an accident in November 2018 and her vehicle required repairs. Miss 
H claimed through her motor insurance policy and UKI arranged for her vehicle to be 
inspected and repaired by one of its approved garages.  
The vehicle was returned to Miss H in December 2018 when more issues were noted and 
further work was needed by the garage. So, again Miss Hs car was returned for the work to 
be carried out.
In January 2019 Miss Hs vehicle was returned to her again, and again further issues were 
found, and the vehicle needed to be returned a third time which took place in March 2019.
After several discussions Miss Hs vehicle had to be returned for a fourth time as there were 
still issues that needed correcting.
Miss Hs vehicle was returned to her on 30 May 2019. Miss H refused the car as its bumper 
had not been attached correctly. UKI agreed to provide an upgraded courtesy car while Miss 
Hs vehicle was taken back for further repair. It did this as Miss H used her vehicle on a 
regular basis and travelled vast distances, and the smaller car provided wasnt suitable. 
On 12 June 2019 Miss H received confirmation that her car had been repaired and that an 
engineer had been arranged to inspect the vehicle.
Miss H also contacted an external body for advice and explained to UKI that she didnt have 
confidence in the engineers inspection, so wanted a replacement car.
On 14 June 2019 Miss H received information from the engineer that had inspected her 
vehicle explaining the repairs were not satisfactory. UKI then agreed that a further attempt at 
repairing the vehicle was required.
Further repairs were arranged followed by a further inspection of Miss Hs vehicle where the 
repairs had been considered satisfactory. This was now the sixth attempt to repair the 
vehicle.
On 28 June 2019 UKI returned Miss Hs vehicle again to her at work, and she could see 
immediately that there were still issues with it, but she wasnt given the option to refuse 
delivery. The courtesy car was recovered, and her vehicle was left with her at her work 
address.
Miss H then attempted to provide information about the issues with her vehicle to UKI over 
the following days but despite being told several times she would receive an update, this did 
not happen.
Since then UKI has agreed to pay for repairs arranged by Miss Hs own garage and paid a 
total of £800 compensation. It has also refunded Miss H the additional travel expenses she 
has incurred.
Miss H feels that her complaint has not been resolved by UKI she uses her vehicle often and 
travels a fair distance on a regular basis, and from the time of the accident until June 2019 
she was unnecessarily forced to use a smaller uncomfortable car.
As her vehicle was delivered back to her several times at her work address, and she had to 
both be interrupted at work, and take time out of work for calls, Miss H was caused 
unnecessary embarrassment, and this caused her to get in some trouble. 
Miss H also spent a long time chasing UKI and arranging different dates for returns of 
vehicles for repair, inspection and hire. And her vehicle has lost value over the time she has 
been without it. 
Our Investigator considered Miss Hs complaint and thought UKI had done enough to 
resolve Miss Hs complaint. Miss H disagreed so this complaint has now been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked through all the evidence provided by both UKI and Miss H in relation to her 
complaint. It is clear from the information that Miss Hs vehicle should have been returned to 
her with repairs being completed after one attempt and she should have received better 
overall customer service from the outset. 
As a result of the repairs not being carried out correctly when they should have been Miss H 
has repeatedly had to chase UKI and arrange for repairs to be carried out. I can understand 
how this would be very inconvenient for Miss H and cause her trouble at work.
UKI doesnt dispute the events described by Miss H about what happened when she made a 
claim on her policy. So, I have considered whether the compensation offered by UKI is 
reasonable in the circumstances.
While I appreciate the inconvenience caused by the actions of UKI this service is not 
designed to punish businesses and I think that £800 total compensation is reasonable.
I have also thought about what Miss H has said about her vehicle losing value over the time 
she was unable to use it. Its clear that Miss H would have continued to incur costs for her 
vehicle and it would have depreciated in value over time. But as Miss H was refunded for her 
additional travel expenses and provided with a courtesy car when her vehicle was at the 
garage, I dont think UKI should have to pay any compensation in relation to this.
Miss H has also complained about the mileage recorded on her car when it was returned to 
her being much higher than when the garage took it for repair. I have thought about this 
considering the available evidence. The mileage recorded on Miss Hs car wasnt recorded 
every time it was taken into a garage or passed back to her. I dont think there is enough 
evidence to show exactly when the additional mileage was added to Miss Hs so I dont think 
it would be reasonable to ask UKI to compensate her for this.
Having considered everything Miss H has told us I think UKI has offered a reasonable 
amount of compensation and I dont require it to do anything further.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman