DRN-3209154
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited mis-sold her a life and critical illness 
policy. She said that she applied for a joint life and critical illness insurance policy with her 
late husband  Mr T - and when she tried to make a claim she was told only a critical illness 
policy existed. She would like Aviva to accept responsibility and accept the life insurance 
claim so she can pay off an outstanding mortgage as the policy was intended to do. 
Mrs T is being represented by an IFA, but for ease, Ill mainly refer to Mrs T throughout the 
decision. 
What happened
In July 2018 Mr and Mrs T applied for a joint life and critical illness policy with Aviva. Sadly, 
in March 2021 Mr T died. So, Mrs T tried to make a claim under the policy. Aviva considered 
the claim but said a life policy was never started because a medical consent form wasnt 
returned. And Mr Ts claim didnt meet the terms and conditions of the critical illness policy 
because he didnt survive ten days beyond his diagnosis. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said the life policy was 
never put in place and Mr T didnt meet the terms and conditions to successfully claim under 
the critical illness policy. The investigator didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong in 
relation to the sale of the policy. He said the policy was non-advised and Aviva accepted the 
critical illness policy. But, before it could consider the life insurance policy, it wanted to see 
more medical information in relation to Mr T. So, a request to complete a consent form was 
placed on the online portal and an e-mail was sent to Mr T requesting further medical 
evidence. The investigator added that the policy documents that were put on Avivas online 
customer portal explained that a policy worth £30,000 for critical illness had been accepted 
but no life insurance was mentioned. 
Mrs T disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said she wasnt told that the 
life or critical illness policy were put in place and that she wouldnt have agreed to have less 
cover than the £140,000 she wanted. She said the medical consent form wasnt placed on 
the online portal until 17 August 2018 and Mr T last logged in on 03 August 2018. So, it was 
clear this wasnt seen and if it was, action wouldve been taken. She added that Aviva 
shouldve checked to see why no response had been received to its consent form. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Im not upholding it. I know this will be very disappointing news for 
Mrs T, which is made worse given her circumstances. I want to assure her that I didnt take 
this decision lightly. I understand this is an incredibly difficult time for her and her family. 
While I dont want to add to her distress, I cant say Aviva has treated her unfairly. Ill explain 
why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than 
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Firstly, although Mrs T doesnt dispute the decision by Aviva to decline the critical illness 
insurance claim, Id like to confirm that Aviva did fairly consider that claim and said that due 
to Mr T sadly not surviving ten days from his diagnosis, then it couldnt accept it. 
So, I now need to make a decision on whether Mr and Mrs T were made reasonably aware  
on balance  that a life insurance policy hadnt been put into place. Ive considered this 
carefully and Im satisfied they were reasonably made aware. 
Aviva has provided evidence that Mr T was happy to receive correspondence online through 
its portal. Its also provided evidence that its online portal was accessed on 03 August 2018 
 which Mrs T has confirmed. I note Mrs T has said the medical consent form wasnt 
available at that time and they didnt log on after this date - so Aviva shouldve done more to 
chase this outstanding information. 
Ive reviewed the evidence here and I can see that policy documents which mentioned what 
cover had been accepted were available on 03 August 2018. These showed that a critical 
illness policy had been accepted. But there wasnt any mention that the life assurance policy 
had been accepted. Im satisfied that this was reasonably clear from the information that was 
available. And Ive seen a copy of an e-mail that was sent to Mr T making him aware of the 
medical consent form which said Aviva needed more information from his doctor for the 
application for life cover to continue. So, I dont think Aviva did anything wrong by adding the 
consent form to the online portal and by sending an e-mail to Mr T. And Id expect Mr and 
Mrs T to contact Aviva if they werent happy with any of the documents available at the time. 
I dont think it would be reasonable for Aviva to check the log in dates of every customer that 
has taken out a policy to make sure documents added to its portal have been read. For the 
same reasons, I wouldnt expect Aviva to write out to a consumer to check whether any 
documents it had sent in the post had been opened. I think its reasonable for Aviva in this 
instance to put the available documents on the portal, send an e-mail about the form and 
expect that to be checked. Aviva received permission to communicate with Mr T 
electronically which is what it did. And Mr T did log in to the portal on 03 August 2018. I cant 
be sure why he didnt log back into the portal, but I dont think I can reasonably conclude that 
he didnt log back in because of any of Avivas actions here. 
Mrs T has said that she wouldnt accept a critical illness policy on its own as this wasnt what 
she wanted due to it not providing sufficient cover. And that Aviva shouldve been aware of 
this. Aviva has said this was a non-advised sale in 2018, by which it means that it didnt 
recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs T personally or advise them to take it out. I dont know 
what was said during the sale, but Ive not seen anything such as a record of a discussion 
about their needs and circumstances or a suitability check to show me clearly that it did 
make a personal recommendation or that it should have considered another product 
because the medical consent form wasnt returned. Ultimately it was Mr and Mrs Ts 
responsibility to make sure they had the necessary cover in place. And I dont think it would 
be unreasonable for the insurer to potentially think that Mr and Mrs T no longer wanted the life insurance policy when it didnt receive the forms it needed for that part of the application 
to proceed. 
As a result, Im not going to uphold this complaint. Im aware of the severity of Mrs Ts 
financial situation and that this may lead to the loss of her home. But Im afraid I can only ask 
Aviva to accept a life policy and make a payment to Mrs T if Im satisfied its done something 
wrong and treated her unfairly as a result. But from the evidence Ive considered, Im unable 
to reach that conclusion here. So, Im not going to ask Aviva to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman