DRN-4452391
The complaint
Ms M has complained National Westminster Bank plc wont refund her for a withdrawal she 
didnt make.
What happened
In February Ms M went into her NatWest branch to withdraw £1,000 from her current 
account. She got the cash she needed and left the branch. The following day she noticed a 
withdrawal of £400 from her savings account took place at the same time. As this wasnt her, 
she complained to NatWest.
NatWest didnt believe theyd done anything wrong and Ms M had withdrawn the money 
herself. She brought her complaint to the ombudsman service.
After a detailed investigation, our investigator wasnt convinced NatWest had shown Ms M 
had withdrawn £400. NatWest, whilst disappointed with this outcome, agreed to refund £400 
to Ms M, along with 8% simple interest and £100 compensation for the trouble caused.
Ms M felt the compensation was inadequate and has asked an ombudsman to review her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
The evidence shows Ms M confirmed her ID at branch counter by using the debit card for 
her current account and entering her PIN. This ID check was completed at 11:10:58. Within 
the following minute, NatWests records show Ms M withdrew £1,000 from her current 
account. This amount isnt in dispute as Ms M received this amount and used it for the 
reason she needed it.
A further six minutes later records show a withdrawal of £400 was made from Ms Ms 
savings account. The cash handed over was 20 x £20 notes. NatWest has been able to 
confirm that there was no till discrepancy at the end of the day. I appreciate what Ms M has 
said about not making this transaction. And I note the odd discrepancy that this happened a 
full six minutes after the initial transaction. 
Ms M is convinced CCTV evidence would have assisted in her case that she was defrauded. 
I agree with Ms M that NatWest were aware of her demands that CCTV would have resolved 
this complaint, so it is unfortunate that this was deleted according to the normal schedule 
after 60 days. However I dont think  as Ms M suggests  this was a conspiracy, just 
unfortunate.
Im not completely convinced that Ms M didnt make the withdrawal but appreciate NatWests 
offer of £400 as a gesture of goodwill. I believe this provides a fair and reasonable 
resolution.
Ms M has argued compensation of many thousands should be payable to her. But I dont 
agree. Our service awards small payments in general based on the impact on an individual. I 
note Ms M has told us about her distress and lack of sleep, but I dont believe this would 
merit any more than NatWest has kindly offered.
Putting things right
Im satisfied that NatWests offer to pay Ms M £400, along with 8% simple interest and £100 
compensation is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to instruct National Westminster Bank plc to:
Pay Ms M £400;
Add 8% simple interest from 23 February 2023 to the date of settlement; and
Pay Ms M an additional £100 for inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman