DRN-2771062
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds actions. The 
complaint concerns Admirals response to a previous final decision issued by an 
ombudsman colleague about a motor insurance policy.
Mr C is a named driver on Mrs Cs policy. But as Mr C has taken the lead in bringing this 
complaint, for ease, where I refer to Mr Cs comments those should be read as being on 
behalf of both himself and Mrs C.
What happened
In March 2020 one of my colleagues issued a final decision concerning Mr Cs previous 
complaint about Admirals service. My colleague upheld the complaint and instructed 
Admiral to take certain actions including buying Mr and Mrs Cs car from them and paying 
their outstanding expenses. Mr C wasn't happy with Admirals actions on those and some 
other points. So, in April 2020, he complained to us again.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint. He thought that, concerning the points 
he investigated, Admiral had responded reasonably. So, initially, he didn't think it needed to 
take any further action. However, we recently wrote to Admiral and said that it didn't appear 
to have paid Mr C a sum of £71, relating to a hire car, which was outstanding from 
May 2019. We said Admiral should pay that sum to Mr C now and add simple interest to it.
Mr C didn't agree with our investigator's assessment of the complaint so it's been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it on one distinct point.
As Ive said above, another ombudsman issued a final decision relating to Mr and Mrs Cs 
previous complaint in March 2020, which brought our involvement in that matter to a close. 
So I don't intend to comment on the points my colleague addressed in that decision.
Similarly, since we began investigating this complaint, Mr C has brought further complaints 
about Admirals service to us. Weve looked at some of those points separately under a 
different reference number. So I don't intend to comment on anything weve considered 
elsewhere within this decision. Instead I will focus on the key points that Mr C put to Admiral 
in April 2020 and which I see as being outstanding after our investigator issued his 
assessments in July and August 2020.
Expenses for temporary cover and hire car costs
Mr C was concerned that Admiral hadn't paid all the expenses my ombudsman colleague 
had instructed it to pay. In particular Mr C said Admiral hadn't reimbursed him for temporary 
insurance cover of around £44 and a hire car payment of £71.
Admiral has shown us evidence that it initially sent a cheque to Mrs C for £44.38 on 
17 January 2019. But Mrs C didn't receive the cheque; so Admiral cancelled it and issued a 
replacement to Mrs C on 30 January 2019. Admirals system shows the cheque was 
presented (paid) on 5 April 2019. And I'm persuaded by that evidence that Admiral 
reimbursed Mr and Mrs C for the temporary insurance cover.
The other sum at issue was a £71 charge associated with a hire car. Ive seen that Mr C 
asked Admiral to reimburse him for three payments of a similar amount he incurred on: 
3 May 2019, 23 July 2019 (for £70.96) and 28 August 2019. Admiral included £71 for the 
August 2019 charge when it paid Mr C for his outstanding expenses in May 2020. And it paid 
Mr C the £70.96 owing from July 2019 when it reimbursed him for expenses on 
25 July 2019. So I'm satisfied that Admiral has already reimbursed Mr C for those two 
amounts.
However, weve since identified that Admiral hadn't previously reimbursed Mr C for the £71 
charge outstanding from May 2019. That was amongst the expenses that my colleague 
directed Admiral to pay in March 2020. So, as that amount is still outstanding Admiral should 
pay it to Mr C now. It should add simple interest to that sum at a rate of 8% a year, from the 
date Mr and Mrs C paid it to the date it refunds them.
Admiral was rude
Mr C also complained that a member of Admiral's staff made an abusive comment about him 
while he was on the phone. Admiral has provided the call recording which proves Mr C's 
complaint is entirely justified. Its clear that Admirals representative thought theyd put Mr C 
on hold, and believed he wouldn't have heard the comment. But they hadn't put Mr C on hold 
and he did hear the offensive remark. He was understandably upset as a result. But I was 
pleased to see that Admiral acknowledged this without delay, apologised and paid Mr C 
£240 compensation to address the matter. I think that was a reasonable response in the 
circumstances. So I'm not going to instruct it to take any further action on that point.
The neighbours garage
Mr C complained that Admiral hasn't settled his neighbours claim for damage to her garage 
which happened in the incident which caused Mr and Mrs C to claim from Admiral initially. 
But Admirals shown us evidence that it gave his neighbour the appropriate options, about 
how she could go ahead with making a claim to have her garage repaired. And its told us 
that it hasn't heard from the neighbour, either directly or through her home insurer, since 
then. In other words Mr Cs neighbour hasn't made a claim for Admiral to settle. Mr C 
disputes this but I haven't seen any evidence, beyond his comments, that his neighbour has 
responded to the options Admiral gave her about pursuing the matter. And in those 
circumstances, when the neighbour hasn't contacted it again, I don't think Admiral has done 
anything wrong in this regard.Interest
Mr C had a number of concerns over how, in line with my colleagues previous decision, 
Admiral had calculated simple interest on the expenses it reimbursed him for. But while our 
investigator was looking into this, Admiral acknowledged that, owing to delays in authorising 
payments, it hadn't always calculated interest up to the correct date. To address that Admiral 
recalculated the interest payable and paid Mr C further payments totalling £99.74. While it's 
certainly not ideal that Admiral didn't calculate the interest correctly in the first place, I think 
its now done enough to put things right.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I partly uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited to reimburse Mr and Mrs C in the sum of £71. It should add simple interest 
to that sum at a rate of 8% a year, from the date Mr and Mrs C paid it to the date it refunds 
them1.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman
1 If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give them a certificate 
showing this if they ask for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.