DRN-2378752
The complaint
Mr M complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), trading as Audi
Finance, provided the wrong car for him to finance through an agreement with them.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint earlier this month. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont agree with the investigators suggested resolution of this complaint. I think VWFS
need to take some further action. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says that the car should not have been misrepresented to him. If it was,
and if I was persuaded that Mr M would not have proceeded with the deal if the
misrepresentation hadnt happened, then Id ask VWFS to take some further action.
There has clearly been a misrepresentation here as both sides agree that the car Mr M
ordered was not the one he received. The car he received did not have the styling pack Mr 
M had asked for.
When the wrong car was presented to Mr M he accepted it because he says the sales agent
told him he had deselected the style pack when he applied. If Mr M had known that was not
the case I understand that the correct car could have been found for him without delay. So, I
think it is likely that he wouldnt have accepted the car he was being offered and would have
held out for the correct one.
So, Im persuaded there has been a misrepresentation and that Mr M would not have
proceeded with the deal had that misrepresentation not happened.
Unfortunately, Mr M accepted the sales agents explanation and took possession of the
lower specification car he was offered.
So, Ive thought about what a fair resolution is here, and Ive endeavoured, as much as is
practical and reasonable, to put Mr M back in the position he would have been in if the
misrepresentation hadnt happened.
I understand that Mr M thinks VWFS should allow him to reject the car and that he wants all
of his instalments back. I dont think that would be a fair resolution here. It was over three
years before Mr M raised the issue with VWFS and hes clearly had substantial use of the
car. VWFS are entitled to payment for the use hes had.
VWFS have calculated how much extra Mr M has paid for the car he was given and have
reimbursed the difference. I think that was fair and I can see that theyve also added some
interest because Mr M has been deprived of that money. I understand that payment has
already been made.
But I dont think VWFS, or our investigator, has considered the loss of enjoyment Mr M has
experienced. He wanted a car with a different styling specification but has been driving an
inferior one. VWFS should therefore compensate Mr M for the lack of enjoyment hes
experienced over the roughly four years hes had the wrong car.
I understand the styling pack would have provided a spoiler, red tinting and red brake
callipers and also have included diamond cut alloys which I believe Mr M was provided with.
On balance, I think it would be fair for VWFS to refund 5% of the finance instalments Mr M
has paid in recognition of his loss of enjoyment.
Mr M has also been inconvenienced by these matters. I dont think thats been considered
either. Hes had to raise a complaint and to escalate his complaint to this service when I
think VWFS could have resolved it earlier. In those circumstances I think VWFS should pay
him £150 compensation.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint in part and to tell
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited to:
refund 5% of all instalments Mr M has, and will, pay towards his finance agreement
to compensate him for the loss of enjoyment hes experienced;
pay Mr M £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced.
VWFS had nothing further to add but Mr M did. 
He said this was a complaint about the mis-sale of a car and not the mis-sale of an optional 
extra. He said the correct car was in possession of the dealership at the time, but he was 
given the wrong one.
He said that he had been the subject of fraud as the dealership sold the car to VWFS at a 
higher value than it was worth and they have then proceeded to sell the car.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am aware that Mr M didnt receive the car he ordered. I mentioned that in my provisional 
decision when I said, There has clearly been a misrepresentation here as both sides agree 
that the car Mr M ordered was not the one he received.
But, as I explained, I think VWFS have taken appropriate action to reimburse the difference 
in the price.
They havent considered the loss of enjoyment Mr M experienced or the distress and 
inconvenience caused, and Im still persuaded thats something we need to put right here 
and that my calculation of how much should be paid is reasonable.
Mr M has suggested hes been the victim of fraud. Whilst I think his car finance was 
misrepresented to him its not for me to decide whether there has been fraudulent activity  
thats a matter for the authorities.
Putting things right
Ive therefore not been persuaded to change my provisional decision and that now becomes 
my final decision on this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint in part and to tell
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited to:
refund 5% of all instalments Mr M has, and will, pay towards his finance agreement
to compensate him for the loss of enjoyment hes experienced;
pay Mr M £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman