DRN-1338279
The complaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK Plc won't refund an early redemption charge after he 
repaid his mortgage.
What happened
Mr R had an existing mortgage with Santander. He asked to increase his borrowing to pay 
off a credit card debt but Santander explained it wouldn't increase his mortgage for this 
purpose. 
After this, he spoke to it about taking out a different interest rate to lower his monthly 
repayments. Santander asked whether Mr R wanted to receive advice about the change or 
whether he was happy to make his own decision about the new rate. Mr R confirmed he was 
happy to make his own decision. 
Mr R decided to take a fixed interest rate and was emailed details of the rates available. He 
confirmed the rate he wanted and acknowledged the associated costs - including the early 
redemption charge (ERC). Shortly after, the rate was changed.
Some time later, Mr S spoke to another lender and it let him know it would consider debt 
consolidation as part of a new mortgage application. Mr R decided to go ahead with the 
application and eventually repaid his Santander mortgage. He was charged an early 
redemption fee of approximately £2,000.
He didn't think this was fair and said he thought Santander should have told him other 
lenders may have been willing to include debt consolidation as part of a new mortgage. And 
because Santander hadn't let him know this, he thought it ought to refund the early 
redemption charge. So he complained to Santander.
Santander said it wasn't under an obligation to let him know what other lenders might offer 
and it had clearly identified the fee which would be charged if he repaid the mortgage early. 
So it declined the refund. Mr R remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the evidence but didn't uphold the complaint. He didn't think 
Santander was under an obligation to let Mr R know what other lenders might be able to do. 
Mr R asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I've reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for the same 
reasons. I'll explain why.
First I've considered whether Santander made it clear what information it would provide to 
Mr R and then whether it was under an obligation to do more.I've listened to the calls Mr R had with Santander. Having done so, I'm satisfied Santander 
made it clear it was only offering information about its own products and not about other 
lenders. Santander offered Mr R the opportunity to receive advice about the suitability of the 
different interest rates being offered, but he declined this, deciding to make his own decision 
about which one he'd take.
I'm satisfied that for a transaction of this type, Santander was under no obligation to provide 
information about what other lenders might - or might not - be willing to lend for. And I think it 
was clear from what it said that it wasn't doing this.
I've then gone on to consider if the ERC was made clear to Mr R.
During the conversation, Santander's representative emailed him details of the offers and 
asked him to confirm which one he wanted. Mr R confirmed his chosen offer and 
acknowledged the 5% ERC that went with it. The representative then repeated this back, 
again confirming the ERC.
The paperwork was sent to Mr R and this also confirmed the ERC. Mr R accepted this offer 
and the conditions that went with it and the rate change was processed soon after. So I think 
the ERC was made clear to Mr R several times.
Overall, I'm satisfied Santander explained clearly it was only offering information about its 
own products and provided Mr R with details of the ERC. He accepted the terms, including 
the ERC, when he accepted the offer. Because of this, I don't think it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to ask Santander to refund the charge.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman