DRN-2580653
The complaint
Mr W complains that Cheshire Trafford UK Limited (Cheshire Trafford) gave him unsuitable 
advice that has resulted in him incurring a tax liability. 
Mr W is looking for the cost of his advice to be refunded and compensation for future income 
tax liability while he holds his investment.
What happened
Mr W was a long-term client of Cheshire Trafford and sought advice from them in November 
2018. Mr W had an offshore bond which was set up in 2005 and was costly to run. Mr W 
said his tax status was likely to change in three or four-years time when he accessed his 
pension.
The adviser at Cheshire Trafford recommended that the offshore bond was surrendered and 
a sum of £103,000 was invested into an onshore bond. The bond was invested based on Mr 
Ws attitude to risk.
Mr W complained to Cheshire Trafford in July 2019 and said that the advice provided to him 
was not appropriate for his needs. He said that he was disadvantaged by paying £3,000 for 
the advice and did not meet the standards expected of a certified IFA by way of poor tax 
planning and investment returns.
Cheshire Trafford investigated his complaint but did not think that they had done anything 
wrong. They said the Suitability Letter that was sent to Mr W disclosed that if the offshore 
policy was surrendered then a chargeable gain would fall upon the Settlor and be taxed at 
Mr Ws marginal rate.
Cheshire Trafford also said that Mr W had not disclosed that he had income from a rental 
property and had that been disclosed, the outcome may have been different. Cheshire 
Trafford did not uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with Cheshire Traffords decision, Mr W referred his complaint to the service and 
one of our investigators reviewed his complaint. The investigator did not think that Cheshire 
Trafford had done anything wrong and did not uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr W has asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and 
will not be upholding the complaint. I know that Mr W feels strongly about his complaint and 
will explain why I have reached this decision.
When a business provides advice to a consumer it needs to consider the personal and 
financial circumstances at the time based on information provided. The business will 
undertake a fact find exercise with the consumer and then write out confirming what was 
discussed and any recommendations that arise.
I have reviewed the fact find dated 23 November 2018 and this appears to be an annual 
review. It records some pieces of information relating to Mr Ws personal and financial 
details at the time. There is limited information on this fact find and I think that it was used as 
a discussion document when Mr W met with the adviser at Cheshire Trafford.
The Suitability Letter that was sent following the meeting is a comprehensive document and 
is dated 6 December 2018. It is signed by Mr W and the adviser, so I assume that the letter 
was discussed. 
In his submission to the service, Mr W says that the advice that he received resulted in him 
incurring a tax liability of £691 for the 2018/19 tax year. Mr W says that he would not have 
incurred this tax bill had he remained in his offshore investment. It is noted that Mr Ws tax 
status may be subject to change and he would have started to pay income in the three or 4 
years following 2018.
The Suitability Letter that was sent to Mr W records his financial circumstances and his 
attitude to risk. The policy that was recommended was based on Mr Ws attitude to risk and 
this is not subject to the complaint. I note the following statements from the Suitability Letter:
You are looking to Invest £103,000.00 for growth. You want to 'make the most' of your 
monies from the funds and bringing back onshore and your pension lump sum and do 
not want to leave it 'doing nothing'. 
You presently have an Old Mutual International Collective Redemption Bond held 
offshore, you would like to review your options on this Investment
As the investment is based offshore, the underlying funds will grow free of Income and 
capital gains tax. This provides the potential for enhanced capital growth through gross 
roll-up over the medium to long term. The only exception to this is the small element of 
withholding tax on dividends.
If the policy is surrendered, then any Income tax liability for a chargeable gain will fall 
upon the settler and will be taxed at your marginal rate. You are currently a nil rate tax 
payer, however due to your future pension income will likely become a tax payer 
(dependent upon private pension income).
You are concerned that at some point in the future, this investment may come 
'onshore' and as such you would have a chargeable gain and have to pay the 
resulting tax, you would like to reduce this potential liability by bringing forward any 
tax liability now whilst you are a non-tax payer.
Mr W says that the recommendation made by Cheshire Trafford resulted in him incurring a 
tax liability. Having read the documentation available to me I think that the possibility of Mr W 
incurring a tax liability was disclosed.
I think that it is also important to note that the adviser recorded that Mr W wanted to bring 
forward the tax liability while he was still a non-tax payer. This would indicate that it was understood that a potential liability existed and was being managed and mitigated by trying 
to bring it forward.
In their submission to the service, Cheshire Trafford have said that Mr W did not disclose 
information on a rental house in Spain and this has resulted in them not being aware of the 
full set of Mr Ws personal circumstances and this income may have been relevant to the 
discussion.
I have looked at what was recorded in the fact find in November and can see that Mr Ws 
rental asset in Spain was listed but I cant see that any rental income has been shown. 
There is also no reference to this income in the section called Your Current Situation which 
addressed monthly income at the time.
Cheshire Trafford say the adviser was not provided with the facts and had it been disclosed, 
the outcome may have been different.
Mr W has said that he was a long-term client of Cheshire Trafford and it was known that he 
had income from this rental from discussions with previous advisors. Whilst I sympathise that 
Mr W may have previously disclosed this information, it does not appear that the adviser 
who completed the 2018 fact find was aware of this.
It is not clear what impact Mr Ws income from his Spanish rental has had on him incurring a 
tax liability. I have reviewed a letter from Mr Ws accountant dated September 2019 and this 
seems to indicate that his tax liability arose from the surrender of his offshore policy.
The following statements are noted in the Suitability Letter:
My advice to you is based on information you have disclosed and therefore if this letter 
does not coincide with your view of the situation, or if you require any further clarification 
please contact me immediately. It is important to emphasise any information in relation to 
your circumstances that has not been disclosed could have affected my advice to you.
As you did not wish to disclose all details relating to your circumstances, my 
recommendation has been limited to your objective of Investment advice and you 
should be aware that my advice may have differed If all areas had been Investigated 
thoroughly.
Cheshire Trafford say that had Mr W disclosed all information then their advice may have 
had a different outcome. I think that these statements provided Mr W with a clear indication 
on the information which the recommendations were made.
Cheshire Trafford say in their Suitability Letter that they do not offer tax advice. From the 
documentation that I have reviewed, I think that a potential tax liability was discussed and 
noted, and Mr W wished to bring this forward while he was still not paying income tax. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 Brian Gray
Ombudsman