DRN-1382138
The complaint
Mx M complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc didn't notify them before the fixed rate on their 
savings account ended. 
What happened
Mx M had a fixed rate savings account with Sainsbury's Bank that had a maturity date of 
May 2018. 
In August 2017 Sainsbury's Bank received post it had sent Mx M back as undelivered. As a 
result, Sainsbury's Bank stopped sending post to Mx M. 
On 17 February 2018 Mx M called Sainsbury's Bank to let it know they would be moving 
towards the end of March 2018 and wanted to update their address. Sainsbury's Bank's call 
handler told Mx M they couldn't update the address until they had moved. At the end of the 
call Mx M said they would call back and may write to Sainsbury's Bank. 
In May 2018 the fixed rate on Mx M's savings account ended. But because no post was 
being sent, Sainsbury's Bank didn't write to Mx M in advance. 
On 24 December 2018 Mx M accessed their account onlinr and amended their address. But 
the instruction not to send post was not removed from Sainsbury's Bank's systems. 
In June 2019 Mx M complained to Sainsbury's Bank and asked it to compensate them for 13 
months of missed interest. Sainsbury's Bank agreed that after Mx M updated their address 
online it should have removed the instruction not to contact her by post. Sainsbury's 
Bank sent them a cheque for £60 to apologise. But Sainsbury's Bank also said Mx M had 
been able to access information about the interest rate payable when they had accessed 
their online account facility. Sainsbury's Bank also said Mx M had failed to update their 
address as requested when they called in February 2018. 
Mx M referred their complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Sainsbury's Bank had dealt with Mx M's complaint fairly so didn't ask it to do 
anything else. Mx M asked to appeal so their complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mx M says Sainsbury's Bank failed to act in line with the savings account terms as it didn't 
tell them before the fixed rate ended. I agree the terms say Sainsbury's Bank will contact the 
account holder in advance of the end of the fixed rate. But, Sainsbury's Bank had received 
undelivered post back which meant it stopped sending correspondence in the mail to Mx M 
in August 2017. So whilst I agree that Mx M wasn't sent a letter by Sainsbury's Bank before the fixed rate of 
their savings account ended in May 2018, I'm satisfied it had a legitimate reason why it 
stopped writing to them. 
I also think it's reasonable to note that Mx M didn't update their address  
with Sainsbury's Bank until 24 December 2018. So even if Sainsbury's Bank had written to 
them with notice the interest rate was going to change, it's unlikely Mx M would have 
received the letter. Mx M told Sainsbury's Bank they were going to move at the end of March 
2018. So Mx M would most likely have changed address at the point Sainsbury's Bank 
would have posted notification of the end of the fixed rate. 
Sainsbury's Bank's final response says Mx M changed their address online on 24 December 
2018. It's sent us a log of the information Mx M looked at when they accessed their account 
online. I note Mx M reviewed the interest rate their savings were receiving on 24 December 
2018. 
Sainsbury's Bank sent Mx M a cheque for £60 to apologise for failing to amend its systems 
once the address was updated on 24 December 2018. Sainsbury's Bank has confirmed the 
cheque was cashed. I agree Sainsbury's Bank system ought to have removed the postal 
restriction after the address was updated. But, as I've said above, Mx M had access to their 
account online and looked at their interest rate, so there was another way for them to get 
important information about their savings. 
I'm satisfied that Sainsbury's Bank has dealt with Mx M's complaint fairly, so I'm not telling it 
to take any further action or increase the settlement its paid. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mx M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman