DRN-4387278
The complaint
A business Ill refer to as A1 complains The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited (NFU) unfairly declined a claim against its Farm Select insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to all parties so I wont repeat it here in detail. In 
this decision, Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
A1 is a business that grows and sells trees, amongst other things. It had a large order for 
Oak trees in 2022 but was prevented from fulfilling this order because of the discovery of 
Oak Processionary Moth (OPM) within a two-kilometre range of its premises. A government 
authority wrote to A1 to stop its sale of Oak trees. A1 had business interruption insurance, so 
it raised a claim with NFU. 
NFU considered the claim but declined it. They say for a business interruption claim to be 
met under the Action of Competent Authority cover extension, vermin or pests must be 
discovered on the business premises. And that wasnt the case here. A1 didnt think this 
was fair given OPM was discovered within very close proximity of its premises and 
prevented it fulfilling a large sale order for Oak trees. So, it asked our Service for an impartial 
review. 
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld as he thought NFU considered 
and declined the claim fairly under the policy. A1 asked for an ombudsman to decide, so the 
case was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point is the policy which, under the business interruption section, says: 
Cover extensions 
Action of Competent Authority 
WE will pay for loss of GROSS PROFIT arising from the closure or restriction in use of the 
PREMISES by a competent local authority due to the defects in the drains or other sanitary 
arrangements or discovery of vermin or pests at the PREMISES. 
Under the general definitions, the buildings is referred to as the premises in which the 
policyholder owns or for which they are responsible for. The policy also defines the premises 
as: 
The premises shown on YOUR schedule comprising the BUILDINGS or BUILDINGS of 
which YOU are the sole occupier (unless otherwise shown on YOUR schedule) in 
connection with YOUR BUSINESS and the land within the boundaries belonging to them. 
Its my view the policy makes clear for the cover extension to respond, vermin or pests must 
be discovered on the premises. So, while I acknowledge the close proximity where OPM 
was discovered, Im not satisfied it was unfair or unreasonable for NFU not to accept 
responsibility for the losses A1 suffered as the result of a government authority restricting its 
premises use. 
I acknowledge the government authority wrote to A1 to set out it had reasonable grounds to 
suspect A1s premises was infected by OPM. However, its letter also stated OPM was 
discovered within a two-kilometre range of its premises on an established Oak tree. A1 say 
OPM was discovered approximately ten feet from its premises. And NFU stated that if OPM 
is later discovered at A1s premises, a claim would be considered. I think thats reasonable, 
and I say this because Ive not seen evidence to support OPM was discovered at A1s 
premises  which the policy says is required for a claim to be met. 
It's my view the government authority put in place preventative measures to mitigate the risk 
of OPM spreading. And A1 were more likely than not included in this exclusion zone given 
the greater risk its premises posed due to the discovery of OPM within close proximity of its 
premises. But, as mentioned above, I find the policy terms are clear in whats required for it 
to respond to a claim. Therefore, Im not persuaded NFU considered or declined the claim 
unfairly or unreasonably here. And so, I dont require them to take any action. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to A1. But it ends what we  in 
attempting to informally resolve its dispute with NFU  can do for it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A1 to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman