DRN-1990752
The complaint
Mr H complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading as Alphera Financial 
Services, wont refund to him the difference between the cost of a car that was supplied to 
him under a hire purchase agreement and the cost of a replacement car that was then 
provided to him.
 What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr H under a hire purchase agreement with Alphera Financial 
Services that he signed in June 2019. The cash price of the car was £155,640, there was an 
advance payment of £25,025.83 and the amount of credit was £130,614.17.
Mr H complained to Alphera Financial Services about some issues with the car and it agreed 
to replace the car  it says that the replacement car is a newer model with some things that 
were optional now included as standard but that Mr H has a car of the same specification as 
the car that was originally supplied to him.
Mr H says that there are differences in specification and that the price of the replacement car 
is £143,315  so £12,325 less than the price of the original car  so he complained to this 
service. 
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He considered the 
specifications of the two cars in detail and said that there were significant differences 
between them so he thought that Alphera Financial Services should rearrange Mr Hs 
finance to accurately reflect the actual value of the replacement car. He also recommended 
that it should refund 20% of the monthly repayments made by Mr H in October and 
November 2019 for his impaired usage of the car (with interest) and that it should pay him 
£150 for the trouble and upset that hed been caused.
Alphera Financial Services has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
It says, in summary, that the specification was actually better on the replacement car, its a 
newer model and Mr H has been provided with another new car so has a lower mileage than 
the car that was replaced. It also says that Mr H accepted the replacement car and didnt 
raise the price difference at that time and that he was provided with a courtesy car when his 
original car was being repaired.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There were clearly some issues with the original car, it was returned to the dealer four times 
in October and November 2019 for repairs and Alphera Financial Services then agreed to 
replace the car. It was clearly its intention that the replacement car would be provided to 
Mr H to replace the original car because of the issues that hed had with it and that the terms 
of the hire purchase agreement would continue.
But the replacement car had a value of £143,315 and the hire purchase agreement had 
been agreed for a car that had a price of £155,640. Im not persuaded that its likely that 
Mr H would have agreed to continue to make payments for a car costing £155,640 when the 
car that he was driving cost £143,315. 
These issues should have been addressed before the replacement car was provided to Mr H 
and he should have raised any concerns about the specification of the replacement car or 
the price of it before it was provided to him. But the replacement car was being provided to 
him because of the issues with the original car that caused it not to have been of satisfactory 
quality.
Because the original car wasnt of satisfactory quality its likely that Mr H would have been 
entitled to reject the car. If hed done so, Alphera Financial Services would probably have 
been required to end the hire purchase agreement, refund Mr Hs deposit with interest, 
refund some of the monthly payments that hed made for the car and pay him some 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience that hed been caused. I consider that that 
would have been fair and reasonable in the circumstances. If that had happened then its 
likely that Mr H would have been able to enter into a new hire purchase agreement for the 
replacement car with the terms based on a price of £143,315. And if hed done so the 
amount that he was paying for the car would have been substantially less than the cost of 
the original car. 
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Alphera Financial 
Services to restructure the monthly payments due under Mr Hs hire purchase agreement on 
the basis that the cash price of the car was £143,315 and that the advance payment, the 
interest rate and the number of payments remain the same. I consider that it should also 
credit the payments that Mr H has already made to Mr Hs account and it should then tell him 
the new monthly payment that he should make.
Alphera Financial Services says that Mr H was provided with a courtesy car when the 
original car was being repaired in October and November 2019  but the evidence shows 
that the car was returned to the dealer four times during that period and Mr H says that he 
was without his car for three and a half weeks. That will have impacted the use and 
enjoyment that Mr H will have had from his car. I find that it would be fair and reasonable for 
Alphera Financial Services to refund to Mr H 20% of the monthly payments that he made 
under the agreement in October and November 2019 as compensation for his loss of use 
and enjoyment of the car (with interest).
These events will have caused some distress and inconvenience to Mr H. I agree with the 
investigator that it would be fair and reasonable for Alphera Financial Services to pay him 
£150 to compensate him for that distress and inconvenience.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Alphera Financial Services to take the actions 
described above.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and I order BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited, trading as Alphera Financial Services, to:
1. Restructure Mr Hs monthly payments under the hire purchase agreement on the 
basis described above.
2. Refund to Mr H 20% of the monthly payments that he made under the agreement in 
October and November 2019 as compensation for his loss of use and enjoyment of 
the car.3. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date 
of each payment to the date of settlement.
4. Pay £150 to Mr H to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Alphera Financial Services to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 3 above. Alphera Financial Services must give Mr H a certificate 
showing how much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman