DRN-1735048
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that J.P. Morgan Trustee & Administration Services Limited unfairly insisted 
he provided various certified documents  as part of its anti-money laundering requirements 
 when he sold some shares recently. In the absence of this, it would not release his money.
What happened
Mr W said he had been a client for more than 20 years, had never changed address and 
should have been offered an alternative, cost-free way of meeting any requirements, as 
other providers have done. Instead, J.P. Morgan required him to pay £250 for a notary to 
sign documents.
J.P. Morgan rejected his complaint, saying it typically used an Experian check to avoid the 
need for regular clients to provide new identification proof but this service was only available 
to people based on the UK. It had suggested that Mr W use the Swiss Post Office whose 
costs were lower than a notary. It also offered to pay for a courier to bring the original 
documents to and from the UK but Mr W had rejected this option.
An adjudicator at this service did not feel the complaint should be upheld, saying he was 
satisfied that J.P. Morgan was entitled to insist on certain documents as part of its anti-
money laundering responsibilities and that it had acted fairly and reasonably in offering 
alternatives to the need to pay £250 for a notary.
Mr W did not agree, and said:
The business sent correspondence to his address for 20 years without proof of this 
address i.e. it did not carry out any identity checks during this time. Why should it 
now require proof of this address?
He supplied copies of all the required documents, just not certified
Who would send their passport via courier to a third party?
It was happy to take the transaction fee when it sold his shares and without 
confirming his identity
He called the business on at least half a dozen times and it was useless - with lines 
going dead, calls not returned and other service failings
He suggested presenting identity documents to its Geneva office but this was 
rejected
He wants it to refund the £250 he was forced to pay
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator and for the same reasons.In recent years anti-money laundering legislation has been significantly more stringent  and 
for understandable reasons. Many businesses have insisted that even longstanding clients 
(such as Mr W) provide certified copies of personal documents, despite never having asked 
for such proof of identity either at the outset or during the intervening years.
I fully understand that this can seem excessive and inflexible. But it is not for me or this 
service to say how a business should interpret its anti-money laundering responsibilities 
(unless it does so in a manifestly unfair or prejudicial manner). Having seen numerous 
complaints about this issue,  and therefore how businesses are commonly interpreting the 
new regulations, I dont feel J.P. Morgans specific requirements are unreasonable or unfair, 
even though they obviously present an overseas-based client like Mr W with challenges.
I also feel it did offer reasonable alternatives to the need for a notary to certify documents. 
Fundamentally, I dont believe it did anything wrong. I acknowledge that Mr W found it 
difficult and time-consuming to engage with J.P. Morgan when he complained about this 
issue but I dont think this in itself is sufficient to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Tony Moss
Ombudsman