DRN-3029247
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr T says American Express Services Europe Limited mis-sold him PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include Mr Ts 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint. And they said that because American 
Express told us that the commission for Mr Ts PPI was less than 50% of what he paid, 
American Express didnt need to pay back any of the commission he paid for the PPI.
Mr Ts representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  it didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments it had previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ts. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ts complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided American Express didnt need to 
tell Mr T about the commission it received, so American Express doesnt need to pay back 
any of the commission Mr T paid for the PPI. Ive summarised my reasons for each of these 
conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think American Express made it clear that Mr T didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out. I say this because it sent in a copy of Mr Ts credit card application 
form, and I can see that he ticked a box on the application to say he wanted PPI. I think 
he could simply have left the box blank if he didnt want it. 
American Express didnt recommend the PPI to Mr T - so it didnt have to check that the 
PPI was right or suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr T enough clear and timely 
information so he could decide for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible the information American Express gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr T  for example 
he wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover (he mentioned 
having had a childhood illness but didnt mention any health problems that couldve 
affected his ability to claim on the policy). And it wasnt too dissimilar to what he 
reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was given. There were also 
no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems. It also looks like it 
was affordable, so it seems as though it would have been useful for him if something had 
gone wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr T would have declined the cover had 
American Express done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr T would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely he thought he was getting, and I think the policy couldve provided a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Ts representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant American Express should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr Ts representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ts individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ts particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means American Express doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided American Express didnt need to disclose the commission it 
received, so it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr T paid. My reasons are 
set out below.was there an unfair relationship?
Mr Ts representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary it has said Mr T should get back all the money he paid for the policy because: 
American Express failed to tell him about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because, it says, that 
meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr T wouldnt have taken out the policy 
had he known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the 
premiums he paid.
But in this case, American Express has told us that the commission for Mr Ts PPI was less 
than half of what he paid for each premium. Weve looked at how American Express has 
worked this out and based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mr Ts 
case was less than half the cost of the PPI.
As thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think American Express needed to tell Mr T about the commission. So it follows that I 
dont think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think American Express 
treated Mr T unfairly. 
This means American Express doesnt need to pay Mr T back any of the commission he 
paid for the PPI. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Ts complaint or make any award in his 
favour for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that American Express Services Europe Limited didnt need to 
disclose the commission it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr T 
paid for the PPI.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman