DRN-4091118
The complaint
Mr H and Ms B complain about how China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd has handled a
claim for subsidence on their buildings insurance policy. They also complain that subsidence 
cover has been removed from
their policy following the claim.
What happened
In 2019, Mr H and Ms B claimed on their policy with China Taiping for subsidence after they
noticed damage to their property. China Taiping reviewed the claim, accepted it and carried
out monitoring on the property. It was discovered the cause of the subsidence was tree roots
and clay soil. The tree was subsequently removed and both parties agree this appeared to
stabilise the property.
China Taiping therefore assessed what repairs were needed to the property. It said the
damage was mainly cosmetic and could be repaired without the need of structural repairs to 
the front bay window. Mr H and Ms B disagreed and complained. They said the front bay 
window would need structural repairs and asked for China Taiping to pay for a chartered 
building surveyor to assess what work was required. Mr H and Ms B also said China Taiping 
had removed the subsidence cover from their policy when it renewed and complained about 
this.
China Taiping reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said its loss adjuster had
reviewed the claim and was satisfied no structural repairs were needed. It also said it was a
commercial decision to remove the subsidence cover as it no longer wished to provide it for
Mr H and Ms B. Mr H and Ms B didnt agree with China Taipings response and referred the
complaint here.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 8 September 2023 where I said:
Its not in dispute that Mr H and Ms B have a valid claim for subsidence on their property. I
can see that China Taiping has assessed the damage and feels that no structural work is
needed as the property is no longer moving.
The terms and conditions of Mr H and Ms Bs policy say under the section which covers
subsidence claims:
12. Debris Removal and Building Fees
If there has been damage which is covered under Section 1
We will pay for the following
(a) the cost of removal of debris
(b) architects, surveyors, consulting engineers, legal and other fees
which You have to pay to reinstate the Building but not for preparing
any claim
China Taiping has assessed the damage to Mr H and Ms Bs property and paid for the costs
it incurred which are associated with the claim. I can see that when China Taipings loss
adjuster was discussing what repair work would be completed, Mr H and Ms B disagreed
and complained. They asked for China Taiping to pay for a chartered building surveyor,
which China Taiping refused to do.
I can understand Mr H and Ms B would like to appoint their own surveyor to assess the
claim. However, Im not persuaded China Taiping has done anything wrong by declining to 
cover the cost when Mr H and Ms B asked for this in April 2022. I say this because at the 
point Mr H and Ms B complained, China Taiping had accepted the claim, assessed it and 
was putting together what repairs were needed. So, Im not persuaded China Taiping acted 
unreasonably at the time by refusing to pay for Mr H and Ms B to appoint their own surveyor
at that point in the claim.
I can also see that Mr H and Ms B have obtained two tenders to repair the damage, 
however, these were both produced after they complained to China Taiping. While I can see 
these list the work Mr H and Ms B would like completed, Im not going to comment on them 
further in this decision. This is because they were produced after Mr H and Ms B complained 
to China Taiping, and after it issued its final response letter. As those tenders werent part of 
this complaint when it was raised with China Taiping its not something I will comment on in 
this decision, as China Taiping hasnt had the opportunity to comment on them first.
I can see though that Mr H and Ms B complained about China Taiping removing their
subsidence cover. China Taiping said this is down to an underwriting decision. In particular
its referred to the clay composition of the soil around Mr H and Ms Bs property. I can
understand China Taipings concerns, however Im also aware that it is signed up to the
ABIs guidance on continuation of cover following a subsidence claim.
The ABIs guidance on continuation of cover following a subsidence claim says the insurer
handling the claim should continue to provide cover on the property after the repair has been
completed. There are certain exceptions to this where an insurer is able to remove cover
following a claim. I asked China Taiping where within the ABIs guidance it said it could
remove subsidence cover and it replied citing the guidance when the insurer changes. In Mr
H and Ms Bs case their insurer hasnt changed so its not clear why China Taiping referred
to that guidance. However even if I agreed it was okay to remove cover, it would be fair and
reasonable for China Taiping to either arrange cover for Mr H and Ms B with another insurer
or pay the difference between Mr H and Ms Bs existing cover and that provided by another
insurer. China Taiping hasnt done either of these. It therefore follows that Im not persuaded
China Taiping has acted fairly or reasonably when removing subsidence cover for Mr H and
Ms B moving forward.
Ive therefore looked at what it needs to do to put this right. As China Taiping hasnt shown it
cant practically continue to provide cover, I think the fair and reasonable outcome would be
for it to reinstate Mr H and Ms Bs subsidence cover. It should continue to provide this, in
line with the ABI guidance on continuation of cover following a subsidence claim, until Mr H
and Ms B decide to no longer insure their property with China Taiping.
Ive also considered the impact on Mr H and Ms B by China Taiping unfairly removing this
cover and not putting other arrangements in place. Mr H and Ms B have clearly been very
worried and concerned about not having cover, particularly when their existing claim hasnt
been resolved. To compensate them for this unnecessary distress and inconvenience since
the cover was removed, February 2020, it should pay them £250.
China Taiping didnt respond to my provisional decision by the date requested. Mr H and Ms 
B responded and highlighted the significant impact which could result from the removal of 
subsidence cover. They also questioned a reference Id made to rebuilding the front bay window and questioned whether this service was able to consider what repairs were needed 
under this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr H and Ms Bs response to my provisional decision, but Im not persuaded 
to depart from my previous finding. Ill explain why. 
In regard to the removal of subsidence cover, I understand the significant impact this can 
have on a property and its value, as Mr H and Ms B have pointed out. While I appreciate the 
concerns Mr H and Ms B have raised, Im not able to make an award for what could have 
happened. And so, in this decision Im directing China Taiping to reinstate the subsidence 
cover and made an award for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused. For the 
reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, Im satisfied this is the fair and 
reasonable outcome in this complaint. 
Ive also noted Mr H and Ms Bs comments about my referral to rebuilding the front bay 
window. I would like to apologise for saying Mr H and Ms B said the front bay window 
needed rebuilding. I can see theyve always said it needed structural repairs. 
Ive also considered Mr H and Ms Bs comments about the repairs needed. While I can see 
Mr H and Ms B have provided a document which shows what repairs they think are needed, 
the tenders for the work werent produced until after this complaint was made. For the 
reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, Im unable to comment in this 
decision on those tenders for repair, as these werent obtained until after this complaint was 
made.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I require China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd:
1. Reinstate subsidence cover on Mr H and Ms Bs policy until they decide to no longer
insure with China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd, in line with the ABI guidance on
continuation of cover following a subsidence claim
2. Pay Mr H and Ms B £250 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman