DRN-4270361
The complaint
Mr C complains that an appointed representative of TenetLime Ltd trading as Tenet Network 
Services failed to secure him a mortgage, which resulted in substantial costs and upset.
What happened
Mr C consulted Tenets representative about obtaining a mortgage over a leasehold flat he 
wanted to buy. Tenet submitted an application to a lender Ill call A. A issued a mortgage 
offer and Mr C instructed solicitors.
During the legal process, it came to light that the propertys lease had a term relating to 
ground rent increases that A wouldnt accept. It therefore withdrew the mortgage offer.
Tenet then found a new lender which Ill call N. It says it discussed the lease issue with N 
and was told N had no specific criteria regarding leasehold property. So an application was 
submitted. 
N assessed the application, and said it would lend around £27,000 less than Mr C wanted  
Mr C also owns some buy to let property, and N took into account his buy to let mortgage 
payments when considering affordability. Mr C couldnt increase his deposit by that amount. 
He discussed alternatives with Tenet, and it was agreed that Tenet would explore whether it 
would make a difference if Mr C reduced his outgoings by repaying his car finance, saving 
around £300 per month.
On this basis, N agreed to lend the full amount. However, following a valuation N also 
declined Mr Cs mortgage application because of the issues with the propertys lease.
Mr C complained. He said that hed ended up selling his car to try and get a mortgage that 
wasnt available to him. He said that Tenet should have checked the position with the lease 
before applying both to A and to N. Hed paid broker, lender and solicitor fees unnecessarily 
and ended up losing out on a mortgage. He lost this property and because of rising interest 
rates he can no longer afford a mortgage even if he could find another property, so hes now 
stuck in rental accommodation. And hed lost earnings because of time spent dealing with 
the applications. He said his overall losses, including the difference between the mortgage 
and the rent hed now have to pay, amounted to around £40,000.
Tenet didnt uphold his complaint. It said it wasnt responsible for the lenders decisions and 
couldnt know whether they would accept the property until the applications were 
underwritten. It didnt know about the relevant term in the lease before applying to A, and it 
had checked with N before making an application. Tenet didnt know that Mr C would be 
selling his car, rather than simply repaying the finance, and in any case it was his choice to 
do that knowing that it would help obtain the mortgage he wanted. 
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint, so Mr C asked for it to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its unfortunate that Mr C was unable to get the mortgage, or buy the property, that he 
wanted. What I have to decide is whether Tenet acted unfairly as part of the process.
The issue with the property Mr C wanted to buy was a term in the lease which allowed for 
regular reviews of ground rent with no overall cap. Many mortgage lenders are wary about 
accepting such a term. Firstly, if the ground rent significantly increases over time, it can 
make the property difficult to sell or re-mortgage in the future. And secondly once the ground 
rent reaches a certain level it makes it easier for the freeholder to recover the property, 
which impacts on the lenders security for the lending. In addition, the frequency of ground 
rent reviews provided for in the lease was also too often  as it would allow the ground rent 
to increase further. 
With that in mind, Ive thought about what Tenet actually knew about the lease terms at 
various stages of the process, as well as whether it ought to have done more to make sure it 
was aware sooner. 
In respect of the first application, to A, I can see that Mr C forwarded an email from the 
estate agents on 9 May 2022. That email only contained very brief details about the lease  
the term, the initial ground rent and service charge. It didnt say anything about the ground 
rent review mechanism.
Ive not seen any other evidence to suggest that the broker was aware of the specific issues 
with the lease before the application to A, or anything to suggest that the broker ought to 
have been aware that A might not agree to the mortgage because of it. 
Ive checked As published lending criteria and it does say that it doesnt accept ground rent 
that can be increased without an overall cap, and it says that it doesnt accept ground rent 
reviews more frequently than every ten years (this lease contained a review every ten 
years). But neither of those two things were mentioned in the email from the estate agent. 
And on its application form, all that A asks for is the current ground rent, current service 
charge and the remaining term of the lease. The property Mr C wanted to buy was 
acceptable on those three elements. The more detailed and specific terms of the lease are 
checked at valuation and conveyancing stage  which is what happened in this case.
When A withdrew its mortgage offer, Tenet asked why it had been withdrawn. A said that it 
had been withdrawn because of the frequency of the ground rent review. It didnt mention 
the uncapped ground rent review  though Tenet was also aware of this since it had been 
flagged as a potential problem by Mr Cs solicitor.
Tenet then looked for another lender. It selected N as a lender it was aware had accepted 
leases in the past that other lenders had rejected, so it recommended making an application 
to N. 
I havent seen the details of any discussion with Mr C at this stage  such as an advice 
letter, emails or notes of a call. So I dont know to what extent Tenet advised Mr C that there 
was a risk that N might not accept his application. However, I think Mr C was aware that 
there were problems with the lease, which included whether it would be acceptable to 
mortgage companies  hed been advised of that by his solicitor when the solicitor first 
flagged up the problem which led A to withdraw its offer. And I can see that Mr C was keen 
to proceed with the purchase and mortgage, and was regularly chasing up progress having been given a deadline for completion by the vendor. Its also worth noting that  while he 
hasnt complained about this  a third lender had already rejected an application before the 
application to A. On balance Im satisfied that Mr C understood the risk that the application to 
N might not be accepted too because of difficulties with the lease and wanted to go ahead.
Tenet discussed the situation with N  N said that it couldnt guarantee the lease would be 
acceptable until it had been reviewed by an underwriter. An application was submitted on 
that basis. But, as with A, in the end N wasnt prepared to go ahead.
Before the lease issue had been considered, N reduced the amount it was willing to lend due 
to concerns about affordability. Mr C says this was because Tenet gave it the wrong 
information  confusing his net income with his gross income  but I dont think that was the 
case. Ive seen emails from N confirming that the reason the lending limit was reduced was 
because of how it took into account Mr Cs buy to let properties and his mortgage 
commitments in respect of those properties.
One option considered to resolve this was reducing Mr Cs other expenditure to make a 
higher amount affordable  another was increasing his deposit so he needed to borrow less. 
Ive seen that Mr C had substantial savings at this time, so increasing the deposit would 
potentially have been open to him. But he agreed to pay off his car finance, reducing his 
outgoings. I dont think I can reasonably hold Tenet responsible for this. Mr C didnt actually 
have to repay his car finance at that point, just commit to doing so before the application 
completed  so he could have waited until the offer was in place and the lease had been 
confirmed as acceptable. And in any case he understood that it would be necessary for him 
to agree to do so at some point if he wanted to pursue the mortgage with N without 
increasing his deposit. 
Ultimately there can never be a guarantee that a lender will be willing to lend  either 
because of affordability, because of problems with the property, or for other reasons, an 
application might fail at any time. No mortgage broker can therefore be sure that it will be 
able to secure a mortgage for its client. A broker should make sure that they understand 
their clients situation, recommend the mortgage most likely to be accepted which is suitable, 
and ensure the client understands the risks that it might not be accepted  but they can 
never be sure what a lenders decision will be. 
The underlying problem is that Mr C wanted to buy a property that had terms in its lease that 
made it difficult to get a mortgage. Even after A withdrew the mortgage offer on that basis, 
knowing the lease was a problem, Mr C wanted to go ahead with the purchase  rather than, 
for example, looking for a different property. That meant there was always a risk that another 
lender might take the same view, and that Mr C wouldnt be able to get a mortgage over this 
property at all. While it was unfortunate that Mr C ended up in that position, I dont think it 
was because of failings on Tenets part. Tenet did its best to secure a mortgage for Mr C, 
and wasnt to blame that it turned out not to be possible on that particular property. It acted 
fairly based on the knowledge it had at the time. And so I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman