DRN-3553407
The complaint
Mr Fs complaint is about two claims he made under his Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited (RSA) legal expenses insurance policy.
All references to RSA include their claims handlers.
What happened
Mr F made two claims on his legal expenses insurance policy; one in August 2019 for 
problems with the installation of a bathroom and one in February 2020 about the quality of 
a new kitchen hed had put in.
RSA initially accepted both claims. They were sent to panel firms to consider.
The panel solicitors for the bathroom claim said Mr F had a stable claim against the 
bathroom company but that they needed expert evidence to support his position before 
they could confirm whether he had reasonable prospects of success, as required by the 
policy. Mr F was told he would need to fund the cost of that report himself, so he 
complained to RSA. RSA told him he had the option to appeal if he disagreed with what 
hed been told and asked for a senior member of staff at the panel firm to call him.
The following day the panel firm closed their file. 11 months later they contacted RSA to 
enquire about whether RSA would fund the claim as Mr F had found an expert to review 
his bathroom. But after it became clear that the cost of that report was more than he could 
afford, he raised a complaint with RSA.
The kitchen claim was passed to another panel firm. They said Mr F didnt have reasonable 
prospects of success because he didnt have expert evidence supporting the work wasnt 
undertaken with reasonable care and skill. They also said Mr F would need to engage the 
Sherriffs Officers to find details of the kitchen company to ascertain whether his claim had 
reasonable prospects of recovery.
Mr F was unhappy about this. He said that hed found a local surveyor who could review the 
kitchen, but the surveyor wasnt prepared to take instructions from Mr F directly. Rather he 
would only take instructions from a Solicitor. RSA told him the policy didnt cover the costs 
of panel firms instructing experts where prospects of success hadnt been confirmed but that 
theyd ask the panel firm to assist him further on this occasion. The panel firm did this by 
advising Mr F what to do in relation to instructing the expert. Mr F remained dissatisfied with 
the position as it didnt resolve the issue he was complaining about.
Our investigator considered Mr Fs complaints in relation to his claims and concluded 
that they shouldnt be upheld. She said that RSA were entitled to rely on the panel firms 
advice that expert evidence was necessary to prove his claims had prospects of success 
and that the onus was on Mr F to obtain these reports.
Mr F didnt agree so the matter was passed to me to determine. After considering 
everything, I issued my provisional findings to both parties by email. I said:
I dont agree with the outcome reached by our investigator and have concluded that Mr 
Fs complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Whilst the policy terms do make it clear that claims require reasonable prospects of 
success, this doesnt mean that an insurer is entitled to decline every claim that requires 
expert evidence to support the merits of it or the prospects of recovery, unless this is 
funded by a policyholder.
Our longstanding approach has been that its for a policyholder to show that they have a 
valid claim. Mr F did that. He provided a detailed list of defects to his kitchen and 
bathroom as well as photographs to support the problems he was complaining about. So 
Im satisfied that hes established theres a claim Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
(RSA) should consider, even if further evidence is required to conclusively assess 
prospects of success and recovery. The issue here is whether the evidence Mr F has 
provided is enough at this stage to support a claim. The list of defects as well as the 
photographs in my view are enough. So its for RSA to fund and instruct suitable experts 
to assess the workmanship and quantum of the claims. That is part of the evidence 
gathering process that panel firms are instructed to prepare when a policyholder has 
demonstrated they have a claim. And its not something Mr F should be responsible for 
obtaining or funding.
Ive also reviewed one of the panel firms concerns about prospects of recovery against 
one of the companys Mr F wants to claim against. I understand RSA have said Mr F 
would need to obtain a trace report to demonstrate prospects of recovery against that 
company. The concerns the panel firm have expressed arent in my view based on any 
substantive evidence. Theyve simply suggested there might be a problem with recovery. 
Mr F has provided credible reasons why this isnt necessarily true. Having done that, I 
wouldnt expect RSA to require him to obtain a trace report at his own cost. Thats 
something they should fund and is equally part of the evidence gathering process when a 
panel firm is instructed.
For the reasons set out above, I think RSA hasnt treated Mr F fairly in this case by turning 
down these claims and needs to do more to put things right. Specifically RSA needs to 
reconsider Mr Fs claims and fund the instruction of suitable experts to consider both the 
merits of the two claims and the prospects of recovery of the one where concerns have 
been raised. Mr F should note that if those assessments are negative, its unlikely wed 
say RSA have to do anything more (unless the assessment is based on factual mistakes 
or inaccuracies) unless he obtains his own assessment to the contrary. That might be in 
the form of expert evidence or a solicitors opinion, depending on the opinion hes seeking 
to contradict.
I am also considering a trouble and upset award in this complaint. I can also see that Mr 
F was put to considerable inconvenience. He tried to source several experts which took 
up time and effort. He referred back to the panel firms and RSA about the difficulties he 
encountered in each case and has talked about the distress this caused him. I 
understand Mr F has suffered from a significant health condition although Im not certain 
of whether the symptoms he was experiencing in advance of his diagnosis coincided with 
the time of his claims. If so I appreciate this may have made things more difficult for him. Id like to invite submissions from Mr F about how RSA turning down his claims affected 
him specifically before I consider a trouble and upset award. Once I hear back from him 
on this issue I will make a recommendation and invite the parties to consider that before 
making a final decision.
Since issuing those findings both parties responded with detailed submissions, following 
which I issued a provisional decision in June 2022 as follows:
For the reasons set out within my provisional findings, I remain of the view that Mr Fs
complaint should be upheld.
RSA feel they were entitled to rely on the panel firms advice when turning down Mr Fs
request for them to fund the expert and trace reports as well as the solicitors costs involved
in obtaining them. I take the view theyre conflating the requirement for a prospects
assessment with what wed say a policyholder should reasonably be expected to do when
making a claim.
It has always been our approach that a policyholder needs to establish they have a valid
claim before an insurer agrees to fund this. Its true that this policy, like virtually all other
legal expenses insurance policies, has a requirement that the claim has reasonable
prospects of success for cover to continue to be provided. But that doesnt mean the onus is
on the policy holder to fund everything required to establish that.
Each claim for legal expenses insurance turns on its own facts. In this particular case, Mr F
did enough to establish he had a valid claim. The evidence he provided clearly showed there
were problems with both his kitchen and bathroom. There were various photographs and a
list of specific defects. I appreciate that might be why RSA thought it was good enough to
turn the claim over to the panel firm and leave it to them to decide the case, but that doesnt
go far enough, given the specific concerns Mr Fs raised and the evidence hed already
provided. The panel firm told RSA they needed expert evidence to establish the merits of the
claims. By that they meant liability and quantum. They also needed to establish the 
prospects of recovery in respect of the kitchen claim. At that point, Mr F had provided a good
deal of evidence to support his position which showed a valid and arguable claim. So what
needed to come next was very much part of the evidence gathering process and therefore
something that RSA should have funded- both in terms of solicitors costs in obtaining the
reports they needed, and in respect of the reports themselves.
I understand this will be of concern to RSA. They may for example receive a wealth of claims
that dont show the apparent obvious validity of a claim. From this Services perspective,
wed expect insurers to consider whether a policyholder has done enough to establish they
have a valid claim before an insurer can consider things further. What that means will be
different in every case. But it isnt confined to the policyholder conclusively showing they
have reasonable prospects of success from the very outset. If the advice of a panel firm is
that this is necessary evidence, following a policyholder establishing they have a valid claim,
then broadly, wed say that those costs form part of the insurers responsibility in assessing
the claim. And that is very much applicable to Mr Fs complaint.
Fair Compensation
For the reasons set out above, I remain of the view that RSA need to reconsider Mr Fs
claims and fund the instruction of suitable experts to consider both the merits of the two
claims and the prospects of recovery of the one where concerns have been raised.
Ive also given thought to the impact of RSAs decision on Mr F. Theres no doubt that theiractions had a considerable impact on him given his circumstances and state of health. They
also led to distress and inconvenience. Given what Mr F has said, I think he took steps to
minimise the impact of the problems he was having both with the kitchen and bathroom by
seeking to remedy them whilst balancing this against preserving evidence needed for future
proceedings, until his claims could be resolved.
When considering the appropriate compensation award applicable in this case, Ive thought
about what would have happened if RSA had agreed to fund the instruction of experts early
on. I dont know whether those reports wouldve showed Mr Fs claims had both reasonable
prospects of success or recovery. But they would have allowed him to make an informed
decision about how to proceed in a timely manner and minimised the impact of everything he
experienced as well as the uncertainty that followed. If things had gone as they should, Id
have expected RSA to agree to the instruction experts reports in about February 2020 in the
case of the bathroom claim, and March 2020, in the case of the kitchen claim. As things
stood, Mr F didnt receive the final word from RSA on his complaints until March 2021. And
given where we are, hes been dealing with things now for over two years.
Because of Mr Fs specific circumstances and the way RSAs actions have impacted on him,
I think a substantial award is appropriate for the sustained distress I think would no doubt
have been compounded given Mr Fs ill health together with the uncertainty of living with an
unsuitable kitchen and bathroom for a sustained period whilst trying to progress things with
panel firms and RSA. My award also recognises the inconvenience caused by trying to
identify suitable experts at reasonable cost as well as the problems he encountered trying to
instruct them, all whilst dealing with the underlying problems that were the cause of these 
claims. For those reasons I think RSA should pay Mr F £2,000 in recognition of this.
Since issuing my provisional decision both parties have responded. Mr F pointed out a few 
factual errors in my earlier decision, Specifically, he said that he didnt pay for a replacement 
tap in his kitchen, but rather the fitting costs of it. The tap itself was eventually replaced after 
several weeks of correspondence with the supplier and manufacturer. He also commented 
that there was about a year between the symptoms of his recent condition and having to 
have surgery for another condition, but both took place after he made his claims. 
RSA have also responded. Ive summarised their comments as follows:
They accept that Mr F has valid claims. Thats why they were passed for initial 
assessment to the panel firms, but this is different from a legal assessment.
The legal advice by the panel firms was that prospects of success couldnt be confirmed 
without expert evidence.
There is a marked difference in the evidence provided by Mr F in each claim; In the 
bathroom claim, the supplier has admitted the quality of the work was unacceptable but 
says the responsibility for this lies with the fitter. Quotations from other companies for the 
cost of remedial work advises that the best course of action is to remove the work and 
start again. RSA say they should have questioned this with the panel firm and are happy 
to do so now.
In the kitchen claim, there is no evidence that liability has been admitted. The proposed 
Defendant hasnt visited the property and Mr F has not had other contractors out for 
advice or to provide quotations to rectify the problems. So, they dont think its 
reasonable to obtain expert evidence on this themselves.
The panel firm couldnt locate the proposed defendant for the kitchen claim on 
Companies House and on making further enquiries it looks like it could have been 
dissolved in 2017. Given this information its fair to say that prospects of recovery on this 
claim are less than 51%. The provision of expert reports is the responsibility of the policyholder if the purpose of 
those reports is to determine the claim has sufficient prospects for cover under the policy 
to continue. It is not for an insurer to prove the claim. Rather it is for an insurer to prove 
an exclusion applies should they wish to decline a claim.
The policy is in place to cover the cost of claims that have been legally assessed as 
having reasonable prospects of success not to cover the costs of investigating whether 
prospects exist.
Its a fundamental tenet of legal expenses insurance that providers are entitled to rely on 
the legal advice of panel firm. My provisional decision suggests the legal advice is not to 
be relied upon.
My provisional decision is inconsistent with previous investigator views or decisions 
made by this Service.
 They sympathise with the position Mr F finds himself in, but they were entitled to rely on 
the advice of their panel firms. 
The compensation award Ive suggested seems unrealistically high and they ask that this 
be reviewed. This is because they accept the kitchen claim should be reviewed but that 
there are no reasonable prospects of recovery on the kitchen claim at this point. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the opinion that Mr Fs complaint should be upheld for the same 
reasons set out in my provisional decision.
From what RSA have said, I can see they arent aware of the distinction between our 
approach to the evidential burden on policyholders whilst balancing the continuing 
requirement for claims to enjoy reasonable prospects of success in order for cover to 
continue. 
As I said before, an insurer isnt entitled to decline every claim that requires expert evidence 
to support the merits of it or the prospects of recovery, unless this is funded by a 
policyholder. In Mr Fs case hes provided enough evidence to show that he has a valid 
claim. By that I mean evidence that there is something clearly very wrong that appears, 
prima facie, to be the responsibility of the people that did the work to his bathroom and 
kitchen. 
RSA are seeking to rely on the advice of the panel firms to turn down cover here. But that 
isnt in my view good enough when the advice given is simply that reports are required to 
support prospects of success and recovery. Its clear to me that RSA have now looked 
behind that advice when responding to my provisional findings in any event. Theyve done 
this by weighing up what evidence might point towards the bathroom fitter being responsible 
for the work conducted, by taking into account the opinion of the bathroom company and 
comments by other bathroom companies about how to put things right. That doesnt in itself 
confirm the prospects of success in this claim. Rather it adds to the assumption that Mr F 
has a valid claim that is subject to expert evidence. But I dont think those additional pieces 
of evidence were necessary for him to have a valid claim. He demonstrated this persuasively 
by showing the defects complained of both in photographs and list form. So, by the same 
token, I dont think Mr F needed to provide any more than he had in order to establish that 
he had valid claims after RSA confirmed those claims fell within cover as insured events. By 
that I mean he did enough to show that on the face of it, he has claims that appear to have 
prospects of success given the photographs and other evidence hes provided. And if expert 
evidence is required to substantiate that, then its for an insurer to fund that as part of the 
normal evidence gathering process.I know RSA thinks my findings are at odds with our approach to insurers reliance on legal 
advice. I can assure them that they are not. An insurer is entitled to rely on the legal advice 
of a panel firm, but this isnt pure legal advice- rather its evidence gathering in 
circumstances where the claims made appear to be valid in nature. 
The information the panel firm provided about the prospects of recovery against the kitchen 
company arent conclusive. They carried out a search on Companies House and couldnt 
locate the proposed defendant. They then found reference to company with a similar name 
on an internet search engine which may or may not be the name under which the kitchen 
company was trading. That company was dissolved in 2017. It is by no means clear that this 
is the same kitchen company Mr F contracted with- they use a different name in 
correspondence. And I can see that they were still corresponding with Mr F in January 2020- 
three years after the panel firm say they were dissolved. Given the obvious uncertainty on 
prospects of recovery, I remain of the view that RSA should fund an appropriate report to 
properly clarify the position.
Turning to RSAs submissions on my award of fair compensation. Im not persuaded the 
remedy Ive suggested should be altered. The award Ive made is entirely within our award 
limits for sustained periods of distress and inconvenience. Ive explained in detail what Ive 
taken into account when making that award and made clear what it relates to, so I wont 
repeat that again here.
Finally, I appreciate the factual inaccuracies Mr F pointed out. I dont think they change the 
impact of RSAs actions on him. Whether or not he paid for the replacement tap is immaterial 
as Im not asking RSA to pay for that. Rather my award is about the sustained distress Mr F 
suffered which was compounded by his ill health. That period of ill health is still covered in 
this award because the award covers the period after his claims were made. 
Putting things right
I direct RSA to:
1. reconsider Mr Fs claims and fund the instruction of suitable experts to consider both the 
merits of the two claims and the prospects of recovery of the one where concerns have been 
raised.
2. pay Mr F £2,000 for the distress and inconvenience caused as a result of how they 
handled his claims.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Fs complaint against RSA and direct it to put things right in accordance with my 
award of fair compensation set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman