DRN-2189272
The complaint
 Mr Hs complaint is about the amount Canada Square Operations Limited (CSOL) has 
offered in compensation to him for the mis-sale of a Payment Protection Insurance (PPI).
What happened
 Mr H was sold a single premium PPI policy when he took out a loan with CSOL in 1999. 
Mr H complained to CSOL that hed been mis-sold the policy. It accepted that the policy had 
been mis-sold and offered Mr H £1,466.68 in compensation for this. But Mr H didnt accept 
this offer because he wasnt satisfied that it had been calculated correctly. 
As Mr H wasnt happy with CSOLs response, he referred his complaint to this service. In our 
adjudicators initial assessment of Mr Hs complaint, in March 2020, he said that he thought 
that the amount CSOL had offered Mr H was fair. And in the covering letter sent with this 
assessment to CSOL the adjudicator asked CSOL to update the 8% simple interest figure 
and re-issue a new cheque to Mr H.
In June 2020, following the adjudicator chasing payment of an updated offer on Mr Hs 
behalf, CSOL responded saying that it wouldnt be updating the original offer because the 
calculation of this had been found by the adjudicator to be fair. The adjudicator replied to 
CSOL explaining why the offer needed to be updated for additional simple interest to be 
applied, after which CSOL agreed to do so. However, the payment of the updated offer was 
subject to further delay whilst CSOL sought confirmation of the correct forename to be used 
in issuing this payment to Mr H.
In light of what the adjudicator considered to be some unnecessary delays in Mr H receiving 
a re-issued cheque for the updated amount, he wrote to CSOL in August 2020 proposing 
that it should pay Mr H an additional £50 in recognition of the trouble and upset that this had 
caused him. And in the absence of a response from CSOL by the deadline given, the 
adjudicator followed this up with a supplementary assessment on Mr Hs complaint in which 
he provided a detailed rationale for why he thought this payment was justified.
In late August 2020, CSOL responded to the adjudicators supplementary assessment giving 
reasons why it didnt think it should be required to pay £50 to Mr H for trouble and upset the 
adjudicator considered that he had been caused by the way CSOL was handling the 
updating and payment of his offer. In September 2020 CSOL reissued a cheque to Mr H in 
settlement of his complaint. But this payment didnt include the additional £50 which the 
adjudicator had said he thought CSOL should pay to Mr H for the trouble and upset hed 
been caused.
As CSOL disagreed with what the adjudicator had proposed in his supplementary 
assessment, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 As CSOL has already agreed to uphold Mr Hs complaint about the PPI being mis-sold, in 
this decision Im not looking at how the policy came to be sold. CSOL has also now paid 
Mr H the updated offer of compensation which our adjudicator thought was fair and which 
Mr H has accepted. So in this decision I wont be looking at the way this offer was calculated 
either. 
In this decision Im only considering whether the additional £50 which our adjudicator said 
CSOL should pay Mr H for the trouble and upset hes been caused is fair. And having done 
so, I think it is for reasons that Ill now explain.
In March 2020 our adjudicator included the following statement in the covering letter to 
CSOL accompanying his initial assessment:
Please can you update the 8% simple interest and re-issue a new cheque to Mr H.
I think that this request to CSOL to update its offer to Mr Hs was clear. And I think CSOL 
should have been aware, in any event, that this service would expect such an offer to be 
updated where there has been a delay in a consumer receiving a compensation payment 
because we have been asked to decide if it was fair.
In these circumstances, I think that an unnecessary delay was caused by CSOL taking until 
June 2020 (and only after chasing) to inform this service that it didnt intend to update its 
original offer in the way which had been requested some three months earlier. And then 
further time elapsed before CSOL agreed to reverse its position on this issue.
Whilst I accept that it was reasonable for CSOL to subsequently request further clarification 
of Mr Hs correct forename before arranging for the payment to be reissued, having reviewed 
the relevant correspondence, I again think that CSOL could have done this more quickly 
than it did.
 
So, in summary, I think that CSOL did cause Mr H trouble and upset by taking some nine 
months from the date of our adjudicators original assessment to the final payment to Mr H of 
the updated offer. I consider this period of time to have been significantly longer than should 
have been necessary.
Ive carefully considered all the reasons that CSOL has given for not agreeing to this 
additional payment in their response to our adjudicators supplementary assessment. Ive 
also taken account of the operational difficulties that many organisations have been facing 
as a result of the pandemic. But having done so, this hasnt led me to change my views. I 
still think that CSOL took longer than should reasonably have been expected to pay Mr H his 
updated offer. So I think Mr H should be paid £50 for the trouble and upset he has been 
caused.
My final decision
  I think that the way the updated compensation offer was calculated by 
Canada Square Operations Limited is fair. And I understand this offer has now been paid to 
Mr H. 
But I direct Canada Square Operations Limited to pay Mr H an additional £50 for the trouble 
and upset he has been caused by the way Canada Square Operations Limited has managed 
his complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2021.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman