DRN-3742841
The complaint
Ms O is the representative of the estate of the late Mrs V, her Aunt. She complains on behalf 
of the estate, that  Bank of Scotland plc , trading as Halifax unnecessarily asked her to 
provide a grant of probate. She would like a refund of the costs incurred. And for Halifax to 
make it clear when a Grant of Probate will be needed.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known so I wont repeat them again here. Instead I will 
focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate both the costs and inconvenience Ms O incurred in getting a grant of 
probate. Halifax says it requires this when the total balance of money held is over 
£50000 as was the case here. From what I have seen it seems Halifax correctly 
asked Ms O for a grant of probate.
Ms Os main point seems to be that the limit to trigger the need for a grant of probate 
wasnt made obvious on either Halifaxs website or in any literature it sent her. Had it  
been she says she might have been able to mitigate the need for one reducing costs 
and time incurred. I have seen an online screenshot which confirms the threshold for 
when a grant of probate is needed. Halifax says this information has been on its 
website for several years thought it cant confirm from when. I think its likely the 
information was there though perhaps not easily accessible..
I have also seen a letter Halifax sent to Ms O dated 15 July 2021 which confirmed 
she would need a grant of probate as the balance on the accounts was over £50000. 
So, I think Ms O was aware of this information from that point. However, I appreciate 
if her concern was to financially plan to reduce costs prior to a bereavement that 
getting this information after a bereavement was too late. But I cant see that Halifax 
has any responsibility to advise of such matters prior to a bereavement. 
I cant reasonably ask Halifax to refund the cost of the grant of probate as it correctly 
followed its processes in asking for it. Neither can I ask Halifax to amend its 
processes or change what information it provides as that is a business matter for 
Halifax and not something we can interfere with.
Finally, whilst I appreciate there must have been some inconvenience in getting the 
grant of probate I cant ask Halifax to pay such compensation for two reasons. Firstly, 
I havent found Halifax to be at fault. But even if I had, this complaint in on behalf of 
an estate. Its Ms O who has had the inconvenience not the estate. As such it 
wouldnt be appropriate to pay her any compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs P 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman