DRN-2662699
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly reduced his credit card 
account limit.
What happened
Mr S has a credit card account with Halifax. He contacted them at the beginning of          
May 2020 to query why some payments had been declined. Mr S was told that it was most 
likely due to missed payments to the account. He was also made aware that his credit limit 
had been reduced from £8,650 to £550, due to the arrears on the account. 
Mr S was unhappy and complained to Halifax. He said that there were no longer any arrears 
on the account. He also didnt feel that he had been treated sympathetically with the credit 
limit being reduced so significantly. Given his strong history of managing the account and 
that the missed payments had only occurred due to the ongoing pandemic. 
Halifax said they had acted fairly and in line with the account terms and conditions by 
reducing the credit limit following two missed payments. They said they werent made aware 
in advance of any reasons, financial or otherwise related to the pandemic, why the payments 
would be late. They also told Mr S that they werent able to consider reinstating or increasing 
his credit limit, as he had told them he was not currently a UK resident. 
Mr S brought his complaint to our service for an independent review. The investigator 
thought Halifax had acted fairly. He said that the account terms and conditions said the 
credit limit could be reduced if payments were missed. He felt that Halifax had done this 
fairly, especially as Mr S hadnt contacted them to make them aware there was any issue 
that meant he was not going to be able to meet the monthly payments. He noted that Mr S 
had said that he felt he was being discriminated against, but that he believed Halifax had 
acted fairly. 
Mr S didnt accept this. He said that he felt he had been treated in a discriminatory and 
mechanical manner by Halifax and they hadnt taken into consideration the extenuating 
circumstances that his family had found themselves in during the pandemic. So, its now 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S did not make the minimum payment to his credit card account in either February or 
March 2020. When Halifax sent him his next statement on 22 April 2020, they let him know 
that after a review of the account, they had decided to reduce his available spend by 
reducing his credit limit from £8,650 to £550. The terms and conditions of Mr Ss credit card 
account allow for this.
Mr S has said he doesnt think Halifax treated him fairly given his previous good payment 
history with them and the fact that there was an ongoing pandemic. I understand that this 
may have been a difficult time for Mr S. However, Halifax werent made aware of any issues 
- financial or otherwise - prior to the missed payments, where they could have treated Mr S 
more sympathetically. So, I dont think it was wrong for it reduce his credit limit the way it did.
Mr S has said that he doesnt think it was fair for Halifax to stand by the decision to reduce 
his credit limit. They maintain that it was the right thing to do. I agree that this was 
reasonable. I say this because Mr S did not miss one minimum payment as he has 
suggested. He missed two minimum payments in a row and it was almost two months 
between his last payment and clearing the arrears. Mr S has said there were extenuating 
circumstances involved. However, he has a history of using online banking and had enough 
money available for the minimum payments. I am not persuaded that he was prevented from 
making them on time. In these circumstances, I think it was reasonable for Halifax to stand 
by the decision to reduce the limit. This is especially the case as Mr S has subsequently told 
us that he was experiencing some financial difficulty at the time, with a reduced income. 
Halifax have said that they would ordinarily allow a customer to apply for a credit limit 
increase. However, as Mr S was residing outside of the UK this wasnt an option. Given 
Halifax is a UK based lender catering to UK based customers I think this is reasonable. So I 
dont think it was wrong for Halifax to decline Mr Ss request for an increased credit limit.
Mr S also complains that he was insulted due to his country of residence and that Halifaxs 
process discriminated against him. Having listened to the calls that Mr S made to Halifax, I 
havent heard anything to conclude that that there was an insulting comment made to Mr S 
regarding his country of residence. And as set out above, I think Halifax acted fairly in its 
decisions to reduced Mr Ss credit limit and then to not increase it. 
I accept my decision will come to disappoint to Mr S. But, for the reasons set out above, I 
dont require Halifax to do anything further to resolve this complaint. My decision ends what 
we  in attempting to resolve Mr Ss dispute with Halifax  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman