DRN-4457128
The complaint
Mr K complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds (Admiral) delay in dealing 
with his claim under his motor insurance policy. 
Admiral are the insurers of Mr Ks policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of an 
agent. As Admiral have accepted they are accountable for the actions of the agent, any 
reference to Admiral includes the actions of the agent. 
What happened
Mr K says he noticed a warning light showing on the dashboard of his vehicle, so he took it 
to a local dealership belonging to the manufacturer of his vehicle  Ill refer to the 
manufacturer as company F. Mr K says they explained his catalytic converter had been 
stolen and they provided an estimate for repair. Mr K reported this to Admiral to make a 
claim on his policy. Mr K says he asked if his vehicle could be repaired by the local 
dealership whod provided an estimate and Admiral explained as they arent an approved 
repairer, they would treat this as a third-party repair so the estimate would need to be 
approved by their engineer. Mr K became concerned about Admirals claims handling, so he 
complained about their delay in carrying out a vehicle assessment and authorising repairs, 
not being given proper instructions on information to be sent to Admiral, lack of 
communication and Admiral not keeping to timeframes theyd given him.   
Admiral responded on 27 July 2023 and accepted there had been errors in their claims 
handling. For the parts of the complaint upheld they offered £250 compensation. The one 
part of the complaint they didnt uphold was Mr Ks complaint about not being given a 
courtesy car. They explained Mr K had chosen to use a non-approved repairer so in line with 
the terms and conditions of Mr Ks policy they wouldnt provide a courtesy car. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr K. He agreed Admiral had made errors and thought 
their offer of £250 was fair. He also thought Admiral hadnt acted unfairly in not providing   
Mr K with a courtesy car. Mr K disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Admirals offer is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand  
Mr K will be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main 
areas of dispute. I can see all parts of the complaint have been upheld apart from Mr Ks 
complaint about not being provided a courtesy car. So Ive looked into this to determine 
whether Admiral have acted fairly. 
My starting point is Mr Ks motor insurance policy booklet. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and, under the heading Damage repair process it sets out the steps Admiral will 
take if any damage to Mr Ks vehicle is covered by the policy. It says, An authorised 
[company F] Repair Centre, our approved repairers or another company instructed by 
[insurance intermediary] will: as an additional benefit of your policy, give you a courtesy car 
while your vehicle is being repaired. 
Mr K says the garage he approached, and which provided the estimate, is a company F 
repair centre so he meets the criteria set out in the terms and conditions. But, the terms and 
conditions go further to say, under a heading Important, If we instruct an authorised 
[company F] Repair Centre, an approved repairer or another company to provide you with a 
courtesy car, it will be covered under your insurance policyA courtesy car will not be 
provided if your vehicle is: repaired by an unapproved repairer.   
I can see from claim notes provided by Admiral that Mr K reported the incident to Admiral on 
18 July 2023. The following day Mr K explains he has an estimate for repairs and Admiral 
ask him to send this in for their in-house engineer to review. In Mr Ks testimony, he says it 
was during this call that Admiral explained his chosen garage was considered a third-party 
repairer. The notes show Mr K then called the next day to chase progress on approving the 
estimate from the non-approved repairer. A few days later Mr K chases again and the notes 
say Mr K queried whether the process of approval would be quicker if using an approved 
repairer and Admiral explained any approved repairer would still require their authorisation. 
The claim notes show Mr K queried with Admiral whether he was entitled to a courtesy car 
and the call handler explains he wouldve been entitled to a courtesy car if using an 
approved repairer, but as that isnt the case here, they wouldnt provide one. The notes say 
Mr K questioned this and explained his car was with a company F approved repair centre, 
but the call handler explained his vehicle wasnt with one of their approved network of 
repairers. During a further call, the call handler explains they dont have a contract with the 
repair garage chosen by Mr K, and they arent within Admirals network of approved 
repairers. 
I acknowledge Mr Ks frustration at not receiving a courtesy car, but I dont think Admiral 
have acted unreasonably here in not providing one. I say this because the terms and 
conditions say a courtesy car wont be provided if the repairs are being carried out by an 
unapproved repairer. In this case, the repairer chosen by Mr K isnt an approved repairer  
and given the discussions between Mr K and Admiral, I think it was made clear the garage 
being used by Mr K wasnt an approved repairer. Its not unusual or uncommon for insurers 
to have their own network of approved repairers, and generally they will have agreements in 
place. A courtesy car is usually provided through an agreement between the insurer and 
approved repairer. So a condition for a courtesy car to be provided would be for a 
policyholder to use an approved repairer  and in this case, thats what the terms and 
conditions say. Given that Mr K didnt use an approved repairer, I cant say Admiral have 
acted unfairly in not providing a courtesy car. 
I can see Mr K believes the terms and conditions entitle him to a courtesy car when using an 
authorised company F repair centre  and not Admirals approved repairer. I do 
acknowledge Mr Ks point and I agree the terms and conditions do refer to an authorised 
company F repair centre being used for repairs. 
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS), under ICOBS: 2.2.2 R requires 
information from a business to be clear, fair and not misleading. Where policy terms and 
conditions are open to differing, yet reasonable, interpretations, I would look favourably on 
the party that hasnt drafted the wording. In this case, reading through the terms and 
conditions, there are various references made to an authorised company F repair centre, but 
I think the section under the heading Important does make it clear any authorised company F, approved repairer or another company, will need to be instructed by Admiral in order to 
provide a courtesy car. 
The next point Ive considered is the compensation offered. Ive looked at the service given 
to Mr K. The key facts about the parts of the complaint upheld by Admiral arent in dispute. 
Admiral accept they got things wrong by delays in assessing Mr Ks vehicle, giving an 
incorrect email address to send information and not giving proper instructions on information 
required, lack of communication and not being able to give Mr K a timeframe for when his 
vehicle will be assessed. 
I think its right that Admiral should compensate Mr K for the upset, frustration and 
inconvenience caused. To help decide what a fair and reasonable level of compensation 
should be, Ive looked at the errors by Admiral and the impact it has had. 
From the point Mr K reported the incident on 18 July to the date of the complaint response 
on 27 July, I can see Mr K was chasing regularly for updates and its clear he was becoming 
increasingly upset and frustrated with the lack of progress. I can see there was further 
frustration and inconvenience to Mr K when he wasnt given correct details about submitting 
information to Admiral and lack of communication  and these contributed to the delays. 
So, taking this all into account, there has been upset and frustration caused to Mr K together 
with inconvenience. While the impact Im considering was only over a limited period, the 
information Ive seen, such as the frequency and content of Mr Ks calls to Admiral, show he 
was very upset and frustrated with Admirals claims handling. So, taking into consideration 
the impact on Mr K, I think Admirals offer of £250 compensation is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.   
I can see Mr K asks why Admiral sent him a complaint response when the complaint hadnt 
been resolved. I do acknowledge this, but its normal process for a business to respond to a 
complaint even if a claim is still ongoing. I acknowledge Mr Ks concern that Admiral 
shouldve been focussing on getting his vehicle assessed and addressing his complaint in 
this way, but in their complaint response Admiral do say they have a backlog so they still 
arent able to confirm when Mr Ks vehicle will be assessed. In these circumstances, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Admiral to still respond to the complaint. That said, and for this 
reason, I think its important to clarify, my decision only focusses on events up to Admirals 
complaint response dated 27 July 2023. I can see the claim was ongoing at the point the 
complaint was addressed and Mr K has raised further points. But any additional complaints 
beyond this point will need to be considered separately. If these have been raised with 
Admiral and theyve responded, or if theyve had eight weeks to respond, Mr K can ask our 
service to consider these. If any additional complaints havent yet been raised with Admiral, 
then Mr K will need to do this first and then refer the complaint to our service after Admiral 
have been given an opportunity to address the complaint. 
I can see Mr K raises a number of concerns where he feels Admiral havent followed the 
outcomes set out under the Consumer Duty principle. The Consumer Duty applies to open 
products and services from 31 July 2023  it doesnt apply to complaints about events that 
happened before this date. 
The complaint here relates to events up to 27 July, so while strictly the Consumer Duty 
doesnt apply, I think its important to mention the scope of the Consumer Duty follows the 
position in ICOBS. And I wish to reassure Mr K I have considered the position and his 
complaint in line with the relevant and existing rules under ICOBS. 
I understand Mr K will be disappointed, and I do acknowledge why hes frustrated at not 
receiving a courtesy car. But Ive carefully considered all information and, for the reasons Ive mentioned, I dont think Admiral have made an error in respect of this part of the 
complaint. I wish to reassure Mr K Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I 
havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or 
thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
My final decision
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited have already made an offer to pay £250 compensation 
to settle the complaint, and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited should pay £250 to Mr K, if they 
havent done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman