DRN-4533620
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr A complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money they lost to an 
investment scammer. 
Mrs A and Mr A are represented by a third party, but as Mr A had most of the dealings with 
the scammers and for ease of reading, Ill refer to him alone in this decision.
What happened
In mid-June 2021, Mr A was looking for opportunities to better his financial predicament. He 
says he was in a vulnerable position as hed stopped taking medication to manage his 
depression and anxiety (unbeknownst to his consultant). Upon browsing on an employment-
focussed social media platform, Mr A received a request from a trading company Ill call C. 
Mr A says he felt that C was professional and he was interested in the investment 
opportunities they had to offer. He saw that C had a large social media following and so he 
accepted Cs request and responded to their message. 
After receiving further information from C about how the investment would work and after 
searching C online and being persuaded by what he found, Mr A decided to invest. Mr A was 
appointed a senior account manager (the scammer) who Mr A felt was very knowledgeable. 
The scammer advised Mr A to open an account with a crypto exchange Ill call B. The 
scammer advised Mr A he could convert his GBP into the required currency needed for Cs 
trading platform. 
Mr A opened an account with C after providing his personal details (including his ID 
documents). He was then given access to Cs trading platform. The scammer guided Mr A 
on what to do through the use of AnyDesk. 
From 25 June 2021 to 23 August 2021, Mr A sent 13 payments totalling £46,450 to B from 
his HSBC current account (via faster payment and debit card payments). After converting his 
GBP to crypto on his B crypto exchange account, Mr A sent that crypto to his C trading 
platform. 
After making his first deposits, Mr A saw the scammer place several trades (on his behalf) 
and Mr A was able to manually close trades when he wished. Mr A said actively watching 
and participating in live trades made everything seem genuine. And seeing his trades doing 
well is what persuaded Mr A to invest further funds. 
Mr A says he asked the scammer about the withdrawal process. She confirmed it was very 
easy, however she explained that withdrawing may potentially stunt the growth of Mr As 
account and Mr A trusted the scammer as she was an expert. 
Mr A continued to invest via other banking providers and sent over £300,000 via another 
banking provider. He obtained the funds by way of business borrowing. Around early 
November 2021, Mr A asked to withdraw his funds and the scammer explained hed have to 
pay several fees (including taxes) to do so. He made payments in accordance with the 
scammers instructions but his withdrawal request didnt materialise. Mr A found that the 
scammers behaviour became more suspicious, and he seized all communication with the 
scammer after realising hed been scammed.
By December 2021, Mr A said Cs website had been removed. 
Mr A reported the scam to HSBC around 9 December 2022. HSBC said Mr A never made it 
aware of his vulnerabilities prior to the scam taking place. It said he made no attempt to 
contact the bank for a considerable period and its systems didnt detect the transactions as 
fraudulent. It said it didnt ban transactions to B and ultimately didnt agree to refund any of 
Mr As disputed transactions. 
Unhappy with HSBCs response, Mr A referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our Investigators upheld the complaint in part. She felt there were unusual 
transactions and a meaningful warning would likely have made a difference to Mr A. But she 
also felt he should share responsibility for some of his losses as the returns were too good to 
be true and there was a warning published about C at the time of his investment. Mr A didnt 
agree. He didnt think he should share any responsibility for the losses as it was a very 
sophisticated scam and no warnings were present at the time he invested with C.
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for determination. 
On 4 December 2023, I issued a provisional decision not upholding Mr As complaint. For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold this complaint. 
Before I go onto explain why, Ive noted that our investigator (on more than one occasion) 
asked Mr A for all his correspondence with the scammer, along with mobile phone 
messages. Mr A provided limited email communication with the scammer and explained that 
he deleted all of his mobile phone messages with the scammer. So, Ive based my decision 
on the evidence I do have available. Ive also not commented on all the original complaint 
points and only focussed my decision on what remains in dispute. 
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have duties to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering (see below). But when simply executing 
authorised payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains 
or give investment advice  and the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would not 
constitute unauthorised investment advice. 
Theres no dispute from either party that Mr A was the victim of a scam. The evidence before 
me also indicates that Mr A was the victim of an investment scam. Having concluded that 
this was a scam rather than just a genuine investment that went wrong. I must now go on to 
consider three more issues in order to determine the outcome of the complaint:
1. Were any of the payments Mr A made out of character and unusual and should 
HSBC have intervened before processing them?
2. If so, would HSBCs intervention have made a difference and prevented or reduced 
the loss?
3. And if so, should Mr A bear some responsibility for the loss such that it would be fair 
and reasonable to reduce compensation proportionately.Were any of the payments out of character and unusual and should HSBC have intervened 
before processing them?
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr A for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. This is 
because they were made by Mr A using the legitimate security credentials provided to him 
by HSBC. These must be regarded as authorised payments even though Mr A was the 
victim of a scam. So, although he did not intend the money to go to scammers, under the 
Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his account, Mr A is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of  terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Neither party disagrees with our Investigators view that Mr As seventh payment to B dated 
21 July 2021 ought to have been considered unusual. I think this is fair. Payments one to six 
were all under £5,000 with sufficient time and space between them. I dont think they 
indicated a pattern of spend that HSBC ought to have reasonably suspected a fraud or scam 
could be taking place. But payment seven totalled £2,500 and it was made on the same day 
as payment six (£4,000)  taking the spend in that day to £6,500 which was very unusual for 
Mr A. I also agree that it wouldve been reasonable for HSBC to have intervened. 
I am satisfied HSBC ought fairly and reasonably to have intervened by contacting Mr A to 
ask some questions about the nature and purpose of the payment Ive highlighted before 
agreeing to process it. 
I dont see that HSBC contacted Mr A and therefore it was a missed opportunity to intervene. 
Would HSBCs intervention have made a difference and prevented Mr As loss?
If HSBC had fulfilled its duties by asking suitably probing questions, there is no reason to 
doubt that Mr A would have explained what he was doing and that the purpose of the 
payment was to invest. 
In such circumstances, whilst HSBC had no duty to protect him from a bad bargain or give 
investment advice, it should have asked Mr A some further questions to ascertain whether 
he was likely to be at risk of financial harm from fraud. Ive thought carefully about the sorts 
of questions HSBC shouldve asked, bearing in mind the features of investment scams at 
that time  particularly crypto scams. I think HSBC could have asked how Mr A came across the investment, whether a third party 
was assisting him, whether hed been able to withdraw any funds and whether hed carried 
out any research. At the time of Mr As seventh payment, investment scams carried common 
features. For example, these included rates of return which were too good to be true, 
receiving the opportunity to invest via an unsolicited offer and/or cold call (this could be 
contact via social media) and fraudsters applying pressure to their victims to invest quickly.
I think Mr A wouldve likely explained that he was searching for investment opportunities and 
had made contact with C via a legitimate employment-focussed social media website. Hed 
have also likely explained that hed carried out sufficient research and was persuaded by 
what he saw. Mr A wouldve also likely explained that a third party was assisting him but he 
had control of his trades and could manually close them himself. I think hed have also 
explained his returns would be between 4% to 5%. And with regards to withdrawals, hed 
have likely explained that he understood he could withdraw at anytime but didnt plan to yet. 
I think Mr A wouldve likely explained that he was happy with his investment and he planned 
to invest further funds. 
Against this backdrop, I think HSBC wouldve likely conducted its own checks into C and 
wouldve likely found no adverse information. As Mr A has explained, the regulator warning 
published about C did not appear on a search engine result until some time after hed made 
his payments and there were no FCA warnings published about them. Ive also not seen any 
warnings published about C on the International Organization of Securities Commissions 
Investor Alerts Portal nor have I seen negative customer reviews at the material time. Mr A 
wasnt under pressure to make payments as he was making his deposits voluntarily on the 
basis that he was happy with the performance of the investment. 
I dont think HSBC wouldve likely concluded with any degree of certainty that Mr A was most 
likely falling victim to a scam as; he had control of his trading account; he wasnt promised 
returns that were too good to be true; he wasnt under pressure to pay; and hadnt had any 
difficulties with withdrawals. But I do think some of his explanation wouldve likely caused 
HSBC some concern and prompted it into providing a meaningful warning around 
investment scams  specifically crypto scams and how they operate. I think HSBC could 
have explained the risks with crypto trading particularly if the third party hes dealing with is 
unregulated (which they appeared to be at the time), that trading platforms can appear 
legitimate but can be fake and can make it seem like consumers have large profits. I think 
HSBC could have explained that if Mr A is asked to pay money to release money this could 
indicate a scam as customers often face problems when they try to withdraw funds. I think 
HSBC could have also explained that scammers can advertise on social media platforms.
I dont think Mr A wouldve been concerned based on the above warning as he appeared to 
be bought into the scam and hadnt yet faced problems with withdrawals. I also dont think 
any further payments made by Mr A to B after payment seven wouldve caused HSBC to 
reasonably suspect that he could be falling victim to a scam. Whilst the total amount he paid 
to B after payment seven on particular days were slightly increased, the frequency of his 
payments were sporadic. I therefore dont think HSBC had any grounds to intervene in any 
further payments Mr A made to B. 
Ive also taken Mr As personal circumstances into account but I dont think HSBC wouldve 
had cause to suspect that Mr A could be vulnerable. He didnt disclose to his consultant that 
hed stopped taking his medication and hadnt previously notified HSBC of his personal 
circumstances. I therefore dont think its likely Mr A wouldve disclosed information about his 
mental health to HSBC at the time of any hypothetical intervention. Mr As letter from his 
consultant states theres no concern that Mr A lacks capacity and so I dont think HSBC 
shouldve drawn any reasonable conclusions that Mr A was unable to make his own financial 
decisions  even if they were high risk.Part of my consideration includes that Mr A was so bought into the scam that he borrowed 
£300,000 by way of a business loan to fund further payments to it via another banking 
provider (which has been referred to this service as a separate complaint). That doesnt 
indicate to me that Mr A had any concerns with C. In my judgement and based on what Ive 
seen, it would have taken something particularly credible to dissuade him from investing. I 
dont think that anything credibly tangible existed at the trigger point I think HSBC ought to 
have reasonably intervened. I therefore dont think there would have been anything HSBC 
could have reasonably said to change Mr As mind about investing. 
I finally have to highlight that its difficult to find Mr As testimony particularly credible. He 
says he didnt try to withdraw until November 2021 but some of the limited email 
communication between Mr A and the scammer discusses requests for tax payments or fees 
required from C around the end of August 2021, September 2021 and October 2021. With 
various certificates of his winnings presented to him in September, October and November 
2021, with requests for him to pay more. Mr A also says that he realised C were scammers 
shortly after his withdrawal request didnt materialise and he seized contact with them after 
their website disappeared (December 2021). Yet hes provided email communication with 
the scammer in June 2022 and that communication doesnt indicate that Mr A had concerns 
that C were scammers. Therefore, Im not entirely satisfied we have a picture of what truly 
happened. But in any event, I dont think theres anything to support that Mr A had any 
concerns with his investment until after he sent all his payments from his HSBC account. 
In other words, I am satisfied a warning from HSBC probably would have made no difference 
to Mr A. Any failings by HSBC were not the dominant, effective cause of his losses; they 
were just part of the background history or occasion that led up to them.
In light of my conclusions above on whether a warning would have made a difference, it is 
unnecessary for me to go on to consider whether Mr A himself was partly to blame for what 
happened (contributory negligence). Indeed, I have already concluded that he was 
responsible for his own investment decisions, and that such choices were the proximate 
cause of his losses.
Responses to my provisional decision 
HSBC responded to my provisional decision and confirmed it had nothing to add. 
Mr A responded to my provisional decision and said in summary:
There was a clear and obvious fraud pattern. He agrees that the 7th payment 
shouldve been stopped.
It is unfair to assume that he would not have listened to the bank at a time of the 
intervention payment. I indicate several scam hallmarks in my decision, however, 
seem to place a greater onus on him being invested in the scam. Had the bank 
probed him, they could have prompted him to arrive in a bank and discuss the 
payments in person. This could have led to the bank enacting Banking protocol at an 
early point during the scam. Payment 7 took place ahead of him sending over 
£300,000. Therefore he would not have been as invested in the scam as I ascertain 
he had been. Bank staff are trained to spot hallmarks and it is rare that they check 
websites when having such calls with customers. A scam is usually detected before 
a call handler checks such websites due to hallmarks such as the deposit to 
withdrawal ratio. Simply looking at the scam companys website would have 
revealed to the call handler/branch adviser that something was untoward. This is 
what they are trained to do. Likewise I have further used scam hallmarks in declaring 
why he wouldve believed the scam was genuine; he could see the trades on a live 
platform, and he had a trusting rapport with the scammer. The onus is placed on the 
bank here to detect this and advise the client accordingly. His medical evidence is being used against him. It is clear that he was vulnerable at 
the time. Our service asks for evidence to back this up, which has been provided. It 
has never been put forward that he lacked capacity. His depression affected his 
decision making at the time of the scam  which is clear considering how out of 
character it was for him to invest the funds he did. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
For the reasons Ive explained in my provisional decision (which forms part of this final 
decision), I think it would have taken something particularly credible to convince Mr A that 
hed likely fallen victim to a scam. At the time of his seventh payment, there was no credible 
adverse information about C and Mr A also didnt have any concerns with C at the time of 
this payment. 
I still dont think HSBC wouldve likely concluded with any degree of certainty that Mr A was 
most likely falling victim to a scam as; he had control of his trading account; he wasnt 
promised returns that were too good to be true; he wasnt under pressure to pay; and hadnt 
had any difficulties with withdrawals. Upon receiving this information, I dont think HSBC 
would have reasonably been concerned that Mr A was most likely falling victim to a scam 
and so I dont think it would have reasonably required him to attend a branch for further 
discussions. But I do think some of his explanation wouldve likely caused HSBC some 
concern and prompted it into providing a meaningful warning around investment scams  
specifically crypto scams and how they operate. I think HSBC could have explained the risks 
with crypto trading particularly if the third party hes dealing with is unregulated (which C 
appeared to be at the time), that trading platforms can appear legitimate but can be fake and 
can make it seem like consumers have large profits. I think HSBC could have explained that 
if Mr A is asked to pay money to release money this could indicate a scam as customers 
often face problems when they try to withdraw funds. I think HSBC could have also 
explained that scammers can advertise on social media platforms.
I also explained that Mr As inconsistent testimony and lack of supporting evidence has been 
factored into my decision. 
Taking everything into account, Im still not persuaded a meaningful warning into crypto 
investment scams wouldve stopped Mr A in his tracks. I think he believed what he was 
doing was a real investment opportunity (particularly given the substantial sums he went 
onto invest with C). He didnt have any concerns with C and I think in the absence of 
something more concrete  like a regulator warning for example, I dont think a meaningful 
warning from HSBC alone would have caused him to do anything differently. 
I do empathise with the personal circumstances Mr A has told us about and I accept it must 
have been a very difficult time for him, Im pleased hes now receiving the support he needs. 
I dont agree that my provisional decision used Mr As medical evidence against him. In Mr 
As complaint letter he explained he was in a vulnerable position and more susceptible to 
the scammers manipulative ways. He also said he stopped taking his medication 
unbeknownst to his psychiatrist at the time. And that his decision-making capabilities were 
altered at the time of the scam, and we hope that you will account for this when considering 
the complaint. I therefore, took this information into account when arriving at my decision as 
requested by Mr A. In my judgement, I dont think HSBC wouldve had cause to suspect that Mr A could be vulnerable as I dont think his personal circumstances wouldve come up 
during the course of any intervention conversation (for the reasons explained in my 
provisional decision). I also dont think HSBC shouldve drawn any reasonable conclusions 
at the time of an intervention that Mr A was unable to make his own financial decisions  
even if they were high risk ones.
My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathies for Mr As loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 January 2024.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman