DRN-3102500
The complaint
Mr R complains that he was mis-sold Life Insurance and Critical Insurance Cover (CIC), 
referred to as the policy by JCT600 Limited. 
He says he was told/led to believe that the policy was a condition of his borrowing, even 
though he didnt want or need it.  
What happened
In 2005, JCT600 sold Mr R the policy alongside a personal loan (to purchase a car) provided 
by a third-party insurer. The basic loan comprised of £17,664 for the car and £1,527 for the 
insurance policy. 
But with interest, document fees and acceptance fees  less a £845 deposit  this amounted 
to £22,326  which included payment for the insurance policy (with interest). According to 
the agreement, the term of the loan was for five years at a cost of around £362 a month  
with two additional monthly payments. 
It appears that the insurance policy  which was the Bronze option  was designed to run 
for the same period as the personal loan, and in the event of a valid claim pay off the 
outstanding loan amount. 
In 2020, Mr R complained that the insurance policy was mis-sold. He says he had employee 
benefits at the time  namely redundancy pay and death in service pay  therefore he didnt 
want or need additional cover. He also said that he was told/led to believe that if he didnt 
take out the policy his loan would be refused.     
Im mindful that the complaint was initially made as a Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) 
complaint against the insurer, because thats what Mr R initially thought it was, before he 
was directed to JCT600. 
JCT600 initially said that the complaint had been made too late but later consented to us 
considering the merits of this complaint. It doesnt accept that it has done anything wrong. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
short, he said:
On the face of the evidence, he cant say that the policy was compulsory. The credit 
agreement showed that it was optional, therefore despite what he says, Mr R ought 
reasonably to have been aware of this. 
Mr R was sold the Bronze plan which provided Life Cover and CIC only. So, in the 
event of his death or being diagnosed with a specified critical illness the policy was 
designed to pay off the outstanding loan amount.  
Mr R accepts that he didnt have any cover in place at the time, therefore he cant 
say there was no need for the policy.   
PPI  which is what Mr R initially complained about would only cover the monthly 
loan repayments for a set period. In contrast, the policy would pay out a lump sum to 
cover the balance of the loan, less any arrears. 
The redundancy benefit Mr R refers to, wouldnt cover him if he died or was 
diagnosed with a specified critical illness. Furthermore, the death in service benefit 
couldve been taken away by Mr Rs employer at any moment. 
Just because Mr R didnt claim on the policy doesnt mean there was no need for it. 
Mr R didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
maintains the policy was mis-sold.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr R says, Im unable to safely 
say that the policy in respect of his personal loan, was mis-sold.   
Given the passage of time, Im not surprised that JCT600 is unable to provide more 
information about the point of sale. Financial businesses arent required to retain information 
indefinitely, so I cant blame the business for not being able to provide more information 
about the sale of a product that took place over 16 years ago.
Nevertheless, my role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr R and JCT600, and reach 
what I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information 
Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to safely say that there 
wasnt any need for the policy. l note that Mr R was employed, almost 30 years of age and 
living with his partner at the time. He also had a mortgage, but little/no savings or life 
insurance. Therefore, in the circumstances I think the recommendation to cover his loan was 
sensible. 
In the unfortunate event of Mr R dying or being diagnosed with a specified critical illness, the 
insurance policy was designed to pay out a lump sum and pay off the outstanding loan, 
leaving his car to his partner or loved ones free of any charge. So, in the circumstances, and 
on balance, I don't think the recommendation for cover was an unsuitable recommendation. 
I note the credit agreement document  on page one of two  made clear that this policy was 
optional. It said: This recommended insurance is optional. The word entered in the space 
below marked with an arrowhead indicates the Type of Payment Protection Plan you have 
selected or that you do not require.  
I note that the word Bronze was displayed in the space provided, but Mr R couldve 
selected None, if he didnt want cover, but didnt. I also note further instructions next to the 
space provided which stated: Payment Protection Plan Type required (if none required, 
enter None).I note that Mr R signed (and initialled) the form  containing some additional handwritten 
details about the car  and was witnessed doing so by the adviser, therefore I think its more 
likely than not Mr R agreed with the contents of the form, including the policy and level of 
cover. If Mr R signed the form without reading it, I cant blame JCT600 for that. So, despite 
what Mr R now says, based on the available evidence Im satisfied that it was made 
reasonably clear that the policy wasnt compulsory. In other words, he could still borrow 
money without taking out an insurance policy. 
Im also aware that if Mr R later changed his mind, he couldve cancelled the policy within 
the 30-day cooling off period as made clear in the Key Features Document (KFD). 
Its possible that the adviser recommended that Mr R take out the policy to protect the loan 
and did so in strong terms, which I dont think is unreasonable. In the circumstances, I would 
expect the business to advise Mr R to take out cover as there wasnt any cover in place at 
the time.  
I note that the option selected was Bronze  out of the Bronze, Silver and Gold options  
therefore I think its more likely (than not) different options were discussed and Mr R selected 
the level of cover that he wanted, i.e. lowest of the three options. I note the Silver and Gold 
levels related to those in employment or self-employment, needing cover for accident or 
sickness from work.
I note the KFD makes clear that life cover is available to all three options. It states: Full 
clearance of outstanding balance (excluding any arrears) up to a maximum of £75,000 
which I assume is the maximum level of cover out of the three plans. Im mindful this isnt 
what Mr R is complaining about.     
I also note that the KFD makes clear that the policy was designed to remain in force for the 
period of the loan, and because it would only cover the outstanding balance this would 
suggest the plan was most likely designed to go down in line with the outstanding loan 
amount, over the term of the loan. So, on the face of the limited available evidence, and on 
balance, Im unable to safely say that the recommendation was unsuitable. 
Even though this might be considered a short / medium term lending, the amount borrowed 
wasnt insubstantial, and the monthly premiums were relatively small. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that Mr R couldnt afford the policy. 
Im satisfied that Mr R was insured for as long as he was paying the premiums, and in the 
event of a valid claim, within the term of the policy  so long as the premiums were up to 
date  the insurer wouldve paid off the outstanding loan amount. Just because Mr R didnt 
need to make a claim doesnt mean hes lost out or that the policy was mis-sold. So, in the 
circumstances Im unable to safely say that Mr R is entitled to a refund of the premiums paid. 
Furthermore, I think Mr R has drawn conclusions, based upon the available information, 
which he suggests proves that the policy was mis-sold. But I dont agree with the 
conclusions hes reached.
Im mindful of the points made by him about his employee benefits. It is the case that those 
employee benefits would only have been available whilst Mr R remained in that particular 
employment. And even if he did stay in that employment, there was no guarantee that the 
benefits wouldnt be withdrawn or changed at any time by his employer.
Whilst I appreciate Mr Rs points, the insurance policy, in contrast, would continue to provide 
cover if the premiums were paid. Despite what Mr R says, employee benefits arent 
generally considered to be an adequate replacement for life cover. Im aware that this complaint has taken some time to resolve. Im mindful that this complaint 
started off life as a PPI complaint against the insurer, and there was some confusion as to 
who was responsible and whether (or not) the complaint was made in time. In the 
circumstances Im unable to say that JCT600 has behaved unreasonably.   
I appreciate Mr R will be disappointed that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what he wants to hear. But on the face 
of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman