DRN-3132414
The complaint
P complains about the decision of Covea Insurance plc to decline its business interruption 
insurance claim, made as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
P held a business protection insurance policy underwritten by Covea. The policy provided a 
number of areas of cover, including for business interruption. In March 2020, following the 
closure of its business, P contacted Covea to claim for its loss of income. Covea declined 
the claim though. Both parties are aware of the circumstances and arguments that have 
been raised, so I do not intend to repeat these in detail. 
Essentially, Covea said the standard business interruption cover provided by the policy 
related to situations where damage had occurred and this had led to the interruption or 
interference, but Covea said that COVID-19 had not caused such damage. Covea also said 
that two additional areas of cover that P had referred to also didnt respond to the 
circumstances. Covea didnt think P had shown that its business had been interrupted as a 
result of an outbreak of COVID-19 at the premises. And it did not consider P had been 
directed to close by a competent authority as a result of its defective sanitation. 
P disagreed. It has provided evidence to support its position that COVID-19 was present on 
the premises. It has also argued that it was told to close by its local council as a result of its 
defective sanitation. When Covea didnt change its stance, P brought its complaint to this 
service. 
However, our Investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld. He was not 
persuaded that the evidence provided by P had shown it was more likely than not that there 
was the occurrence at Ps premises of an outbreak of a relevant disease that had led to the 
interruption of Ps business. And he also didnt think P had been closed by order of a 
competent authority due to its defective sanitation. 
P remained unsatisfied and this complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact the COVID-19 
pandemic has had on P, and about the health and other issues those associated with P have 
suffered. But I wont be upholding Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
I should firstly say that the submissions from P on this complaint have been detailed. I have 
considered all of the evidence provided, but I have not attempted to address each of the 
points raised within this decision. Instead, I have limited the issues in this decision to those 
that I consider key in resolving this complaint. 
Additionally, whilst a number of individuals have been involved in the communications 
around this claim, for the sake of simplicity I have just referred to P and Covea as they are 
the parties to this complaint. I have also just referred to business interruption and not to 
interference as, whilst these two things are different, I do not consider this difference to be 
significant to the outcome of this case.
The type of cover Ps looking to claim under is business interruption insurance. There are a 
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide 
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add-ons. The starting 
point is to consider the specific policy P took out.
The core cover provided by the business interruption section of Ps policy, as well as a 
number of the additions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured which has been caused by damage to property. Whilst I appreciate the pandemic 
has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage to property 
which has led to an interruption of Ps business.
So, I dont think either the core business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely on 
there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Ps claim. And I think 
Covea acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Ps claim under this area of cover.
P has made its arguments around two additions to this cover. Ill refer to these as the 
disease extension and the compulsory closure extension. 
The disease extension
The cover under this clause is for loss resulting from interruption with the business as a 
consequence of the occurrence at the premises of any outbreak of human infectious or 
contagious disease. The cover excludes AIDS or AIDS related conditions. 
Ps arguments include reference to this cover not being limited to COVID-19 and this is true. 
It isnt disputed that COVID-19 would fall into the type of disease covered, nor that many 
other diseases also would. However, P would need to show that an outbreak of such a 
disease had led to a business interruption. It does not seem that, for example, an outbreak 
of flu occurred which interrupted Ps business. So, even if there was been an outbreak of a 
disease other than COVID-19 at the premises, I do not consider it has been shown that this 
caused an interruption to Ps business.
P has provided evidence to support its position that COVID-19 was at the premises, and has 
not argued that any other disease has caused an interruption to its business. So, effectively, 
this means it is for me to determine whether Covea acted appropriately when declining the 
claim on the basis that it did not consider P had demonstrated that there was the occurrence 
of an outbreak of COVID-19 at Ps premises. 
I should note here that Covea has pointed to the fact that this term requires there to have 
been an outbreak of the disease at the premises. And has said that this means there needs 
to have been more than one person who had sustained the disease at the premises. 
However, before it is necessary for me to consider whether or not the term outbreak in this 
clause requires multiple relevant cases at the premises, I need to consider whether the 
evidence persuades me that there was at least one such case. And, as I will explain, I am 
not persuaded of this. So, it is not necessary for me to make a finding on Coveas 
interpretation here.
Similarly, P has said that it is the presence of the disease, rather than specifically a person that needs to be demonstrated. But a human disease must occur in a person, so I do not 
think drawing a line here adds a great deal. 
Turning to the outcome of Ps claim under the disease extension, the basic principle that is 
relevant at this point is that it is for P to evidence that there was such an occurrence. 
P has provided some evidence to support it position and has referred to a number of 
individuals as those likely to have sustained COVID-19. 
Largely, the evidence comprises of partially redacted testimony. Some of this testimony is 
contemporaneous and some of it has been created some time after the events in question. 
Testimony is of course useful evidence. However, different evidence attracts different 
weight, and whilst I have no particular reason to doubt any of the specific evidence provided, 
testimony from a long time after the events in question, which is not supported, is not going 
to carry as much weight as other evidence might. 
A number of the individuals who have provided testimony have not indicated that they 
suffered from COVID-19 themselves. They refer to being close contacts of those who did 
have the disease, but this doesnt show that they had the disease themselves  especially 
whilst on Ps premises. So, I dont think any of the testimony from these individuals is 
especially persuasive in terms of the relevant issue.
One of the individuals refers to having developed symptoms of COVID-19 around 8 days 
after having been on the premises. The period someone may have had the disease and not 
shown symptoms differs, but I consider this period to be too long to be persuasive that they 
most likely had the disease at the time they were on the premises. Some comments have 
been made that they may have returned to the premises within this period, but they are not 
definitive and are unsupported. 
Much of the testimony also doesnt set out what symptoms were suffered. One individual has 
said that they developed COVID-19 symptoms a few days after being on the premises, but 
has not said what these symptoms were. And so, it is not clear whether they were symptoms 
that might strongly suggest COVID-19 or were symptoms that could have been the result of 
another illness. So again, this type of testimony is not overly persuasive.
Very little evidence has been provided to support the testimony. It isnt even clear that any of 
the individuals were actually on the premises at the relevant points in time. I have no 
particular reason to doubt that they were, but I consider the limited nature of the evidence 
provided does not help to build a persuasive picture in support of Ps claim. 
I note P has also referred to a number of individuals that it says also suffered COVID-19 
whilst at the premises. However, it has not been able to share a great deal of detail about 
these individuals.
I do appreciate the issues P may have experienced in obtaining and providing certain 
evidence. I recognise that some individuals may not want their personal information being 
shared. But, unfortunately, the issue that needs to be evidenced relates to whether 
individuals had sustained a disease at a particular time and place. This is an inherently 
personal issue and evidencing it will usually require the disclosure of personal information. 
So, whilst I recognise the difficulties P faces in this regard, the situation remains that it is for 
P to demonstrate that it is more likely than not that there was the occurrence of an outbreak 
of a relevant disease at its premises, and that this led to its business being interrupted. I do 
not consider the evidence provided has done this. 
I do note Ps argument around the prevalence of COVID-19 in the community at the time. And it is possible that someone had sustained the disease and been on the premises. But I 
do not consider the rates of COVID-19 in the wider community demonstrate that it was more 
likely than not that the particular individuals that attended Ps premises had sustained the 
disease at the time they were on those premises. I do not consider it would be fair or 
reasonable, in the circumstances of this particular case, to say that Covea had come to an 
incorrect decision on the claim based on this argument. 
Ultimately, I dont think P has demonstrated that it was more likely than not that there was an 
occurrence of an outbreak of a human infectious or contagious disease at its premises that 
caused an interruption to its business. So, it follows that I do not consider Covea acted 
inappropriately when declining Ps claim under the disease extension. 
The compulsory closure extension
This clause provides cover for losses resulting from; the compulsory closure of the premises 
by order of any competent authority due to its defective sanitation.
I do note that P has said that it took the decision to close on 20 March 2020. P has said that 
this was a temporary measure, to wait for a decision on whether they should remain open 
from its local council on the following Monday. Ps opening hours include the weekend, so 
the closure on 20 March resulted in an interruption to its normal business. Given it was, at 
this time, waiting for confirmation from the council on what to do, it seems clear this decision 
was not one imposed by an order of the council  or any other competent authority. As such, 
it may be that by the time any later order was made the business had already been 
interrupted. 
However, I have considered whether, if this is not the case, P was subsequently closed by 
the order of a competent authority due to its defective sanitation.
Much of the arguments made have surrounded the interpretation of defective sanitation. 
But, whilst I note the arguments raised, the first question is whether Ps premises were 
closed by order of a competent authority. 
In support of this, P has referred to correspondence with its local council. Apparently 
following a number of phone calls, the council sent P an email message on 23 March 2020 
which read:
Ive carefully considered the information you shared with me in respect of your staff, 
the sanitation situation and the possibility of coronavirus being present at your 
premises, and consulted with colleagues in Public Health. I have also consulted the 
guidance received today on closure powers and your premises is one of those that 
must close. The government are indicating that their advice will be reviewed in 28 
days.
I note that P has said its prior conversations with the council were around sanitation issues. 
But the wording of this email suggests that the reason for closure is the result of the council 
consulting the guidance it had apparently received. The consultation of the guidance and the 
requirement that the premises must close are within the same sentence. It isnt clear that the 
background information provided on what the council has also been considering has led to 
this requirement. 
I appreciate P may disagree with this, but it has not been able to provide clarification. P has 
provided an email from the council sent in September 2021. But this just states the councils 
position has been previously set out by other council officers. It does not confirm what this 
position was, and to my mind doesnt add anything to the understanding of the email above.It isnt clear what guidance the council had received on 23 March. Given the phrasing, I think 
it is likely that this was a reference to the guidance issued in relation to the Health Protection 
(Coronavirus, Business Closure) (England) Regulations 2020. The need for these 
regulations to be reviewed was required every 28 days.
Alternatively, the councils reference may have been to guidance issued alongside the Prime 
Ministers announcement of 23 March 2020 that, in part, non-essential shops should close. 
The actual announcement may have been made later in the day, but it is possible guidance 
was issued prior to this. The instructions were then formalised by the Health Protection 
(Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) Regulations 2020. These two sets of regulations had 
different impacts on different businesses, but were both essentially made for the same 
purpose.
The regulations, and the guidance issued in relation to them, listed a number of types of 
business that were required to close. It isnt clear whether all of the types of business that P 
offers would have fallen within the regulations. But it does seem to me that the guidance that 
was linked to these regulations was what informed the councils statement on 23 March. I 
am unaware of any other guidance the council may have received on this date relating to 
closure powers. So, based on the evidence provided, I think it is most likely that the council 
was referring to this guidance. 
I note Ps arguments that the regulations, and presumably the related guidance, were made 
due to public health issues, and that it considers this to mean they were made due to 
sanitation issues. P has gone into detail around this point and I am merely briefly referring 
to its arguments here, rather than setting them out in detail. I am not inclined to fully agree 
with its arguments, but I dont consider it necessary to make a finding on each of the points 
raised. 
This is because, even if I did agree with Ps arguments, in order for the compulsory closure 
extension to provide cover, the regulations would need to have been made in relation to 
defective sanitation of Ps premises. 
As I understand it, P has said the defect in its sanitation was effectively a difficulty in 
sourcing appropriate cleaning products, etc. Whilst I recognise this would likely have caused 
P problems in terms of operating its business appropriately, I dont think this was the cause 
of the Governments regulations. The guidance for cleaning in the majority of settings, 
including most of those forced to close by the regulations, was that surfaces etc. could be 
cleaned by non-specialist products. And I have seen no evidence to persuade me that any 
supply issues around such products was the cause of the risk to public health that led to the 
regulations. 
I dont consider supply issues relating to cleaning products were the reason for the 
Governments regulations. It follows that I do not consider the guidance relating to these 
regulations, which is what the council seemingly relied on, to have been the result of Ps 
defective sanitation.
I think the councils email on 23 March 2020 said that guidance from the Government 
required P to close. I have seen nothing that persuades me that the guidance the council 
relied on was introduced as a result of Ps defective sanitation. And I dont think the councils 
email says that the specific sanitary situation with Ps business, i.e. that which had 
apparently been discussed in the preceding days, was the reason P had to close. So, I dont 
think this demonstrates P was closed by the order of a competent authority due to its 
defective sanitation. And I dont think Covea acted inappropriately when declining Ps claim 
under this additional cover.Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means Covea should have met Ps claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for P and those associated with it, but I hope Ive provided them with a clear 
explanation of why this policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman