DRN-3046805
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that due to pressure and misleading information from The Royal 
Bank of Scotland Plc they cashed in a pension early to reduce their mortgage balance. They 
ask for compensation for financial loss.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a One account with RBS in 2003 through a broker. The One account 
is a secured current account with a facility limit. The debt is secured by a charge on Mr and 
Mrs Hs house, like a regular mortgage. Originally, the term was due to expire in mid-2016.
In August 2014 RBS wrote to Mr and Mrs H saying they were about £47,000 behind their 
repayment guide plan. At this point, their balance was about £75,000 with less than two 
years of the term remaining.
In May 2015 Mr and Mrs H made payments to their account reducing the balance to about 
£35,000. Soon after this RBS agreed a term extension to 2021. Mr and Mrs H have recently 
sold their house and repaid the account. 
Mr and Mrs H say they drew down a pension early to reduce the balance in 2015. They say 
they wouldnt have done this if RBS hadnt persistently written to them about reducing their 
balance. They say this caused financial loss: they paid additional fees to the pension 
provider, paid additional income tax, and lost out on growth of the pension fund. They say 
Mr H will now have to work for longer.
RBS said Mr H had told it he intended to cash in his pension before he spoke to their 
repayments team. It didnt consider it was responsible for Mr and Mrs Hs decision to do this, 
or for any related loss. RBS offered £200 for the time taken to review what had happened 
and respond.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties, setting out why I didnt intend to uphold this 
complaint. In summary, while RBS made errors, I didnt think it was responsible for Mr and 
Mrs Hs decision to cash in a pension.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree. Mrs H sent detailed comments, which Ive referred to where 
appropriate in my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS says it made errors. It says it didnt make the nature of the One account clear to 
customers, some of whom thought the account operated like an interest only mortgage with 
no need to repay the borrowing until the term expired. It also says that letters and calls it had 
with some customers between 2012 to 2014 resulted in them being told it would enforce a 
reduction in their borrowing limit.
RBS contacted Mr and Mrs H in 2019 as it had identified them as customers that might have 
been affected by this. RBS said it would compensate Mr and Mrs H for financial loss 
resulting from its error. After a further review, it contacted them again in 2021 offering 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its repayment guide process 
and complaint handling failures. 
I dont need to decide whether RBS made errors  it accepts that it did. What I do have to 
decide is what financial loss, if any, Mr and Mrs H suffered as a result of RBSs errors. In 
doing to, Ive taken the following into account.
Mr and Mrs Hs account was changed from reducing (where the limit reduced 
periodically) to level (with the limit remaining the same) in 2006. RBS sent a repayment 
guide which set out how the balance needed to reduce over time for the debt to be 
repaid by 2016.
RBS sent regular statements to Mr and Mrs H which set out their balance and how this 
compared to the repayment guide.
RBS wrote to Mr and Mrs H on 7 August 2014 saying they were behind their repayment 
guide. The letter said If you are not in a position to reduce the balance to the planned 
position then please just give us a call. You'll speak with someone on our team who will 
listen to your situation and take you through your available optionsIf we don't hear from 
you and you haven't reduced the balance, we'll be in touch again soon to discuss your 
account.
Mr H called RBS on 15 August. He said he wasnt worried about the account. He wanted 
to update RBS that he had a pension that hed cash in March 2015 and pay the account.
Mrs H says they only told RBS about the pension as they were worried about it taking 
further action. But the letter theyd received only asked them to contact it to discuss their 
options. It didnt say RBS was about to take any action other than to try to get in contact 
with them.
On 19 August 2014 Mr H told RBS they were aware of the account position but werent 
concerned as hed have a pension lump sum of £120,000 in March 2015. RBSs notes 
say [Mr H] has confirmed that it was not always his intention to use this to pay the 
mortgage. However he has said this may be used to pay either all or some of the 
mortgage balance, he is seeking IFA on this. Mr H also said during this call that he 
might make a formal request for a term extension in early 2015.
RBSs notes of the call on 19 August then say that it made Mr H aware that we cannot 
allow the situation to keep declining and that we are going to put a more structured 
approach in on the account. This will mean the facility being reduced on an annual basis 
in line with the remaining term. What will now happen is that in 30 days time we will 
reduce the facility by £1 at that time we will send a letter confirming that this has been 
done and also confirming what the facility will be reduced to a year from then.
RBS wrote to Mr and Mrs H in September saying the facility limit would reduce in 
October 2015 to £38,000.
The first significant reduction in the facility limit was scheduled for October 2015  more 
than a year away. Mr and Mrs H say they didnt look into or take any steps towards trying 
to refinance the loan or selling the property at this time, to avoid cashing in the pension. They say this was because Mrs H had recently started a new job after a period of 
unemployment and she was the main earner. 
Mr H told RBS in August 2014 he might ask for a term extension in early 2015. Mr and 
Mrs H didnt ask for a term extension before cashing in the pension. Mrs H says this was 
RBS hadnt offered this as a solution at that point. 
Mr and Mrs H made payments to reduce the balance in May 2015, five months before 
the planned reduction in the facility limit. Mrs H says this was because the pension funds 
arrived quicker than theyd expected and theyd been advised by their financial adviser to 
draw funds in steps to minimise tax.
Mr and Mrs H asked for, and RBS agreed to, a term extension in May 2015. I dont know 
if RBS would have agreed to extend the term of the facility if the account balance hadnt 
been reduced, or if theyd asked in early 2015.
When RBS contacted Mr and Mrs H in mid-2014 the balance of the account was 
increasing (from about £56,000 in July 2013 to about £75,000 in August 2014). They say 
this was a temporary issue with their finances and Mrs H was offered a new job in July 
2014 which put them on a better footing. However, the account balance increased from 
about £35,000 in May 2015 to more than £70,000 in April 2016. Mrs H says this was 
because the account was a cheap way to borrow rather than take out personal loans. 
However, the increase in their borrowing suggests they werent in a position to reduce or 
repay the debt from income.
Why Im not upholding this complaint
Mr and Mrs Hs term was due to expire in July 2016. RBS sent regular statements and I think 
it made them aware of the account balance and when it was due. I appreciate that the 
contact from RBS in 2014 might have prompted Mr and Mrs H to think more about how 
theyd repay the debt. It might well have prompted them to make a payment to reduce the 
balance sooner than they would otherwise have done.
However, I dont think I can fairly say that RBS is responsible for Mr and Mrs Hs decision to 
cash in a pension or any losses that resulted from this. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt tell RBS they intended to refinance or sell the property before term 
expiry. Or that Mrs Hs new job meant they be better placed to deal with the debt in a year or 
so They told RBS theyd have a pension lump sum available in March 2015 and would take 
independent financial advice. 
Mrs H says they only took advice in order to access the pension funds, as this was a 
requirement at the time. She says they didnt take advice about whether to use the pension 
funds to repay the debt. It was perhaps unfortunate that Mr and Mrs H limited the advice 
they took this way and didnt take advice about using the pension funds to repay the debt or 
whether there were other options, but I dont think RBS could have known theyd do this. 
Even if, as Mrs H says, they told RBS about the pension in August 2014 to stop it taking 
further action they could still have considered their options after this, and taken independent 
financial advice.
Mrs H says they were never in financial difficulty, she earns a good salary and has well-
funded pensions. Mrs H says they always intended to sell the property when the time was 
right. Mrs H says they sold their house in 2021 as this was the right time to sell given housing market conditions. They couldnt have known this in 2015  but in any case, they 
didnt ask for an extension until after theyd cashed the pension and repaid part of the debt.
Mr and Mrs H knew they had to repay the debt by July 2016. Mrs H says theyd have had 
better options in 2016  that theyd have been able to re-mortgage or downsize in 2016 but 
were unable to do so in 2015. If it was Mr and Mrs Hs intention to re-mortgage or sell the 
property to repay the debt, Id have expected them to tell RBS this. Theres no evidence they 
did  they told RBS theyd cash in a pension.
Mr and Mrs H made the repayment in May 2015, five months before the planned reduction in 
the facility limit. Mrs H says this is because they were advised to take out pension funds in 
steps to minimise tax, and the funds arrived quicker than theyd expected. But I dont think 
this changes the outcome here. Mr and Mrs H hadnt at this point asked for a term extension, 
and wouldnt have known whether RBS would agree to one. So they needed to plan how to 
repay all of the debt by July 2016. If they had a plan for this other than cashing in the 
pension they could have raised this with RBS. Theres no evidence that they did. 
Mrs H has emphasised that cashing in the pension was a last resort. This suggests they did 
consider whether other options were available. When they made payments to reduce the 
balance the term expiry was just over a year away. On balance, and taking all of the 
evidence and circumstances into account, I think Mr and Mrs H decided to cash in Mr Hs 
pension as they didnt have better options available to them to repay the debt. 
RBS offered £200 for the time taken to review Mr and Mrs Hs account and respond to their 
request for compensation. It wrote to Mr and Mrs H in March 2021 and in July 2021 offering 
more compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its repayment guide 
process and complaint handling failures, and as a goodwill payment. Mr and Mrs H are 
frustrated that RBS sent the July letter to their old address (theyve moved house and closed 
their accounts with RBS), and that it said it knew nothing about the letter when they called. 
This wasnt part of the complaint brought to us so I cant look into this here. And it doesnt 
change the outcome of the complaint that I am looking into  that is whether Mr and Mrs H 
have financial loss due to RBSs previous errors. I leave it to Mr and Mrs H to decide 
whether to accept this further compensation. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman