DRN-2582630
The complaint
Ms J complains that Aviva Insurance Limited declined a travel insurance claim after the 
airline she was due to travel on went into administration. 
What happened
Ms J travelled abroad in September 2019. Her return flight was cancelled due to the airline 
entering administration. She had to take a different flight home the next day which landed in 
Manchester rather than London. So Ms J made a claim on her travel insurance policy for the 
additional accommodation and travel costs from Manchester to London.
Aviva said the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) had rearranged Ms Js flight to depart on the 
same time and date, at no additional cost. It said Ms J didnt seek assistance from the CAA, 
so it wouldnt cover the claim as this cost could have been avoided if Ms J had followed the 
advice. But it said that if Ms J could evidence that the flight scheduled by the CAA didnt go 
ahead, it would look into her case further.
Our investigator didnt initially uphold the complaint. She didnt think Ms J had provided 
enough information to Aviva and thought it could decline the claim under the policy terms. 
Ms J said she had contacted the CAA by phone at the time and whilst a flight had been 
arranged, she wasnt able to board it. She explained that the CAA had drawn up a list of 
names that were able to board that flight and her name wasnt on it. So she had no option 
but to take the next flight arranged by the CAA, which was the next day. She provided an 
email from the CAA confirming there had been an issue with the aircraft for her replacement 
flight so she couldnt take that flight and was offered the flight the following day to 
Manchester. Despite this, Aviva, still didnt cover the claim. It said the CAA had arranged 
coaches to return customers to the correct airport at no additional cost and should have 
arranged accommodation if Ms J couldnt board a replacement flight until the next day.
After considering the further information, the investigator said that under the policy terms, 
Ms Js claim wasnt covered. But she thought Aviva had misled Ms J by asking her to obtain 
further information, when it wasnt prepared to cover the claim. She felt this could have been 
communicated with Ms J a lot sooner, so asked Aviva to pay her £100 compensation.
Ms J accepted this, but Aviva didnt. So the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator explained why the claim wasnt covered and as both parties agreed Ive not 
reviewed this. What I need to decide is whether Aviva should compensate Ms J for the 
trouble she was put to.
Insurers are required to deal with claims promptly and fairly, as well as providing reasonable 
guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate information on its progress.
When Ms J made her claim Aviva said travel and accommodation costs could be 
considered, but asked her to get confirmation from the CAA that it couldnt fly her back on 
the date of her flight. She was told to gather this information, along with how much refund 
she could obtain from her card providers, so Aviva could work out how to settle the claim. 
Ms J advised that it was difficult to obtain the information from the CAA that Aviva had 
requested.
After many months, Ms J was emailed in May 2020. Aviva said Although not covered under 
the policy, it was agreed that cover would be extended for the costs of staying past your 
original return date if an alternative flight was not provided. But it went on to say that as it 
could see a replacement flight had been arranged for the same time and date as the original 
flight, it wouldnt consider the claim further. Ms J replied soon after to confirm her frustration 
and reiterated she couldnt board the replacement flight.
Ms J provided information showing the CAA moved her to a flight the next day but Aviva 
maintained the decline. It said the CAA should have provided accommodation to her and 
had arranged coaches to return passengers to their intended destination airports.
While that may be correct, I dont think Aviva got to grips with the circumstances of Ms Js 
claim as quickly as it should have done. In the final response letter and some of the later 
correspondence, Aviva still seemed to be under the impression Ms J arranged and paid for 
her own flight home, but she didnt. And I think Aviva mismanaged Ms Js expectations in 
some of its correspondence, which would have given the impression that if she was able to 
provide further information from the CAA, Aviva would look to cover her expenses when that 
wasnt the case.
Ms J spent a lot of time and effort trying to obtain the information from the CAA that Aviva 
had requested. Given what its said about the reason the claim was declined, I think it should 
have known this wasnt likely to make a difference. So Ms J wasted time trying to obtain 
information for no purpose. And after raising her expectations, Avivas decision not to pay 
would have been upsetting. I agree a payment of £100 compensation is fair in these 
circumstances.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay 
£100 to Ms J for the distress and inconvenience caused to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021. 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman