DRN-2208419
The complaint
Mr R is complaining Ageas Insurance Limited has settled a claim a third party made on his 
car insurance policy. 
What happened
Ageas contacted Mr R to say a third party was claiming hed been involved in an accident 
with a parked car. Mr R disputed this as he said he was away at the time. Ageas responded 
to the third party to dispute liability. But the third party responded with two witness 
statements who held Mr R at fault for the accident.
Ageas discussed the matter with Mr R further. Mr R also acknowledged that hed noticed 
white paint on his bumper but he said that was there before the incident. And he asked 
Ageas to send out an engineer to inspect his car. Ageas says the engineer tried to contact 
Mr R numerous times to arrange an appointment but couldnt reach him. Mr R says he 
waited in a number of times, but the engineer didnt turn up.
Ageas subsequently advised Mr R that, as the engineer wasnt able to arrange an 
appointment to inspect the car and, given the evidence the third party had provided, it had 
settled the third partys claim. 
Mr R didnt agree with Ageas decision and referred his complaint to this service. Since then, 
he provided a receipt for a physiotherapy session for someone and Mr R says he took them 
to the appointment, which was on the day of the alleged incident. So Mr R says this shows 
he wasnt in the area at the time of the accident.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said this service doesnt look at who was at 
fault for an accident, but whether an insurer has acted fairly and reasonably. He said based 
on the evidence the third party had provided, he didnt think it was unreasonable it had 
chosen to settle the third partys claim. He acknowledged there was confusion over who was 
at fault for the engineer not inspecting the car. But he said, given Mr R didnt dispute there 
was white paint on the car and the third partys car was white, he didnt think the inspection 
would have changed anything.
Mr R didnt accept the investigators opinion. He maintained he wasnt in the area at the time 
and he said the physiotherapy receipt hed provided proved that. He also said it was the day 
before his wifes birthday, which is why he remembered where he was. He said the neither of 
the witness statements the third party provided could clearly remember what the registration 
number was. 
Mr R was also unhappy his car was never inspected. He said an engineer should have 
inspected his car which would have revealed his car had never been involved in an accident. 
As Mr R didnt agree with the investigator, he asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and I shall now explain why.
I should first explain that it isnt this services role to say whos at fault for causing an 
accident, as that is the responsibility of the courts. Our role is to look at whether Ageas has 
carried out a fair investigation, reviewed all the evidence it has and come to a reasonable 
decision.
Mr Rs policy, like all other car insurance policies, allowed Ageas to take over and defend or 
settle a claim raised. And it has sole discretion as to whether to defend or settle the third 
partys claim. So it was entitled to settle the claim, on the best terms it thought fit. And it had 
the ultimate and final say in how to settle a claim. But it needed to exercise this right fairly 
and reasonably, taking into account everything both parties had provided.
I acknowledge Mr R is adamant he wasnt involved in the accident as he says he was 
elsewhere at the time. But Ageas is entitled to consider the likely outcome if the claim 
proceeded to court. I can see it asked Mr R a number of times to provide evidence he was 
elsewhere at the time, but he didnt provide this.
I dont disagree with Mr R that ideally Ageas should have inspected his car before settling 
the claim. I can see both Ageas and the engineer had difficulty in contacting Mr R. But, 
irrespective of this, Im not persuaded an inspection of the car would have changed the 
situation. Mr R acknowledged early in the claim process that he found some white paint 
transfer which hed rubbed off. And Im conscious the third partys vehicle was white. So I 
think its likely Ageas would have settled the claim even if had inspected Mr Rs car. 
Ultimately, Ageas has said the third partys witnesses were able to describe Mr Rs car, give 
a partial description of his number plate, Mr R admits there was white paint transfer on the 
car and he hadnt provided anything to show he wasnt in the area at the time. So it chose to 
settle the claim on a without prejudice basis.
I acknowledge Mr R has since provided evidence he says shows he wasnt in the area at the 
time. But I need to assess whether Ageass decision was fair based on the evidence it had at 
the time. And Mr R hadnt provided anything at that time to show he wasnt in the area. 
I note Ageas has settled the claim on a without prejudice basis, so Mr R is free to pursue the 
claim directly himself if he chooses, or can present this evidence to Ageas to review. But, Im 
satisfied Ageas did consider everything before doing so. And, ultimately, I cant say Ageass 
decision to settle the third partys claim on a without prejudice basis was unfair.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman