DRN-4202535
The complaint
Mr H complains Nationwide Building Society hasnt refunded a transaction he didnt carry 
out.
What happened
Mr H has a current account with Nationwide with a debit card.
On 28 September 2022 Mr H phoned Nationwide to say that he didnt recognise a 
transaction for £1,695.43 that had taken place that day. His card was reported as lost or 
stolen.
Nationwide says Mr H said hed not shared his PIN with anyone else or written it down. 
Having investigated the disputed transaction, Nationwide said that it wasnt going to refund 
Mr H as there was no plausible explanation as to how his PIN had been compromised.
Mr H complained to Nationwide about its decision, saying that it cant have investigated 
properly as it turned down his claim the same day that he made it. He also complained about 
the outcome. He said Nationwide should check the CCTV of the store where the transaction 
had taken place and that it would see it wasnt him.
Nationwide looked into Mr Hs complaint and said that it had done nothing wrong and that it 
would continue to hold him liable. Nationwide said that only the police were able to request 
CCTV from the store  it couldnt do so. Mr H remained unhappy with Nationwide and 
complained to us. He said that he was in financial difficulties  and behind on bills  because 
of what had happened.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint and said that Nationwide had shown 
the transaction in question had been carried out using Mr Hs genuine card and PIN and that 
the PIN had been entered correctly first time. Our investigator said that there was no obvious 
point at which Mr Hs PIN could have been compromised and, in the circumstances, they 
didnt think it was unfair or unreasonable of Nationwide to hold him liable. Mr H didnt accept 
what our investigator said and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. So, his case was 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr H reported the card used to make the disputed transaction in question as 
lost or stolen. He wasnt able to say when he lost his card, or when it was stolen, or how that 
might have happened. He instead said he noticed that hed lost it when he received a 
notification of the disputed transaction. But he hasnt said anything more about this 
notification and Nationwide has told us that it doesnt send out notifications of payments.
No-one appears to be disputing that Mr Hs genuine card and PIN was used. I can see that 
the last time Mr H used his PIN was the day before. As hes said he hasnt shared his PIN 
with anyone and it isnt written down, I agree that this means there is no plausible 
explanation as to how his PIN was compromised. Mr M has suggested that the transaction 
might have gone through after multiple attempts to input the PIN. But I can see the person 
who used the card got the PIN right first time.
I can also see that a relatively large payment had been made into the account shortly before 
the disputed transaction and that even though the balance of Mr Ms account was higher 
than normal, not only was there over £400 left in the account after the disputed transaction, 
but there were no attempts to check the balance beforehand. I dont think it was unfair or 
unreasonable of Nationwide to take this into account when deciding whether or not it should 
hold Mr M liable.
Given everything Ive said, I agree that Nationwide didnt act unfairly or unreasonably when it 
said it was holding Mr M liable for the disputed transaction  his genuine card and PIN was 
used, and the remaining evidence does not suggest that this was a transaction Mr M didnt 
consent to. So, Im not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman