DRN-1291505
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc settled a claim against his van 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr T was involved in an accident with another driver. Mr T said the other driver was at fault 
as they were undertaking. He said he would provide AXA with dash-cam footage to show he 
wasnt at fault.
Mr T tried to upload the footage a number of times, but AXA had problems viewing it in the 
format it had been sent. After it viewed the footage AXA said it would be looking to settle the 
claim on a 50/50 basis, as neither driver gave way when the traffic merged. AXA also said 
an inspection of Mr Ts van showed the cost of the damage was within the excess so it 
wouldnt carry out the repairs.
Mr T complained to AXA. He thought the other driver should be held at fault and was 
unhappy that AXA hadnt carried out repairs. He also complained about the time the claim 
was taking. He said his premium had gone up at renewal as a result of the claim.
AXA said it should have given Mr T log-in details to provide the dash-cam footage sooner 
and sent him £100 compensation. However, it thought it had made the correct decision to 
settle the claim 50/50. And it said Mr T was responsible for repairing his car as the cost of 
the damage was within his excess. As he remained unhappy Mr T brought his complaint to 
us. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ts complaint but thought AXA had settled the claim fairly.  
Mr T disagreed as he said the other driver shouldnt have been undertaking. He asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service doesnt decide whos at fault for an accident, as thats the role of the court. 
Instead I look to see that AXA has made a fair and reasonable decision, thats in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy. The terms of Mr Ts policy allow AXA to take over and 
settle the claim as they see fit. This means it might make a decision Mr T disagrees with, but 
the policy allows that. 
AXA said the road markings made it clear to both Mr T and the other driver that traffic should 
merge. However, neither driver gave way to the other. I can see that AXA considered Mr Ts 
point that the other driver was undertaking but didnt think there was evidence of this and 
said the other driver was driving level as the traffic was merging. AXA also said it would ask 
the other drivers insurer for their account of what happened before making a decision. In 
doing this I think AXA carried out a reasonable investigation. AXA decided that it wouldnt be 
able to show it was most likely Mr T wasnt at partly at fault if the case went to court. From 
what Ive seen I think this decision was fair and reasonable, as its based on the available 
evidence, as well as AXAs experience of dealing with other claims.
I understand it took a couple of months for AXA to view the dash-cam footage as it wasnt 
able to view the footage in the format Mr T provided. AXA said it should have given Mr T log-
in details to provide the footage in a different way sooner. I do think this caused some 
delays, but I think the £100 AXA has already paid for this is a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation. I say that because I dont think the claim being open for a couple of months 
longer than it should have been caused any loss to Mr T, as he was always likely to be found 
partly at fault. And I think £100 fairly compensates him for the distress and inconvenience of 
having to resubmit the footage a number of times and having the claim open for longer than 
it should have been.  
Turning to the repair of Mr Ts van, the excess is the first part of a claim that the policyholder 
(in this case Mr T) is responsible for. As the cost of repairs was lower than the excess AXA 
wasnt required to repair the damage. I can see however that it directed him towards his 
legal expenses cover to assist with recovering some of his costs, which I think was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr T, but Im not going to require 
AXA to do anything differently. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman