DRN-1990240
The complaint
Miss O complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a 
Marks & Spencer personal reserve account. 
Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) has taken responsibility for this complaint, so to keep things 
simpler Ill just refer to Allianz as the seller in this decision.
What happened
Miss O opened the account and took out the PPI policy in 1996. The policy cost 65p for 
every £100 owed on the account. If Miss O had successfully claimed on the policy for 
accident, sickness or unemployment, it wouldve paid out 15% of the account balance each 
month until either she went back to work or the balance was cleared. 
Miss O said that the PPI wasnt presented as optional and it was unsuitable, inappropriate 
for her needs and inadequately explained. As a result, Miss O is unhappy that shes been 
paying for a policy she says she didnt want or need.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. Miss O disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me to decide how it should be 
settled. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Os complaint. Ill explain why
Theres only limited information available  none of the paperwork Miss O signed when she 
opened this account and took out PPI is still available. And it isnt reasonable to expect 
Miss O to remember exactly what was discussed when she took out PPI so long ago. This 
means that what she says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint 
just based on the way Miss O says she was sold PPI. Ive looked at all the available 
information and made some reasonable assumptions when deciding what I think is most 
likely.
Although Ive seen nothing signed by Miss O, Ive seen an example of a Personal Reserve 
application form.
I think its likely, based on what this Service knows about how Allianz sold PPI, that Miss O 
wouldve had to complete a form similar to this to open her account. In a separate box on the 
form she wouldve had to fill in her name and date of birth to confirm she was the person to 
be insured in order to have PPI added to the account. So I think that Miss O wouldve 
understood at the time that it was up to her to say if she wanted to take it out and that she 
couldve left this section blank if she didnt want the policy. 
Looked at overall, I think Allianz made Miss O aware that the PPI was optional and that she 
chose to take it. I can completely understand why she might no longer remember this, given 
that she completed the application well over 20 years ago. 
Miss O feels strongly that PPI was recommended to her and thats why she took it out  she 
says otherwise, she wouldve walked away.
Allianz says it didnt recommend the policy to Miss O  and based on what we know about 
how Allianz sold PPI, I think thats probably right. But even if Miss O feels PPI mightve been 
recommended to her, I dont think a recommendation to have PPI wouldve been unsuitable 
 so this doesn't affect the outcome of her complaint. 
But Ive looked carefully at whether Allianz gave Miss O enough information to make a 
proper decision about whether PPI was right for her  and if it didn't do this, Ive thought 
about whether that makes any overall difference to what happened.
Miss O told us shed have got statutory sick pay and she had no significant other means to 
rely on if she wasnt working. If she was off work sick, the policy couldve paid out until 
Miss Os outstanding balance at the time of the claim was repaid, or until she went back to 
work (whichever happened first). It would also have paid out if shed lost her job. So I think 
the policy couldve been useful to Miss O. And while shes told us that she wouldve been 
entitled to redundancy pay, this wouldnt have helped her if she was off work sick. And PPI 
wouldve provided her with some additional financial security in a redundancy situation.
Its possible the information Allianz gave Miss O about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Miss O chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of 
cover. Based on what she told us when she first brought her complaint, it appears she 
wasnt affected by any of the policy exclusions or limitations. 
The policy didnt pay out for absence from work linked to health problems someone already 
had when they bought it. And Miss O more recently mentioned that she was unwell and had 
time off work in 1996. 
But Miss O had previously told us that when she took out the PPI she didnt have any 
existing health problems. She cant give us any exact dates or provide me with any further 
information. So I cant fairly assume that Miss O did have a pre-existing medical condition 
when she signed up for the PPI when theres conflicting information on the point and Ive 
seen nothing to show me that Miss O is right about the new information shes sent us. 
In any event, even if there was a possibility her condition mightve been excluded under the 
policy, she had an operation for it. And I dont think she wouldve necessarily had reason to 
think at the time that it would be a condition she would need to take time off work for in future 
 or that shed be likely to be off long enough to need to claim under the policy. 
And it doesnt look like any of the other policy limitations or exclusions wouldve affected 
Miss O. So I dont think having more information about these policy terms wouldve put her off taking 
out the PPI.
I think that Allianz couldve explained the cost and benefits of the policy more clearly. But, 
looking at the overall benefit the policy offered, I think it unlikely Miss O wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think she would still 
have taken out the policy.
This means she isnt any worse off as a result of anything Allianz did wrong, so I dont think it 
needs to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman