DRN-3038445
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly suspended her credit card account
despite her making required payments.
What happened
Mrs S says Barclays asked her to pay £600 a month towards her credit card debt in early
2020 to avoid her account being suspended. She says she made those payments but found
out in around October 2020, when she tried to use her account card, that it had been
suspended. Mrs S says that is unfair and would like the account reinstated.
Barclays says it hasnt made a mistake and has followed Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
guidance on Persistent Debt (PD). It says Mrs Ss account was in PD and told her she
needed to make required payments to avoid the account being suspended. Barclays says
Mrs S paid £600 and not the required £636 and so followed FCA guidance by suspending
the account which it did some months after it ordinarily would have, due to the FCA
pandemic guidance. It says it wrote to Mrs S with various options for her account in August
2020 but didnt receive any contact from her until October 2020.
Mrs S brought her complaint to us and says it was unfair to suspend her account in the
middle of a pandemic but accepts she only used the account in an emergency.
Our investigator upheld the complaint and thought it likely Mrs S made a mistake by paying
£630 not £636 and also thought it unlikely Mrs S received Barclays letter about the account
in August 2020. The investigator thought that whilst Barclays may have followed the FCA
rules it hadnt kept to the spirit of those rules and had missed an opportunity to understand
that spirit. The investigator thought Barclays could have told Mrs S in October 2020, when
she called it, to make a payment for the £6 difference and recommended Barclays reinstate
the account and pay £100 for the inconvenience and stress.
Barclays doesnt accept that view and in summary says it cant monitor customers accounts
and couldnt know if Mrs S made a mistake in the payment amount. It says it was too late in
October 2020 to request the £6 from Mrs S and says its unfair to pay compensation when 
its followed FCA guidance.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and said that I dont uphold this complaint 
and thought that Barclays had followed FCA guidance correctly. I appreciated why the 
investigator concluded that Barclays hadnt followed the spirit of the PD rules. And I said I 
have to consider not just the rules but if Barclays has acted fairly and reasonably overall. For 
the reasons I said I would explain I didnt think provisionally Barclays should reinstate the 
account or pay compensation.
I explained that Barclays must follow the PD requirements and rules. And having looked at 
its records I was satisfied that it has done so here. I was also satisfied that it clearly told Mrs 
S how much she needed to pay to avoid the account being suspended. I appreciated Mrs S 
may have made a mistake with the required amount but that is not something I said I could 
fairly hold Barclays responsible for. And I also found that it would be unreasonable for 
Barclays to monitor its customers accounts in such detail to check such matters or ask them 
if they intended to pay more.
I looked carefully at Mrs Ss account statements and could see that from at least 2016
she owed a significant amount that wasnt reducing and that she was paying more in interest
and fees. I also saw that Mrs S waited until the end of the second 18- month period
before making the larger payments before continuing to make payments at or around the
minimum again. So, I thought it important to look at the account as a whole and consider
what the PD rules are in place for. And I could also see that this was an account rarely used
and that it took until October 2020 for Mrs S to be aware it had been suspended.
Having considered all of that I thought Barclays acted fairly by suspending the account use 
in these circumstances and I didnt think by suspending the account that put Mrs S in a more 
difficult financial position when the account was used so infrequently.
As I had provisionally found Barclays hasnt made a mistake or acted unfairly, I said I 
couldnt fairly order compensation. And I made clear that reinstating the account, even if I
thought Barclays had made a mistake, may not be in Mrs Ss best interests.
Overall, I was satisfied Barclays correctly followed the FCAs guidance on PD and was 
entitled to suspend the account in these circumstances and when Mrs S didnt make the 
required payments. I said I didnt know why Mrs S didnt receive Barclays letter in August 
2020 but said that is not something I can fairly hold it responsible for as it isnt responsible 
for the delivery of mail.
Barclays doesnt wish to comment further on my provisional decision.
Mrs S says she wanted the account for emergencies and questions how she would have 
known the payment was incorrect unless Barclays told her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons. I make clear that I find Barclays did tell Mrs S how much 
she needed to pay but she didnt pay that amount. I cant fairly hold Barclays responsible for 
that.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman