DRN-4119465
The complaint
Mr T complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd, who Ill call Creation, shouldnt have 
charged him interest on a Buy Now Pay Later transaction. Hes also upset that they made 
adverse reports to his credit file.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr T, but I dont think Creation have done anything wrong here. Ill 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
In order to avoid interest on his November 2019 sofa purchase, the fixed sum loan 
agreement Mr T signed with Creation explained that he needed to pay the balance of £2,300 
before 24 November 2020 (the Special Offer Date or SOD). 
Its not disputed that Mr T didnt make his payment in time, but Mr T says there were reasons 
why he couldnt do that. Hes explained that he called Creation but was unable to pass 
security as he didnt know his agreement number. He said that as soon as he received 
notification of his agreement number he made the payment and that it was therefore unfair 
for Creation to subsequently charge interest and to report adverse information to his credit 
file.
It was Mr Ts responsibility to make payment if he wanted to avoid interest being applied to 
his account. Ive been provided with a copy of the credit agreement that was signed 
electronically by Mr T on 24 November 2019, the agreement number is clearly stated in the 
right hand corner, and I therefore think its reasonable to expect Mr T to have been able to 
quote it. I can also see that Creation applied a seven day period after the SOD in which 
theyve said they would have accepted a payment without holding Mr T accountable. But as 
Mr T didnt contact them to ask for the agreement number until 30 November and was aware 
he didnt have that number by at least the 24 November 2020 (the SOD), I dont think it was 
unfair of Creation to add interest to the account in line with the original agreement.
I dont therefore think Creation were unreasonable to apply interest to his account. If 
payments havent been made towards the fixed sum loan I wouldnt think Creation were 
unreasonable to do that, or to report the credit agreement to Mr Ts credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman