DRN-2810845
The complaint
Mr M complains about problems he experienced when trying to open a bank account online 
with TSB Bank plc. 
What happened
In May 2020 Mr M applied for a bank account online with TSB. Mr M says he was attracted 
by the interest rate TSB was paying. Mr M says he went through the application process but 
received no updates. Around two weeks later, TSB sent Mr M a reminder email asking him 
to supply identification to complete the application. 
Mr M has told us he tried to use TSBs mobile app to upload his ID but wasnt successful. So 
he called TSB to check what he needed to do. But there were no obvious options and Mr M 
says that once he got passed the automated questions he found the lines were closed. 
Thirty days after the application was started TSB automatically closed it on its systems. 
Mr M complained to TSB but it didnt agree errors had been made. TSB said it needed 
identification from Mr M before the account could be opened. It also said its telephone lines 
were operating on a reduced basis due to Covid restrictions. TSB also said Mr M could 
reapply online if he wished. 
Mr M referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought TSB had dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr M 
asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr M is disappointed that his application didnt proceed. TSB says that, as a 
new customer, it had to obtain identification from him in order to complete the application. I 
understand Mr M only realised this remained an issue when he received an email from TSB 
around two weeks after his application was made. I dont doubt that Mr M attempted to use 
TSBs mobile app to upload the required information but ran into difficulties so decided to 
call. 
Whilst I dont doubt what Mr M has told us, I have to be fair to both parties. TSB says when 
Mr M tried to call, it had reduced the opening hours of its phone lines due to Covid 
restrictions. I can see that we were undergoing a national lockdown and the time of Mr Ms 
application and call and Im satisfied TSB was operating under very unusual conditions at 
this time. TSB has explained its website contained updated information about its telephone 
opening hours. Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, but I havent found TSBs actions were 
unreasonable. 
I understand Mr M wasnt able to get through when he called. But I think its reasonable to 
say he couldve attempted to call again in the days that followed. TSB has told us its 
branches were also open for limited services and Mr M couldve taken his identification in to 
be verified. I appreciate Mr Ms difficulty when he called TSB and that he wasnt able to 
speak with someone on the day, but Im satisfied there were other options available to 
proceed. 
Whilst I appreciate there was a little over two months between the original application and 
TSBs final response, I note it advised Mr M he could still apply for the account and provide 
identification. Guidance on how to proceed was provided if Mr M wanted to call. TSB has 
told us that it has since withdrawn the account and reduce the interest it pays to existing 
consumers. So Mr M cant now apply. But Im satisfied, when TSB responded to his 
complaint, it provided options to complete another application. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but as Im satisfied TSB dealt with his complaint fairly, Im not 
telling it to do take any further action. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman