DRN-2178319
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) have turned down a claim under his travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Whilst on holiday Mr G unfortunately had items stolen from the villa where he was staying.
Soon after Mr G lodged a claim online with UKI and was contacted a few days later when he 
was asked to provide some documentation to support his claim. UKI considered the claim, 
including the information Mr G had provided, but turned it down saying that valuable items 
left unattended werent covered under the policy.
Mr G thought the claim should be paid so complained to UKI who maintained they were 
turning down the claim. UKI said Mr G shouldve been told the claim decision sooner in the 
process and paid him £100 for the inconvenience of having to provide unnecessary 
documents.
Unhappy with this Mr G came to our service where one of our investigators looked in to what 
happened. He thought UKI acted fairly when turning down the claim, and that the £100 
recognised the fact that the claim shouldve been turned down sooner. Mr G remained 
unhappy, so the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G says that he was sunbathing for about an hour outside on the roof of the villa where he 
was staying. During that time someone entered by a side door that was closed, but not 
locked. They took items from the bedroom drawer, but not other expensive items and cash 
which Mr G says were locked in the safe. Mr G called the police who came out and he was 
given a report. 
Several items were taken but Mr G is only claiming for his items as his girlfriend, who also 
had items stolen, has her own insurance. Mr G confirmed with UKI that he was claiming for a 
pair of air pods, an iPad and two watches.
UKI turned down the claim saying that the valuable items left unattended arent covered 
under the policy. Ive looked at the policy documents to see if I think UKI acted fairly and 
reasonably when turning down the claim. Having done so, I think they have; and I will 
explain why.
Firstly Ive thought about whether the stolen items should be considered as valuable items 
under the policy. Valuable items are defined (amongst other things) as watches, computers, 
electronic book readers, mobile phones and accessories. Looking at the list of items Mr G is 
claiming for Im satisfied they are considered valuable items under the policy. 
Ive also looked at the part of the policy to do with items being lost or stolen. This says, in 
part, that claims are not covered where items have been left unattended unless stolen from 
locked personal accommodation. Mr G has said that the door to the villa wasnt locked when 
the items were stolen, so I think UKI has acted fairly when applying this exclusion.
Mr G told UKI he doesnt think the items were left unattended as he was on the property at 
the time. The policy defines unattended as not in your full view and where you are not in a 
position to prevent unauthorised taking of your property unless it is in a locked room or safe. 
The items werent in full view of Mr G as he was on the roof of the villa at the time, and the 
items also werent in a locked room or safe. So Im satisfied the items were unattended and 
that UKI has also applied this part of the exclusion fairly.
After considering all of the information Im satisfied that UKI has acted fairly and reasonably 
when applying the policy terms and turning down the claim. Thats not to say that Mr G 
hasnt suffered a loss; its clear he has, but what happened isnt covered under his policy.
UKI have admitted that they shouldve given Mr G the claim decision earlier in the process, 
and I agree. Mr G was asked to provide documents that werent necessary. Also Mr G had to 
make several telephone calls to UKI as he didnt think the claim was progressing as quickly 
as it shouldve been. I agree the level of service Mr G received wasnt as good as it 
shouldve been. Considering everything that happened Im satisfied the £100 that UKI have 
paid is a fair and reasonable amount for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, above my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman