DRN-3608420
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained about the way esure Insurance Limited (esure) dealt with a 
claim they made on their home insurance policy.
 
All references to esure include its agents. 
What happened
Around the middle of February 2022 Mr and Mrs S made a claim under their home insurance 
after part of the roof of their house was blown off due to a storm. They said that this had also 
caused internal damage and some damage to their contents due to water coming into the 
house. Mr and Mrs S also said that esure agreed to class Mr S as vulnerable as he was due 
to undergo an operation and had to isolate over that period.
 
esure instructed one of its assessors to carry out an inspection. Mr and Mrs S told esure 
they did not wish for its assessor to enter their property and esure said it would ask it to 
desktop validate the contents claim. Mr and Mrs S also asked esure whether they could 
proceed with temporary repairs so that they could make the roof watertight. esure said if 
Mr and Mrs S wanted to make the property watertight they could go ahead but the costs 
would be reviewed and only paid if deemed reasonable. 
A surveyor visited the property ten days after the storm. He provided an estimate for the 
repairs to the roof (for around £4,500) but not for the internal damage as he didnt carry out 
an internal inspection. He also agreed for Mr and Mrs S to proceed with the temporary 
works.
 
On 1 March Mr and Mrs S sent a number of photographs and other documents regarding the 
damage to esures assessor. The following day they proceeded with the temporary roof 
repairs which cost £300 which they paid for themselves. The day after that they sent some 
more photos of further damage theyd identified. 
 
Just under a week later esures assessor responded to an email from Mr and Mrs S asking 
for an update and said the invoice for the temporary repairs was being reviewed by the 
surveyor. It also said that an internal inspection was necessary and asked when 
Mr and Mrs S would be happy for this to take place. It acknowledged that due to Mr Ss 
circumstances this could not take place just yet. 
The invoice for the temporary repairs was agreed on 14 March. On the same day 
Mr and Mrs S complained to esures assessor saying they were disappointed it was now 
insisting on an internal inspection despite esure initially agreeing to a desktop one.
On 19 March Mr and Mrs S submitted four quotes they had obtained themselves. Two were 
for the internal damage and two for the external damage. They said this was at the 
surveyors request.
 
On 23 March esure proceeded to instruct a loss adjuster and it said this was due to the value 
of the claim which exceeded the first assessors authority. esure also said it would reduce 
Mr and Mrs Ss excess from £375 to £75 and said it would offset this against the cost of the 
temporary works.
  
Mr and Mrs S made a further complaint a few days later. They said they had been asked by 
the loss adjuster to resend the photos they had sent to the assessor and that they had 
hoped the two companies and esure could have liaised with each other in that respect. They 
also said it should have been clear to the assessor that the remedial works required would 
exceed its authority of £10,000. They added that they did not receive a call from the loss 
adjuster despite being told they would and that the whole process put them under undue 
stress.
esure responded on the same day and rejected the complaint. It said that it didnt think its 
agents actions had caused Mr and Mrs S stress or harassment. It added that there is a 
reasonable expectation when making a home insurance claim that a surveyor may visit the 
home. It added that the repair quotes Mr and Mrs S had provided were high which is why it 
had to change to a loss adjuster.
 
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree and felt that esure issued a rushed response. They said they were 
misled at different times and that they also had their time wasted. They added that esure did 
not handle the complaint competently, diligently and impartially as expected by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) and our service.
A few days later Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to us. They said they wanted to have 
their excess waived in full and also asked for compensation and for their claim to be 
concluded. They made a number of complaint points including the following:
They said though esure had said they were vulnerable it failed to treat them accordingly. 
They said they had been misled and misinformed. For example, the surveyor told them 
he did not expect them to accept his initial quote of around £4,500 and that he would 
provide an updated one; which never happened. They also said the surveyor had 
approved the temporary repairs but then denied this and asked to see the quote before 
providing his approval. They added that they were initially told there was no need for 
them to get quotes but were then asked for four. 
Mr and Mrs S also said there was a lack of communication from esure and its agents and 
also that a lot of their time was wasted particularly as a loss adjuster was not instructed 
until five weeks after the claim was made. They added that the assessor should have 
been able to tell that the scope of the works was beyond its authority. 
They added that they had to live in very difficult conditions, using only part of their house 
and part of the electrics as it had got wet. 
They added that there was a delay in the temporary repairs being approved and that the 
surveyors initial estimate was very low. 
After the complaint came to us, esure agreed to a digital visit and in April 2022 it settled the 
claim for over £30,000 in total. esure said it agreed to pay Mr and Mrs S £1,900 more than 
what its own contractors had quoted. 
One of our Investigators reviewed the complaint and thought it should be upheld and that 
esure must pay Mr and Mrs S £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused them. She said esure was responsible for roughly three weeks of delays. 
esure didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. It said it could not have done 
more for Mr and Mrs S and that it did not cause any unnecessary delays. Mr and Mrs S 
didnt agree either. They repeated some of the points theyd made before and added that 
they felt that £250 is more appropriate compensation. As neither of the parties agreed with the view the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
Before I issued my decision I asked our Investigator to contact esure to say that I was 
minded to agree with Mr and Mrs S and award them more compensation. I gave the 
following reasons:
I felt that a ten-day delay in arranging an inspection for a consumer who esure agreed 
was vulnerable and had a newborn baby was too long. I accepted that this may have 
been a busy period of esure but I thought Mr and Mrs S should have been prioritised 
particularly as the roof was exposed and leaking. 
If an earlier inspection was in no way possible, I thought Mr and Mrs S should have been 
advised from the beginning to get the roof covered. This is something the surveyor 
remarked on himself. He said he couldnt understand why temporary repairs had not 
been authorised. As such the temporary repairs were not authorised until ten days after 
the storm and they were carried out a few days after that. 
I also agreed that the first surveyor should have known that the repair work would have 
cost more than £10,000. So I thought the job should have been sent to the loss adjuster 
on 28 February when the surveyor saw the damage. Instead the loss adjuster was 
instructed on 23 March. 
I also thought the surveyors initial estimate of £4,500 was clearly too low and I thought 
this caused further delays. 
I noted Mr and Mrs S were concerned about their electrics (in addition to the exposed 
roof). I thought there was an argument the house could have been deemed not 
habitable. I asked why Mr and Mrs S had not been offered alternative accommodation.
esure responded with a number of points including the following:
It said it offered Mr and Mrs S the earliest appointment that was available and that the 
inspection timescales were as it would have expected. It said there were a number of 
storms at the time. It added that, possibly, if the advisor had understood the extent of the 
damage it would have instructed the loss adjuster from the start. It said the damage 
noted was to the roof, to one bedroom and to the attic which suggested the appointment 
of a loss adjuster was not necessary. 
It added that Mr and Mrs S said they would not grant access to the surveyor but would 
instead submit photographs. So the surveyor was only able to carry out an external 
inspection and had to wait for the photographs. 
The surveyors initial quote would be a guess as he could not measure the roof as this 
would have to be done internally. 
There was confusion as to why Mr and Mrs S would grant access to contractors to do the 
work but not to the surveyor. 
The surveyor noted that costs were likely to exceed £10,000 but without entering the 
property he would not know the true extent and cause of the damage. 
It could not offer alternative accommodation as Mr and Mrs S said they could not leave 
the house due to Mr S having to isolate. Also it would have been for Mr and Mrs S to 
demonstrate there were issues with the electrics and they didnt. 
I responded to esure to say that it seemed to accept that there was a possibility that the loss 
adjuster could have been instructed earlier  possibly from the start. Also the surveyor noted 
that the work would go over the assessors £10,000 authority by a bit and that a loss 
adjuster should be appointed. I assumed this note was left on 28 February when he 
inspected the property and it was therefore unclear to me why the loss adjuster was not 
instructed for another month or so. I also noted that esure did ultimately settle the claim 
without a physical inspection  that it agreed to a digital visit and it wasnt clear to me why 
this couldnt have happened sooner. Furthermore, as far as I was aware it indicated that it 
would be happy for Mr and Mrs S to provide photographs instead. I added that I was 
concerned that the surveyors initial quote was a guess and though I accepted he couldnt measure the roof I thought that if Mr and Mrs S had accepted the initial quote they would 
have been left out of pocket. I therefore agreed that a further £250 compensation was 
reasonable. 
esure responded to say that it was waiting for Mr and Mrs Ss quotes before appointing the 
loss adjuster and that the quotes were received on 19 March and the loss adjuster instructed 
a few days later. It added that the quotes gave a clearer indication of the work involved and 
that this enabled the loss adjuster to review the claim and esure to settle it. It added that the 
surveyors initial estimate was a best estimate rather than a guess and that in any event 
Mr and Mrs S had already been asked to provide quotes so it didnt consider they would 
have accepted the quote.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
esure accepts that this was a valid storm claim so in this decision I will only be looking at its 
handling of the claim. I also note that esure settled the claim since the complaint came to us, 
so I no longer need to look into that part of the complaint. 
I have already given esure my reasons, detailed above, as to why I believe that more 
compensation is warranted for the distress and inconvenience it caused Mr and Mrs S. 
Whilst esure has responded to that, its replies havent changed my view on this. It has 
already waived £300 of Mr and Mrs Ss excess but I think a further £250 compensation 
would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances  making a total compensation of £550. 
I summarise my reasons below:
I think a ten day wait for an inspection was too long in the circumstances, particularly as 
Mr S was deemed vulnerable and also as there was a newborn baby in the house. 
If an earlier inspection was in no way possible Mr and Mrs S should have been advised 
from the beginning to get the roof covered. This is something the surveyor pointed out 
himself. 
esure seems to accept it could have appointed the second company from the start.
The surveyor said when he inspected the property that the repair work would have likely 
cost more than £10,000. So I thought the loss adjuster should have been instructed, at 
the latest, not long after the surveyors visit on 28 February. esure said it was waiting for 
Mr and Mrs Ss estimates but from what I have seen, the reason why they didnt send the 
estimates until 19 March was because the first assessor was still insisting on carrying out 
an internal inspection. Also Mr and Mrs S were the ones chasing the assessor for 
updates and for it to approve their temporary works invoice in the intervening time.
I thought the surveyors initial estimate of £4,500 was clearly too low and I thought this 
caused further delays. esure says it didnt consider that Mr and Mrs S would accept it as 
theyd already been asked to provide their own quotes. But, from what Ive seen, it 
wasnt made clear to Mr and Mrs S that they had to provide four quotes until later. 
esure ultimately settled the claim by having a digital inspection. I think this is something, 
in the circumstances, it could have arranged sooner. 
Overall, I think there were at least three weeks worth of delays that esure was 
responsible for. Which meant that for three weeks longer than they should have been, 
Mr and Mrs S were living in their damaged home and putting in extra effort to resolve the 
claim. 
 
Putting things right
esure Insurance Limited should pay Mr and Mrs S £250 in addition to having already waived £300 from their excess.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I have decided to uphold this complaint and direct esure Insurance 
Limited to pay Mr and Mrs S £250 for the distress and inconvenience it caused them. In 
arriving at this decision I have noted that it has already waived £300 from their excess, 
meaning the total compensation award I am making is £550. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman