DRN-4475701
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited declined a claim for the 
critical illness benefit under his decreasing life insurance policy with critical illness cover (the 
policy). And its decision to void the policy (and a separate increasing life insurance policy 
that was in place, which hed applied for at the same time as the policy).
Although Mr A is being represented, Ive referred to him throughout. 
What happened
Mr A applied for the policy in February 2022 via an insurance intermediary. When applying 
for the policy he was asked a number of questions  including about his lifestyle, health and 
medical history. 
After the policy started, Mr A was very sadly diagnosed with multiple sclerosis and made a 
claim on the policy for the critical illness benefit. That claim was declined by Legal and 
General. Thats because Legal and General says Mr A misrepresented his answers to 
certain questions when applying for the policy (and another life insurance policy he applied 
for at the same time). It voided both policies and refunded the premiums paid.
Mr A complained to Legal and General. It maintained its decision to decline the claim and 
void the policies. Unhappy, Mr A brought a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator considered what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A 
disagreed so his complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh and 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract. The standard of care is 
that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer (in this case Legal and General) has to show it 
would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Legal and General says Mr A failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when answering certain questions. Overall, Im persuaded that Legal and General has acted 
fairly and reasonably by declining Mr As claim for the critical illness benefit. And voiding the 
policy (and the other life insurance policy). Ive set out my reasons below. 
Did Mr A make a qualifying disclosure?
When applying for the policy, Mr A was a number of questions about his lifestyle and 
medical history including: 
Have you ever:
Had any neurological condition or visual disturbance, for example epilepsy, multiple 
sclerosis, muscular dystrophy, cerebral palsy, motor neurone disease, Parkinsons 
disease, optic neuritis? Please ignore long and short sightedness thats been 
corrected.
Ill refer to this as the medical question. 
Under lifestyle, Mr A was asked for his weight. 
Ill refer to this as the weight question.
Mr A was also asked:
Have you ever been told by a medical professional that you should reduce the 
amount of alcohol you have because you were drinking too much?
Have you everattended or been advised to attend an alcohol support group?
Ill refer to these together as the alcohol question. 
Im satisfied that these three questions are clear. And on the application form, its reflected 
that Mr A answered:
no to the medical question.
102kg to the weight question.
no to the alcohol question.
When reviewing Mr As claim, Legal and General concluded that hed answered the medical 
question, the weight question and the alcohol question incorrectly. And I think its acted fairly 
and reasonably when doing so. Thats because:
Im satisfied that Mr A shouldve answered yes to the medical question. Around one 
month before applying for the policy, Mr As optician wrote to Mr As GP to say that 
Mr A had presented with sudden vision loss in the left eye over the past couple of 
days and requesting an urgent referral to a neurological department. And subsequent 
GP consultation notes  also dated January 2022  reflects that Mr A had been 
referred to ophthalmology and had reported pain behind the left eye four days ago 
and blurred vision. Further, the hospital consultants letter dated March 2022, so 
shortly after Mr A applied for the policy, says that Mr A had blurred vision in January 
2022 which lasted for more than a month. 
Im satisfied Mr A shouldve declared his weight as being 122kg as thats what the GP recorded as being his weight in January 2022, around one month before applying 
for the policy. 
Im satisfied Mr A shouldve answered yes to the alcohol question. There are 
references in his GP notes (for example in November 2015) to Mr A binge drinking 
and declining advice to be referred to alcohol related treatments and to cut down. 
And in April 2019 under plan, its reflected alcohol consumption counselling.
Ive gone on to consider whether Legal and General has fairly concluded that Mr A had 
made a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA by answering the three questions 
incorrectly. And Im satisfied it has. 
Mr A says that he hadnt experienced any of the conditions listed in the medical question. Mr 
A may not have known the reasons for his vision loss/ blurred vision. But ultimately, he had 
experienced visual disturbance around a month before applying for the policy and had 
actively sought medical attention for this. Further, I think its also relevant that even if Mr A 
didnt think he shouldve answered yes to the medical question, there was another question 
asking whether during the last three months hed had changes to his vision. And he 
answered no to that question too. So, if he didnt think he needed to answer yes to the 
medical question due to the list of other conditions, I think he shouldve declared the change 
in his vision when answering this question. 
Mr A says he thinks the insurance intermediary put down the wrong weight on the 
application. However, I dont think Legal and General has unreasonably relied on the 
information in the application, which Mr A said was correct at the time. 
Mr A says his level of drinking has been misrepresented in the GP records. Hes also said 
that his employer undertakes random alcohol tests so his alcohol consumption wouldnt have 
been as high as indicated in his GP notes at certain times. However, based on the GP 
entries, I still think Mr A ought to have answered yes to the alcohol question as he was 
specifically being asked whether hed been told by a medical professional that he should 
reduce the amount of alcohol he had because he was drinking too much or been advised to 
attend an alcohol support group.
Legal and General has provided underwriting guidance showing that if Mr A had answered 
either the medical question, the weight question and/or the alcohol question correctly, as he 
shouldve done, it would have offered the policy (and other life insurance policy) on different 
terms. So, the answer to any of the three questions mattered to Legal and General.
Declining the claim and cancelling the policy
Legal and General concluded Mr As misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. 
Taking into account Mr As explanations about why he answered the three questions in the 
way he did, I dont think hes been able to give a credible explanation supported by the facts 
for the misrepresentations having occurred when considered against the medical evidence. 
Nor do I think there are any credible mitigating circumstances to explain why he answered 
the questions in the way that he did. 
Im satisfied that Legal and General has fairly concluded that Mr As misrepresentation was 
deliberately or recklessly made. And as the three questions were asked before agreeing to 
insure Mr A, I think he knew that they were relevant to Legal and General  or didnt take 
sufficient care about whether or not it was relevant to Legal and General.Ive looked at the actions Legal and General can take in line with CIDRA. Under this 
legislation its entitled to cancel the policy and doesnt have to pay any claims as it can treat 
the policy as if it never existed. Thats what Legal and General has done here.
And I dont think its acted unfairly and unreasonably in the circumstances of this complaint 
by doing so - and cancelling the policy and other life insurance policy. 
Legal and General couldve also chosen to retain the premiums paid for both policies. It 
didnt do that here; it reimbursed Mr A for the monthly premiums paid since the date they 
both started. I think Legal and General acted fairly by doing this. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman