DRN-3988999
The complaint
L, a limited company, complains that QIC Europe Ltd failed to consider its claim correctly
under its commercial business protection insurance policy.
L is represented by their broker, but Ive referred to their representatives submissions as Ls
own for ease of reference.
All references to QIC include their claims handlers.
What happened
Ls claim arises out of a claim for a flood at its business premises. Amongst other things, Ls
stock was damaged. Some of that stock consisted of raw materials and others were
manufactured items that were completed and ready for sale.
When L made its claim to QIC, a loss adjuster was appointed. L valued the manufactured
items, taking into account the labour and stock costs they incurred in putting them together.
The loss adjuster told L that it wouldnt consider the labour costs as part of the claim for
stock and that this would be looked at as part of a separate claim for business interruption
under the policy. L say they were reluctant to accept this but agreed on the basis that their
claim would be properly considered and paid at a later stage.
A separate loss adjuster was appointed to consider Ls business interruption claim. That loss
adjuster concluded that the claim for labour couldnt be considered in its entirety. Rather it
was considered as both an additional cost of working plus overtime. But because L was
found to be underinsured, QIC only paid a proportion of the claim, which was less than the
value they had placed on labour costs for manufactured items before the reduction for
underinsurance.
L says the claim for labour to manufactured items that were damaged by the flood should
always have been considered as part of the stock claim and not business interruption
insurance. They brought their complaint to us accordingly.
Our investigator considered Ls complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. He said QIC
was right to consider the claim under the business interruption section of the policy because
labour costs were incurred by Ls own staff. As such the cost of their labour didnt form part
of the stock value. The investigator thought the claim related to an increased cost of working
which was how QIC had considered the claim. L doesnt agree so the matter was
passed to me to determine.
Earlier this month I issued a provisional decision along the following lines:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to depart from the investigators conclusions and uphold Ls
complaint. Ill explain why.
The starting point is the policy terms. For stock claims the policy covers:
The amount payable in respect of Stock and/or all other Property Insured (other than
Buildings and Contents) shall be the value at the time of the Damage or at Our option the
cost of reinstatement or replacement of such Property Insured or any part of it.
Stock is defined as: Stock and materials in trade work in progress and finished Goods
belonging to You or held by You in trust for which You are legally responsible.
The policy doesnt define finished Goods or explain how theyre intended to be valued. L
says the ordinary meaning of finished goods is goods that have completed the
manufacturing process but have not yet been sold. Ive thought about this, and I agree that
the policy does cover finished goods. And although the words arent defined, I think finished
goods must be taken to mean items that have been put in a state that are ready to sell. In
this case the components claimed for were manufactured and ready to sell.
Ive also thought about the difference between say materials in trade and finished goods.
The policy differentiates those items as being covered rather than providing blanket
coverage in relation to stock on a standalone basis. So, it follows that the difference between
them must be that finished goods have been subject to some additional process that has
enabled them to have been sold. In this case that process amounts to additional labour costs
by L. Because of this I think L are correct when they say their claim for labour for items that
were finished and damaged should have been included in the claim for stock and not as part
of the business interruption claim.
There are additional reasons why I think the policy should respond in the way that L
contends. When the loss adjuster considered Ls claim for labour costs under the business
interruption insurance section, it did so as if it amounted to an additional cost of working.
That calculation was arrived at by determining what the additional cost would be to L to
rebuild those items. It arrived at this figure by looking at Ls accounts from previous years
and calculating it as a loss of profit. But that doesnt make much sense. The labour costs
had already been incurred- not as an additional cost of working, but rather as a usual cost to
the business. The value of those costs was then lost when the items were damaged. So,
taking the figure as an additional cost of working for something that was already incurred
doesnt follow. Nor does comparing accounts from previous years to determine the amount
as a loss of gross profit.
I accept that the amount wouldve formed part of Ls ultimate loss of profit in the pure sense,
but the labour costs themselves were distinct and formed part of the finished goods as set
out within the policy wording. Thats not to say that every commercial business protection 
insurance policy would respond in this way. Each claim will turn on its own facts, and in this
case, the policy wording lends itself to the labour costs for finished goods being covered
under that section of the policy.
I am of course alive to the fact that L wants the claim considered under the stock section
because they didnt appear to be underinsured on this part of the policy, as far as I can tell.
But that doesnt inform my decision in this case- the policy wording does. Ive set out why I
think it does above. Because of that I think QIC needs to do more to put things right.
Putting things right
QIC should reconsider Ls claim for finished goods to include labour costs associated with
the fully constructed items that were damaged in the flood that were previously not
considered.When reaching a settlement figure, QIC should deduct the payments paid for this element of
Ls claim that was included in the business interruption claim.
QIC should also pay L interest at 8% per year simple on any additional payments it makes to
L from the date they paid part of the initial claim for stock, until that additional payment is
made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked both parties to provide me with anymore comments or evidence they might have in 
response to my provisional decision. Neither party has responded. In the absence of 
anything that persuades me my initial conclusions were wrong, I remain of the view that Ls 
complaint should be upheld in the way I set out within my provisional decision.  
Putting things right
QIC should reconsider Ls claim for finished goods to include labour costs associated with
the fully constructed items that were damaged in the flood that were previously not
considered.
When reaching a settlement figure, QIC should deduct the payments paid for this element of
Ls claim that was included in the business interruption claim.
QIC should also pay L interest at 8% per year simple on any additional payments it makes to
L from the date they paid part of the initial claim for stock, until that additional payment is
made.
My final decision
I uphold Ls complaint against QIC Europe Ltd and direct it to put things right in the way I set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman