DRN-1726659
The complaint
Mrs C has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a home 
insurance policy and later gave her incorrect advice about her ability to cancel this policy. 
What happened
Mrs C has had a mortgage with Halifax for some years. Halifax has indicated that this was 
taken out in 2001, although the earliest documentation they have provided this service is 
from 2004. This 2004 document relates to additional lending and refinancing of the existing 
borrowing. 
Mrs C took out home insurance via Halifax and retained this annually renewable policy for 
the term of the mortgage. The actual insurer of the policy is a different company. Mrs C has 
said Halifax led her to believe she had to have this policy and could not cancel it as it was 
linked to her mortgage, something she says she was not aware of. She has said she spoke 
to Halifax about this in 2006 and 2015.
Mrs C says that in 2015, she had found cheaper insurance elsewhere and wanted to switch. 
But that Halifax told her she could not cancel this policy as it was linked to the mortgage. 
And that she needed to keep the insurance policy until the mortgage was paid off. Mrs C 
redeemed her mortgage a short period before the end of its term, and has said she then 
obtained cheaper insurance elsewhere. 
In 2019, Mrs C complained to Halifax about this. Halifax responded, saying the mortgage 
offer it provided to Mrs C said that whilst having buildings insurance was a requirement of 
the mortgage, it made it clear this insurance did not have to be obtained though Halifax. 
Halifax also said that it had not provided any advice in the sale, and so it did not consider the 
policy to have been mis-sold.
In terms of the information Mrs C had been provided with in 2015, Halifax said it had 
explained to Mrs C that she could cancel the home insurance, but would need to take out 
alternative cover elsewhere whilst the mortgage was still active.
Mrs C remained unhappy with this and brought her complaint to this service. Halifax felt that 
Mrs C had referred her complaint outside of the time limits for doing so though, and did not 
consent to this service considering it. 
Ultimately, our investigator thought the part of Mrs C's complaint relating to the sale of the 
policy did not fall within this service's jurisdiction. His view was that the activity being 
complained about happened more than six years before the complaint, and that Mrs C ought 
reasonably to have known she had cause for complaint more than three years before she 
did complain.
The investigator did consider that a complaint about the information provided in 2015 was 
within our jurisdiction, but he did not think Halifax had provided incorrect information. So he 
did not recommend this part of the complaint should be upheld.Mrs C remained unsatisfied. She said she did not know about mis-sold insurance generally 
until she read about it more recently. And that she did not know she could complain. So she 
felt this service should consider her complaint about the sale of the policy. Her complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I am able to assess the complaint points Mrs C has raised, I need to determine 
whether or not this service has jurisdiction to consider them. 
The rules in the Dispute Resolution: Complaints (DISP) section of the FCA Handbook 
set limits to the extent of this services jurisdiction. We are bound to follow these rules and 
so can only look at a complaint if allowed by the rules.
I can only apply the rules as they exist  I have no discretion to change or set them aside 
on a case by case basis. When considering our jurisdiction I have no power to decide what 
is fair and reasonable  I only have that power if a complaint is in our jurisdiction.
There are a number of elements to this service's jurisdiction, but in this particular case the 
key question is whether Mrs C made her complaint in time. The time limits for bringing a 
complaint are set out in DISP 2.8.2 R, which states in part:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service:
(2) more than: 
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later) 
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware 
(or ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause 
for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to 
the Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or 
some other record of the complaint having been received;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits 
in DISP 2.8.2 R or DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances
Effectively, this means that unless there are exceptional circumstances, Mrs C needed to
refer her complaint to Halifax within six years of the event being complained about or, if
later, within three years of when she should reasonably to have become aware she had
cause to complain.
An example of an exceptional circumstance might be where the complainant has been or 
is incapacitated. Mrs C has not referred to any exceptional circumstances which may 
have prevented her complaining. So I do not consider she can rely on this part of the rules.The first event Mrs C is complaining about is the sale of the home insurance policy. Due to 
the passage of time, it isn't clear exactly when this policy was first taken out. But it certainly 
existed in 2006, so the sale must have been before then. 
Mrs C first raised her complaint to Halifax at the beginning of 2019, which is more than six 
years after the date the sale must have taken place. So I do not consider her complaint 
about the sale has been brought within the time limit set by the first part of the rules above.
The second part of the time limit relates to when Mrs C knew, or ought reasonably to 
have known, she had cause for complaint. Mrs C has said she was led to believe that she 
had to have this policy and that she couldn't cancel it whilst the mortgage was active. Her 
understanding was that this was because the policy was linked to the mortgage. 
Mrs C has alleged that in 2015 she was told by Halifax that she was unable to cancel the 
policy whilst the mortgage was active. However, Halifax has been able to provide a 
recording of this conversation. The call handler confirmed to Mrs C that she didn't have to 
have this particular policy, but just needed to have a policy. I will return to the content of this 
call below.
But as a result of this call, given the underlying cause of Mrs C's complaint is that she was 
led to believe she had to have this policy, she would have realised she was allegedly 
provided with incorrect information when the policy was sold. And I think she ought 
reasonably have been aware that she had cause to complain at the time of this 2015 call at 
the latest. 
It is possible this time limit may have started much earlier. But Mrs C made her complaint 
about the sale more than three years after this call. So I do not need to consider if she ought 
to have been aware at an earlier date. 
I consider Mrs C has brought her complaint about the sale of the policy outside the second 
part of the time limit for referring it to this service, as well as beyond the first part of the time 
limit. This means this service does not have jurisdiction to consider Mrs C's complaint about 
the sale of the home insurance policy.
Whilst I am unable to consider a complaint about the sale of the policy, the phone call in 
2015 was an event that took place within the last six years. So, I consider this service does 
have jurisdiction to consider a complaint about the information provided in this call. 
In considering whether this information was accurate or not it is necessary to compare what 
Mrs C was told about the need to have this policy with the requirements of her mortgage. 
The documents Halifax has provided show that a requirement of the remortgage offer was 
that the borrower needed to take out buildings insurance. This is a common requirement for 
mortgages, where the lender will want to make sure the property they have a charge over is 
protected against damage. However, the offer stated this requirement was for insurance:
"that you do not have to take out through Halifax..."
So, as long as Mrs C had a buildings insurance policy that covered her property, this could 
be provided by any insurer and obtained either directly or via any broker. 
Having listened to the conversation from 2015, this is effectively what the call handler told 
Mrs C. The relevant part of this call consisted of the following exchange:Call handler - "...if you want to come out of that insurance at any time you can 
certainly do so the only reason we require you to have a form of insurance is purely 
because you currently have a mortgage. There is nothing in the terms and agreements 
of your mortgage that you need to have insurance through ourselves however. So 
once obviously this mortgage is paid off obviously you can take out insurance 
elsewhere, you can certainly do so and thats not a problem."
Mrs C  "So have I got to renew this insurance up until the mortgage is paid?"
Call handler  "So, the insurance that you have got on the account here Mrs [C], I can 
see that its not payment protection or anything, its buildings and contents. So if you 
want to canif you dont want to renew it with us in December thats not a problem. 
However, we would obviously ask that you do then get cover because you will need to 
be covered right up until March."
Mrs C  "Thats what Im going to do. Because I have a much better quote than the 
Halifax can give me."
I do think the call handler could have been clearer during the first part of this exchange. She 
referred to taking out insurance elsewhere once the mortgage was paid off. However, this 
was then clarified and at this point Mrs C intended to cancel the policy she had via Halifax 
and take out alternative cover elsewhere. 
Based on the content of this call, and thinking about the requirements of the mortgage 
documents we have been provided with, I consider the information provided to Mrs C in 
2015 was accurate. So I do not consider Halifax to have acted inappropriately.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs C's complaint about the information provided to 
her in 2015. And I do not consider her complaint about the sale of her home insurance 
by Bank of Scotland plc is one this service can consider. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman