DRN-1306340
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with how Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) has handled his 
mortgage account. There have been errors in calculations and Mr J says he's lost 
confidence in Halifax. 
What happened
I won't go into detail here about what has happened as the background is extensive and isn't 
in dispute. Mr J has raised various complaints over the years (some of which were referred 
to us at the times in question). Halifax has upheld some of Mr J's complaints and paid 
redress for those. Some of these complaints have led to Mr J's mortgage account being 
recalculated, and for others Halifax has waived the early repayment charge that should have 
been incurred on an overpayment and reduced the mortgage debt due to the fact the 
account was underfunded for a period.
Halifax has said the account is now correct and our investigator, having reviewed everything, 
agreed. The investigator said Halifax had done enough to put matters right. Mr J didn't agree 
and so it's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Mr J has set out his account in 
considerable detail. I trust he wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint 
in the way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated 
on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
I dont doubt that this is very important for Mr J but although Ive read and considered the 
whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it 
in order to reach the right outcome. This service is impartial between, and independent of, 
consumers and businesses. What this means is that we dont represent either party, and I 
dont act under eithers instructions or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at.
Having reviewed everything I'm satisfied Halifax has put right all the errors that were 
identified on the mortgage account. It's unfortunate those errors occurred, but Halifax has 
apologised for them, put things right each time and paid a fair amount of compensation over 
the years. Taking everything into account I don't order Halifax to do anything more.
Mr J has asked why Halifax used the balance as at 30 April 2019 when it recalculated his 
monthly payments, rather than using 17 May when he made an overpayment. He's carried 
out his own calculations based on the information he has to show what he thinks the 
recalculation should have been based on the balance as at 17 May.
But Halifax uses a month end for a reason, as using a mid-month figure as Mr J has done 
gives a warped view of the account. This is shown in the example Mr J has given usDate Description Outgoing Incoming Balance
30 April 2019 Interest £31.81  £13,411.77
1 May 2019 Direct Debit  £33.75 £13.378.02
17 May 2019 Card payment  £81.62 £13,296.40
31 May 2019 Interest £31.04  £13,327.44
 
Mr J said the recalculation should be based on the balance on 17 May. But that wouldn't 
work because it gives an artificially lower balance due to the fact Mr J had made his 
normal payment for the month (on the 1st) but the interest from the 1st to the 17th hadn't yet 
been added to the balance in the statement Mr J was using. That didn't go on until 31 May.
It's not our role to carry out a forensic audit of the account, so I'm not getting into all the 
minute detail of the recalculations. I just use the above example to show why it's not as 
simple as Mr J carrying out his own calculation. As by using an incorrect figure for the 
outstanding balance (that is, without the accrued interest) it follows Mr J's whole calculation 
is wrong. That said, even if Mr J is overpaying by £1.35 a month as he believes, that amount 
would be coming straight off his mortgage balance (in line with all the overpayments he's 
been opting to make) therefore reducing the interest payable.
As I said, its not possible for us to carry out a detailed or forensic audit of an account 
history, any more than we can audit Mr Js own version. Its open to Mr J to ask a 
suitably-qualified independent accountant to do that for him. That would have to be at his 
expense, though if an error were found to his detriment (that Halifax hadn't already put right) 
he could include the costs of finding it in any complaint that followed. Mr J would be the one 
bringing the complaint therefore he needs to provide the evidence to support his complaint, 
and the costs for doing that are Mr J's to bear. 
Im satisfied Halifax has put right any previous errors and has already paid suitable 
compensation for those. For that reason Im satisfied it hasnt done anything wrong here.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman