DRN-4064687
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy with Avantia Insurance Limited. She says her policy renewed without her 
knowledge and that she had bought cover elsewhere. Mrs L says when she raised this, she 
was told shed get a full refund, but was only then offered 50%.
What happened
Mrs L had a property insurance policy through Avantia. She contacted them in 2022 to say 
she was unaware that her policy had renewed the previous year and that shed arranged to 
be covered through a different company at a cheaper price.
Avantia initially said they could arrange a full refund for the period of dual insurance, but then 
said Mrs L was only entitled to 50%, and that shed have to seek 50% from the other insurer. 
When Mrs L complained, Avantia apologised for their mistake and offered compensation of 
£100.
Mrs L wasnt happy with that, she still wanted the full refund shed initially been told of.
An investigator here looked into the matter, they agreed that Avantia had treated Mrs L in 
line with usual practice where dual insurance is discovered. And he felt the £100 offered was 
fair compensation.
Mrs L accepted the investigators conclusion but says she hasnt received payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am in agreement with the investigator. Avantia has been able to provide 
us with copies of the renewal letters they sent to Mrs L. So, even if those letters werent 
received, I cant say Avantia didnt follow the correct process. But, they did misadvise Mrs L 
so it is reasonable to expect that they pay her compensation.
Mrs L was clearly upset by what happened and £100 is fair in the circumstances, bearing in 
mind Avantia followed industry practice in offering a 50% refund. And because they quickly 
recognised the error theyd made in not explaining that initially. 
My final decision
It is my final decision that I uphold this complaint. If they have not already done so I require 
Avantia Insurance Limited to issue a refund of 50% of the premiums for the period of dual 
insurance and to pay the £100 compensation. They should do so without further delay.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman