DRN-3450281
The complaint
Mr B complains that Family Equity Plan Limited (Family) could not send his funds to him 
electronically, which resulted in him receiving his funds later than he expected. 
What happened
Mr B had an Individual Savings Account (ISA) with Family. As the fixed term was coming to 
an end, he rang Family to arrange for the account to be closed and the funds to be 
transferred to a jointly held third party account. 
The call handler informs Mr B that his account would be maturing at midnight, so he could 
ring back the following day, otherwise there would be a breakage charge of £8.56. Mr B 
explains that he would rather pay the breakage charge to access his money, rather than ring 
back the following day.
As Family did not hold any bank details on file for Mr B, they explained that they could either 
try and pay the funds electronically to him or they could send him a cheque for the money. 
They explained that they use a Credit Reference Agency (CRA) to authenticate his bank 
details. Mr B provided his bank details, which he held jointly with his wife, but the call handler 
informed him that they had been unable to authenticate his bank details. Mr B gave the call 
handler two more accounts to try, but none of the accounts were able to be authenticated by 
the system Family uses. 
The call handler explained that if Mr B wanted to withdraw the money from his account, then 
he could either send them a bank statement, so they could send the money electronically to 
that account, or they could send him a cheque. Mr B said they could send him a cheque. Mr 
B told the call handler that Family had transferred money into the same joint bank account 
when his wife made a similar transaction two weeks earlier. But the call handler explained 
the system didnt tell her why it didnt authenticate the bank details. Mr B asked the call 
handler to raise a complaint on his behalf as he said their systems werent fit for purpose.
Family did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. They said that sometimes it is not possible for them 
to authenticate a customers bank details through an electronic check. They added that they 
arent told specifically the reason for the failed check by the CRA. Family explained that 
when theyre unable to authenticate a nominated account this way, they ask for further 
documentation so they can manually authenticate his bank account and get the account 
added to his ISA. 
Mr B brought his complaint to our service. He said that it took over a week to get access to 
the funds since it had to be sent as a cheque. He said he lost a car he wanted to purchase 
as a result of this and that an equivalent car would cost around £200 extra now. He also said 
he wanted reassurances that this wouldnt happen again. Our investigator did not uphold his 
complaint. She said the terms and conditions of his account show that Family reserve the 
right to authenticate any nominated account and if they are unable to do so, they may 
withhold any payment until it can be authenticated. Our investigator concluded that Family 
did nothing wrong.
Mr B asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said that the problem arose 
because the CRA that Family used, had failed to authenticate his account when they had 
authenticated it for his wife only two weeks earlier. He said that as the system was at fault, 
Family were responsible for any sub-contractors that they employ, and they must accept 
responsibility as they appointed the CRA to authenticate customers accounts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the enforcer for 
the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts as an 
informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. So I must be 
clear to Mr B from the outset that Im unable to tell Family what systems they should use to 
authenticate a customers bank account, as this is a commercial decision for Family to make. 
Ive considered what Mr B has said about the system that Family uses to authenticate a 
bank account was at fault and as a result of this, Family should be held responsible for any 
sub-contractors they employ. But Im not persuaded that Family should be held responsible 
for the outcome of the bank account authentication and Ill explain why.
Firstly, I can only consider the actions of Family, and not a third party, as the complaint Mr B 
has brought to us is against Family, and not the CRA whos systems they use. Family are 
the savings provider here. They are not in the CRA business in electronically authenticating 
bank accounts. So in that sense, they didnt sub-contract their work to the CRA. They used a 
well known CRA to attempt to authenticate Mr Bs bank account in order to transfer funds 
quicker to him then if they attempted to authenticate him by Mr B sending them a bank 
statement or sending him a cheque.
By using a CRA to authenticate a customers bank account details, this did not mean that 
Family were taking responsibility for the CRAs systems working or providing a positive 
authentication outcome. And as Family have explained, they are not told the reason why the 
CRA couldnt authenticate his bank account. So there could be other reasons which Family 
wouldnt be aware of to explain why Mr Bs wife was able to complete her transfer 
electronically two weeks earlier and Mr B was not  even if they both gave Family the same 
account details. 
Familys terms and conditions are very clear that If we are unable to authenticate the
Nominated Account, we may withhold any payment until it can be authenticated. So, as 
Family were not able to authenticate his account, Im not persuaded they acted outside of 
their terms and conditions by not transferring the money electronically. They gave him 
options of what he could do  either send them a bank statement or they could send him a 
cheque. 
Ive listened to the phone call Mr B had with Family to withdraw the money. The call handler 
clearly explains the two other options to Mr B. At the end of the call, Mr B asks when he 
would receive the cheque and the call handler informs him that it would take four working 
days to process the cheque and then they would send it out in the post. Mr B does not object 
to this or explain the urgency of needing the funds to purchase a car, although this would not 
change the way Family would be able to authenticate his account.
Ive considered that Mr B has said he wants assurances that this wouldnt happen again. But 
Im not persuaded that Family can do this. I say this as CRA authentication outcomes would 
be outside of Familys control. They are clear in their terms and conditions what will happen if it is not possible to authenticate a customers bank details. As Family acted in line with 
their terms and conditions of the account when they couldnt authenticate Mr Bs bank details 
on any of the attempts, it follows that I dont require Family to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman