DRN-3583053
The complaint
Mr M says when he switched between funds in his Retirement Account he didnt benefit from 
a unit price reset (UPR). He says The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) 
has treated him unfairly and hes suffered financial detriment.
Mr M is represented by his independent financial adviser (IFA).
What happened
The basic facts of this case are not in dispute. 
Following a discussion between Mr M and his IFA it was agreed his attitude to risk had 
changed. As a result, on 15 July 2021 his adviser requested a switch between funds in his 
Retirement Account, from the PruFund Risk Managed 2 fund to the PruFund Growth fund. 
Prudential instructed the switch the same day. After a 28-day waiting period, the units were 
sold on 12 August 2021 and the money placed into a holding account.
On 25 August 2021, Prudential applied a 3.63% UPR to its PruFund Growth funds, and a 
3.78% UPR to the PruFund Risk Managed 2 funds. Mr Ms switch was completed on 25 
August 2021, but he didnt benefit from either uplift.
Mr Ms IFA complained to Prudential on his behalf. To put things right he wanted Prudential 
to pay what he missed out on, which he calculated as £7,513 - plus interest. 
Prudential issued its final response in November 2021. It said it had followed its processes 
properly and the way switching and UPRs worked had been clearly set out in its policy 
documents. Mr M disagreed and brought his case to this Service. 
An Investigator considered Mr Ms complaint. Although he understood why he felt hed 
missed out because of what had happened, he didnt uphold his case because he didnt 
think Prudential had done anything wrong. Mr M disagreed.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators findings and conclusions Mr Ms 
complaint has been passed to me to review afresh and to issue a decision. This is the final 
stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the regulation around transactions like those performed by Prudential for Mr 
M. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are 
fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These 
include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Prudential. As 
such, I need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
Information about how switching between PruFunds, the smoothing process and how UPRs 
work are set out in guides and the policy terms and conditions provided by Prudential.
The Investigator summarised the key matters in the following terms:
When switching out of a PruFund, there is a 28-day waiting period which applies and is from 
the date the switch instruction is actioned. The purpose of this is to protect the with-profits 
sub-fund, in the interest of with-profit policyholders and shareholders. For this period, the 
unit price used is the unit price at the end of the 28 days. Mr Ms switch instruction was 
received and actioned on 15 July 2021, and so the end of the waiting period was 12 August 
2021 as the 28th day. Because this was before the unit price resets in question, the uplifts 
werent applicable at this time.
At the end of the waiting period the units are sold and placed in a holding account until the 
next investment date. As per the terms, whilst the money from the units sold is held within 
the holding account, its not subject to unit price resets and so Mr Ms fund wouldnt have 
been able to benefit from any unit price resets in this timeframe.
Ive reviewed the original complaint to Prudential by Mr Ms IFA. It said:
[Mr M] switched out of PruFund Risk Managed 2 and into PruFund Growth (75%) and 
Vanguard LS 60% Equity (25%). Switch was instructed on 15th July and funds were sold on 
12th August and placed into the PruFund Growth Holding account - Meaning the client 
missed out on the UPR's for PruFund RM2 on the sell side and also PruFund Growth on the 
buy side.
Clients fund value before UPR yesterday was £289,260. UPR of the selling fund was 
3.78%, UPR of the buying fund was 3.63%. So client has lost out on around £8,000 purely 
because they've moved between PruFunds due to a change in [attitude to risk.]
We understand the mechanism of the 28-day delay before funds can be sold to avoid 
manipulation of the smoothing process. However we feel that something should have been 
put in place for investors who are switching from one PruFund to another, especially in 
exceptional circumstances like this where UPR's have been applied to every PruFund.If the clients were selling completely out of the PruFunds and had missed out on the 
UPR's then we would agree that whilst the timing would be unfortunate, that is the nature of 
these investments. But to completely miss out for merely moving between PruFunds feels 
very unjust.
Prudential responded to Mr Ms IFA in the following terms:
As per the Terms and Conditions, once a fund switch is requested from the PruFund 
range of funds it cannot be cancelled and the units are subject to a 28 day waiting period.
Furthermore, any funds being invested into a PruFund are subject to the same rules of the 
smoothing process, regardless of the investment origins of the investment. I understand you 
disagree with this process and feel we should protect customers switching from one 
PruFund to another, particularly under the circumstances of the recent UPR being beneficial 
to customers. However, we clearly set out the smoothing process, including the process 
around UPRs in our literature and we have processed the switch in line with said process.
As such, following the switch the funds were correctly placed into the holding account until 
25 August 2021 when they were swept into the fund, and were therefore not entitled to 
benefit from the UPR applied on the same date.
I appreciate you have cited within your complaint you feel Mr M has been unfairly 
disadvantaged. However, any customer who switched between PruFunds following the July 
2021 sweep date would not have benefitted from the increase. These customers all shared 
the same risk and therefore were all treated fairly.
Furthermore, to allow Mr M to switch and still benefit from the UPR would make it unfair on 
every other customer who did not choose to switch funds, and on those who did but have not 
raised a complaint.
The fund switch terms and conditions are clear, and the literature regarding our UPRs, Unit 
Price Adjustments and Estimated Growth Rates are all readily available to you prior to any 
advice given to your client.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions applicable to Mr Ms Retirement Account and other 
relevant documents such as the step-by-step guide to the PruFund smoothing process. Ive 
concluded that Prudential followed what it said it would do in the circumstances Mr M found 
himself in. 
Ive also considered how Prudential actioned Mr Ms IFA instructions. I cant see there were 
any delays or other problems with what it did.
I dont think my conclusions will be a surprise to Mr M and his IFA because I think they 
understand that Prudential havent technically done anything wrong. Their argument is more 
about whether the existing processes it follows are fair in what the firm has recognised were 
unusual circumstances.
The main crux of our argument is that while the monthly test to decide whether a UPA is 
applied is completely formulaic without any human decision, the decision to apply a UPR on 
25th August was unprecedented and a completely discretionary decision made by 
Prudential. From the correspondence we have received, it seems pretty clear that the driving 
factor behind this decision was that the smoothing process was not working as intended. 
Prudential say in their own words that these were exceptional circumstances and might 
never actually occur again, therefore we believe that Prudential should have had a process 
in place (above the standard UPA procedures) to protect customers who may have been 
disadvantaged by this one-off decision, particularly customers such as this client who were 
switching between PruFunds at this time.Prudential says it welcomed feedback from Mr Ms IFA about how its PruFund mechanism 
works. It said is always thinking of how this can be kept as efficient and effective as possible. 
But it didnt commit to making changes, especially as the circumstances giving rise to his 
concerns were unusual and might not happen again.
It isnt the role of this Service to instruct firms on how to design their business processes. 
And so in the circumstances of Mr Ms case, while I recognise his disappointment I wont be 
instructing Prudential to put things right in the way hed like. To do so would effectively be to 
disadvantage other Prudential customers.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman