DRN-2561778
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limiteds decision to stop his 
claim and cancel his policy.
What happened
Mr H had an income protection policy with LV. He sourced the policy from a broker. Mr H 
began suffering with symmetrical pain in his knees, ankles, wrists and feet and was unable 
to work as a plasterer. He visited his GP on 31 August 2016 and was signed off work for 
arthralgia of multiple joints and referred to a rheumatology specialist for further investigation. 
He made a claim on his policy, which was accepted, and he began receiving payments from 
LV.
LV then stopped making payments almost three years later, on 30 June 2019, because it 
discovered Mr H hadnt told it everything about his medical history. In particular, LV said it 
was unaware that Mr H suffered with shoulder, back and neck pain in early 2013.   
Mr H said he shared this information with the broker and so could not understand why LV 
was unaware of this. He said that he shared everything he could remember about his 
medical history and that LV would have completed a more thorough check of his medical 
records when he took the policy. He could not understand the reason behind checking this 
information almost three years later. Mr H also disagreed with LVs decision to cancel his 
policy and questioned why it could not continue to offer cover without simply adding the 
previous medical conditions as exclusions, like it did with his tennis elbow. 
LV said had it knew about Mr Hs tennis elbow, which is why it added any related problems 
as an exclusion. However, had it known the full extent of his previous medical history, it 
would not have offered him a policy to begin with and that this is why its cancelled it and 
asked that he pay back the benefit he received. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that Mr H should have checked the 
relevant documentation to make sure the information was recorded accurately. He also 
thought there were clear questions asked about his previous medical history and noted Mr H 
didnt declare everything. He didnt think LV had done anything wrong in asking for his to pay 
back the money hed received over the last three years because LV had offered a payment 
plan. 
Mr H disagreed. He said he gave as much information as he could remember at the time and 
that ultimately, he wanted LV to accept the claim and restart payments. And so, its for me to 
make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint because Ive not found any 
evidence to suggest its made a mistake. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules that apply here are Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act (CIDRA). These rules set out whats expected of insurers and 
consumers when gaining or sharing important information that could affect the outcome of 
any claim. This focusses on whether the questions asked by LV were clear and not 
misleading and whether Mr H answered them carefully and accurately. It also explains what 
action LV can take in the event it was misled into offering a policy. Having carefully 
considered whats happened, I dont think LV is wrong in taking the action it has. 
I recognise that Mr H used a broker to find the policy and to be clear, Ive not considered the 
brokers actions as part of this complaint. But Ive seen evidence that persuades me that LV 
wasnt told everything about Mr Hs medical history. And so, Im satisfied LV was misled into 
providing a policy, or, to use the words of CIDRA, a qualifying misrepresentation was made. 
I say that because although it was told that Mr H suffered with tennis elbow, it wasnt told 
about his shoulder pain, nor about his previous neck, back and hip pain.  
Prior to offering the policy, LV asked;
In the last five years have you had any of the following;
- any joint, bone or muscle pain 
- any back or neck condition, including pain, sciatica or whiplash
I should say I find this question clear. Mr H answered yes to the first part of the question 
and told it about his tennis elbow. However, he answered no to the second part, when he 
should have said yes. I say that because Ive seen medical evidence from his chiropractor 
which says he received treatment from January  March 2013, three years prior, for neck, 
back, arm and hip pain. LV was able to add an exclusion to the policy for any symptoms 
related to the tennis elbow, but nothing for the other conditions because it was unaware 
theyd ever caused him trouble. 
I note LV was also unaware of Mr Hs shoulder problems because this was also left out of 
the medical questionnaire. I should, however, say that Ive seen some evidence to support 
that Mr H shared this with the broker and that it failed to pass this information to LV, but 
thats not the insurers fault either. Ultimately, it was Mr Hs responsibility to make sure LV 
was fully aware of all the necessary and relevant information and should have checked the 
policy schedule to ensure this was the case. 
LV accepted this was a careless mistake, rather than a deliberate or deceptive attempt to 
gain cover. But it still means that LV has paid benefit on a claim that it otherwise would not 
have accepted. I say that because Im satisfied LV would not have offered Mr H the policy to 
begin with. The reason for this is because he would have posed too high a risk to insure. LV 
has provided retrospective screening to evidence this and Im satisfied that Mr H would have 
exceeded its appetite for risk. 
CIDRA also explains the action an insurer might take if it were to discover a qualifying 
misrepresentation had been made. Under the act, an insurer can stop paying benefit and 
unwind the policy to effectively correct the issue. Its entitled to request any benefit to be 
returned and it should also return the premiums to the consumer. In this instance, its offset 
the premiums against the benefit it paid Mr H, which I think is fair in the circumstances. 
I note Mr Hs comments about whether LV should have requested his medical records at 
inception, but its not something its required to do. LV asked specific and clear questions 
about his medical history at the outset and so it has a reasonable expectation they would 
have been answered accurately. It was only after the claim had been on-going for three years that it considered inviting Mr H for a functional capacity test to determine further 
information about his illness that it became concerned by some of the medical information 
provided by the GP. This prompted LV to further probe into what it had initially been told 
when it learned of the events Ive explained. And so, I dont think LV treated Mr H unfairly 
here either.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman