DRN-2980678
The complaint
R complains that Towergate Underwriting Group Limited failed to correctly assess the risk to 
a property on their commercial property owners insurance policy.
What happened
R purchased a property in 2018 and insured it with a number of other properties. 
R said Towergate acted as insurance broker for the commercial insurance policy and the 
propertys rebuild value was stated as £170000. Following a fire in 2020 and a claim for 
damage it came to light it was a grade II listed building with an estimated value of over 
£500000.
R said Towergate failed to assess the risk properly. It couldve conducted simple searches 
before offering a quote. And itd failed to act in their best interests. Theyve suffered a 
significant loss in rental income and refurbishment costs. And they want putting back in the 
position they were in before the fire occurred. 
Towergate said R had added the property in July 2018. Itd been informed the property was 
built around 1850. The information had been passed onto the insurance company who 
requested further information. Towergate said itd been advised the property was grade 2 
and thatd been passed onto the insurers, who accepted the addition of the property to the 
existing policy and updated the schedule accordingly. Towergate said the documentation 
cleared stated the buildings declared value to be £170000 with the sum insured at just 
under £230000. The endorsement/statement of fact had been sent to R with clear 
instructions to read all of the information to ensure it was correct. And to contact it with any 
amendments as soon as possible. 
Towergate said subsequent policy information clearly stated the current cost of rebuilding 
the property as £170000. And each time R were asked to check the documentation carefully 
to ensure it was correct. Following the fire the loss adjuster had advised that the sum insured 
was low. And Rs own loss assessor had accepted the sum insured was inadequate at the 
time of the loss.
Towergate said it acted as the insurance broker, not the insurance company or loss adjuster 
dealing with the claim. The insurance company were responsible for assessing the risk, 
asking relevant questions and then providing the quotation. Only the client would know the 
full facts and details of a building. And Towergate could only act on the information provided 
by its customers. 
R werent satisfied with Towergates response. So they contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He noted that Towergate were Rs broker and not its 
insurer. And the insurer had declined the claim due to the unoccupancy condition in the 
commercial property insurance policy.
Our investigator said from what hed seen Towergate wasnt responsible for the questions 
asked about the insurance or the terms and conditions of the policy. So he could only look at 
whether itd acted in a way our service would expect a broker to act.
When R added the property to its policy in 2018 Towergate issued a statement of fact which 
showed the buildings declared value as £170000. Towergate had issued policy renewal 
invitations in 2019 and 2020 followed by the relevant policy documentation. On each 
occasion R were advised to review all of the documentation to ensure the information was 
correct. 
Our investigator was satisfied Towergate had made R aware of the terms and conditions of 
the policy, including the unoccupancy clause and the need to ensure the sums insured 
werent too low. He felt the onus was on R to provide accurate information. And theyd had 
several opportunities to speak to Towergate and make any necessary alterations. So he 
didnt feel Towergate had to do anything more.
R didnt agree. They understood brokers werent estate agents or building surveyors. But 
they felt the broker should have sufficient knowledge of what it was insuring to determine a 
reasonable value for a given property. So Towergate shouldve picked up on what appeared 
to be a significant undervaluation and advised R accordingly. And theyve asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
R updated their commercial property insurance schedule when they purchased an additional 
property. And they feel Towergate failed to act in their best interest by setting the rebuild 
value at too low a level. 
R said this came to light after a fire at the property and they want Towergate to put them 
back in the position they were in before the fire. So Ive looked very carefully at everything R 
and Towergate have said.
R have accepted Towergates role is to act as a broker between itself and the insurers. And 
as such, Towergate isnt responsible for deciding upon the terms and conditions of the 
commercial property insurance policy or determining the outcome of claims against the 
policy. So Ive looked at whether Towergate has acted fairly and in a way Id expect it to act 
as insurance broker for R. 
An insurance brokers role is to act as an intermediary between the client (in this case R) 
and the insurers underwriting the commercial property policy. As such I would expect it to 
gather information from the client so it can find a suitable product that meets their needs. 
And Id expect it keep the client updated with any changes to the policy terms and renewal 
dates as well as ensuring the client understood the terms and amount of cover provided by 
the policy. 
But I wouldnt expect a broker to be responsible for carrying out property valuations or 
checks in relation to security, fire safety or otherwise. The onus is on the insured to provide 
accurate information to the insurers (through Towergate) so they can assess the level of risk 
and decide if they want to offer cover and if so at what cost. 
In 2018, after asking further questions on behalf of the insurers, Towergate provided 
R with a statement of fact for the various properties now covered by the insurance policy. 
This included the property recently acquired by R.The insurance quotation was based on a sum insured for the property of £229500 with a 
declared value of £170000. In response to the entry please provide the grade listing status 
of the building the quotation listed grade 2. 
As far as I can see, this information was provided by R. And I wouldnt expect Towergate to 
carry out any additional checks or valuations to verify what R had said. 
I would expect Towergate to report the information accurately to the insurers. And once the 
cover had been agreed, to provide R with the relevant documentation so they could check 
everything was correct and fully understood. If R had any questions I would expect 
Towergate to provide suitable explanations and request amendments as necessary. 
The property had been added to the policy mid-term, so Towergate forwarded updated 
documentation to R at beginning of August 2018. The covering letter stated we have 
changed your policy based upon the information you have provided and the details are 
attached to this letter. Please take some time to read all of the information to ensure we 
have understood your requirements and have covered your needs according. The schedule 
further states the policy(ies) we are recommending are based on the information you have 
provided.
On the policy schedule the current rebuilding cost of the property was listed as £170000. 
And this was repeated at a similar level on each renewal notice and accompanying policy 
documentation for a further two years. 
So I think Towergate provided R with the necessary information, based on the details theyd 
originally provided, on an ongoing basis so they could check the level of cover provided by 
the policy and ensure it still met their needs. 
As previously mentioned, Towergate isnt responsible for the insurer declining Rs claim. I 
understand the reason the claim for fire damage was declined by the insurers had nothing to 
do with the sum assured or grade 2 listing of the building. 
And Ive not seen anything to suggest Towergate has treated R unfairly. It collected the 
information provided by R in relation to the recently acquired property and advised them of 
the level and type of cover offered by the insurers. R were then asked to check the details 
carefully.
The policy schedule states clearly you must take care to provide accurate and complete 
information relating to this insurance. Please check the information you have provided in this 
schedule and the statement of facts. If any of the information is inaccurate or incomplete the 
insurers may change the terms and/or the premium or withdraw cover.
Once the policy had been accepted Towergate provided updated information to R as the 
policy renewed and again each time asked its client to check the details and level of cover 
were correct. And Ive not seen anything to suggest R raised any queries about the valuation 
or rebuild cost of the property. 
I know R feel Towergate shouldve had sufficient knowledge to be able to determine a 
reasonable value for the property and advise them it was undervalued. But, as a property 
business with a portfolio of properties, I dont think it would be unfair to expect R to be well-
placed to provide accurate information about the properties theyd purchased. 
Based on everything Ive seen I think Towergate fulfilled its role as broker to R in a fair and 
reasonable manner, collecting information from them on behalf of the insurers and providing 
them with timely and clear documentation stating the level of cover provided.  I know this isnt the outcome R were hoping for. But I wont be asking Towergate to do 
anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman