DRN-2504982
complaint
Mrs M says that Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mrs M took out the policy in 1995 at the same time as taking out a store card. Mrs M took out 
the store card in a shop, but Allianz has taken responsibility for the sale, and for this 
complaint, so Ill refer to Allianz in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint  Mrs M disagreed with this, so the complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M says that she didnt know about the PPI  as it wasnt discussed with her. She also 
says that given the choice, she wouldve declined the policy and put her money to better 
use. But I think that Allianz made Mrs M aware that she had a choice in taking out the policy, 
and that she chose to take it out  but I can understand why she doesnt recall this as it was 
so long ago.
I say this because Allianz has provided a copy of Mrs Ms store card application, and on this 
I can see that the PPI is presented as an optional product and has been selected. Mrs Ms 
name and date of birth have also been added in this section as the person to be insured. 
Mrs M has then signed the store card application, agreeing to the information on it.
Allianz didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M, so it didnt have to check that it was right for her 
 but it did need to make sure it gave Mrs M enough information for her to decide if it she 
thought it was right for her.
Its possible some of the information wasnt as clear as it shouldve been  but Mrs M doesnt 
appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover  and based 
on what I know of her circumstances, it looks like the policy couldve been useful for her if 
shed needed to make a claim. So, I dont think that better information wouldve stopped her 
buying it.
Mrs Ms representatives have asked if the policy covered illness, as well as unemployment, 
which it does. They have also said that the deferral period of 29 days on the policy for 
unemployment means that Mrs M wouldve been disadvantaged had she lost her job, as she 
had no other means to make her repayments during this time. But a deferral period isnt 
unusual, and this deferral period isnt excessive  and would also have been backdated too. 
So, I dont think that this makes a difference here.
Ive thought about everything that Mrs M has said, but these points dont change my 
conclusion, and I dont think that the complaint should be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman