DRN-3623467
The complaint
Ms R complains that Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax failed to stop another customer 
abusing her in a branch in April 2021 and would like £3,000 compensation for the mental 
distress this incident has caused her. 
What happened
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the behaviour of another customer in 
the branch that day wasnt Halifaxs fault and that the matter was dealt with in line with 
Halifaxs procedures including when the police were called. And Halifaxs offer of £25 for 
failing to log Ms Rs complaint properly was fair. 
Ms R disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. She said Halifax had told this 
service the wrong date of the incident in the branch and that she wanted CCTV footage of 
what happened that day. She said the Halifax branch staff discussed the other customers 
accounts and failed to protect her as a customer that day. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Ms R feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Halifax has told this service it no longer has any CCTV footage of the incident due to the 
time that has passed (more than thirty-one days). So, Ive considered all the evidence Ms R 
has provided in relation to what happened in the branch and how she suffered mentally and 
physically afterwards. 
From what Ms R has said, the other customer was served in front of her and began to leave 
the branch only to quickly return and try to speak to a member of staff before Ms R. The 
testimony from the branch staff that day and Ms R confirm that the other customer quickly 
became aggressive and agitated when he couldnt return to the staff member without 
queuing again. He was asked to leave but refused so eventually the police were called. But 
Ive not seen any persuasive evidence that the other customers actions towards Ms R were 
a direct result of Halifaxs actions.
Im sorry to hear this incident has caused Ms R distress. But I dont think the behaviour of 
the other customer can reasonably be blamed on Halifax. And in the circumstances, I think 
the branch staff were right to ask the other customer to leave and then call the police when 
he refused to do so. 
Ms R says it was mentioned in front of her that the other customers accounts would be 
closed. Halifax has said it has provided her feedback to its staff in relation to this incident 
and it will take action if anything needed to be learnt from this incident. And Halifax did offer 
Ms R £25 for not logging this complaint on its system properly. I think thats a reasonable 
response and a fair compensatory offer in all the circumstances. 
As a result, Im not going to ask Halifax to do anything more here.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman