DRN-2228804
The complaint
Mr G complains Santander UK Plc cancelled a direct debit without his knowledge and as a 
result he has accrued arrears on his mortgage and adverse information has been recorded 
on his credit file.
What happened
Mr G has a flexible plus mortgage account with Santander. The flexible mortgage allows him 
to make overpayments, with the extra funds being put into a savings pot. If Mr G cant make 
a payment or makes a payment late, Santander can access the savings pot and use the 
funds towards the mortgage payment.
In January 2019 Mr G called Santander to let them know he wouldnt have enough funds in 
his bank account to cover the mortgage payment. When he called, he spoke to their banking 
department  not their mortgage department. The adviser made a note of the conversation 
but couldnt offer much support. He told Mr G to call through to the mortgage department.
The direct debit for Januarys payment failed and the funds from Mr Gs saving pot was used 
to contribute towards the mortgage payment. Unfortunately, this wasnt enough to cover the 
full payment  and so he fell into arrears.
In February Mr G called Santander again. This time he spoke to an adviser in the mortgage 
department. He explained that he wouldnt have enough money in his bank account to cover 
the mortgage payment  but that he would be able to pay it a few days later. Lots of things 
were discussed during the call and it resulted in the adviser suspending Mr Gs direct debit, 
which meant he had to make manual payments, until he was in a position to re-instate it.
Mr G disputes what was agreed during this call and says he never agreed for the direct debit 
to be suspended. He also says the call disconnected and so nothing was formally confirmed.
A week or so later, Mr G called Santander again. During that call he discussed making a 
manual payment towards the arrears on the account from his other Santander account  the 
same one which he usually paid his direct debit from. He said he left the call assuming hed 
made the payment and that all future direct debits would work as normal. 
In the months that followed, Mr G missed further mortgage payments (because his direct 
debit was not set up) and so he fell further into arrears. In September 2019 he contacted 
Santander to complain.
He said he never asked for the direct debit to be suspended or cancelled, he wasnt aware 
this had happened, and he didnt think he should have to pay the arrears. He also asked 
Santander to remove any adverse information that had been recorded on his credit file 
because he thought they were at fault  not him.
Santander responded. They said that theyd made Mr G aware they were suspending the 
direct debit and going forwards hed have to make manual payments until it was re-instated. 
They said it was Mr Gs responsibility to ensure his mortgage payments were made on time 
and as a result they maintained that the arrears were correct, and they didnt agree to 
remove any information theyd recorded on his credit file. 
Unhappy with Santanders response Mr G brought the complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators considered the matter and, in summary, she didnt think Santander needed to 
do anything further. She listened to several phone calls Mr G had with Santander and she 
thought theyd made it clear they were suspending the direct debit and that Mr G would have 
to make manual payments going forward. She recognised the calls didnt always go well and 
she acknowledged that Mr G was trying to do what he could to manage the account. But 
overall, she didnt recommend that Santander amend the arrears or his credit file.
Mr G remained unhappy. He said that he never agreed that the direct debit could be 
suspended or cancelled and as a result he assumed that he was still making his monthly 
payments. Because an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. 
In support of his complaint Mr G has made numerous detailed points and Id like to pass on 
my thanks to Mr G for this and his patience while Ive been considering the matter. Ive 
summarised the complaint in far less detail, and I havent commented on everything Mr G 
has raised. My role is to get the heart of a matter and decide what the crux of a complaint is, 
so this decision centres on the key issues.
Its clear from Mr Gs communication with us that he feels strongly about whats happened 
with his mortgage account and he feels he did all he could to ensure he made his monthly 
contractual payments. He says he never agreed to his direct debit being suspended and as 
a result wasnt aware that he wasnt paying his monthly mortgage payment. 
Calls with Santander
As requested, Ive listened to the calls Mr G had with Santander throughout January and 
February 2019. Im not going to comment on the details of each call, but I will summarise 
what I think was agreed.
In January Mr G called Santander to request an overdraft to help him meet his monthly direct 
debits. The overdraft amount Mr G wanted wasnt granted and he was offered a significantly 
lower amount. Mr G didnt agree to the overdraft and asked the adviser what he was meant 
to do about the direct debits that were due. The adviser initially said he could cancel the 
direct debits. But before he could finish what he was trying to say Mr G asked whether he 
should really do that as it was a Santander mortgage. The adviser then explained that if it 
was a mortgage direct debit for a Santander mortgage, he should discuss his situation with 
Santanders mortgage team in the first instance. The call didnt end well, and Mr G wasnt 
happy with the advice provided.
I can understand why Mr G was concerned about the advice the agent provided during this 
call, but Im satisfied he wasnt given the opportunity to finish what he was trying to say. He later confirmed to Mr G that he should discuss his situation with Santanders mortgage team, 
so I think he did what he could to explain the appropriate next steps.
In mid-February Mr G called Santander again to explain his monthly mortgage payment was 
going to be late due to insufficient funds. The agent initially said the represent had been 
cancelled for the previous month  but later explained that it wasnt cancelled it just hadnt 
been claimed for. To assist Mr G further the agent suggested that he suspend the direct 
debit and make a manual payment later in the month. Mr G agreed to this. The agent also 
explained that Mr G would need to call back to re-instate the direct debit. Mr G 
acknowledged this and asked why this hadnt been offered previously. Other things were 
discussed on the call such as the need for Mr G to speak to Santanders legal department, 
the issues he was having with his business bank account and the need for the agent to 
discuss the account with the banking department, to see what had happened in the previous 
call in January. Unfortunately, the call came to an abrupt end when the agent put Mr G on 
hold.
Having listened to the call, Im satisfied that Mr G agreed to the suspension of the direct 
debit for his monthly mortgage payment. Im also satisfied the agent made it clear to Mr G 
hed need to make a manual payment that month and hed need to reinstate the direct debit.
In the call a couple of weeks later Mr G made a payment towards the arrears on the account. 
The agent explained that the payment would be taken from Mr Gs other Santander account 
- the same one which the direct debit came from. Mr G agreed to this.
I understand Mr G says he was led to believe the direct debit was still in place after this call. 
But given what was discussed in the previous call, I think Mr G shouldve already been 
aware that it was suspended, and hed need to re-instate it. The purpose of this call was to 
make a manual payment for the arrears  at no point did Mr G ask to re-instate the direct 
debit and it wasnt confirmed to him that it was live or not. I can also see from the notes 
provided by Santander that the agent sent out a copy of a direct debit mandate to Mr G 
following the call as she hadnt had the chance to re-instate it during the call.
Overall, having listened to the calls Im satisfied Mr G agreed to the suspension of his 
monthly mortgage direct debit and Santander made it clear that hed have to arrange to pay 
it manually and re-instate it later.
Arrears on Mr Gs mortgage
It is Mr Gs responsibility to ensure he makes the monthly payments towards his mortgage  
this is set out in the terms and conditions of the mortgage. 
Given what Ive said above, Im satisfied Mr G shouldve been aware that his direct debit had 
been suspended in February 2019 and that hed need to make monthly manual payments 
until he decided to re-instate it.
Ive seen copies of the monthly letters that were sent to Mr Gs address from February 2019 
until September 2019 that explain his account was in arrears and what action would be 
taken next (reporting missed or late payments to credit reference agencies and the 
possibility of repossession). Ive also seen evidence of telephone calls that were attempted 
to the telephone number Santander held on file for Mr G.
And Ive seen a copy of the mortgage statement for the year of 2019 which shows the 
payments that were made towards the account. Januarys payment is made in part, using 
the funds remaining from the saving pot linked to the mortgage account. Mr G then made a 
further manual payment towards the arrears during the phone call in late February. The full monthly payments from then on were not made until October 2019. As a result of the missed 
payments the account fell into arrears. 
Having looked at this information, Im satisfied Santander wrote to the address it had on file 
for Mr G to explain he was behind with his payments and the further action they would take. 
Im also satisfied they calculated the arrears correctly and were entitled to report the missing 
payments to the credit reference agencies. Because of this I wont be asking Santander to 
remove the adverse information from Mr Gs credit file.
Mr Gs situation
Around May 2019 Santander was made aware of Mr Gs personal circumstances. To provide 
additional support they referred his account to their late stage collections assist team. This 
meant he was provided with a specific point of contact and they delayed pursuing legal 
action against him. 
As a result, Im satisfied Santander considered Mr Gs personal circumstances and treated 
him fairly.
Overall
I understand Mr G feels strongly about what happened with his mortgage account and the 
telephone calls he had in early 2019. Naturally he will be disappointed with the decision Ive 
reached on his case. But ultimately it was his responsibility to ensure he made the 
contractual monthly mortgage payments. As a result, I dont think Santander needs to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Rachel Killian
Ombudsman