DRN-3049687
The complaint
Mrs K has complained on behalf of herself and the estate of the late Mr K. She says 
Yorkshire Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for 
their mortgage.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1995. It was paid for with a 
regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.
I sent Mrs K and Yorkshire a provisional decision on 16 August 2021, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think this complaint should be upheld, and Ill explain why.
According to Yorkshires records and its own original testimony, this policy covered Mrs K 
only. And at the point of sale, Mrs K wasnt eligible for the PPI since she wasnt working. 
This means that the policy was not of any use to her.
After finding out that Mrs K wasnt eligible for the PPI, Yorkshire changed its testimony and 
insisted that the policy must have been set up in Mr Ks name, then changed to Mrs Ks later. 
Yorkshire has not provided any evidence to substantiate this claim, and the only records of 
the policy  as well as Yorkshires own original testimony  specifically state it was in Mrs Ks 
name only.
Yorkshire argues that if Mrs K wasnt working, then the mortgage would have been granted 
based on Mr Ks income. Therefore, it felt the PPI would have been sold based on Mr Ks 
income, too. But the PPI was a separate product to the mortgage  indeed, Yorkshire also 
insisted that the PPI was applied for separately to the lending. The PPI application process 
was distinct from the mortgages underwriting, with the two being separate functions that 
often dont match each other. So Ive got no good reason to categorically conclude that the 
PPI was sold based on the mortgages underwriting  theres nothing to substantiate that.
The suggestion was also put forth that it wasnt possible for the PPI to be set up in Mrs Ks 
name because she was ineligible. But I think that reasoning is circular. We have seen many 
cases where PPI was sold to someone who wasnt eligible for it, and Ive got no good reason 
to rule out that thats what happened here.
Lastly, Yorkshire suggested that when Mr K passed away and his name was removed from 
the mortgage, the systems may have automatically registered things as being in Mrs Ks 
name only instead  including the PPI. Thats technically possible, in much the same way 
that most all things are possible  but theres nothing to substantiate that claim, either. Mrs K 
also argued that despite Mr K being severely ill and off work for a long time before his 
passing, he never claimed on the PPI, which might be seen as odd if it was in his name.
In effect, Yorkshire is asking that I discount the only evidence of whose name the policy was 
in, and instead make unsubstantiated assumptions that work entirely in its favour. But I dont 
think thats the most reasonable approach to take here.
I cant rule out that Yorkshire sold this policy to someone who wasnt eligible for it  indeed, 
thats what the only remaining evidence of the policy, the consumers testimony, and 
Yorkshires own original testimony suggest happened. So I think the fairest thing to do is for 
Yorkshire to refund what Mr and Mrs K paid for the PPI here.
Of course, if Yorkshire provides documentary evidence showing how this policy was 
originally set up  before this provisional decisions deadline  then Ill be happy to 
reconsider this point.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
14 September 2021. Yorkshire didnt send in anything further. Mrs K confirmed she agreed 
with the provisional decision, and she reiterated her previous reasons for thinking the 
policy was mis-sold. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that this policy was most likely to have 
been mis-sold.
Putting things right
Yorkshire Building Society needs to put Mrs K in the position shed be in now if Mr and Mrs K 
hadnt had this PPI policy. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled 
already, and Yorkshire should:
Pay Mrs K back the amount that was paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when it was paid until Mrs K gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% simple a year.
If there was a successful claim under the PPI policy, Yorkshire can take off what was 
paid out in the claim from the amount it owes here.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Yorkshire to take off tax from this interest. Yorkshire 
must give Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. Mrs K 
can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint, and direct Yorkshire Building Society to put things right in the way 
I set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and the 
estate of Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman