DRN-2491422
The complaint
Mr D complains that Zurich Insurance plc unfairly declined two claims under his home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D had a home insurance policy with Zurich. In November 2019, he made a claim under 
his policy for damage to his tv and sofa following an accident at home. In February 2020, he 
made a second claim under the same policy when he lost his watch while overseas.
Zurich wrote to Mr D in June 2020 rejecting both claims. It said Mr D had failed to prove his 
loss for the tv and sofa claim. It also had concerns about his reasons for taking out the policy 
and his differing accounts of the accident that damaged his tv and sofa.
Zurich said it wouldnt accept Mr Ds claim for his watch. This was because Mr D submitted 
an invoice showing he paid £2,310 for the watch. However, his policy didnt cover him for 
any non-specified items worth more than £1,500. As the watch wasnt specified on his policy 
schedule, it wasnt covered.
Mr D complained about this and Zurich provided more details. It said its technical experts 
concluded that the damage to the tv couldnt have occurred as first described by Mr D. It 
said his description of the accident materially changed over the course of the claim and 
referred Mr D to the General Conditions of his policy which said it wouldnt pay a claim in 
the case of false or fraudulent claims. 
Zurich told Mr D it was retrospectively cancelling his policy from the date of his first claim. It 
said this meant Mr Ds policy wasnt in force at the time of his second claim, so his watch 
wasnt insured. 
Zurich also said it had contacted the watch retailer. The retailer said Mr D had asked it to 
split the replacement watch over two invoices: £1,499 for the main part of the watch (called 
the watch case), and £161 for the watch straps. In Zurichs opinion, this meant the watchs 
value was still over £1,500. However, it acknowledged the delay in sending Mr D its final 
decision and offered him £100 to apologise for this.
Mr D brought his complaint to this service. He doesnt agree that his accounts of the damage 
to his tv and sofa were inconsistent. He also says hes only claiming for the watch case, not 
the strap. As the replacement value of the case is less than £1,500, Zurich should settle the 
claim.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. He agreed with 
Zurich that Mr Ds accounts of how the tv and sofa were damaged were inconsistent. He 
wasnt satisfied by Mr Ds explanation for these inconsistencies and didnt think Zurich had 
acted unfairly by rejecting this claim. He thought Zurichs reasons for rejecting the claim for 
the watch were reasonable.
Mr D disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill consider each of Mr Ds claims in turn.
The tv and sofa
Mr Ds home insurance covers him for accidental loss or damage to contents. But Zurich can 
decline a claim if it believes a condition of the policy has been breached. In this case, Zurich 
initially told Mr D he had failed to prove loss. 
Zurich highlighted two issues in its 15 June 2020 letter: concerns about the policy inception 
date; and discrepancies in Mr Ds accounts of the accident that caused the damage.
Mr D took out the policy on 16 November 2019, two days before the accident that damaged 
his tv and sofa. Zurich says Mr D gave three different explanations about why he took out 
the policy at that time:
His previous home insurance policy had expired, and he needed cover. Mr D later 
explained that his contents were previously covered by his ex-girlfriends policy.
A neighbour had recently suffered flooding which, after conversations with his family, 
prompted him to take out cover.
He was about to move out of his flat and was aware that items could be damaged 
during the move.
Zurich doesnt believe Mr Ds explanations for why he took out a new home insurance policy 
just before he moved out of his flat. It also highlighted something Mr D said during his 
second call following the claim: 
I was literally moving over from one insurance provider to another over the weekend 
and erm I actually forgot I made that call and I had this sudden moment when I 
dropped it that I was like, [expletive] I'm not even, you know, my thing had expired 
but thank god I was doing a whole load of admin on Saturday and just reminded 
myself that I needed to get a new insurer.
Zurich didnt expand on this. Im not entirely happy with this. If Zurich thinks this is a strange 
reaction for someone whod just taken out a new insurance policy, it should say so.
Zurich said Mr D offered four different accounts of the accident. I think there are just three 
versions:
1. Claim, November 2019. While rearranging his living room he was moving the TV 
from one side of the room to the other. He stood on the sofa, his foot went through 
the fabric, causing him to drop the tv onto the wooden floor.
2. Video interview, January 2020. He was filling holes in the wall and rested the tv on 
the sofa. He dropped the tv onto the sofa which then hit his coffee table and fell onto 
the floor.
3. Statement, February 2020. He rested the tv on top of the sofa against the wall while 
sanding the wall. He went to move the tv, lost his footing, and dropped the tv onto the 
sofa. It then rolled forward from the sofa on to the edge of my coffee table, where it 
came to rest.Finally, Mr D initially told Zurich he was alone at the time of the accident. However when his 
claim was declined in June 2020, he said he could provide a statement from someone who 
saw the accident.
Mr D took out the policy two days before he made the claim. I understand why Zurich might 
have concerns about a claim so soon after policy inception, and why it would want Mr D to 
be very clear about what happened. 
Ive reviewed all of Mr Ds accounts and listened to the calls weve been given. Having done 
so, I can see why Zurich wasnt satisfied by Mr Ds accounts. There are inconsistencies, and 
I think these go beyond Mr D simply adding more details about the same event. Also, in a 
phone call with our investigator in November 2020, Mr D told us that he lost his balance 
when his puppy ran through his feet  he hadnt mentioned the puppy in any of his previous 
accounts. Ive gone through all of Mr Ds submissions very carefully and Im still not sure 
exactly what happened.
In the circumstances, I think Zurichs assessment of Mr Ds claim was fair. And I dont think it 
acted unreasonably by declining the claim.
Having said that, Im concerned that Zurich mentioned fraud only after Mr D complained 
about its decision to reject his claim. Zurich told Mr D he had breached the fraud condition of 
the policy in August 2020. Theres no mention of this in its June 2020 letter.
Ive reviewed the policy. Clause 8 of the General Conditions covers Fraudulent claims and 
statements. This says:
If you or anyone acting on your behalf makes any claim or statement knowing it to 
be false or fraudulent as regards, amount or otherwise, or if any loss or damage is 
caused by your wilful act or with your connivance, we will not pay the claim and all 
cover under this policy will cease and you will lose all premiums you have paid for 
this policy. In addition we may recover any sums paid by way of benefit under the 
policy. 
If you fraudulently provided us with false information, statements or documents we 
may record this on antifraud databases; we may also notify other organisations.
Fraud is an extremely serious allegation. Its not enough for Zurich to say Mr Ds inconsistent 
accounts of the damage make fraud a possibility. It needs to provide evidence that its more 
likely than not the consumer has made a fraudulent claim.
I agree that Mr D hasnt been able to provide enough information that demonstrates he 
suffered a loss as claimed. And I agree that Zurich is entitled to reject the claim. However, I 
dont think Zurich has proven that the claim was fraudulent. So I dont think it would be fair 
for Zurich to record this allegation on any internal or industry databases. If it has done so, it 
should remove these.
The watch
Zurich gave two reasons for rejecting Mr Ds claim for his lost watch: the policy wasnt in 
force; and the watch wasnt specified in the policy. 
First, Zurich says it cancelled Mr Ds policy following its investigation into his claim for 
accidental damage to his tv and sofa and backdated this to the date of the claim in 
November 2019. This meant the policy wasnt in force when he claimed for his watch in 
February 2020, so the watch wasnt insured. Notwithstanding my comments about Zurichs fraud allegation, I dont think thats fair. As I 
said above, Zurich only raised the issue of fraud in its final response to Mr Ds complaint in 
August 2020. And it only told Mr D it was retrospectively cancelling his policy in that 
response. This means Mr D couldnt have known he wasnt insured when he lost his watch 
in February 2020. So I dont think Zurichs later decision to retrospectively cancel Mr Ds 
insurance is a reasonable justification for rejecting his claim.
Ive considered Zurichs second reason  Mr Ds watch wasnt a specified item. Zurich 
referred to page 7 of Mr Ds Insurance Product Information Document (IPID). Under the 
heading Are there any restrictions on cover?, the IPID says: Any valuable and personal 
belonging with a replacement cost exceeding £1,500, must be added as a specified item 
otherwise you will not be able to claim under any section of this policy. Mr Ds Statement of 
Insurance confirms the section relating to specified items over £1,500 is not in force on your 
policy.
The section of the IPID highlighted by Zurich refers to replacement cost. Mr D has said he 
can replace the watch for £1,499. However, all other references to specified items in the 
policy documents refer to the value of the item. For example:
Statement of Insurance, under Specified Items away from the home: This optional 
extra cover provides you with cover whilst away from home and, in addition, cover 
against accidental loss or damage anywhere in the world. Each item valued in 
excess of £1,500.
IPID, under What is insured?: Accidental loss and damage anywhere in the world 
for valuables and personal belongings for specified items that exceed £1,500 
individually.
Policy booklet, under Demands and Needs: Customers who want to have additional 
cover for specified items away from home and for accidental loss or damage 
anywhere in the world. Each item should be valued in excess of £1,500.
Finally, Zurich has shown that the online portal Mr D used to buy the policy asked 
him to add details of personal belongings or valuables worth over £1,500 to ensure 
they are included on your contents policy. 
Ive looked at the separate invoices Mr D provided for the watch case and the straps. There 
are several points to note:
Mr D originally bought the watch (plus accessories) for £2,310 in March 2019. The 
watch case alone cost £1,920.
Mr D bought a replacement watch for £1,660 in May 2020. 
Mr Ds original watch came with a specific finish. His new watch didnt. 
Mr D provided separate invoices for the replacement. These show the watch case 
cost £1,499, the straps £161.
The two invoices share the same invoice number. So Im satisfied they were part of 
the same purchase.
Mr D bought the watch just eight months before he took out the insurance. Given the policy 
terms and the price of his new watch, Id have expected Mr D to specify the watch in the 
policy to be sure it was covered. Even if Mr D focused on replacement cost, I dont think its 
reasonable to think he believed he could replace it for less than £1,500 when he took out the 
policy.
And, crucially, insurance policies dont cover separate parts of a watch  they cover the 
whole item. So I dont accept Mr Ds argument that the £1,500 limit for unspecified items can be applied to the watch case only.
For these reasons, Im satisfied that Mr Ds watch wasnt covered by his policy. I think 
Zurichs assessment of his claim was fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman