DRN-2880385
The complaint
Ms complaint, in summary, is that National Westminster Bank Plc isnt providing enough 
information regarding the funds it transferred to an account with NatWest following a scam.
What happened
M says that in December 2018, it became a victim of an invoice interception scam. It 
appears that a fraudster intercepted an email thread between M and another company to 
whom M was due to make a payment. They made it appear as if the other company had 
changed their bank details. Unaware of what happened, M transferred about $30,000 to an 
account with NatWest instead of sending the money to the other company.
Once M was notified by their intended recipient that they hadnt received the payment, it 
contacted its bank to investigate this further. Their bank contacted NatWest via the Bank of 
New York Mellon around the middle of January 2019.
NatWest froze the account and tried to recover the funds. However, just under $60 remained 
in the account by this point. M requested the details of what happened to the money it paid 
into the recipient account with NatWest. It also requested the details of the beneficiary (so it 
could be clear that the intended recipient did not get the money).
NatWest told M that it was unable to provide any information about the recipient (its 
customer). However it gave some general information on the actions that it usually takes 
when it receives information that its customer is in receipt of disputed funds.
I issued a provisional decision in May 2021 (which forms part of this decision). I said:
Our jurisdiction
As our investigator explained, our powers to consider complaints are set out in the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and in rules known as the Dispute 
Resolution Rules (DISP) written by the FCA in accordance with the powers it derives 
from FSMA. These form part of the FCA Handbook. To put simply, we can only consider 
a complaint if our rules allow.
One of those rules sets out who is eligible to bring a complaint to our service. There are 
two parts to the eligibility. The complainant must meet both parts for them to be eligible.
1. In relation to a business complainant such as M, it needs be a micro- enterprise or a 
small business to be eligible to refer a complaint to us.
What is a micro-enterprise?
A micro-enterprise, for the purpose of our rules is defined as an enterprise which:
(a) employs fewer than 10 persons; and
(b) has a turnover or annual balance sheet that does not exceed €2 million,
What is a small business?
A small business, for the purpose of our rules is defined as: 
an enterprise which:
(a) is not a micro-enterprise; and
(b) has an annual turnover of less than £6.5 million (or its equivalent in any other 
currency); and
(c) employs fewer than 50 persons or has a balance sheet total of less than £5 
million (or its equivalent in any other currency).
This test needs to be met at the time the business complains to the respondent.
Also, whilst a micro-enterprise was already able to bring a complaint to us, a small 
business could only bring a complaint to us from 1 April 2019 and that too only about 
something that happened on or after 1 April 2019.
2. The complaint should arise from matters relevant to one or more of the relationships 
listed under the rule DISP 2.7.6[R]. There are several possible relationships listed 
under this rule. The relevant relationship in this case is one that is stated under DISP 
2.7.6[2B]. This essentially allows a person who has transferred funds as a result of an 
alleged authorised push payment fraud (in this case M) to complain to the recipients 
bank.
However, this rule applies only in relation to a complaint concerning an act or 
omission by the bank that occurred on or after 31 January 2019.
I see that M had around 25 staff at the time it complained to NatWest. So it couldnt be 
regarded as a micro-enterprise. However it has told us that its turnover at the time was 
just over £2m. So it would be eligible to bring a complaint to us as a small business. But 
as I mentioned earlier, because it is a small business, it could only bring a complaint to 
us about something that happened on or after 1 April 2019.
This in turn means that unfortunately we do not have jurisdiction to consider what 
happened when the alleged authorised push payment fraud transfer took place, as that 
was in December 2018. For example, M complains that NatWest initially reported that the 
names of the beneficiaries did not match but yet it allowed the transfer of payment into 
the recipients account. But as this happened in December 2018, unfortunately I wont be 
able to consider this.
I can however consider Ms complaint that the bank failed to provide adequate 
information to it, as that alleged failure continued to occur even after 1 April 2019.
Complaint about failure to provide certain information
NatWest has explained why it wouldnt be able to share the information about its 
customer or what happened to the money paid into the account due to data protection 
laws. It has however provided some general information on the actions that it usually 
takes under certain circumstances when it receives information that its customer is in receipt of disputed funds. It says that it would provide the information through formal 
routes, such as through a valid court order requiring the bank to provide the information.
I appreciate why M is unhappy that NatWest is unable to disclose any information to it in 
relation to the recipients account. However I consider that NatWest is not obliged to 
provide detailed information in relation to a third-party account. That type of information is 
not generally disclosed, because it includes personal data.
NatWest has shared relevant information with this service in confidence to allow us to 
discharge our investigatory functions and has provided what was necessary for the 
determination of this complaint. But we are also limited to how much of this we could 
share for the same reasons as NatWest. However, I would like to assure M that I have 
carefully reviewed everything before reaching my decision. Having done so, Im satisfied 
that NatWest has responded appropriately in relation to Ms request for information. So I 
wont be asking it to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
Neither party has made any further submission and the deadline to provide one has now 
passed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. I remain of the view 
that we are unable to consider Ms complaint in relation to what happened when the alleged 
authorised push payment fraud transfer took place, as that was in December 2018. And I am 
satisfied that NatWest has responded appropriately in relation to Ms request for information 
subsequently. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman