DRN-4095964
The complaint
Miss B complains that Sesame Limited mis-sold her a decreasing term assurance policy in 
2014.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. In summary Sesames adviser recommended a decreasing term assurance policy with 
critical illness cover. Miss B and her partner accepted the recommendation and the plan 
started in 2014. A claim was made when Miss Bs partner died in 2022.  Miss B was left with 
a shortfall on her mortgage and complained the policy had been mis-sold. Our investigator 
didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. 
Miss B appealed. As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to 
determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint. No discourtesy is intended by 
this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to take 
this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Ive fully 
reviewed the complete file and considered the representations Miss B made after our 
investigators view. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
I recognise that Miss B will be very disappointed my decision and Im sorry this decision 
doesnt bring more welcome news. But for the following reasons I agree with the conclusion 
reached by our investigator:
Sesames adviser met with Miss B and her partner and prepared a suitability report  
a summary of demands and needs. He recommended a decreasing term policy to 
cover the mortgage in full, but Miss B didnt accept this recommendation as it was 
beyond her financial budget. The suitability report records You said youd prefer to 
take out some form of decreasing cover so that in the event of a claim a proportion of 
the mortgage balance would be covered, as you considered that the surviving partner 
could continue to work and the remaining reduced mortgage would be affordable. I 
find it was reasonable for the adviser to then source cover which Miss B could afford, 
although it provided a lower level of cover. 
The adviser explained his recommendation in the suitability report. I dont agree the 
consequences of taken the cheaper option were not made clear  the adviser set out 
that this provided a lower level of cover, but that it was affordable. I note that Miss Bs 
circumstances had changed between the first and second meeting with the adviser 
and Miss B was on maternity pay at the time of the second appointment. But this 
doesnt lead me to conclude that the adviser should have recommended a policy that 
would still have been unaffordable.
Although Miss B feels that the adviser didnt take into account her existing life and 
critical illness policy, it is apparent that he did. He didnt advise about the suitability of 
the cover but recommended that Miss B retain the policy for additional protection. 
Miss B says that suitable advice would have been to cancel this policy and 
supplement the cost of new life cover. This would have deprived Miss B of valuable 
critical illness cover which was already in place. I do understand given what we now 
know, that Mr W sadly passed away, Miss B would be in a better position had this 
happened. But this doesnt mean that Miss B and Mr W were given unsuitable advice 
at the time.
Im satisfied that the suitability letter that was sent to Miss B and Mr W clearly set out 
the recommendations that the adviser was making and why he was making them. I 
note that a key features document was also provided. Accordingly, I find that Miss B 
was given appropriate information in good time and in a comprehensible form in 
order to make an informed decision about the recommendations made. 
It is clear that Miss B has experienced extreme financial hardship since the death of 
her partner Mr W. However, it doesnt follow that this is because the adviser gave 
unsuitable advice. The adviser was under a regulatory obligation to take reasonable 
care to ensure the suitability of his advice to Miss B and Mr W, who were entitled to 
rely on his judgment. In all the circumstances I dont find that the adviser acted 
contrary to law or regulations applicable at the time when giving the advice he did. It 
follows that I dont require Sesame Limited to take any action with regard to this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman