DRN-1736806
 
The complaint
Mr I says Provident Personal Credit Limited  trading as Satsuma (Satsuma) irresponsibly 
lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Satsuma provided to Mr I in December 2018. 
The loan was for £1,000 and was repaid over 12 monthly instalments of £166. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Is complaint and thought Satsumas checks for the loans 
went far enough. Mr I disagreed and asked for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman 
for review. He didnt think Satsumas checks went far enough  and had it done 
proportionate checks it would have found he had other short-term loans and was struggling 
financially. 
As Mr I asked for am ombudsmans review, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr I 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Is complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr I disagreed with the adjudicators view because he thought Satsumas checks didnt go 
far enough and it should have been aware that he was struggling financially and had other 
borrowing from short-term lenders as well as other debts. So, it shouldnt have lent to him.
Satsuma has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving any of the 
borrowing. It has said it asked Mr I about his employment status and he confirmed he was 
employed and had a monthly income of £2,150. Satsuma also checked Mr Is normal 
monthly living costs. Mr I declared these as £1,819.33 per month. Satsuma says it also 
searched Mr Is credit file and it has provided the results of its search. There werent any 
recent adverse entries like defaults or county court judgements (CCJs) recorded on it at the 
time the loan was taken out. 
Mr I has also provided a copy of his credit report and bank statements and these show he 
was borrowing from other short-term lenders. But a lot of this borrowing doesnt show on the 
credit report findings Satsuma has provided. 
As this was the first loan Mr I had borrowed from Satsuma, he was very early on in his 
lending relationship with it. And even though he had to make monthly repayments, the 
highest repayment would have appeared affordable based on the information he declared to 
Satsuma. And there wasnt anything in the information Mr I provided at the time which would 
have given Satsuma cause for concern, so I think it was reasonable of Satsuma to have 
relied on what Mr I gave it. 
I think these factors had an impact on what level of checks would have been appropriate for 
Satsuma to carry out. Given these, I think the checks Satsuma did before lending the loan 
went far enough and I wouldnt have expected it at this stage to undertake any more in-depth 
checks. 
The information Mr I declared to Satsuma at the time of the loan may not have been an 
accurate reflection of his financial circumstances, but I think Satsuma was entitled to rely on 
that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what Satsuma knew about     
Mr I, I wouldnt have expected Satsuma to verify the information Mr I gave it. This therefore 
means, I cant say that Satsuma have done something wrong in lending Mr I this loan. 
I appreciate that Mr I has put a lot of time and effort into his complaint and my findings are 
likely to disappoint him. But I hope my explanation will help him understand why Ive reached 
this conclusion.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-WilliamsOmbudsman