DRN-4102115
The complaint
Mr D complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money didnt tell him he didnt 
have enough money in his account for a direct debit payment to be made.
What happened
Mr D says Virgin Money didnt send him a text message telling him he didnt have enough 
money in his account for a direct debit payment for £55 to be made. He says if the text had 
been sent then he could have arranged for money to be transferred to the account. Mr D 
says the mistake has impacted his credit file and says the compensation offer isnt enough.
Virgin Money says a direct debit payment was due on 29 November 2022. It says it sent Mr 
D five messages telling him his account was overdrawn but accepts it didnt tell him the 
direct debit would fail unless funds were added to the account. Virgin Money also accepts it 
gave misleading information about the reason for what took place and has paid £75 
compensation.
Mr D brought his complaint to us, and our investigator thought the compensation appropriate 
for what took place. The investigator thought there was a similar problem on 18 November 
2022 but thought it up to Mr D to manage his account. And that a payment into Mr Ds 
account for the direct debit amount of £55 called credit card was made after the direct debit 
attempt on 29 November 2022.
Mr D doesnt accept that view and maintains the compensation isnt enough and that he has 
been paid £200 for a less serious mistake. He says the payment into the account was not for 
the direct debit and is a coincidence it was called credit card.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr D will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked carefully at Virgin Moneys records and can see the direct debit to Mr Ds 
credit card provider of £55 was due on 18 November 2022. I dont think Mr Ds account had 
enough money in it to allow the direct debit to be taken and that Virgin Money wrote to him to 
tell him. There is no dispute that Virgin Money tried to take the direct debit on 29 November 
2022 but again there wasnt enough money in the account. I can see that Virgin Money 
again wrote to Mr D to tell him that.
I appreciate Mr D says Virgin Money ought to have told him the direct debit would fail. But I 
can see Virgin Money did send Mr D numerous messages telling him his account was 
overdrawn and so I think Mr D ought to have been reasonably aware of the position as well 
as about the possibility he didnt have enough money in his account to allow the direct debit 
to be made. Im satisfied that this was Mr Ds account, and it is his responsibility to manage it 
and to make sure there is enough money in it to allow scheduled direct debit payments to be 
made.
I also appreciate Mr D says had he been sent a message by Virgin Money then he would 
have made sure that money was transferred to the account. But I think Mr D ought to have 
been aware there wasnt enough money in the account and can see that after the direct 
debit was attempted on 29 November 2022 a transfer into his account for £55 was made 
which was called credit card. I think it likely on balance that was a transfer into the account 
for the payment of £55 for Mr Ds credit card payment and so think it likely on balance that 
Mr D must have been aware that the transfer was needed for that day. I appreciate Mr D 
says the payment amount and description is simply a coincidence, but I have to decide what 
I think is more likely to be the position.
There is no doubt Virgin Money didnt deal with parts of Mr Ds complaint as it should and 
gave him misleading information about what took place and why. I have no doubt Mr D was 
caused inconvenience and frustration but am satisfied Virgin Money has fairly apologised. I 
am also satisfied Virgin Money has paid a fair and reasonable compensation award of £75. I 
dont think those mistakes justify further compensation and dont think it matters the amount 
Mr D received in compensation for other complaints. I have to look at a complaint individually 
and decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of it.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr D knew that the direct debit was due as a transfer was made into his 
account for the exact amount of £55 labelled credit card and ought to have been aware of 
the account balance as he received text messages about it. It follows that I think Mr D is 
responsible for the account management and I cant fairly order Virgin Money do anything 
further in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman