DRN-3717914
The complaint
Mr H complains that Oodle Financial Services Limited (Oodle) misled him to believe that he 
wouldnt be required to repay his outstanding borrowing with it.
My references to Oodle include any agents it appointed to act on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr H financed the acquisition of a car using a hire purchase agreement provided by Oodle in 
October 2018. Mr H was required to repay the lending over 60 months. The total amount 
payable under the agreement was £14,185.20. 
In September 2020 Mr H told Oodle the car had been written off following an accident. Oodle 
told Mr H any payments from his insurer would need to be made to it directly. It followed up 
in an email to say that Mr Hs GAP insurance should cover any shortfall between the 
insurers pay-out and the outstanding borrowing under the agreement.
In October 2020 Oodle told Mr H that his insurer had paid it £3,825, which had partially 
settled the agreement. It said that to repay the remainder of the agreement, Mr H could 
either make 30 monthly payments of £225.41 as well as a final payment of £175.89, or pay 
£4,960 to settle the account. 
Mr H raised a complaint with Oodle in November 2020. He said hed been given the 
impression his agreement would be settled by way of insurance pay-outs.
Oodle accepted that it had told Mr H that his agreement would be settled once it received 
payment from his insurer. It said this was incorrect and apologised for having said it. It also 
told Mr H that because it hadnt received payment sufficient to clear the outstanding lending, 
hed still need to pay that sum.
Mr H referred the matter to this service. In doing so he asked to be compensated for the 
impact of the misinformation hed been given. 
During our investigation, Oodle subsequently offered to pay Mr H £200 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience it had caused. Mr H also told us he had GAP insurance but the 
insurer wouldnt consider a claim due to an issue with payments having been missed. 
Our investigator didnt think that Mr H had been explicitly misled, but they accepted there 
had been a miscommunication. They said that Oodle couldve been clearer that any claim Mr 
H made under a GAP insurance policy he might have had wouldnt necessarily have been 
guaranteed. They also accepted that the miscommunication had caused Mr H to worry, but 
ultimately concluded that the £200 compensation offered by Oodle was fair in the 
circumstances.
Mr H didnt agree. He said that hed been caused a significant amount of stress and worry 
which had affected his health. He didnt think that £200 compensation fairly reflected that.
The case has been passed to me to decide what should happen.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs agreement with Oodle is a hire purchase agreement. Thats a regulated agreement 
and one which this service has the power to look into a complaint about. 
Mr H might find that Ive summarised his submissions in less detail than he presented them. 
Thats simply because I dont consider it necessary to go into that level of detail in setting out 
what I consider to be a fair and reasonable outcome. I can assure him, however, that Ive 
carefully considered all of the evidence hes provided as well as everything hes told us. 
From what its said, I think Oodle accepts it incorrectly gave Mr H the impression that his 
borrowing with it would likely be repaid by way of some kind of insurance pay-out. We now 
know thats not the case. Thats because, in summary, the pay-out made by Mr Hs insurer 
was not sufficient to clear the lending that Mr H agreed to repay. And, there was no pay-out 
in respect of a GAP insurance policy.
I accept that it must have been very frustrating for Mr H to find that the information hed been 
given was misleading. Although, it seems to me that both parties were under the impression 
that Mr H had a GAP insurance policy which would cover the shortfall. Like our investigator, I 
wouldnt necessarily have expected Oodle to have a detailed understanding of insurance 
policies Mr H may have held, so I dont think it gave him any guarantees.
Mr H has told this service that he did have a GAP insurance policy, but it wouldnt accept a 
claim due to issues around premiums not having been paid. Thats unfortunate for Mr H, and 
he might be able to raise a complaint with the insurer about that decision, should he wish. 
However, that doesnt mean that he shouldnt be required to repay the outstanding balance 
of his agreement with Oodle.
I agree that Oodle ought to compensate Mr H for the disappointment and worry that he was 
caused as a result of what he was told. Having carefully considered matters, including the 
extent to which Mr H was affected by the misinformation he was given, Im satisfied that the 
£200 Oodle offered is reasonable in the circumstances.
Im aware that Mr H entered into an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) in May 2022, 
and that his insolvency practitioner has declared an interest in any awards made as a result 
of this complaint. I remind Mr H of his responsibilities under his IVA if he chooses to accept 
my decision. 
Finally, I acknowledge that Mr H has faced challenging circumstances following the events 
which led to this complaint. Im sorry to hear thats been the case. I remind Oodle of its 
responsibility to treat Mr H with forbearance and due consideration.
My final decision
My final decision is that Oodle Financial Services Limited has already done enough to put 
things right by offering to pay Mr H £200 compensation. It should now pay this sum to the 
extent that it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman