DRN-4393911
The complaint
V, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc decided to close its account after 
sending letters to the wrong address.
What happened
V says it found out in June 2023 that its account had been restricted and was going to be 
closed. V explains that HSBC had sent letters and requests for information to its business 
address which was care of its accountant. And who hadnt been working from that office. V 
was told that it would take four to six weeks to receive the balance on the account if it did 
close. And so, it went through the process of updating the details. V couldnt access its 
funds.
HSBC said it needed to ask V for information about its business to complete a safeguard 
review to meet regulatory requirements. But it accepted that it had made a mistake. V had 
set a correspondence address on its app. But due to a known issue this wasnt reflected in 
the system. And so, it sent letters to the business address it had been given for V and it 
didnt receive any returned mail. When V discovered this and tried to update the details it 
sent a one-time passcode using an incorrect number. The account was restricted from 20 
June until 10 July 2023. It paid V £150 in compensation and when it sent its business file to 
this service offered to pay a further £150 to take into account that direct debits hadnt been 
reinstated.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that HSBC do more than it had now offered to do. HSBC 
needed to complete the review and it followed its process in restricting the account. But it 
accepted that it had made mistakes and offered compensation for this.
V didnt agree and wanted an ombudsman to review the case. The compensation wasnt fair 
and didnt take into account the impact and consequences of not having an account. HSBC 
was at fault here and it hadnt been ready to give access to the funds so these could be 
transferred to another account. HSBC should have tried alternative communication. V wasnt 
able to pay its corporation tax, employee salary and expenses. The director of V explained 
that he borrowed money from friends as a result. During this time HSBC accepted payments 
into the account but didnt allow access which showed where its priorities were. The 
compensation wasnt sufficient to reflect what had been involved.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 25 September 2023. I set out below what I said.
HSBC reasonably needed V to provide information as part of the safeguard review. It has 
shown that it sent V a number of letters and set out the consequences of not responding. It 
gave notice that the account would be closed. 
Letters went to the business address for V, and I noted from public records that this remains 
the registered office address of the company. V has explained that this is the office of its 
accountant. It isnt clear what happened to these letters as they werent returned to HSBC as 
undelivered. But it isnt in dispute that V had set a different correspondence address on the 
app, and this wasnt reflected in HSBCs records and that this was a known issue generally.
The director of V contacted HSBC as soon as the account was restricted. A one-time 
passcode to allow V to update the details was sent to the wrong number. And this wasnt 
corrected until five days later. V responded quickly when it knew about the request and the 
account was reopened. It is a matter for HSBC to determine what that process is and how it 
goes about allowing access to funds in the account. I wasnt clear it would have been helpful 
had it rejected payments made to V during that period.
My assessment
I took into account that V is a limited company that cant suffer distress. So, I was looking at 
inconvenience and any evidence of financial loss. I noted that the director of V was able to 
mitigate the impact of what happened for V as Id expect. And that there did seem to have 
been the opportunity for V to receive the letters sent over several months to its registered 
address. In any event it didnt receive them and when it found out what happened acted 
promptly to deal with the issue and requirements. I didnt have anything to support that there 
was a financial loss to V.
I wasnt minded to think that the compensation of £300 in total was sufficient to reflect the 
impact. With a view to mediating a settlement Id asked our adjudicator to contact HSBC to 
see if it would agree to pay a total of £500. It offered to pay this, and our adjudicator 
contacted V to see if this would be acceptable. But didnt get a response. So, I issued a 
provisional decision and I considered that £500 is a fair level of compensation to take into 
account everything that has happened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
V confirmed to our adjudicator that it had received the provisional decision. It didnt make 
any further comments and nor did HSBC.
That being the case I see no reason to depart from the conclusions of my provisional 
decision and for the reasons Ive already given.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay V a total of 
£500 (and which includes the £150 it says it has already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman