DRN-4085323
The complaint
Mr N complains that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) sent a duplicate foreign currency 
transfer and payment without his authority and wrongly charged him twice for the same 
transaction.
What happened
Wise says a transfer was created on Mr Ns phone app on his account on Saturday 3 
December at 11.31am for $100 to be converted to another currency but was not paid for  
rather the transfer was left active waiting to be funded.  This transfer was paid for and sent 
out successfully on Monday 5 December at 9.16am. A minute before this a duplicate transfer 
was created, paid for and sent at 9.15am.
Mr N informed Wise the following day that one of his transfers was duplicated and sent out 
without his instructions. Wise told Mr N that both the transfers had been sent out and he 
could ask the beneficiary bank to reject one transfer back to it.  
Mr N complained to Wise that the duplicate transfer wasnt authorised by himself but rather a 
mistake in Wises system and asked it refund the duplicate payment.
Wise told Mr N it wasnt possible to cancel or edit the transfer and advised Mr N to ask the 
recipient to ask their bank to reject the payment or return the money directly to him.
Mr N was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service. Mr N says he only 
checked the exchange rates on the Saturday and refutes that he set up or created a transfer 
and that he never received a notification of the first payment being set up. Mr N wants Wise 
to apologise and refund him the first payment and compensate him $200 as a gesture of 
goodwill for wasting his time.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ns concerns and reached the conclusion after 
looking at the evidence that Mr N had both created and approved both payments and so it 
was not unfair for Wise to ask Mr N to contact the recipient to ask for a refund of the 
duplicate payment.
Mr N disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ns complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Mr N has experienced and see if Wise has done anything 
wrong or treated them unfairly. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr N back in the 
position he wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
Wise has sent us screenshots to show that two separate transfers for the same amount and 
to the same recipient were created on 3 December and 5 December. Wise says that the first 
transfer was funded but rather left active and waited to be funded. This transfer was paid for 
and sent out on 5 December around a minute after the second transfer was created and 
sent.
Mr N has said he only checked the currency but didnt confirm any payment on 3 December 
and that the only transfer he sent was on 5 December and that he only received a 
notification for the creation of the second transfer.
Mr N might well have only sent out the transfer on the 5th, but this doesnt mean he didnt 
create the transfer on the 3rd. And Wise have told us that push and email notifications are 
only sent once a payment is sent and not when they are created and have provided 
examples of notifications previously sent to Mr N when he has sent a payment. 
Mr N has provided screenshots of what he sees on his phone app when he makes a 
payment. But this only shows me the process involved in making a payment and not a 
notification that a payment has been created. 
Wise has provided the screenshots of digital logs time stamped for Mr Ns account showing 
when he created the transfers, paid for them, currency converted and the payment sent. This 
shows Mr N created the first transfer on the 3 December but that it wasnt progressed further 
until 5 December a minute after Mr N created and sent the second transfer/payment.
Wise has also shown us evidence that two separate OneTimeTokens were created and 
both payments were authorised with biometric security within a minute of each other at 
09:15:38 and 09:16:31 on 5 December. So I think it is more likely that the disputed transfer 
and payment was created by Mr N at the same time as he says he checked the exchange 
rate on 3 December and for reasons that are unclear that the payment wasnt progressed at 
the time, rather than Wises system malfunctioning and creating and authorising this 
payment randomly. Possibly Mr N hadnt realised hed already created a payment that was 
active and waiting for him to progress it and mistakenly duplicated it and authorised both 
within seconds of each other. 
So on balance I dont think Wise made a mistake in sending duplicate payments. Wises 
terms and conditions explain that a customer cant cancel a completed payment that has 
been completed and so I dont think it was unfair of it to ask Mr N to contact the recipient and 
ask that they return the duplicate when the mistake wasnt due to Wises actions. And it 
follows that I do not uphold Mr Ns complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ns complaint against Wise 
Payments Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman