DRN-2815836
The complaint
Ms M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc lent her money irresponsibly, and failed to help her 
when she told them she was struggling with her debts.
What happened
I looked at this complaint and made a provisional decision back in March 2021. Id found 
HSBC had lent to Ms M irresponsibly. This was different to what our investigator had found, 
so I gave both HSBC and Ms M the chance to comment, before I made a final decision. 
Ms M said she had nothing to add. HSBC said they disagreed with my view. They felt Id 
looked at Ms Ms overdraft borrowing in isolation, without appreciating the wider checks 
theyd done about the affordability of the lending they gave her. 
Ive looked again at the case with those comments in mind, but Im still of the same view  
the lending to Ms M was irresponsible. So Im going to repeat a lot of what was in my 
provisional decision. But Ill add more explanation where itll help show HSBC that Ive not 
considered the overdraft borrowing in isolation, and that I recognise they did some checks 
when lending to Ms M. 
Turning to the specifics of the case, when Ms M raised her complaint with HSBC in 
November 2019, her borrowing was spread over three products  an overdraft on her current 
account; a credit card; and a personal loan taken out in 2017.
I explained last time how HSBC and our investigator had focussed on the affordability of just 
the 2017 loan. But Id found Ms Ms complaint was about all of her borrowing. So I asked 
HSBC to look again at the complaint on that basis, before I made a decision.
HSBC explained the checks they did when they gave Ms M 17 increases to her overdraft 
limit and two to her credit card limit. Her overdraft limit rose from £500 to £5,000, while her 
credit limit rose from £500 to £4,000, before she complained. HSBC felt the checks they did 
were suitable to meet what was required of them.
My provisional decision didnt resolve the complaint, so Im now making a final decision. This 
will become binding on HSBC, if its accepted by Ms M. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Starting with the 2017 loan, I explained last time that Id heard the call where this was given 
to Ms M. Ms M told HSBC that the borrowing was to help pay her recurring household bills, 
which Id expect HSBC to have been cautious of. But I can hear that they checked Ms Ms 
income and expenditure on the call. The responses they received reasonably led them to 
believe Ms M could afford the loan repayments.
The tone of the call was helpful and conversational, and I cant hear anything that supports 
Ms Ms complaint that she was forced into having the loan. So in terms of the 2017 loan, I 
find HSBC lent responsibly to Ms M. 
Ms Ms affordability issues came from her continued use of her overdraft and credit card, 
following the 2017 loan. It was directly affected by HSBCs decisions to increase her limits, 
when Ms M asked them to. 
HSBC should have checked the lending was still right for Ms Ms circumstances for each of 
the limit increases they gave her. In response to my provisional decision they say they did, 
and have listed the things they would have looked at. 
Our website has a brief summary of the laws, rules and standards that lenders need to 
consider, which Id expect HSBC to be familiar with. Essentially, HSBC needed to make 
reasonable and proportionate checks that Ms M could repay the money they lent her without 
undue hardship. And they needed to make sure the lending was sustainable.
Here, Ive seen Ms Ms bank statements  which HSBC say they would have looked at  and 
compared these with the dates of the various limit increases Ms M was given. From these, I 
dont agree with HSBCs view that there were no indications of unaffordability or repayment 
difficulties in the accounts Ms M held with them. Or that Ms M had sufficient funds to serve 
the overdraft lending. 
I appreciate HSBC say they looked at more than just these statements. But I cant see how 
the items theyve listed could take away or change what the statements show. To do that, Id 
really need to see something that showed HSBC were aware Ms M had large savings, or 
another source of income. More money from somewhere, basically. Without that, Ms Ms 
statements show a pattern of unsustainable borrowing.
A key point for me is 2 November 2017. Thats the last time Ms Ms account balance had a 
positive value. Prior to that, I agree shed shown that although she often went in to her 
overdraft, her salary and transfers from what seems to be a savings account were able to 
bring her back out within a month. Thats consistent with the overdraft being used as a 
short-term temporary source of credit.
The negative balance of Ms Ms account is important, because it meant that  from that point 
on  when she was making repayments of her 2017 loan, she was borrowing to do so. 
Borrowing more to pay debts suggests that the overall borrowing  not just the overdrafts in 
isolation  was unsustainable. It also meant Ms M was borrowing to pay her regular bills. As 
I noted above, Id expect HSBC to be cautious about the long-term impact of further lending 
in that case.
Regulations call for reasonable and proportionate checks before lending to someone. 
Whats proportionate will change, depending on how much is borrowed, how often the 
borrowing happens, and what income the customer has available to pay off the debt. Here, 
Ms M was constantly borrowing using her overdraft. After November 2017, she stopped 
paying all that borrowing back each month. After 27 December 2017, her overdraft limit rose 
to more than the salary she received each month.
These points  where the use of the overdraft became less consistent with its intended 
function as short-term, temporary credit  meant a proportionate check should have more 
closely inspected Ms Ms borrowing. From looking at Ms Ms bank statements, its clear her 
debts were increasing every month, and she was paying off her loan with further borrowing. With this information  and nothing to show Ms M had other sources of income or large 
savings  I find it more likely than not that a responsible lender would have decided not to let 
Ms Ms overdraft or credit card limits increase the way HSBC did.
Putting things right
Had HSBC provided a more reasonable service, I find it likely theyd have stopped giving 
Ms M increases to her overdraft and credit card limits in November 2017. So to put things 
right, I want to put her as close to that position as she can be now.
Ive thought about the actual money Ms M borrowed. Shes had the use of that, so Im not 
going to say HSBC should write off the debts. But I find its unfair on Ms M for HSBC to 
charge interest on that money, given Ive found they shouldnt really have lent it to her.
So HSBC should stop charging interest on the unsustainable lending they gave Ms M. Thats 
the overdraft balance above £1,500, and the credit card balance above £500. They should 
also waive any interest theyve charged on the balances over those amounts, if Ms M hasnt 
yet paid it.
Im conscious that Ms Ms already paid some interest on the overdraft balance above 
£1,500, and on the credit card balance above £500. HSBC should work out how much shes 
paid and refund this.
I think itll be fair for HSBC to put any refund owed to Ms M towards her credit card or 
overdraft. As the 2017 loan has a fixed term and repayment amount, I think itd be unfair to 
put the refund towards that. So if the credit card and overdraft are paid off, the remaining 
refund should be paid to Ms M  together with simple interest at 8% - for her to decide how 
to use it.
HSBC should also mark that Ms M hasnt been able to make use of any refunded interest to 
pay off her debts quicker. So their calculations should factor in the reduction in interest or 
charges thered have been if the refunded interest payments had been used towards paying 
off her debts.
In my provisional decision, I asked HSBC to give me an idea of the size of this refund. I cant 
see that theyve done that. So if Ms M accepts my decision, HSBC should provide a written 
summary of their calculation to her, showing how it meets what Ive described. If Ms M then 
has any concerns about HSBCs calculation, Id consider it fair and reasonable for her to be 
able to raise a new complaint with HSBC  and if needed, us  about it. 
Ive also thought about compensation for the trouble and upset Ms Ms experienced. Shes 
described how having to pay off her debts has caused her to worry, and affected how she 
lives. Im conscious though that a more reasonable service from HSBC would have meant 
Ms M still had to prioritise her spending. Shed have likely had to budget based on her 
income and more limited access to credit. Some stress was always likely because of that.
But I also find HSBC should have done more to recognise Ms Ms problem when she raised 
it with them in 2019. It wasnt enough for them to look at the 2017 loan in isolation, without 
understanding the overall impact their lending was having on her. Had they done more to 
help her, I find it likely the trouble and upset caused would have been less.
To acknowledge that, HSBC should pay Ms M £100 of compensation. That  in my opinion  
balances the extra upset HSBC caused against the fact that Ms M would have needed to 
make lifestyle changes in any case, to improve her position with her debts. HSBC should pay this compensation to Ms M, for her to then decide how to use it. 
In addition to all of this, as part of their ongoing service to Ms M, HSBC should also consider 
what else they can do to help Ms M with her debts. This may mean discussing her overdraft 
and credit limits with her, or finding lower cost ways to consolidate her borrowing, in a 
responsible and sustainable way.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Ms complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc. To put this matter right, they should try 
to put her in the position shed have been in, if her overdraft had not increased above £1,500 
and her credit card had not increased above £500. 
This will involve:
- Stopping interest on any borrowing thats still above these limits; 
- Waiving any unpaid interest and charges that came from borrowing above these 
limits;
- Refunding any interest and charges Ms M paid towards the borrowing above these 
limits;
- Crediting those refunds against the overdraft and credit card money owed;
- Paying simple interest at 8% on any refund outstanding, if the overdraft and credit 
card are paid off by the refund; 
- Giving Ms M a written summary showing how the steps above have been worked 
out; and 
- Paying Ms M £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman