DRN-2911599
The complaint
Mr G complains that he was promised he could withdraw without penalty from an agreement 
he had with Santander Consumer (UK) Plc, trading as MG Motor Financial Services, but 
later discovered he couldnt.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr G, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr G acquired his car under a fixed sum loan. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it. 
The relevant legislation explains that the finance provider (Santander) are liable for what 
they say and for what is said by the credit broker (the dealership) before the consumer takes 
out the credit agreement. 
If Mr G was told something that wasnt true and if that statement led him to enter into a 
finance agreement that he would not otherwise have entered into, I would think the 
agreement had been misrepresented to him and Id ask Santander to take some action.
Here Mr G says that he was told:
whenever I decide to bring the car back before the end of the contract I do not need to 
continue with the payment as long as the car is not damaged, and the mileage allowance not 
exceeded.
Im not persuaded that there is sufficient evidence that was the case. I say that because:
the terms of the finance agreement Mr G entered into didnt give him a right to hand 
the car back. This was a fixed sum loan and Mr G owned the car although he still 
owed Santander money for it;
I think the terms of the agreement were clearly set out in the agreement that Mr G 
signed to demonstrate he understood and was in agreement with;
the dealership dispute having told Mr G he could simply hand the car back;
Mr Gs witness is a friend and, whilst I understand he has supported Mr Gs 
testimony, I think it would be unfair to place too much weight on that evidence as    
Mr Gs friend cannot fairly be considered independent.
Im not therefore asking Santander to take any further action as I dont think there is 
sufficient evidence the finance agreement was misrepresented.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman