DRN-3144819
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as K is unhappy with the service it received from The 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS), and specifically the department within RBS known as 
the Global Restructuring Group (GRG).
What happened
K was engaged in three construction projects with two other limited companies  which Ill 
refer to as E1 and E2 respectively, and both of which have since been dissolved. The 
three companies, which Ill refer to collectively as The Connection, shared common 
ownership but didnt have any form of parent/subsidiary relationship.
The three construction projects were; a development of bungalows which was nearing 
completion (Bungalow Project); the development of a cottage and some land (Cottage 
Project); and a more complex project where the intention was to develop land owned by a 
diocese whereby a new clergy house would be built for the local vicar to move into, at which 
time the old clergy house would be demolished and four new houses built on the land and 
then sold (Rectory Project).
Because of the complexity of the Rectory Project, contracts were entered into between RBS, 
K, and the diocese which owned the land to ensure that the project would be completed: K 
entered into an agreement with the diocese to buy the land and complete the development, 
and RBS entered into a separate agreement with the diocese confirming that it would 
provide funding to K to complete the Rectory Project. There was also a clause in this latter 
contract which stated that if for some reason RBS didnt provide funding to K then RBS 
would purchase the land and complete the development.
During the Rectory Project, RBS instructed a revaluation of the land and assets which 
resulted in the site being valued at approximately £300,000 less than it had been valued at 
previously. This caused RBS to reassess their appetite to lend to K, which in turn meant that 
K had to void their contract with the diocese and enter into a new contract with a third party 
for the project to be completed. This led to a financial loss for K of approximately £38,500.
The Rectory Project was ultimately completed, and the four new houses were all sold. The 
Bungalow Project was also completed as planned. However, the Cottage Project site was 
sold at a reduced price due to non-completion of the build.
K later raised a complaint with RBS as it was unhappy with several aspects of how RBS had 
managed the business relationship after the relationship was transferred by RBS to the 
GRG.
RBS looked at Ks complaint. But while they did uphold some aspects of Ks complaint and 
made offers of redress to K for those points, for the large part, RBS felt that they hadnt 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in how theyd managed the business relationship during the 
time the K had been transferred to the GRG, and so they didnt uphold the majority of Ks 
complaints.
K wasnt satisfied with RBSs response, so it referred its complaint for review by an 
Independent Third Party. However, the Independent Third Party largely agreed with RBSs 
position and so didnt uphold Ks appeal, with the exception of one point which the 
Independent Third Party did uphold but for which they didnt feel K had incurred any direct 
financial loss and so didnt award any compensation to K for.
K remained dissatisfied, so it referred its complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked at this complaint. But they felt that the response that RBS had already issued to K, 
including the offers of compensation already made to K by RBS, already represented a fair 
and reasonable resolution to what had taken place. So, while our investigator did uphold Ks 
complaint, they did so on the same basis as that already offered to K by RBS in RBSs own 
complaint response.
K wasnt satisfied with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, and so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One of the directors of K has sought to bring forwards a complaint against RBS in their 
capacity as a guarantor.
The rules that set out the parameters by which this service operates can be found in the 
Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook. 
The relevant section here is DISP 2.7, which outlines which complainants are considered as 
eligible complainants for the purposes of this service.
These rules include that for an individual to be an eligible complainant for this service, that 
individual needs to meet the definition of being a consumer, which is defined within DISP as 
an individual acting for purposes which are wholly or mainly outside that individuals trade, 
business, craft, or profession.
In this instance, the director of K gave the guarantee that he did because RBS specifically 
sought a guarantee from a director of K following the issuance of new terms by RBS  with 
the guarantee requested by RBS as a condition of those new terms and to secure continued 
funding for K.
As such, Im satisfied that, when providing the guarantee in question, the director of K was 
acting within his profession, and as such isnt an eligible complainant as per DISP for the 
purposes of this service.
It should be mentioned that from 1 April 2019, the powers of this service were extended to 
allow us to consider complaints from guarantors where the guarantee is in respect of the 
liabilities of certain types of businesses, even where the complainant isnt a consumer as 
defined above. However, this extension of powers isnt retrospective  in other words it only 
applies to guarantees signed after 1 April 2019  and so it doesnt apply here.
The directors of K also sought to refer complaints to this service for the two other 
companies, E1 and E2, which were involved in the construction projects with K, but which 
have since been dissolved.
However, the DISP rules alluded to above also include that for this service to be able to consider a complaint brought by a company, that company would still need to exist, and it 
would also still need to be an enterprise  that is, it would still need to be engaged in some 
form of economic activity. 
But E1 and E2 have been dissolved, and so no longer exist, and so cannot be considered as 
being an enterprise engaged in economic activity. Therefore, Im satisfied that the 
complaints brought forwards on behalf of E1 and E2 are not eligible complaints for the 
purposes of this service. 
This makes some aspects of Ks complaint difficult to assess, where these aspects refer to 
RBSs interactions with the Connection, rather that to K as a separate entity. However, 
where this is the case, I have limited my assessment of this complaint to RBSs relationship 
with K solely.
It also should be noted that this assessment is only concerned with Ks complaint as it 
relates to GRG, and not to any complaints that K might have against RBS for times when Ks 
business relationship wasnt under the management of GRG, unless there is sufficient cause 
to do so.
K has brought forwards a number of complaint points which have been addressed under 
similar headings by RBS, the Independent Third Party, and our investigator. For ease of 
reference I will address these complaint points under those same headings here.
1a.  RBS unreasonably transferred K to GRG.
K has stated that it feels that there was no reason for RBS to have transferred the business 
relationship to GRG and that there was enough funding available at the time of the transfer 
to cover the interest payments due on the borrowing and that there were funds due to come 
into the accounts sufficient to ensure that future loan repayments could continue to be met.
I can appreciate Ks concerns here. But its at the discretion of a business as to how it 
chooses to manage the accounts it holds, and this service wouldnt seek to tell a business, in 
a general sense, that it should have organised or managed its accounts differently.
What this service can consider is whether a business has conducted and communicated a 
transfer, such as took place in this instance, in a fair and reasonable manner. This point is 
addressed in complaint point 1b below.
1b.  RBS didnt communicate the reasons for, or timing of, the transfer to GRG in a clear 
way.
A handover meeting was held in December 2008 where Ks business relationship was 
transferred by RBS to GRG. However, its evident from the information available to me that K 
werent given any indication by RBS prior to this meeting that such a transfer was being 
considered or was due to take place. 
In their response to Ks complaint, RBS confirmed that they agreed that the communication 
they issued to K surrounding this point fell below the standards that they aspire to. RBS 
apologised for this and offered K a payment of £5,000 as compensation for this point.
This seems reasonable to me, and I feel that the £5,000 offered to K by RBS for not 
communicating with them more clearly about their intention to transfer K to GRG is a fair and 
reasonable resolution to this specific aspect of Ks complaint. As such, I will be upholding 
this aspect of Ks complaint on this same basis.2a.  GRG unreasonably ignored a credit balance which had been provided to act as interest 
cover.
K has explained that a £27,000 deposit was made with RBS to service the interest payments 
on the borrowing. However, from the information available to me it seems that these funds 
were held in an account in the name of one of the other companies of the Connection which 
has since dissolved. As such, as explained above, Im unable to consider this aspect of Ks 
complaint. 
2b.  GRG unreasonably withdrew the overdraft.
While K have acknowledged that, as per the terms and condition of RBSs business 
accounts, RBS have the right to remove an overdraft facility whenever it sees fit, K feel that 
RBS chose to remove the overdraft when they did on its own account so as deliberately cut 
off cash flow to K at a crucial time and to force K into a position of financial difficulty.
However, having reviewed the information available to me, I havent seen any evidence that 
K held an authorised overdraft with RBS at any time. Indeed, the only authorised facility that 
Ive seen was on an account in the name of one of the other companies in the Connection 
which has since dissolved, and which means, as explained previously, that this aspect of Ks 
complaint is outside the jurisdiction of this service and cannot be considered here.
2c.  GRG unreasonably withdrew a completion funding offer mid-development, forcing K to 
seek outside investment for the completion of the Rectory Project.
K have stated that because of the revaluation of the Rectory Project site instructed by RBS, 
and which resulted in the valuation of the site being amended downwards by £300,000, RBS 
withdrew its funding which meant that K were forced to find alternative investors.
In their response to Ks complaint, RBS explained that the borrowing facilities present on the 
Rectory Project expired before Ks business relationship was transferred to GRG. RBS 
therefore advised that this complaint point falls outside the GRG complaint review process. 
While this seems correct, its notable that RBS dont appear to have addressed this aspect of 
Ks complaint under their usual (i.e. non-GRG) complaint process, as should have been the 
case, and so I feel that this aspect of Ks complaint should be considered by this service 
within this complaint. 
However, having reviewed the information available to me, Im satisfied that it wasnt the 
case that RBS unreasonably withdrew funding mid-development, and I say this because its 
evident that RBS didnt initially withdraw funding, but rather that they lowered the amount of 
funding that they were willing to provide to K as a result of the value of the Rectory Project 
site being amended downwards following the revaluation.
It's also evident that a revaluation of the site prior to the loan drawdown was a requirement 
of the loan agreement (see complaint point 6 below), and it seems reasonable to me that 
RBS would adjust their appetite to lend in consideration of the lower site value provided by 
the revaluation.
Finally, its notable that another condition of the loan agreement was that K would provide 
the remaining funding for the land purchase, which was to be facilitated by the sale of 
properties developed on the other construction projects that the Connection were involved 
in. However, at the time of the loan drawdown, K were unable to meet this financial 
requirement, and because of this the loan facility was cancelled.As such, I dont feel that its the case that RBS unreasonably withdrew funding, but rather 
that decreasing property values and the financial crisis that was ongoing at that time led to a 
reduced valuation for the site. This in turn led to RBS reducing the amount of funding it was 
willing to offer, with K not being in a position at that time to cover the remaining amount 
needed to purchase the land as per the requirements of the loan facility  which meant that 
RBS werent then willing to allow the loan facility to continue. And RBSs taking this position 
under these circumstances seems reasonable to me.
3a.  GRG unreasonably restructured debt not yet due.
From the information available to me its evident that at the time of the debt restructure, K 
had one loan with a balance outstanding of approximately £100,000 with an expiry date of 
21 July 2009. K also had an unauthorised overdraft balance of approximately £7,000 at that 
same time.
While it was the case that RBS proposed restructuring terms in May 2009, it wasnt until 
August 2009  which was after the previously existing loan facility had expired  that the 
restructuring terms were signed and accepted by K.
Its also notable that RBS had ongoing concerns with K and with the two associated 
companies, E1 and E2, about the ongoing ability of all three companies to be able to repay 
the borrowing that they had taken. And, given the difficult financial climate which persisted at 
that time, and that the loan facilities of both E1 and E2 had expired without repayment and 
so were in default, and the close relationship that those companies held with K, I dont feel 
that it was unreasonable for RBS to have held those concerns.
3b.  GRG unreasonably proposed unreasonable restructuring terms in respect of the
Connection's facilities, which included the requirement of a personal guarantee.
This complaint point relates to the change of circumstances in one of the now dissolved 
other companies within the Connection as well as to the requirement of a personal 
guarantee. These complaint aspects therefore fall outside of this services jurisdiction, for the 
reasons explained previously in this letter.
4a.  GRG charged an unreasonable arrangement fee of £30,000 and,
4b.  GRG charged an unreasonable arrangement fee of £795.
These complaint points relate to one of the now dissolved other companies within the 
Connection. As such, these complaint points are outside of this services jurisdiction as 
previously explained. 
4c.  GRG unreasonably increased interest margins.
K is unhappy that when its business relationship was moved to GRG, RBS increased margin 
costs. Prior to the move to GRG, K state had been paying a margin of 1.75%, and that after 
the refinancing at the time of the move, this was increased to 2.5%, and then later to 3.0%.
However, after reviewing the information available to me, its evident that while there were 
increases in the margin rate, these increases were applied to loans in the names of E1 and 
E2, and as such these aspects of Ks complaint also fall outside this services jurisdiction for 
the reasons previously explained.
5a.  GRG treated the Connection unfairly by acting in an unresponsive and adversarial 
manner.K has stated that after K was transferred to GRG, the business relationship changed, 
becoming more adversarial in nature, and with a new relationship manager who was slow to 
respond to Ks requests and correspondence, yet very persistent when chasing responses 
from K.
I can appreciate Ks concerns here, and while I can only consider this aspect of Ks 
complaint in regard to communications between RBS and K (and not in respect of any 
communications involving E1 and E2) its evident from the information available to me that 
RBS were slow to communicate with K immediately following the transfer of Ks business 
relationship to GRG. And I say this because while K were transferred to GRG in December 
2008, it wasnt until May 2009  some 19 weeks later  that RBS provided K with the new 
heads of terms in relation to the proposed restructuring of loan facilities. 
RBS have accepted that this represents unresponsive behaviour and they upheld this aspect 
of Ks complaint and offered a payment of £5,000 to compensate K for the poor standard of 
communication they received at that time.
This feels reasonable to me, and I consider that the offer of £5,000 compensation for this 
specific aspect of Ks complaint represents a fair and reasonable resolution. As such, while I 
will be upholding this aspect of Ks complaint, I will be doing so on the same basis as has 
already been put forwards by RBS, including that RBS must make a payment of £5,000 to K 
by way of compensation for this specific point.
5b.  GRG treated the Connection unfairly by exerting unreasonable control over the 
Connections finances and day-to-day business.
Again, Im only able to consider this complaint point from the standpoint of RBSs interaction 
with K and not regarding how RBS interacted with the other members of the Connection, E1 
and E2.
However, from the information available to me, I havent seen anything that I feel would 
allow me to fairly and reasonably conclude that RBS exerted excessive control on the 
running of K or that RBS gave K any direct instructions on how K must run its business.
6.  GRG acted unreasonably by devaluing the land at the Rectory Project.
In 2008, RBS instructed a revaluation of the Rectory Project site which resulted in the value 
of the site being amended down by £300,000. K feel that it was unfair for RBS to have 
instructed this valuation, given the difficult financial climate and deflated property and land 
values at that time. K also think that RBS instructed the revaluation knowing that the value of 
the site would be amended down and that it did so in order to avoid having to provide 
additional funding for the project in line with the agreements.
In their response to Ks complaint, RBS noted that the instruction to revalue the land was 
issued before Ks business relationship was transferred to GRG. RBS therefore felt that this 
complaint point falls outside the GRG complaint review process. RBS appear to be correct 
here, but its notable that RBS dont appear to have addressed this aspect of Ks complaint 
under their usual (i.e. non-GRG) complaint process as should have been the case, and so I 
feel that this aspect of Ks complaint should be considered by this service within this 
complaint.
Having reviewed the information available to me, its evident that the Rectory Project site 
was initially valued in 2007, when the contracts between K, RBS, and the diocese were 
signed. It was then revalued in late 2008, prior to K being transferred to GRG in December 
2008. 
It's also evident that one of the requirements for K to be able to drawdown on the loan was 
that the site would be revalued. And, given that the initial valuation took place over a year 
before the loan was required, it seems reasonable to me that such a requirement would be 
in place. I also note that its common for banks such as RBS to want to maintain an ongoing 
understanding of the value of assets that they are lending against  especially when property 
and asset values are decreasing, as was the case at that time  and so I dont feel that it 
was unfair or unreasonable for RBS to have instructed such a revaluation.
Putting things right
Having assessed Ks complaint against RBS here, I will be upholding this complaint as it 
relates to complaint points 1b and 5a only on the basis explained above.
RBS must pay K a total of £10,000, equating to two payments of £5,000, one for each of the 
two complaint points being upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc on 
the basis explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman