DRN-3368977
The complaint
Ms H says AvantCredit of UK, LLC lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Ms H took out a 48-month instalment loan for £3,000 from AvantCredit on 10 June 2015. 
The monthly repayments were £154.01 and the total repayable was £7,392.36. 
Ms H says she gave AvantCredit access to her bank account so it should not have lent to 
her. It could see she was reliant on payday loans and was gambling frequently.
Our investigator said Ms Hs complaint should be upheld. He said the lenders checks were 
not proportionate and better checks would have most likely shown the loan was not 
affordable for Ms H.
Ms H replied reiterating this loan application was different to any other as AvantCredit had 
access to her bank account, it didnt have to rely on her declarations on a form. AvantCredit 
did not respond to the investigators assessment.
As an agreement wasnt reached informally the complaint was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when AvantCredit lent to Ms H. Its
rules and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged AvantCredit
to lend responsibly. Amongst other things, AvantCredit was required to carry out a
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Ms H could afford to repay what she
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment
or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So AvantCredit had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Ms H. In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms H.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that 
the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether AvantCredit did what it needed to before agreeing
to lend to Ms H, and have considered the following questions:
did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Ms Hs loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did AvantCredit make a fair lending decision?
did AvantCredit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
AvantCredit asked for some information from Ms H before it approved the loan. It asked for
details of her income and expenses. It checked her declared income with a third-party 
verification service. It checked her credit file to understand her existing credit
commitments and her credit history. It also asked about the purpose of the loan which
was debt consolidation. From these checks combined AvantCredit concluded Ms H
would be able to sustainably repay the loan.
I dont think these checks were proportionate based on the results of the credit check. This 
showed, amongst other things, that Ms H was frequently using payday loans and had four 
open at the time of this application. As Ms H had been reliant on this kind of short-term 
high-cost credit for some time (borrowing over £17,000 in total) I think AvantCredit needed to 
do a fuller financial review to better understand Ms Hs current financial situation, before 
deciding to lend.
In order to get a view of what better checks would most likely have shown AvantCredit I have 
reviewed Ms Hs bank statements from the month prior to this loan application. I am not 
saying AvantCredit had to do this (I note Ms H recalls the lender had access to her bank 
account), but it is a way for me to understand what better checks would have shown.
These show Ms Hs monthly income was £1518, but she had credit commitments of around 
£960 and was spending over £1,200 on gambling transactions. She was persistently reliant 
on her overdraft facility and was using payday loans. So even without taking into account 
Ms Hs essential living costs it was clear she was having problems managing her money and 
would be unable to sustainably repay this loan  that is, without borrowing to repay or 
suffering some other adverse financial consequence. 
It follows I think AvantCredit was wrong to give the loan to Ms H. I havent found any 
evidence AvantCredit acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way towards Ms H.Putting things right
Its reasonable for Ms H to have repaid the capital amount that she borrowed as she had the
benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have
been given to her. So she has lost out and AvantCredit needs to put things right.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments
Ms H made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Ms Hs loan account results in her having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then AvantCredit should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Hs credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit should
give Ms H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Ms Hs complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC must put things right as set pout 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman