DRN-2328793
The complaint
Miss H complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC - trading as Tesco Bank  unfairly 
charged her interest on her credit card.
What happened
Miss H took out a credit card with Tesco Bank in February 2019. The credit card included an 
introductory offer, allowing Miss H to transfer her balance from another credit card interest 
free  the interest free period would last up to 20 months and would only apply to balance 
transfers made within the first 90 days of the account being opened. Miss H carried out a 
balance transfer around the time she took out the card. She also carried out additional 
balance transfers outside of the 90-day window and so was charged interest on these.
At the time of her application, Miss H spoke to a representative at Tesco Bank and asked if 
she could use the card for purchases and avoid paying interest on these. The representative 
incorrectly informed her she wouldnt attract interest on purchases if these were paid off in 
full each month. Miss H says she relied on this information  so she also used her credit 
card for purchases and paid these off each month. 
Around January 2020, Miss H got in touch with Tesco Bank after receiving an email about a 
different introductory offer expiring. Miss H says that at this point she realised that shed 
been charged interest, despite paying off her purchases every month. The representative 
she spoke to explained why Miss H was charged interest - after which Miss H complained as 
this wasnt the information she was given when she spoke to Tesco Bank around the time of 
her application.
In its response, Tesco Bank accepted that the information Miss H was given over the phone 
was incorrect. It added that Miss H was charged interest in line with the terms and conditions 
of her account. To put things right, Tesco Bank paid Miss H £30 compensation and waived 
the interest on her account for the next statement month.
Remaining unhappy, Miss H asked this service to review her complaint. She says she paid 
off her purchases in line with the advice she received over the phone  so she shouldnt 
have been charged interest. Miss H says she suffers from mental health conditions, so she 
didnt understand exactly how her account works and she didnt check her statements.
Our investigator upheld the complaint and concluded that Miss H had acted on the 
information she was given over the phone. The investigator acknowledged that the interest 
was charged in line with the terms and conditions of the account but didnt think Miss H had 
been given clear information about the way interest is charged. The investigator added that 
Tesco Bank shouldve done more to understand Miss Hs mental health conditions and 
recommended that it refund all the interest and charges Miss H incurred as a result of its 
error.
Tesco Bank disagreed with the investigators findings. It says that it doesnt normally 
question customers about their health unless its something that the customer is upfront 
about. Tesco Bank wasnt persuaded that Miss H wouldnt have known that she was being 
charged interest as it says this information wouldve been found on her statements. 
As Tesco Bank didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me.
My provisional decision
I set out my initial findings in my provisional decision. In summary I said:
The terms and conditions of Miss Hs credit card account explain that purchases will 
be interest free for a maximum of 56 days if the balance is paid in full and on time  
and the previous months balance is also paid in full and on time. Essentially, what 
this means is that Miss H would have to pay off any purchases on time as well as 
clear the full balance on her credit card in order to avoid being charged interest on 
her purchases.
Tesco Bank has also provided a copy of the interest rates from Miss Hs credit 
agreement  which it says Miss H wouldve seen when she applied for the credit 
card. It sets out the interest rate for purchases and highlights that there isnt an 
introductory interest free offer for purchases. Miss H hadnt paid off her full balance 
each month after making purchases on her credit card, so I didnt think Tesco Bank 
had acted unfairly by charging interest in line with its terms and conditions. 
Miss H says she relied on the incorrect information she was given by the Tesco Bank 
representative over the phone and she didnt check her statements because of her 
mental health. Miss H says she didnt realise shed been charged interest. But I didnt 
think that I could instruct Tesco Bank to depart from normal practice and its terms 
and conditions in order to make the incorrect information Miss H was given true.
This is because I wasnt persuaded that Miss H had no idea that shed been charged 
interest. Miss H mentioned shed seen her statements during a call in January 2020. 
And I didnt have enough information about the effects of Miss Hs mental health to 
fairly conclude that she didnt have the capacity to understand the information on her 
statements. In my opinion, Miss H had been given enough information about the 
interest shed been charged in her statements and the Tesco Bank app that she had 
access to. And I thought there was enough to at least prompt Miss H to look in to 
things further. 
I couldnt see anything to suggest Miss H had previously made Tesco Bank aware of 
her mental health condition and the impact this has on her. So I didnt think it was 
reasonable to expect Tesco Bank to have done something differently because of her 
mental health. 
I still considered the error made by Tesco Bank to have played a significant part in 
what happened with Miss Hs credit card account. In my opinion, both Tesco Bank 
and Miss H had their own responsibilities. Miss Hs role was to use and manage her 
credit card in accordance with the terms and conditions  which she agreed to when 
she signed her credit agreement. And although her mental health meant she couldnt 
fully understand the information in her statements, as I explained, I think there was 
enough information to prompt some awareness that shed been charged interest. 
But the onus remained on Tesco Bank as the expert in how the credit card works to 
ensure the information communicated to Miss H was accurate. Had it done so, its 
unlikely Miss H wouldve used the credit card for as many purchases as she did (if at all), as it seems to me that the main reason that she took out the credit card was to 
take advantage of the balance transfer offer.
As a result, Miss H suffered a loss because she had to pay interest on her 
purchases. It seemed fair to me Tesco Bank carries a higher level of accountability 
for this, as its error was the main reason for the loss Miss H suffered. 
In my provisional findings, I decided that Tesco Bank should therefore be responsible 
for a greater proportion of the interest Miss H was charged. So I intended to ask it to 
Pay Miss H an additional £120. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H didnt reply to my initial findings, whilst Tesco Bank agreed with what Id decided. So 
I dont have anything further to say in relation to this complaint.
Putting things right
According to the credit card statements, Miss H paid a total of around £220 interest on 
purchases. Theres an element of responsibility on both sides, though I consider that as the 
expert in such matters, Tesco Bank has the greater responsibility. So I instruct Tesco Bank 
to pay a significant proportion of this loss to Miss H.
I think the most appropriate way to resolve matters would be for Tesco Bank to pay Miss H 
£150 to address its share of the loss its error caused Miss H. This payment would be 
inclusive of the £30 Tesco Bank has already paid to Miss H.
I note that Miss H was also charged over limit fees and interest on some of her balance 
transfers. But I dont think this has anything to do with the incorrect information she was 
given by Tesco Bank over the phone. So I wont be asking Tesco Bank to do anything more 
in relation to these additional charges.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding this complaint and instruct Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC to pay Miss H £120. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Miss H to accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman