DRN-4137994
The complaint
Mr B complains that James Hay Administration Company Limited trading as James Hay 
Partnership (JHAC) delayed the transfer of his pension to another provider and he suffered 
financial loss as a result. He also complains about administration delays and errors.
What happened
Mr B was a member of a Group Self-invested Pension Scheme (Group SIPP) which was 
administered by JHAC. It was invested in a product known as the IPS Pension Builder SIPP.
Mr B is represented by Mr H and he acted on his behalf throughout the process. So, I will 
refer to Mr H in this decision.
Mr H informed JHAC in or about August 2020 that Mr B (and other members of the Group 
SIPP) wanted to transfer their pensions to another provider. The Group SIPP was invested 
in a commercial property and arrangements were made to sell the property. The property 
sale completed on 23 February 2021 and the sale proceeds were transferred to JHACs 
bank account that day.
Mr H says that an application was made to transfer the pension using the ORIGO Options 
Pension Transfer Service (ORIGO). However, despite having previously been told that JHAC 
would accept an application to transfer using ORIGO, the application was denied and paper 
forms had to be submitted. He says that the paper forms were received by JHAC on 12 
March 2021 but JHAC delayed the transfer. It wasnt completed until 18 June 2021 with the 
monies being reinvested by the receiving scheme on 22 June 2021.
Mr H complained to JHAC about what had happened. He said that throughout the period 
since August 2020 there had been a series of administrative errors and delays. By way of 
summary, he referred to problems hed experienced when he asked JHAC to provide copies 
of bank statements to enable him to reconcile rental payments; problems with the rent 
reconciliation itself caused by JHAC errors and incorrect information; issues around 
communication and significant delays in effecting the transfer.
JHAC investigated the complaint. It said it had received the transfer application on 12 March 
2021. It did not accept that any maladministration which may have occurred prior to that date 
had led to any delays in the transfer. But it accepted that the transfer application had taken 
much longer than it should reasonably have taken. It said it was prepared to consider 
financial loss calculations based on the following assumptions:
The instructions were received on 12 March 2021;
The transfer was completed within 10 working days  26 March 2021; and
The funds were reinvested by the new provider within 2 working days  - 30 March 
2021.
JHAC asked Mr B to provide evidence of the investments the new provider had made so that 
it could complete the calculations. In addition JHAC said it would refund Mr Bs share of the 
administration fee raised on 15 March 2021. That fee related to administration charges for 
the period from March 2021 to February 2022. It would also refund his share of the fee for 
the property sale.
JHAC apologised that the transfer had taken longer than anticipated and for any 
inconvenience or concern that had been caused. In recognition of this it offered to pay him 
£250 by way of compensation.
Mr H did not agree. He referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She thought that JHAC had not made it clear to 
Mr Bs advisers that ORIGO was not available for this particular SIPP. If it had done that she 
thought the paper application forms would have been received by 1 March 2021, which was 
the date that she said the sale proceeds could reasonably have been allocated to the SIPP. 
She said it was reasonable to say that the transfer process could take ten working days and 
allowing for a further two days to reinvest the funds, she thought the process could have 
concluded by 17 March 2021. She thought JHAC should rework its calculations using these 
dates.
Our investigator also considered the offer to pay Mr B £250 compensation. She thought this 
was fair and in line with our approach. 
JHAC accepted what our investigator said and agreed to settle the complaint in the way that 
shed set out. It said it didnt have anything further to add.
Mr H also responded to what our investigator said. He reiterated his view that the transfer 
should have commenced on the date that JHAC had been sent the property sale completion 
monies  23 February 2021. He said the transfer shouldve been straightforward. The fund 
was all held in cash. He thought the transfer could reasonably have concluded within a few 
days and the funds could have been reinvested no later than 3 March 2021.
Mr H also thought that £250 was not enough compensation for what happened. He said 
Mr B was aware of and affected by the ongoing failures during the entire period and not just 
in connection with the final transfer delays. He said the distress and inconvenience had been 
prolonged and extraordinary, over an 18 month period. Hours and days were spent trying to 
get JHAC to do their job.
Because Mr B didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for mainly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why:
In its final response letter JHAC accepted that the transfer took much longer than it would 
consider to be reasonable and identified two primary reasons for the delay:
It took longer than it should reasonably have taken to complete the fund split; and
It misunderstood that a deed of removal was required  infact it was not required.
There is no dispute that the transfer took longer than was reasonable. The issue that I have 
to decide is whether the compensation which JHAC has offered to Mr B to resolve his complaint is fair and reasonable. So, Ive looked at what happened and when I think the 
transfer should reasonably have concluded.
When considering whether a business has acted fairly and reasonably we take into account 
the law, codes and good practice. The Association of British Insurers (ABI) published a 
statement of good practice relating to pension transfers in 2006. It said that requests relating 
to transfers of pensions should be completed within ten working days. Since that date there 
have been further developments in the industry guidance (which Ill comment further on 
below) but the industry standard for the end-to-end process for automated pension cash 
transfers is still ten business days. That is regarded as a good practice timescale. 
When should the transfer request be treated as having been received? 
Mr H says he first informed JHAC in August 2020 that Mr B intended to transfer his pension 
to a new provider. He thinks that in light of this stated intention, JHAC should have been 
ready to make the transfer as soon as the property sale was completed. 
However, even though there was a stated intention to make the transfer, I dont think that 
precluded the requirement for Mr B to make his intention clear by completing a transfer 
application. The application would have included details such as the name of the scheme he 
was transferring to and his authority confirming that he wanted the transfer to proceed. So, I 
dont think its fair or reasonable to say that the application can be treated as having started 
prior to the date when JHAC received the formal application.
Mr H says JHAC told Mr Bs advisers that ORIGO could be used to make the application and 
a transfer out application was submitted through ORIGO. ORIGO is described as an 
electronic pipework that lets connected businesses swiftly and easily transfer customer 
funds from one platform to another.  The application was denied however because the IPS 
Pension Builder product required a paper application.
Having looked at the exchange of correspondence, Im satisfied, on balance, JHAC did not 
do enough to inform Mr Bs advisers that a paper application would be required. When 
reaching that view, Ive taken into account a response which JHAC provided to a request for 
information it received from a firm which was acting on behalf of Mr B and another member 
of the Group SIPP. That response was dated December 2020. It stated:
Is the plan supported under ORIGO Options Pension Transfer Service  if not 
please provide Warranty/Discharge forms? 
Yes we use ORIGO, paper forms are on the Literature page of our website.
I think its fair and reasonable to say that the recipients of this information reasonably 
believed they could rely on what they were told. When reaching that view, Ive taken into 
account what JHAC says about its response to the information request. It says that the 
Literature page on its website made clear that paper forms were required for the IPS Builder 
product. However, having looked at the response to the request for information, I dont see 
any reference to the product name on that document. So, Im persuaded on balance that 
Mr Bs advisers reasonably believed the transfer request application could be submitted 
using ORIGO.
Mr Bs advisers say the ORIGO application was submitted on 26 February 2021. JHAC has 
now confirmed that an application was submitted through ORIGO on 26 February 2021 and 
received by it on 1 March 2021.The application was denied on 2 March 2021 with the response ceding product not 
supported. The records indicate that a further attempt was made to submit the application 
via ORIGO and that attempt was also denied with the same response.
Mr Bs advisers asked him to complete a paper application which JHAC acknowledges it 
received on 12 March 2021. Im persuaded, on balance, that had JHAC made it clear to 
Mr Bs advisers it wouldnt accept a transfer application via ORIGO, the paper application 
wouldve been submitted instead. Although Mr H says that a paper application wouldve 
been submitted no later than 23 February 2021 (the date that the sale proceeds were 
received) Ive not been provided with evidence which persuades me that wouldve been the 
case. The first ORIGO application wasnt received until after that date.
Having considered everything here, Ive decided its fair and reasonable to conclude that the 
date when the application should be treated as having been received is the date when the 
first ORIGO application was received by JHAC  which is 1 March 2021. So, thats the date I 
think the transfer out process should reasonably be treated as having commenced.
How long should it have taken to complete the transfer?
JHAC says its normal timescales and processes in respect of a group pension scheme cash 
transfer are that it takes ten working days to carry out the necessary reconciliations and final 
checks before sending the cash. Mr H disagrees. He says that once the sale proceeds were 
received into the bank account (which would have been the same day as the sale 
completed) all JHAC had to do was deduct its fees, divide the balance by the number of 
members of the scheme and transfer that amount to the new provider for each member.
Ive thought about what both parties have said here. Having done so, Ive decided that ten 
working days to complete the transfer is a fair and reasonable timescale in this case. When 
reaching that view, Ive taken into account the information that JHAC sent Mr H at the start of 
the process (in August 2020). In its Property Disposal Guide (referred to in that email) it said:
[after outlining the various accounting entries that would be required  ]
 Once all these aspects have been resolved, we will check that the property account 
has been fully reconciled and once confirmed we will proceed to close the property 
account and transfer the balance to your trustee cash account. If applicable, funds 
will then be transferred to your new pension provider.
So, even though the completion monies had been received on 23 February 2021, 
JHAC had made Mr H aware, from the outset, there was a requirement for post-sale 
reconciliations to be completed, the property account to be closed and the balance 
transferred to the trustee cash account before the transfer out could take place. 
It is the case that JHAC made a number of errors when carrying out the post-sale 
reconciliations  which caused further delays. JHAC has accepted that these further delays 
were wholly avoidable. It has also accepted that it shouldnt have asked for a deed of 
removal to be signed before it completed the transfer. 
However, even though there were avoidable delays, that doesnt mean post-sale 
reconciliations, associated processes and the subsequent checks we would expect JHAC to 
carry out before transferring a members pension to another provider didnt need to be 
carried out.  
Ive also thought about developments in industry guidance, since 2006, concerning what is 
considered to be a reasonable timescale to complete the end-to-end process for a pension 
transfer of cash assets. In June 2018, TRIG (Transfer and Re-registration Industry Group) published an industry wide framework for improving transfers and re-registrations. The 
framework set out TRIGs agreed position on what providers were expected to deliver to 
customers in relation to the timeliness of transfers and re-registrations and communications 
during the process.
For automated pension cash transfers the framework stated that a good practice timescale 
for the end to end process should be ten business days from when the acquiring provider 
received the completed instruction from the client up to the receipt of the transferred funds. 
For manual transfers the timescale could be longer.
In this case Mr Bs pension was invested in the IPS Builder product. JHAC has explained 
that although it does use the ORIGO system for pension transfers generally, that option 
was not available for the IPS Builder SIPP. So, a manual process applied. That meant 
Mr Bs pension transfer involved a transfer of cash assets using a manual process. 
Taking all the circumstances that applied here into account, including industry guidance, Ive 
decided that ten working days to complete the transfer process (from the date when JHAC 
received the ORIGO application) is fair and reasonable. So, I think its fair and reasonable to 
say that the transfer should have been concluded by 15 March 2021 and the new provider 
could then have reinvested the funds two working days later (17 March 2021). Ill comment 
further below about what I think JHAC needs to do to put things right.
Administration Fees
JHAC agreed to refund Mr Bs share of the property sale fee and his share of the 
administration fees it charged for the period March 2021 to February 2022. In total the refund 
of fees offered to Mr B was £966.
Mr H thinks JHAC should refund all the administration fees for the period since August 2020. 
But Im not persuaded, on balance, that its fair or reasonable to require JHAC to do that. 
Ive looked at what the SIPPs terms and conditions state regarding the payment of 
administration fees. These provide that administration fees are payable in advance. The 
terms further state that where there is a transfer out there is no entitlement to any pro rata 
refund of fees.
So, even if the transfer out had progressed much earlier than it did, no part of the 
administration fees chargeable for the period up to the end of February 2021 would have 
been refunded under the terms and conditions. And despite the issues that arose with 
administration here, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require JHAC to refund the 
administration fees for the period prior to the end of February 2021. 
I do think its fair and reasonable for Mr Bs share of the property sale fee to be refunded and 
also his share of the administration fees charged for the period after March 2021  since 
those administration fees could have been avoided had the transfer out completed in a 
timelier way. 
Complaint Handling
When he complained to our service, Mr H said that second only to the issue of delays the 
way that JHAC handled the complaint was the most serious point to be addressed.Under the Rules which apply to our service, we cannot look into a complaint (or any part of 
a complaint) which is solely about how a business handled a complaint. Thats because 
complaint handling is not itself a regulated activity. It means I cant comment further on this 
aspect of Mr Bs complaint.
Distress and Inconvenience
JHAC has accepted it caused distress and inconvenience to Mr B. 
Mr H has referred to the delays and administrative errors that took place prior to the sale of 
the property completing. He says Mr B was aware of and affected by these issues. Hes also 
referred to the distress and inconvenience Mr B experienced because of the unnecessary 
delays completing his transfer out. 
When thinking about the distress and inconvenience Mr B experienced, Ive noted he relied 
on Mr H to liaise with JHAC throughout the period from August 2020 to try to get matters 
resolved.
Under our Rules, I can award redress for distress and inconvenience experienced by the 
eligible complainant. The eligible complainant here is Mr B. So, Ive taken into account the 
distress and inconvenience Mr B experienced because he was aware of and affected by the 
administration errors and delays both before and after the completion of the property sale. 
As mentioned above, Mr B relied on Mr H to deal with JHAC throughout the process. But
Mr H is not the eligible complainant here  so I cant take the distress and inconvenience 
Mr H experienced into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable redress for Mr B. 
JHAC has offered to pay Mr B £250 by way of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced. 
Having considered everything, including our general guidelines about compensation for 
distress and inconvenience, I think the offer made by JHAC for distress and inconvenience is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
Ive decided that the transfer out shouldve been completed by 15 March 2021 and the fund 
reinvested two working days later (17 March 2021). In order to put things right JHAC should: 
re-work its calculation to assess whether Mr B has suffered any financial loss as a 
result of the delay that occurred. It should compare the number of units in each of the 
funds Mr B purchased with the new provider on 22 June 2021 against the number of 
units in each of those funds he could have purchased on 17 March 2021 had the 
transfer monies been reinvested on that date. If the number of units he could have 
purchased on 17 March 2021 was greater, JHAC should arrange to purchase those 
additional units and add them to his pension with the new provider. If the number of 
units he could have purchased on 17 March 2021 was lesser, he will not have 
suffered a financial loss as a result of the delay and no compensation for financial 
loss would be payable; 
if it has not done so already, refund Mr Bs share of the property sale fee (being 
£108) together with 8% simple interest* on this amount from 26 February 2021 until 
the date of settlement;
if it has not done so already, refund Mr Bs share of the administration fees (being 
£858) which were applied to the Group SIPP account for the period after 1 March 2021 and his share of the annual drawdown charge which was applied for the period 
after 1 March 2021 (being £38.88) together with 8% simple interest* on both of these 
amounts from 15 March 2021 to the date of settlement; and
if it has not done so already, pay Mr B £250 for distress and inconvenience he 
experienced as a result of what happened here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint about James Hay Administration 
Company Limited trading as James Hay Partnership. 
I now require it to take the following actions:
re-work its calculation to assess whether Mr B has suffered any financial loss as a 
result of the delay that occurred. It should compare the number of units in each of the 
funds Mr B purchased with the new provider on 22 June 2021 against the number of 
units in each of those funds he could have purchased on 17 March 2021 had the 
transfer monies been reinvested on that date. If the number of units he could have 
purchased on 17 March 2021 was greater, JHAC should arrange to purchase those 
additional units and add them to his pension with the new provider. If the number of 
units he could have purchased on 17 March 2021 was lesser, he will not have 
suffered a financial loss as a result of the delay and no compensation for financial 
loss would be payable; 
if it has not done so already, refund Mr Bs share of the property sale fee (being 
£108) together with 8% simple interest* on this amount from 26 February 2021 until 
the date of settlement.
if it has not done so already, refund Mr Bs share of the administration fees (being 
£858) which were applied to the Group SIPP account for the period after 1 March 
2021 and his share of the annual drawdown charge which was applied for the period 
after 1 March 2021 (being £38.88) together with 8% simple interest* on both of these 
amounts from 15 March 2021 to the date of settlement; and
if it has not done so already, pay Mr B £250 for distress and inconvenience he 
experienced as a result of what happened here.
* If HM Revenue & Customs requires James Hay Administration Company Limited trading as James Hay 
Partnership to take off tax from this interest, James Hay Administration Company Limited trading as James Hay 
Partnership must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman