DRN-4138055
The complaint
Miss T complains that Acasta European Insurance Company Limited hasnt given her a cash 
settlement for the full value of her claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
Miss T took out a 5 year warranty on a sofa and chair set in 2019 that covered accidental 
damage and staining. She made a valid claim on the policy in May 2022 for the sofa. The 
policy terms say that Valid claims will be settled by cleaning, repairing or replacing the 
damaged product. This is what Acasta first tried to do but unfortunately the fabric was 
discontinued.
So, Acasta issued a credit note for the full original purchase price of the sofa and chair set, 
to be used with the same retailer. This is in line with the following policy terms: 
Where we are not able to clean, repair or replace the damaged product satisfactorily we will 
issue a credit note for use at the same retailer from which you originally purchased the 
product. If the retailer has ceased to trade or has moved, we will issue a credit note for use 
at a similar retailer of our choice that is local to you. The value of the credit note will be the 
amount you paid for the product less any previous claim costs, subject to the maximum 
liability.
Miss T wasnt happy with this, as she wanted a cash settlement to be used at another 
retailer. Acasta offered an initial lower cash settlement, but later increased this to 60% of the 
original price of the items. It said this was due to the discounts it receives from the retailer. 
This is in line with the policy terms that say:
We may choose to provide an offer of cash settlement instead of a credit note, this will be 
lower than the value of the credit note and takes into account any discounts we may have 
received by issuing a credit note. The damaged product will remain your property in its 
current condition.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied Acasta has acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy by offering Miss T a credit note for the full original price of the sofa 
and chair set. Additionally, it also acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy in 
the cash settlement it made, when Miss T wasnt happy with the credit note.
Lastly, the policy says that Your insurance terminates as soon as any of the following 
alternatives occur:  d) Your claim has been settled by credit note or cash settlement So, 
I think Acasta acted in line with the terms when it cancelled the policy after it settled the 
claim as above.
Overall, I think Acasta has acted fairly and reasonably here, and I dont think theres 
anything else it needs to do, to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman