DRN-3296998
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited  (L2G) was irresponsible to have agreed 
credit for him. 
What happened
L2G provided Mr T with a loan of £500 in May 2019. The total amount owed of £2,057, 
including interest and charges, was to be repaid in 78 weekly instalments of £26 or 
approximately £110 a month (figures rounded).
This was a log book loan, in other words it was granted on the basis that Mr T provided L2G 
with a bill of sale for his car. This meant that if Mr T didnt make his loan repayments L2G 
could potentially recoup its losses through the sale of the vehicle. 
It seems Mr T missed payments and had payments by card declined from the outset. He fell 
into arrears and a default notice was sent to him in November 2019, six months into his 18 
month term. I understand that the loan wasnt fully repaid and L2G sold the debt to another 
company in July 2020.
Mr T says that L2G was irresponsible to lend to him because the loan was unaffordable 
given his existing level of borrowing. Hes also unhappy about the amount of interest L2G 
charged.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ts complaint and recommended that it be upheld. 
They found that L2G had been irresponsible when it agreed to lend to Mr T because a 
proportionate check on his circumstances prior to lending would have shown the loan to be 
unaffordable.
L2G didnt accept this recommendation. It said that Mr T was up to date with his active 
borrowings which shows he wasnt in financial difficulty when he applied for this loan and 
that he could afford the repayment on all his credit commitments. L2G says its checks were 
proportionate and it wasnt irresponsible to lend on the basis of the information it had. The 
lender asked for the complaint to come to an ombudsman to review and resolve.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
L2G will be aware of the relevant regulations so I will briefly summarise. L2G needed to 
check that Mr T could afford to meet his repayments out of his usual means without having 
to borrow further, without missing any of his existing obligations and without experiencing 
significant adverse impacts. This meant that L2G was required to take reasonable steps to 
estimate Mr Ts income and (non-discretionary) expenditure, and to estimate any reductions 
in income where it was reasonably foreseeable that a reduction was likely. L2G also needed 
to have regard to any information of which it was aware at the time that might have indicated 
that Mr T was in, had recently experienced or was likely to experience, financial difficulties 
(see CONC 5.2A.22G-1). 
The overarching requirement here was that L2G needed to pay due regard to Mr Ts 
interests and treat him fairly. CONC 2.2.2G-1 gave an example of contravening this 
requirement as targeting customers with regulated credit agreements which are unsuitable 
for them by virtue of their indebtedness, poor credit history, age, health, disability or any 
other reason.
With this in mind, my main considerations are did L2G complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ts application to satisfy itself that he would be 
able to make his repayments wihout experiencing adverse consequences? If not, what 
would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and, ultimately, did L2G make 
a fair lending decision? 
Let me start what Mr T has said about interest levels -  Mr T feels the amount of interest he 
was charged for this loan was too high. Ive seen a copy of the credit agreement which sets 
out the total cost of the loan, the associated interest and charges and the weekly repayment 
amount. I understand Mr T made some repayments in line with these figures and I think if he 
wasnt expecting these charges he might have raised a query or a complaint about them at 
the time. However, I havent made any finding about whether or not it was right of L2G to 
charge what it did because Ive come to the conclusion that L2G was irresponsible to lend to 
Mr T for other reasons. And in order to put things right for Mr T, as I will explain in detail later 
on, L2G should refund any interest and charges hes paid. I appreciate that this will be 
disappointing for L2G and I hope the following clearly explains why Ive come to this 
conclusion.
L2G provided this Service with the information it relied on in making its lending decision. This 
included Mr Ts application form and a copy of his credit file. Mr T told L2G that his monthly 
income was £1,500 but didnt provide details of his expenditure. 
L2G said in its final response letter to Mr T that it verified his income using an online tool and 
relied on him having a minimum monthly income of £1,260. L2G also said that although Mr T 
hadnt declared any expenditure in his application it estimated his monthly expenditure to be 
£1,004 following an extensive review of his application and his credit file. It concluded that 
Mr T had enough money to meet his loan repayments, and enough to cover any unexpected 
fluctuations in his means. 
Mr T would need to meet his repayments for 18 months and the consequences of not doing 
so were potentially serious in that he might lose his car. So I think asking Mr T about his 
income and expenditure and looking to independently verify this information seems 
reasonable. However, I understand Mr T didnt provide any proof of his income or give any 
figures for his expenditure, and L2G hasnt explained how it arrived at its estimates. 
Furthermore, I think Mr Ts existing credit commitments were significant. The credit report 
L2G provided showed Mr T was paying £440 a month on debt. Agreeing this loan increased 
this figure to approximately £550 a month - over a third of his declared income.
Altogether, considering the type of credit offered, the inconsistencies between what Mr T had 
declared and its estimates, and what it knew about his existing debt levels, I think L2G ought 
to have taken further steps to check that Mr T would be able to meet his repayments without 
experiencing financial difficulties. And so I dont think its checks were proportionate on this 
occasion. 
Mr T has provided bank statements from the time. I am not suggesting this is the information 
L2G ought to have gathered but I think its a reasonably proxy for what it was likely to have found out through proportionate checks. The information shows that Mr Ts income 
fluctuated around £1,500. It confirms the existing credit commitments shown on his credit file 
and shows he had other debts which werent captured on this report. For example, Mr T was 
borrowing from two short term lenders and a high cost running account lender at the time, 
and he repaid £350 to these lenders in May 2019. Agreeing further credit for Mr T could 
potentially result in him spending two thirds of his income on repaying debt, a situation which 
more likely than not would cause him problems meeting his repayments. 
As mentioned, Mr T had problems meeting his repayments from the start. The customer 
contact notes record that he told L2G he lost a regular income for a time when he changed 
jobs in July 2019. However, his repayment problems continued and his arrears mounted. I 
think his financial difficulties were foreseeable, and I think L2G was irresponsible when it 
agreed to lend to him.
Putting things right
Mr T had the benefit of the money he borrowed so I think its right that he repays this. 
However, I dont think he should be liable for any interest or charges associated with the 
loan as Ive found it was unfairly given. Ive set out below what L2G needs to do to do now, 
which may include buying the debt back, or liaising with the current debt owner. 
In order to put things right for Mr T, L2G needs to:
a) Refund to Mr T all payments he made above the amount of £500 he borrowed. To be 
clear this includes any interest or charges associated with the credit or its collection 
including any payments he may have made to the company who bought the debt 
from L2G; and
b) Add 8% simple interest per annum to these overpayments from the date they were 
paid to the date of refund; and
c) Waive any outstanding balance and consider the debt settled; and
d) Remove any adverse information about this loan from Mr Ts credit file; and 
e) Revoke the Bill of Sale for Mr Ts car if this is still in place and return any relevant 
documents to him if it hasnt already done so.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Mr T a 
certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Ts complaint about Loans 2 Go Limited 
and it should put things right as Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman