DRN-3687957
The complaint
Mr W has complained about being prevented from selling shares by AJ Bell Management 
Limited trading as AJ Bell Youinvest, causing him to miss out on a higher share price than 
he eventually achieved. 
 
What happened
In July 2022 Mr W held shares in a company, who Ill call Company A, in his ISA with AJ 
Bell. The shares had been delisted from the London Stock Exchange for some time and so 
trading was suspended. On 11 July, the shares were listed for sale on the Alternative 
Investment Market (AIM) and trading recommenced from that day on. On 11 July Mr W 
attempted to sell his shares online, but received a message explaining there was no online 
quote available and to either call or try again later. 
On 12 July he tried again online, but received the same message, so called AJ Bell. AJ Bell 
told him that they had mistakenly not lifted the suspension of trading on 11 July and 
arranged for that to be fixed. Mr W then decided not to trade that day, as the price was 
around £0.35 per share, which was less than he paid for them originally. He raised a 
complaint, as the price on 11 July was around £0.52, so he felt hed lost out as a result of AJ 
Bells mistake. He eventually sold the shares in August, for less than hed have received on 
11 July. 
AJ Bell replied to the complaint and offered Mr W £50 for the inconvenience caused. They 
said Mr W could have called them on 11 July had he wanted to sell the shares, but he didnt. 
If he had, he would have been able to trade the shares on the phone, so they didnt offer to 
pay for any financial loss. As he was unhappy with this, Mr W asked our service to 
investigate the complaint. 
An investigator at our service looked into what happened and found that the offer made by 
AJ Bell was fair. She said that Mr W could have done more to mitigate his losses, and as he 
didnt call AJ Bell on 11 July, she felt it wouldnt be fair to say they were the cause of his 
financial loss. Mr W didnt agree, saying he felt the £50 wasnt enough and that he felt it 
shouldnt be his responsibility to make sure AJ Bell run their platform properly, to allow 
customers to trade online. 
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, the case has been passed to 
me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator, for largely the same 
reasons. 
I note that Mr W feels strongly that he shouldnt have needed to take any further steps as the 
online trading should have been available. I agree that hes right that it shouldnt be his 
responsibility to tell AJ Bell when the shares were relisted on the AIM. I also acknowledge 
that he did initially try to place the trade and it was through no fault of his own that the trade 
didnt go through. 
Its not disputed by AJ Bell that they ought to have allowed Mr W to trade his shares online 
on 11 July. However, I have to consider whether its fair and reasonable to hold them fully 
responsible for Mr W not achieving the price available on 11 July for the shares. In doing that 
Ive thought about whether Mr W took all steps he could, within reason, to place the trade. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ws account dont guarantee that dealing via the website will 
always be available  and they clearly say that telephone dealing would be available as an 
alternative. I dont think this is unusual or an unfair term, and in general I dont think its fair 
to expect a service to be available, uninterrupted, at all times.
The error message that Mr W received was also clear that he could call AJ Bell to place the 
trade and Im satisfied this message was not misleading in any way. Mr W has said he was 
expecting the message to change later in the day, but Ive not seen any evidence that this 
was because of something AJ Bell led him to believe. The phone number for AJ Bell was set 
out in the error message and was also easy to find on their website. Overall, I think its fair to 
say AJ Bell gave Mr W a reasonable alternative to trading online and didnt put any barriers 
in place that prevented him from accessing the telephone dealing service. 
Mr W admits that he didnt attempt to call AJ Bell on 11 July, despite this being the only 
apparent route to trade. Hes not explained why he didnt, or couldnt call at all on 11 July, 
just that by the following day hed resigned himself to attempting a call. However, I dont 
think its unreasonable to say he could have done more to trade on 11 July, had he wanted 
to ensure he achieved the price available that day. If he had done that, he likely would have 
avoided the loss he is now claiming for. For that reason, I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to say AJ Bell ought to be held responsible for the loss he claims he suffered by 
being unable to trade online. 
AJ Bell has offered £50 for the inconvenience caused by the delay in lifting the suspension. 
The delay was for just one day and once they were aware of the issue, AJ Bell fixed it very 
quickly. Having considered everything, I think this is a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation, in the circumstances.
My final decision
AJ Bell Management Limited trading as AJ Bell Youinvest has already made an offer to pay 
£50 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my 
decision is that AJ Bell Management Limited trading as AJ Bell Youinvest should pay £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman