DRN-2708143
The complaint
Mrs C has complained about the price of the renewal of her motor insurance policy held with 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited. Reference to Advantage includes its agents. 
What happened
Mrs C purchased a policy with Advantage via another business. When she took out the 
policy she was charged £171.64 for the policy, but had to pay an additional telematics fee of 
£100.
When her policy was due to renew a year later, she was sent an invite explaining the cost of 
the policy for the upcoming year. Mrs C was quoted £259.97. Mrs C queried this with 
Advantage as she didnt think this was correct, especially as her driving score  based on 
the data from the telematics box  was high. She thought Advantage might have charged 
her the £100 telematics fee again in error.
Advantage said it hadnt charged Mrs C again for the telematics box. It said the renewal 
premium was based on its underwriting criteria and said it was priced fairly based on this 
criteria.
Mrs C wasnt happy with this and complained. She said she had a high driving score and 
thought because of this she should get a discount at renewal, but instead her policy was 
significantly more expensive.
Advantage maintained its decision and so Mrs C brought her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into Mrs Cs complaint and recommended it be upheld. She thought 
Advantage was entitled to determine what factors it wanted to consider when pricing a 
policy. And she thought Advantage was entitled to decide how much weight to place on 
those factors. But she said as Advantage hadnt provided us with the details of how it had 
priced Mrs Cs policy, she couldnt say it had done so fairly. She thought that on this basis 
Advantage should refund Mrs C £100.
Advantage disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It maintains it priced Mrs Cs 
policy fairly, based on its underwriting criteria. But its not provided us with all that criteria as 
its said its commercially sensitive information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill explain why.
Advantage is entitled to decide what factors it wants to consider when pricing an insurance 
policy. And its entitled to decide what weight it wants to apply to those factors. Different 
insurers consider different factors, and place different weighting on those factors. Doing so 
allows competition in the market. What factors an insurer considers, and the weighting it 
applies to each factor is known as the underwriting criteria. And Advantage is correct in 
saying that criteria is commercially sensitive data which cant be shared with the public. But 
insurers often send us the details of how their policies are priced, so we can see theyve 
treated the consumer fairly, in line with their own criteria.
Mrs Cs policy with Advantage is a telematics policy. The telematics box in her car records 
data and Advantage use that data to generate a driving score. That score,  amongst other 
factors  is then taken into consideration when pricing the policy. Advantage has said 
Mrs Cs driving score has generated a discount, and its shown what that discount is. And its 
also provided us with some information on other factors it considers and the weighting its 
applied to those factors.
But in order to see whether Advantage has priced Mrs Cs policy correctly and fairly, I need 
to see all the criteria to make sure the correct information has been added into it and to 
make sure that Mrs Cs policies, both the first one, and the renewal, have been assessed 
and priced fairly against the all relevant criteria. And here, Ive not seen that.
Advantage has provided some information, but not everything that Id need to see to be able 
to say its priced Mrs Cs policy in line with its own criteria. And on that basis, I cant be sure 
that Advantage has priced Mrs Cs renewal fairly. Especially considering her policy hasnt 
decreased in price but has increased significantly despite having a driving score to generate 
a significant discount during the previous policy period.
Putting things right
Mrs Cs driving score was high enough to generate a discount. I think Mrs C had a 
reasonable expectation that if her driving score was high - which it was - then her policy 
premium would be cheaper at renewal. I appreciate other factors have been considered, 
which Advantage may consider increase the chances of a claim being made, such as 
Mrs Cs age, and the age of her car. And in reality, even with a discount applied, Mrs Cs 
policy could have been more expensive at renewal. But without seeing all the factors 
Advantage has considered, and the weighting applied to those factors, I dont think 
Advantage has demonstrated that Mrs Cs renewal price was calculated fairly. 
Therefore, to put things right, I consider the fair and reasonable outcome of this complaint 
would be to refund Mrs C £100, as this would represent a small discount on her renewal 
premium, based on her premium when she took the policy out.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to refund Mrs C £100.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman