DRN-1019979
The complaint
 Mr E complains that Bank of Scotland plc ( BOS)  let him make payments from his current 
account that meant he used an unarranged overdraft.
 What happened
 Mr E says that a payment to a mobile phone company was debited two days too late. 
Because of this, it looked like he had money available in his account during these two days, 
so he made another payment. The payment to the mobile phone company was then debited 
causing his account to go into its unarranged overdraft. Mr E says that BOS should have 
refused the payment so he didnt end up using the unarranged overdraft. 
The case was brought here and one of our investigators looked into it. She decided that 
BOS had acted fairly. Under the terms and conditions of the account it was within its rights to 
process the payments that caused Mr E to use his unarranged overdraft.
Mr E disagreed so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point here is that a bank should follow its customers instructions unless theres 
good reason for it not to. So when Mr E asks BOS to make a payment  it should generally 
do this. The terms and conditions of Mr Es account explain this too.Here, BOS processed 
Mr Es direct debit correctly  but it took two days to show the debit on Mr Es account. While 
I can, to some extent, understand Mr Es confusion here, I also think its fair to say that Mr E 
should be keeping an eye on his account too. This was a direct debit, which is a type of 
payment he would have set up himself. So I think he shouldve known it was due.
Mr E had access to BOS banking app as part of his banking account. BOS has also provided 
screenshots of its banking app. This shows that Mr E would have been able to understand 
what payments were pending. I think he ought to have been aware this direct debit was 
going to be taken from this too.
When Mr E then made a payment because he thought he had the money to, it was his 
choice to do so. It wasnt due to any mistake by BOS. I cant see that he ever queried this 
with BOS before making the payment. This meant he started using his unarranged overdraft 
because the money wasnt available. But thats in line with the terms of the account and 
what happens when a payment is made without enough to cover it. So, while I understand 
Mr Es frustration  Im satisfied BOS has acted fairly here.
Mr E has also suggested that his account has been blocked by BOS. I havent seen anything 
to support this and from the information available to me, it seems that BOS has offered a 
repayment plan to Mr E to help him pay back the amount he owes it. I feel that this is a fair 
way forward for both parties. Its perhaps worth me saying that if Mr E is experiencing financial difficulties then Id urge him to remain in contact with BOS and try to work with it to 
agree a way forward here. 
I can only consider the complaint Mr E has raised with BOS and this service about the 
payments it made. If he remains unhappy about the access to his bank account, then hell 
need to raise this separately with BOS. If he is unhappy with its response, he can the bring it 
to this service, 
Overall, whilst I understand Mr E is likely to be disappointed with my decision, I feel there is 
little more I can ask of BOS here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman