DRN-3628625
The complaint
Mr C complains that CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV declined his dental 
insurance claims. My references to CIGNA include its agents.
What happened
Mr C had dental insurance, level 3 cover, with CIGNA through his employers group policy 
from 1 April 2021 to 31 March 2022. 
In September 2021 and January 2022 Mr C claimed on his policy for a scale and polish. 
CIGNA declined the claims. It said Mr C had already reached the annual maximum benefit of 
£150 on the policy so the claims werent payable. 
Mr C complains as he believes the policy wording is misleading. He says CIGNA had 
accepted the relevant policy wording wasnt clear and paid an earlier claim in full because 
the wording was unclear. He wants CIGNA to pay these two claims and make the policy 
wording clearer.
Our investigator said CIGNA fairly declined the claims.
Mr C disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. I think CIGNA reasonably declined Mr Cs 
September 2021 and January 2022 claims, Ill explain why.
The policy says 
Main benefits
All plan levels cover preventative, minor and major dental treatment and you also 
benefit from:

Unlimited number of examinations, scale and polishes, and x-rays within 
treatment reimbursement limits
No annual maximum for preventative, minor and major treatment
The policy says preventative treatment includes examinations, scale and polish and x-rays.
CIGNA says No annual maximum means theres no limit to the number of treatments Mr C 
could have, it didnt mean there was no annual maximum to the cost CIGNA would pay for 
treatment. Its final response letter to Mr Cs complaint about his September 2021 and 
January 2022 claims says the policy is clear he could have an unlimited number of 
examinations, scale and polishes and x-rays within the reimbursement limits and the list of 
benefits shows the total annual benefit limit for such treatment is £150.
Mr C says the policy wording isnt clear that No annual maximum relates to the number of 
treatments. In summary, he says he reasonably understood the above policy wording to 
mean the policy covered an unlimited number of annual examinations, scales and polishes 
and x-rays with the £150 treatment reimbursement limit being for each treatment. And there 
was no annual maximum total reimbursement limit.
Ive considered the points Mr C makes and understand his point of view. But I think the 
overall policy working is clear enough there is a total annual limit of £150 for examinations, 
scales and polishes and x-rays for the level 3 cover.
The table showing costs covered says that for preventative treatment the annual maximum 
benefit is shown in the list of benefits. The list of benefits says All benefit limits apply to each 
memberfor every year of insurance unless otherwise stated and shows the benefit limit for 
examinations, scale and polishes and x-rays for level 3 cover as £150. 
Mr C says as the policy states No annual maximum for preventative, minor and major 
treatment, he reasonably understood that treatment fell into the unless otherwise stated 
category. But Im not persuaded that was a reasonable reading given the overall contents of 
the policy.
Mr C previously complained to CIGNA about it not fully paying two earlier claims in 
May 2021.Those claims for examination, scale and polish totalled £231 and CIGNA had paid 
£150. CIGNA told Mr C at that time the policy covered a total maximum of £150 per policy 
year for preventative treatment and that the No annual maximum referred to the number of 
treatments. CIGNA also told Mr C it thought the No annual maximum policy wording was 
unclear and on that occasion it agreed to pay those claims in full.
Mr C says its irrelevant CIGNA had previously told him what it considered the policy wording 
to mean as he wasnt able to cancel the policy until the insured period ended, he was still 
paying the premium and was entitled to make further claims which he thought should be 
covered. But by the time Mr C had his examination, scale and polish in September 2021 and 
January 2022 he knew CIGNA considered hed already exceeded his total annual £150 limit 
for such treatment and would very likely decline any further claims that policy year.
Although during his previous complaint CIGNA said the No annual maximum policy wording 
wasnt clear I think its reasonable for CIGNA to review its position in response to Mr Cs 
complaint about these later claims. As Ive said, I think CIGNA acted fairly in saying that the 
overall policy wording was clear enough he could have an unlimited number of 
examinations, scale and polishes and x-rays within the reimbursement limits and the list of 
benefits shows the total annual benefit limit for such treatment is £150.
In all the circumstances I dont think it would be fair for me to say CIGNA should pay Mr Cs 
September 2021 and January 2022 claims, as hed already exceeded the £150 annual 
benefit limit for such treatment.
Mr C also wanted us to tell CIGNA to amend its policy wording. As our investigator correctly 
explained, we cant require insurers to change their policy wording. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Nicola SiskOmbudsman