DRN-3664164
Complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) unfairly recorded a fraud prevention 
marker against him.
Background
In April 2022, Mr Bs savings account received a payment of £1,620.00. These funds were 
immediately transferred to Mr Bs current account before being moved on to a crypto-
currency provider. Barclays subsequently received a notification from a third-party bank 
stating that the payee of the funds had reported being a victim of fraud. Barclays decided to 
close Mr Bs account and record a fraud prevention marker.
Mr B subsequently complained about Barclays actions. Barclays didnt uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. As Mr B remained dissatisfied, Mr B referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Bs concerns. She didnt think that Barclays had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr B disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Barclays has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr B is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Barclays must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Bs account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Barclays also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr B was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr B allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. In order to determine Mr Bs complaint, I need to 
decide whether I think Barclays had enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered         
Mr Bs account and that his actions suggest he was complicit in this. And having considered 
everything, I find that Barclays did have enough to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id 
like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr Bs 
account in April 2022, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr B was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
When he initially complained to Barclays Mr B said that he transferred the funds in question 
to his savings account and then his current account. However, his account was then 
somehow hacked and the funds were transferred to the crypto-currency provider that hed 
previously used. Mr B subsequently told our adjudicator that he met someone on social 
media who said he could do online trading with him. 
Mr B has said he was told to open the crypto-currency account in his name and hed receive 
a percentage of the trades. Mr B also says that he provided him with the details of his 
accounts and the login credentials for his online and mobile banking and it was the person 
who carried out all of the activity. He has provided copies of the messages with the person 
who arranged everything for him and said the person was very convincing so he trusted 
them.
Ive thought about what Mr B has said and have considered the copies of the messages hes 
provided. 
Having done so, it difficult for me to accept that Mr B was as trusting as hes suggesting. 
Instead it seems to me that Mr B had clear concerns about the legitimacy of the what he was 
getting involved in. Indeed, there were occasions where Mr B questioned whether he should 
continue and he could have put a stop to what was going on but he decided to proceed 
anyway. 
I say this because the copies of the messages Mr B has provided indicate that he was 
reluctant to provide his online banking details and he even said that he was not feeling 
comfortable doing that. This in itself indicates that Mr B appreciated there was a risk in 
providing his account details to someone else. 
The messages also show that Mr B was told what he was going to be asked to do was clean 
money to crypto, that hed be able to keep 35% of what went through his account, but there 
was a 50/50 chance of his account being closed. So Im satisfied that the evidence Mr B has 
provided shows that he was told he was cleaning money to crypto and that there was a 50% 
chance of his account being closed and yet decided to continue regardless. 
As this is the case, I think that Mr B proceeded in circumstances where he ought to have 
known that he would be allowing his account to be used for illegitimate purposes. I 
appreciate that Mr B may have thought that the biggest risk to him was his account being 
closed and may not have known that he could also end up with a fraud marker being 
recorded against him. But this doesnt change the fact that he expected to benefit in 
circumstances where he ought reasonably to have known that he was co-operating in 
illegitimate activity. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Barclays did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr Bs account. And bearing in mind the 
evidence, Im also satisfied that it is reasonably entitled to conclude that Mr B was complicit in this. As this is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Barclays to record a fraud 
prevention marker in the circumstances that it did and Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr B  especially in light of the ongoing impact 
hes said the fraud marker is having on him. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to. Furthermore, Mr B 
might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as he applies for a 
Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman