DRN-3234956
The complaint
The estate of Ms M complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society avoided 
her life assurance policy and refused their claim.
The estate of Ms M is represented by her partner, Mr D.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to 
some key events here.
On 29 August 2019 Ms M applied for a whole of life assurance policy, through a broker, 
with Royal London. The policy was set up and provided a sum assured of a £8,200 for 
premiums of £20 per month.
Ms M received a confirmed diagnosed of non-Hodgkins lymphoma in January 2020. Sadly, 
she died in December 2020 with covid-19 pneumonitis as the underlying cause of death, 
and non-Hodgkins Lymphoma (Follicular) recorded as contributing to it.
Mr D made a claim under the policy. Royal London thought Ms M had misrepresented her 
health when she applied for the policy, saying shed failed to disclose that shed consulted 
her GP about a lump on her neck in July 2019, which had led to her undergoing scans and 
blood tests. And that on the day she applied for the policy, she told her doctor that she was 
due to have a biopsy the following week. Royal London said, irrespective of when she was 
diagnosed with non-Hodgkins lymphoma, this information shouldve been disclosed to 
them. And had it been, Royal London said they wouldnt have offered cover. So, they 
avoided the policy and refunded the premiums.
A complaint was raised but Royal Londons position didnt change. They explained while 
the lymphoma was diagnosed after Ms M applied for the policy, the symptoms and 
investigations occurred beforehand. Royal London reiterated this shouldve been disclosed 
to them and they wouldnt have offered cover to Ms M had it been. They did however pay 
Mr D £150 for delays in considering the claim.
Mr D referred the complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into it but 
she thought Royal London had acted fairly. In short, she said:
Shed looked at the questions Ms M was asked in the application and her 
medical records. And she thought Ms M ought to have answered them 
differently. So, our investigator thought there had been a misrepresentation.
The misrepresentation was qualifying as Royal London had provided their 
underwriting criteria which showed, had this information been disclosed, then 
they wouldve postponed offering cover at that time until Ms Ms investigation 
results had returned. At which point, when the lymphoma was diagnosed, they 
wouldnt have offered cover to Ms M.
She agreed with Royal Londons classification of the misrepresentation as 
careless. And, under the relevant legislation, this allows Royal London to avoid a 
policy, refuse the claim and refund the premiums.
She noted Mr Ds point that there wasnt a connection between Ms Ms 
cause of death and the lymphoma. But she explained that there doesnt 
need to be a link between the cause of death and the misrepresentation that 
occurred. So, it was reasonable for Royal London to take the action they did.
Any concerns about the sale of the policy and its suitability for Ms M would 
have to be directed to the firm (broker) who sold it.
Mr D disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to firstly reassure Mr D that Ive given careful consideration to everything hes said 
in support of this complaint. I realise this will be a very difficult time for him and Ms Ms 
family. But what I must consider here is whether Royal London acted fairly by avoiding the 
policy and refusing the claim. I know this isnt the outcome Mr D is hoping for but, for 
similar reasons to our investigator, I think they have. Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has 
certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a 
qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to 
show it would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt 
made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to 
take reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on 
whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Royal London think Ms M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when she failed to disclose the lump on her neck along with the investigation and tests 
she was undergoing.
Ive looked at the relevant questions Ms M was asked when applying for the policy. 
These are:
APART FROM ANYTHING YOUVE ALREADY TOLD US ABOUT, DURING THE LAST 5 
YEARS HAVE YOU HAD, OR DO YOU CURRENTLY HAVE, ANY OF THE FOLLOWING:
A tumour, lump, cyst, polyp, growth or any more/naevus that has bled, changed in 
appearance or become painful?
Please answer Yes whether seen by a doctor or not.
APART FROM ANYTHING YOUVE ALREADY TOLD US ABOUT, IN THE LAST 3 
YEARS, HAVE YOU:
Been prescribed medication or treatment regularly for a period of four 
consecutive weeks or more, or have you been under review from your 
doctor or a medical professional?
Including Physio, Counselling, Prescriptions from your own doctor, even if you did 
not take them. You dont need to tell us about contraception, fertility, dental 
treatment or reviews purely in relation to pregnancy.
Ms M answered both of these questions No.
Been referred to a specialist or had, or been advised to have, 
any investigations?
Including: Blood tests, Biopsy, Ultrasound, X-Ray, CT/MRI or other scan, ECG, 
echocardiogram or other heart investigation, Abnormal smear or abnormal 
mammogram, Investigations using an internal camera such as endoscopy, 
colonoscopy, laparoscopy You dont need to tell us about investigations which 
were purely for pregnancy, infertility or simple fractures which have resolved 
with no time off work, or about genetic tests that meet the criteria outline 
previously.
Ms M answered this question Yes and disclosed the condition shed had was an 
ear infection.
IN ADDITION, APART FROM ANYTHING YOU HAVE ALREADY TOLD US 
ABOUT:
Do you have any symptoms for which you havent yet sought medical 
advice, or are you awaiting referral, investigation, results or treatment for 
anything else?
For example: A mole/blemish which has changed in appearance, Any lump, 
growth or hardening affecting the skin, breasts or testicles, Bleeding from the 
bowels, change in bowel habit, Persistent cough, Weight loss or unexplained 
bleeding. Onset of fits or seizures, Dizziness, blackouts/fainting
Ms M answered this question No.
Based on Ms Ms medical records, I dont think she answered these questions correctly. 
This is because the records show the following:
On 8 July 2019, Ms M visited her GP and a lump was noted on the left side of 
her neck. And that upon examination, the lump wasnt moving when swallowing. 
So, an ultrasound scan was arranged.
On 6 August 2019, Ms M visited her GP and the ultrasound scan results were 
explained to her. A two-week ENT (ear, nose and throat) referral was also 
arranged.
On 9 August 2019, Ms Ms GP surgery called her and there was a discussion 
around the ENT appointment and also whether she was able to go on holiday as 
she didnt want to cancel it. Its noted that if it is something serious she wants 
this holiday to make memories but that it was the patients choice.
On 29 August 2019, Ms M visited her GP again. Its noted that she was being investigated for the neck lump and had an ENT appointment the 
next week to undergo a biopsy.
Ms M applied for cover on 29 August 2019 and at this point she hadnt received the 
lymphoma diagnosis. However, I think the above clearly demonstrates Ms M ought to 
have known the lump on her neck was being investigated and that there was further 
investigations/treatment planned.
Mr D says Ms M only went to the doctors in July 2019 as she had a bit of a problem 
swallowing. And that the doctors reassured her not to worry about the lump as it would 
probably be nothing but theyd do the tests and investigations as a formality. Furthermore, 
Mr D has explained that the doctors wouldve been very careful in what they said to Ms M 
as shed previously suffered domestic abuse and suffered from mental health issues as a 
result.
Ive given what Mr D has said careful thought and I accept Ms M may not have fully 
understood the investigations and tests she was undergoing. I also think its possible she 
was reassured by the doctors about the investigations being carried out, particularly given 
her unfortunate experience of domestic abuse and the mental health issues she suffered 
from. However, Ms M had only recently undergone an ultrasound scan before she applied 
for cover and, on the day she applied, shed also discussed the ENT biopsy appointment 
with her GP. So, while Ms M might not have had any reason to suspect she had 
lymphoma at that time, I dont think I can reasonably ignore that she shouldve had 
knowledge about the investigations she was undergoing in relation to the lump on her 
neck.
Im satisfied Royal London asked Ms M clear and specific questions about her health. 
And so, I think Ms M ought to have disclosed the neck lump and the investigations she 
was undergoing. Particularly as they specifically refer to a lump and referrals for 
treatments, including ultrasound scans and biopsies. As Ms M didnt disclose this, I think 
she failed to take reasonable care when answering the above questions.
Royal London has provided their underwriting criteria which shows, had Ms M answered 
these questions correctly, then they wouldve postponed offering cover until the results of 
the investigations were known. And that once the diagnosis of lymphoma was confirmed 
they wouldnt have offered cover at all. This means Im satisfied Ms Ms misrepresentation 
was a qualifying one. Ive therefore looked at the actions Royal London can take here in 
accordance with CIDRA.
CIDRA sets outs the remedies an insurer can take when a qualifying misrepresentation 
has occurred. And the remedy depends on how the misrepresentation is classified - either 
deliberate or reckless or careless. Both classifications however allow an insurer to avoid 
the policy and refuse any claim when, had the correct information been disclosed in the 
application, cover wouldnt have been offered. The difference here though is that refunds 
should be refunded for careless misrepresentation whereas it can be retained by the 
insurer if classified as deliberate or reckless. Given Royal London has refunded the 
premiums, Im satisfied theyve provided the estate of Ms M the most favourable remedy 
under CIDRA. I think this is fair.
Im therefore satisfied Royal London was entitled to avoid Ms Ms policy in accordance 
with CIDRA. And, as this means that  in effect  her policy never existed, Royal London 
does not have to deal with the claim following her death. As CIDRA reflects our long-
established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Royal London to rely on 
it to avoid Ms Ms policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.Im aware Mr D has also raised concerns about the suitability of the policy and referred to 
poor reviews Royal London has received on the internet. Although I understand Mr Ds 
feelings towards Royal London as an insurer, I cant comment on the reviews theyve 
received. Ive only been able to look at the complaint brought to our service in respect of 
Royal Londons decision to avoid the policy and decline the claim. Id also like to explain, 
as our investigator did, that any concerns about the sale of the policy (and its suitability for 
Ms M) would need to be directed to the firm that sold it.
On a final note, Royal London has paid £150 compensation to Mr D for the delays in 
processing the claim. I think this is a reasonable amount in the circumstances. I realise Mr 
D will be disappointed by this outcome but, for the above reasons, I think Royal London 
has acted fairly by avoiding the policy and refusing the claim. I therefore dont think they 
have to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms M 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman