DRN-3638754
The complaint
Mr B complains that Westerby Trustee Services Limited (Westerby) shouldve done more 
due diligence before accepting the investments he made in his Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP). 
What happened
Westerbys been represented by two law firms for periods of our investigation of this 
complaint (and other similar complaints), and those law firms have made submissions on 
behalf of Westerby at various times. For simplicity, Ive referred to Westerby throughout, 
whether the submissions came directly from Westerby or were made on its behalf. 
The SIPP and investment applications
The SIPP application form, signed on 28 September 2012, confirmed that Mr B had an 
existing pension with a transfer value of around £95,000. The application form noted that 
Mr B had an Independent Financial Advisor (IFA). Mr F is listed as Mr Bs IFA and its 
noted that he would receive 2.5% of the fund transferred in initial commission. 
The intended investment was listed as AMI platform. 
Westerby says it understood Mr F was, at the time of the application, an appointed 
representative (AR) of Joseph Oliver  Mediacao de Seguros LDA (Joseph Oliver LDA), a 
financial advisory firm based in Portugal. At the relevant time Joseph Oliver LDA passported 
into the UK under the Insurance Mediation Directive (IMD). This means that during those 
dates, Joseph Oliver LDA was an EEA authorised firm and permitted to carry out some 
regulated activities in the UK. 
An ePortfolio Solutions application form, also dated 28 September 2012, listed Mr F of 
Joseph Oliver as the advisor. No investments were listed in the application form. 
Whilst no underlying investments were listed in the application forms (just the platform) its 
clear from later correspondence that Mr B invested in the Kijani Commodity Fund (Kijani 
fund) and the Swiss Asset Micro Assist Income Fund (SAMAIF).
Abana Unipessoal Lda (Abana LDA)
On 17 May 2013, Joseph Oliver LDA sent Westerby a letter confirming that in accordance 
with Mr Fs AR agreement his clients return to him upon termination of the agreement. And, 
as hed given the required notice to terminate his agreement, he was free to move his clients 
from Joseph Oliver LDA. 
On the same day Abana LDA  another financial advisory firm based in Portugal  sent 
Westerby a letter confirming that it accepted the transfer to it of Mr Fs Joseph Oliver LDA 
clients. So Abana LDA was the financial advice firm associated with Mr Bs SIPP after this 
date. 
Updates on the investments
On 11 November 2014, Westerby wrote to Mr B about his Asset Management International 
(AMI) investments. Specifically, the Kijani fund and the SAMAIF. Westerby explained that 
itd discovered that the Mauritius Financial Services Commission had made enforcement 
orders against the Protected Cell company under which the funds are held. And, that the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) categorisation of the investments had changed to 
Non-Standard Assets. In relation to this Westerby said: 
You may now find that you consider the investments to be of higher risk than 
originally considered and it is therefore imperative that you discuss this immediately 
with your regulated Financial Adviser. 
Mr B was invited to complete the enclosed member instruction form once hed spoken to his 
financial advisor to confirm whether or not he wanted to continue to hold these investments. 
Westerbys letter confirmed that it wasnt giving and couldnt give advice in relation to the 
investments held within Mr Bs SIPP. It strongly recommended that Mr B contact his 
regulated financial adviser  to discuss his investments. Mr Bs advisor was detailed as Mr F of 
Abana LDA. 
Mr B returned the member instruction form to Westerby; this had been signed on 
12 November 2014. The form confirmed that Mr B had sought advice from Mr F of Abana 
LDA and that he wanted to retain his existing holdings. 
Westerby wrote to Mr B about his investments again on 23 June 2015. Again, it confirmed it 
wasnt giving and couldnt give financial advice and strongly encouraged him to contact his 
regulated financial adviser . Westerby informed Mr B that the Kijani fund was under 
investigation and that the fund managers had taken the decision to liquidate the funds and 
return client monies within 30 to 60 days. 
It also reiterated that both the Kijani fund and SAMAIF were classified as non-standard 
assets. Westerby went on to say: 
Given the current position of the Kijani Fund, it is imperative that you discuss this 
immediately with your regulated Financial Adviser in order to receive their advice and 
guidance as to what action you may wish to take in light of the statement that funds 
are going to be returned to your SIPP investment account by Kijani.
Westerby also provided an update relating to Mr Bs appointed advisor: 
Abana LDA Limited & Abana FS Limited
We received notification of proposed changes in relation to your advice firm on 
Friday. 
All recent client queries for Abana LDA Ltd clients have been referred to and 
dealt with by ....................  at the request of .......................... , Managing Director 
of Abana LDA Ltd. 
....................  has now become directly authorised with the FCA through her new 
company, Abana FS Ltd. She is therefore now employed with the new Abana 
company and no longer employed with Abana LDA Ltd. Abana LDA and Abana FS Ltd are in the process of novating (moving over) all of the 
Abana LDA Ltd clients to Abana FS Ltd.
On 17 July 2015, Westerby wrote to Mr B with a further update on his investments. It notified 
him that the funds had been suspended. It also said: 
In the meantime, we recommend that you seek financial advice from an independent 
financial adviser who is authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority. Please be 
aware that as detailed in our accompanying letter Abana FS Limited are not deemed 
to be suitably independent. 
A further update was provided to Mr B by Westerby on 23 December 2015, in relation to the 
platform, the Kijani fund and SAMAIF. It confirmed that the buy-out of the platform had 
completed and that redemptions could be made from non-suspended funds. It said it had 
been in touch with the new managers and AMI to confirm details of Mr Bs redemption 
request and, as it understood, trades had been placed. Funds in SAMAIF were categorised 
as liquid, this appears to be on the basis that it was expected to trade again in a couple of 
months.
We havent been provided with any details of the referenced redemption requests or any 
responses received. 
Mr Bs recollections 
Mr Bs told us that he was contacted by Mr F about his pensions and how they could be put 
to better use. He says that at the time of the advice, he was clear that he didnt want his 
pension, that itd taken him many years to build up, exposed to risk. And, that hed be happy 
with a return of 2% above inflation. He thought the investments he was making were low to 
medium risk split across a mixed portfolio. He wanted to retire before 60 so he could switch 
to part-time working to support his wife, as hes her full-time carer. 
He says that to say his future has been taken from him is an understatement. He made 
these investments in good faith via an IFA who he believed to have been operating under 
the oversight of the UK regulator. 
Our investigators view 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and concluded it should be upheld. In 
summary, the investigator said that: 
Its accepted that Westerby didnt and couldnt advise Mr B on the suitability of the 
SIPP or underlying investments. 
Westerby did have certain responsibilities when accepting Mr Bs business. 
It had an agreement in place with Joseph Oliver LDA before it accepted Mr Bs 
business and Westerby says that it made sure that Joseph Oliver LDA had the 
appropriate permissions.
Joseph Oliver LDA wasnt a UK advisory business and, as a result of this, Westerby 
ought to have run heightened checks to make sure it had appropriate permissions to 
undertake the business proposed. 
It wasnt reasonable for Westerby to rely on its agreement with Joseph Oliver LDA 
and the declaration held therein in respect of its permissions. It ought to have 
independently verified Joseph Oliver LDAs permissions before accepting business 
from it. Westerbys told us that it checked the regulators register. The copy it provided of the 
register from that time showed that Joseph Oliver LDA undertook insurance 
mediation, but nothing therein indicated that it had permission to give pension advice. 
This ought to have been sufficient to make Westerby aware that Joseph Oliver LDA 
wasnt permitted to give pension advice.
Rights under a pension scheme are a specified investment under article 82 of the 
Regulated Activities Order (RAO)  advice in respect of these types of investments 
arent covered by the IMD, Joseph Oliver LDA wasnt permitted to give pension 
advice in the UK at all. 
Westerby as a regulated SIPP provider wouldve dealt with intermediaries on a 
regular basis and ought reasonably to have understood the authorisation 
requirements relating to pension business. And, in turn, what services Joseph Oliver 
LDA was allowed to provide under the circumstances. 
If Westerby had drawn the correct conclusions from its checks, it wouldve been 
apparent to it that Joseph Oliver LDA was undertaking regulated activities (advising 
on pensions) for which it didnt have the requisite permissions. And, it ought to have 
refused to accept business from Joseph Oliver LDA on that basis. 
If Westerby had done this, Mr B would most likely not have gone ahead with this 
transaction. So, hes lost out as a result of Westerbys failings and its fair that it 
should compensate him for this. 
Previous final decision on a complaint against Westerby
We issued a final decision on another complaint involving Westerbys acceptance of a SIPP 
application from Abana LDA in February 2021 (the published decision). That final decision 
has been published on our website under DRN7770418.
Although that decision relates to Abana LDA, rather than Joseph Oliver LDA, this complaint 
features the same key point  namely the permissions held and required by an incoming 
EEA firm dealing with personal pensions in the UK, and Westerbys knowledge of this. 
Westerby has made the same, or very similar, submissions on that case and its latest 
submissions on this case are made with reference to the published decision. 
After the published decision was issued, Westerby was asked to take it into consideration, 
as an important representative decision, in accordance with the relevant FCA DISP Rules 
and Guidance (particularly DISP 1.4.1, 1.4.2 and 1.3.2A), which should be taken into 
account when assessing other similar complaints. 
On this basis, Westerby was asked to review each outstanding complaint involving Abana 
LDA and Joseph Oliver LDA  including Mr Bs  and if it wasnt prepared to change its 
position after taking account of the detailed reasons set out in the published decision, to 
explain why that was the case. Westerby declined to change its position and set out the 
details of its review. Its also made further submissions on this complaint, following the 
published decision. 
Westerbys submissions 
Ive considered all the submissions Westerby has made over the course of this complaint. 
However, Ive only included a summary of its most recent submissions here. 
In a letter setting out its general submissions Westerby said, in summary: 
The published decision confirms we contacted the FCA about whether top up 
permissions appear on the FCA Register and the FCA confirmed that top up permissions do appear on the Register under the Permission page and that the 
FCA understands the same information was available on the Register in 2013.
However, theres been no disclosure of the details of the contact at the FCA with 
whom this service communicated. Records of such communications with the FCA 
such as correspondence, file notes or attendance notes, details of the FCA contacts 
role at the FCA, whether the FCA contact was dealing with the Register in 2013 and 
had knowledge of it, and what the FCA contacts understanding of the Register in 
2013 is based upon. An understanding of what was on the Register in 2013 is not 
proof of what was actually on the Register at the relevant time. We should now 
provide full disclosure of this information. Not to do so is procedurally unfair. 
It was reasonable for Westerby to assume from the agreement (in this case with 
Joseph Oliver LDA, but with Abana LDA in the published decision case) that Joseph 
Oliver LDA had the necessary permissions. It doesnt accept that it ought to have 
been reasonably aware of cause to have questioned the accuracy of the statement in 
the agreement. 
The published decision concedes that information which wasnt available on the 
Register wouldnt have been provided to Westerby, yet says that if it had contacted 
the FCA directly, the FCA wouldve been able to confirm the relevant permissions. 
No information has been provided about this and the FCAs position generally. 
Westerby made a Freedom of Information request to the FCA. In response to this the 
FCA confirmed that in 2013, the Register wouldve indicated the broad permissions 
held under IMD by a firm which wouldve been either insurance mediation or 
reinsurance mediation and there was no requirement under the IMD to display more 
detailed activities. The FCA confirmed any further information not displayed on the 
Register wouldve been considered confidential information under section 348 of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act (FSMA) which prohibits disclosure of this 
information. 
In the published decision the ombudsman sought to distinguish the complaint from 
the situation in the Adams court case on the basis that Abana LDA was offering an 
advisory service. Its unclear how Abana LDAs (in this case Joseph Oliver LDAs) 
contractually defined role impacts on the scope of duty owed by Westerby under 
COBS 2.1.1R. It wasnt part of Westerbys contractual obligations to investigate the 
permissions of third-party advisors. 
In the published decision the ombudsman failed to follow DISP 3.6.3G, which 
provides:
Where a complainant makes a complaint against more than one respondent 
in respect of connected circumstances, the Ombudsman may determine that 
the respondents must contribute towards the overall award in the proportion 
that the Ombudsman considers appropriate.
The ombudsman failed to assess apportionment, as well as causation. 
Despite a related complaint about the actions of Abana LDA the ombudsman decided 
in the published decision that Westerby should compensate for the full extent of the 
consumers financial losses. The complaints against Abana LDA ought to have been decided first as the IFA 
involved in the transaction. At the very least, the complaints against Westerby and 
Abana LDA ought to have been decided together. Instead we dealt with the 
complaint against Westerby first, which has led to the failure to address the issue of 
apportionment. 
Weve found against Abana LDA in a number of complaints where a different SIPP 
operator was used and ordered Abana LDA to pay redress yet havent pursued, or 
invited the complainants to pursue, the SIPP operator.
When detailing the outcome of its review of Mr Bs complaint Westerby also made some 
further points. Ive considered all of these but think the key ones which arent already 
covered by the above, in summary, are:  
Westerby carried out all reasonable checks on publicly accessible registers in order 
to establish Joseph Oliver LDAs status. No further checks it couldve carried out 
have been identified. 
Its acknowledged that the current register shows that Joseph Oliver LDAs 
permissions only relate to insurance and reinsurance mediation, as stated by the 
investigator, but based on the prints of the Register taken by Westerby at the time 
that the SIPP was established that wasnt the case in 2012. 
There were no other public records or search means other than those undertaken by 
Westerby that wouldve indicated a lack of permissions. 
Joseph Oliver LDA signed a Terms of Business that included a warranty that it held 
(and would maintain) the necessary permissions. Westerby shouldnt be held liable 
for this erroneous or false representation. 
Once a SIPP is established investments must be made in accordance with the 
instruction of the client. Having accepted the SIPP, Westerby had to execute Mr Bs 
instructions. 
It was Joseph Oliver LDAs actions in acting outside of its permissions that resulted in 
the establishment of Mr Bs SIPP. It was also Joseph Oliver LDA who advised the 
initial investment in and subsequent retention of high-risk funds. Westerby considers 
that the liability for the losses should lie with Joseph Oliver LDA. 
Ive also considered the outcome of Westerbys review of a similar complaint (also relating to 
the acceptance of business from Joseph Oliver LDA), following which it made some further 
points. Ive considered all of these but think the key ones, in summary, are:  
Its accepted that a "permissions" page existed on the Register at the relevant time, 
however its not accepted that this contained any useful information relating to 
Joseph Oliver LDA.
It doesnt hold a copy of the "permissions" page for Joseph Oliver LDA. However, its 
been able to retrieve archived copies of the page for other passported firms from the 
relevant time period. In every case the permissions page simply shows "No matches 
found". It has no reason to expect that Joseph Oliver LDA's permissions page 
wouldnt have shown the same, and its likely that copies of this page werent 
retained as there was no useful information.The "Basic Details" page of Joseph Oliver's Register entry included a field labelled 
"Undertakes Insurance Mediation". It is beyond dispute that the firm was able to carry 
out this activity, but the field was left blank. For UK firms it was always completed. 
So, it wasnt unreasonable to conclude that the Register simply didnt record Joseph 
Oliver LDAs permissions.
The Register is known to have historically had significant errors, and the FCA itself 
recognises that there can be errors on the Register. The Legal Information section of 
the Register in 2012 and 2013 stated that:
We try to ensure that the information on this site is correct, but we do not 
give any express or implied warranty as to its accuracy. We do not accept any 
liability for error or omission.
All of Abana LDA's clients (including those who had originally been advised by 
Joseph Oliver LDA, and later novated to Abana LDA) had two opportunities to 
mitigate losses:
oIt wrote to all clients who held investments in the Kijani fund and the SAMAIF in 
November 2014. This letter drew the clients' attention to regulatory enforcement 
actions against the funds.
oIt wrote to all such clients again in December 2015 to inform them that there was 
an opportunity to redeem approximately half of their funds.
It remains its position that the clients had a responsibility (under the general principle 
that consumers should take responsibility for their own decisions) to take appropriate 
action to safeguard their own funds.
I sent my provisional decision explaining why I thought Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. 
Westerby disagreed with my decision and made further submissions. Ive read Westerbys 
submissions in their entirety here Ive included a summary of what I consider to be the 
material points: 
Its submissions had been accurately summarised in my provisional decision but 
werent then addressed. 
Following the published decision, it hadnt declined to change its position, it 
performed a review and there were no compelling reasons and/or evidence for it to 
change its position that the complaint ought not to be upheld.
It had previously requested disclosure of: the details of the contact at the FCA with 
whom this service communicated; records of such communications; file notes or 
attendance notes; details of the FCA contacts role at the FCA; whether the FCA 
contact was dealing with the Register in 2013; and what the FCA contacts 
understanding of the Register in 2013 is based upon. Its only been provided with the 
FCAs response thats referred to in the published decision and its not received the 
further disclosure its requested. It maintains that this is completely unsatisfactory. 
In relation to this weve said that Westerby has been given ample opportunity to 
make further submissions on the format of the register at the time but its not clear 
what information it could be expected to provide. It set out its position with supporting 
evidence and now has made a disclosure request to this service, which weve not complied with. So, it doesnt have access to crucial information and should be 
provided with this.
It has provided evidence for the FCA confirming that any information not on the 
register wouldve been confidential. It disagrees that Joseph Oliver LDAs 
permissions wouldve been a matter of public record and wouldve been confirmed to 
it by the FCA. The FCA can only confirm what was on the register not what is missing 
from it which, in any event, is accepted to have been unreliable. 
It took reasonable steps to confirm Joseph Oliver LDAs permissions; it confirmed 
both orally and in writing that it had the requisite permissions. It was reasonable for 
Westerby to rely on what it was told by Joseph Oliver LDA and its not clear what 
more Westerby couldve done under the circumstances. 
It disagrees that the Written Agreement was vague and generic in nature. There is no 
ambiguity as to the wording of the sale of SIPPs. The term permissions 
encompasses top-up permissions. And its unrealistic to consider that any change of 
wording would have caused Joseph Oliver LDA to not provide the undertaking. 
It disagrees that the application referring to an unauthorised business JOML is an 
anomalous feature of the investments. JOML appears to be a branch of an 
authorised business. The reasonable conclusion is that Mr F was acting for an 
authorised business when carrying out the regulated activity of arranging the SIPP. 
Adams v Options confirmed that whilst establishing a SIPP is a regulated activity, 
advice on the underlying assets isnt.
It wasnt part of its contractual obligations to Mr B to investigate the permissions of 
third-party advisers and anomalous features. 
It administers esoteric high-risk non-standard assets for members on a regular basis 
and theres nothing unusual or extraordinary about its administration of such 
investments. AMI was fairly typical of the types of investments being made. 
The extent and thoroughness of the due diligence conducted by Westerby is not 
recognised by the provisional decision. Westerby rejected numerous investment 
propositions and advisers on the basis that they didnt pass its rigorous due 
diligence. Westerby took the same careful stance when approached by Joseph Oliver 
LDA, it interrogated: 
oIts understanding of SIPPs
oWhere its business was being generated 
oIts technical knowledge
Joseph Oliver LDA had good technical knowledge and confirmed that it had the 
correct permissions. Again, it was reasonable for Westerby to rely on the information 
provided by Joseph Oliver LDA. 
Westerby also enquired as to the types of investments Joseph Oliver LDA were likely 
to recommend to its clients. It confirmed that the AMI funds (authorised and regulated 
in Mauritius) were a group of funds that were of interest.
 
Before accepting applications, it checked the FCA register and the permissions page, 
the latter was blank.It checked the Portuguese register which had to be translated into English. The 
Portuguese register explained that Joseph Oliver LDA was authorised to advise on 
life and non-life, the latter Westerby understood meant investments and pensions.
 
Much later, independent consultants appointed by the FCA also spoke to the 
Portuguese Regulator and were told that Abana (not Joseph Oliver LDA) was 
authorised to advise on pension products. But, its reasonable to conclude that the 
position wouldve been the same if queries had been made about Joseph Oliver LDA, 
seeing as it had the same permissions. So, no further enquiries wouldve altered 
Westerbys conclusions in relation to Joseph Oliver LDA. 
In Adams v Options it was said (at paragraph 163) that:
The claimant also relies on reviews, guidance and alerts which were 
published by the FCA in 2013, 2014, 2016 and 2017, after the events relevant 
to his claim in this case, and it seems to me that they can therefore have no 
direct bearing on the matters which I have to decide.
The October 2013 and 2014 regulatory publications were published after Mr Bs SIPP 
was set up and shouldnt be applied retrospectively. Notwithstanding this, Westerby 
acted in accordance with the regulatory publications.
 
The UK regulator was aware through data reported to it that Joseph Oliver LDA was 
introducing business to Westerby and at no point has it raised any issues or 
concerns about a breach of Westerbys duties and obligations. 
In the provisional decision I attempted to distinguish Mr Bs complaint from the 
decision in Adams but Ive made a material error of law in doing so. Westerbys said 
that:
In Adams HHJ Dight stated that the scope of the best interests duty at 
COBS 2.1.1R was to be determined by the relevant factual context and, in 
particular, the parties defined roles and functions in the transaction as set 
out by the terms of their agreement. He therefore concluded that the duty 
argued for on Mr Adams behalf did not arise because the defendants role 
was limited to execution-only. 
I distinguished Mr Bs complaint from the situation in Adams on the basis that Joseph 
Oliver LDA was offering an advisory service. Its unclear how Joseph Oliver LDAs 
contractually defined role impacts upon the scope of duty owed by Westerby under 
COBS 2.1.1R. It wasnt part of Westerbys contractual obligations to Mr B to 
investigate the permissions of third-party advisers. And its wrong in principle to 
conclude that the contractual responsibilities of an unrelated third-party could 
somehow be used to define those owed by Westerby under COBS 2.1.1R.
 
The Options appeal decision commented that s27 of the FSMA is designed to shift 
the risks of accepting business from unauthorised parties onto providers. However, 
s20 FSMA does the exact opposite  it explicitly shields authorised parties from the 
risks of accepting business from authorised parties acting outside their permissions 
(such as Joseph Oliver LDA). And FCA guidance I referred to in my provisional 
decision appears to directly contradict the intention of legislation.There should be some, if not a full, apportionment of liability made against Joseph 
Oliver LDA. And Ive failed to assess apportionment. 
In a previous decision, a different ombudsman did deal with the apportionment issue 
where the complaint was against an EEA firm that had acted outside its permissions. 
The decision made an apportionment between the SIPP provider and the adviser on 
a 50/50 basis. 
The provisional decision sought to rely on the fact that Westerby has routes to 
recover any contribution from Joseph Oliver LDA as the basis for the decision that it 
should fully compensate Mr B. But in light of Joseph Oliver LDAs financial health any 
indemnity from Joseph Oliver LDA and/or assignment of any action against it from 
Mr B is effectively worthless. 
Appropriate liability should be attributed to Joseph Oliver LDA for its involvement in 
the losses that complainants have suffered. Its not clear why, nor is it reasonable 
that weve decided complaints against Westerby before those against Joseph Oliver 
LDA 
Weve issued a separate decision upholding a complaint Mr B raised against Abana 
LDA about advice given by Mr F to transfer to an Avalon SIPP. This appears to be 
the same Mr B as the complainant in this case. Whilst that decision relates to a 
different advice firm, the parties were the same. Had Westerby declined to accept 
business from Joseph Oliver LDA its reasonable to expect that the funds would 
simply have been placed with Avalon. Theres no evidence that Mr B questioned with 
his adviser why his funds were being placed with Avalon rather than his existing 
SIPP with Westerby, had he made some basic enquiries, he wouldve learned that 
Westerby werent accepting new business from Mr F. This, in turn, ought to have led 
him to question the advice hed been given. Whilst Westerby couldnt have told Mr B 
the reasons for it declining new business from Mr F, this ought to have alerted him to 
potential issues and for him to then make some reasonable enquiries into issues with 
his adviser. 
Had it uncovered that Joseph Oliver LDA didnt have the relevant permissions (which 
for the reasons set out already, wasnt possible), it wouldve declined all business 
from Joseph Olive LDA from the outset, and would never have received Mr Bs 
application or have been in a position to highlight Joseph Oliver LDAs lack of 
permissions.
It wouldnt have been at liberty to contact investors directly to tell them why their 
application was refused.
Also, based on the evidence, Mr B wouldve continued to accept or act on advice 
from Joseph Oliver LDA (later Abana). In April 2016, Mr B sought independent 
advice from KB Wealth Management Limited  a firm owned and operated by one of 
Abana LDAs advisers. 
Mr B was the director of two businesses, the accountancy firm named on the 
incorporation documents of those businesses in 2014 was run by two individuals 
linked to Abana LDA via one of its appointed representatives. Westerby expects that 
when it wrote to Mr B in November 2014, he wouldve discussed this with his trusted 
adviser Mr F and his accountants, who are linked to Abana LDA. This reinforces the 
position that regardless of what Westerby told Mr B the outcome would be the same 
as it is now. And, it shouldnt fall to Westerby to compensate Mr B for his choice in 
advisers. The provisional decision concludes that, if Westerby was unable to independently 
verify Joseph Oliver LDAs permissions, it shouldve concluded that it was unsafe to 
proceed to accept business from it. If it was impossible to verify the permissions 
through the register, and a regulatory requirement to reject the business on these 
grounds (as suggested in the provisional decision), then it would make it impossible 
for an EEA-passported firm to do any business other than the default business 
allowed by its passport, regardless of any top-up permissions held. This may be 
construed as favouring local firms by the back door, and possibly unlawful under 
EU law.
 
If it had rejected Mr Bs application, Joseph Oliver LDA wouldve re-applied on behalf 
of Mr B to another SIPP provider that Joseph Oliver LDA was using and that SIPP 
provider wouldve accepted the application.
Mr Bs opportunities to mitigate losses havent been fully explored. For example, 
Westerbys letter of November 2014 explained that Mr B should seek advice from his 
financial adviser, Abana LDA. Mr B appears to have done this and was advised to 
keep the investments. The provisional decision concluded on this basis that it isnt 
fair to say that Mr B ought to have acted differently and made a redemption request 
at that stage. But, Westerby had no input in the actions of or the advice provided by 
Abana LDA, which has caused the losses.
 
In the contents of the published decision against Abana LDA, which Westerby 
believes was brought by the same complainant (Mr B) its stated that Mr F was a 
trusted source of financial advice, that Mr B had known him for many years and that 
Mr B had been happy with the advice hed received from Mr F. Its reasonable to 
expect that Mr B wouldve followed Mr Fs advice regardless of the contents of its 
November 2014 letter and anything that Westerby couldve done within its scope. 
Its also noted that Mr B recalled saying that he only wanted his funds to be invested 
in blue chip companies. Westerbys November 2014 letter wouldve alerted him to 
the fact that his funds were not invested in such companies. Following this letter any 
investor wouldve sought independent advice or at least made reasonable enquiries. 
Westerby wasnt under any regulatory obligation to send the November 2014 letter 
but it was concerned about the regulatory action being taken against the funds and 
wanted to make investors aware of the issues. Westerby was acting in the best 
interests of investors by monitoring the investments and flagging issues.
 
Mr B ought to have realised there was something wrong with the advice he was 
receiving, especially considering his business background.
 
In July 2015, Westerby informed Mr B that it wouldnt be transferring Abana LDAs 
clients to Abana FS Ltd on the basis that they [Abana FS Ltd] werent suitably 
independent at this point any investor ought reasonably to have sought advice. Mr B 
took no action which supports Westerbys position that regardless of what it had put 
in the letters Mr B wouldnt have taken any action and would be in the same position.
 
The letters of June and July 2015 were sent on the instruction of the FCA.
 
Its since come to light that Abana LDA were actively calling clients to encourage 
them to stay in the funds. Westerby isnt responsible for Abana LDAs poor advice or 
its actions to encourage clients to stay in the funds. In 2016 Mr B appointed as his financial adviser KB Wealth Management Limited (KB 
Wealth), a firm owned and operated by one of Abanas advisers. He chose this firm 
to provide him with independent advice. No amount of warnings from Westerby or 
any other parties wouldve stopped Mr B from seeking advice from his trusted 
adviser.
Westerby provided investors with as much information as it could as soon as it could, 
Mr B didnt take any opportunity to mitigate his losses and it has been proven that 
prompt action in relation to redemption requests wouldve mitigated his losses. Its 
unreasonable that Mr B didnt take any action.
 
The findings set out in the provisional decision effectively conclude that Westerby 
should be responsible for Mr Bs losses regardless of his failure to mitigate his 
losses. Westerby couldnt advise Mr B to take action or take action on his behalf.
 
Westerbys duties must be interpreted in light of the contract. Westerbys contract 
with Mr B was execution-only and it had to follow his instructions and isnt 
responsible for any advice he received.
There were other factors out of Westerbys control. Originally Abana LDA/Joseph 
Oliver LDA put their clients into the Kijani and SAMAIF funds directly. Later, without 
Westerbys authority, they made arrangements for funds to be placed into the EPS 
Managed Fund a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) which effectively was a fund of 
funds, made up of Kijani, SAMAIF and the TCA Global fund. When EPS started 
trading again it was split into two portfolios  Managed Portfolio S (suspended) 
containing Kijani and Managed Portfolio L (liquid). SAMAIF was included in the liquid 
portfolio as it was expected to start trading again. Redemptions from the fund were 
made by the managers selling TCA Global (which is how they were able to initially 
make redemptions). The TCA Global fund was used to subsidise the early 
redemption requests on the expectation that SAMAIF would begin trading again. 
The SIPP and investment applications wouldve been downloaded by Joseph Oliver 
LDA and completed by it with Mr B only after that the applications were sent to 
Westerby and processed in August 2013. Westerby had no contact with members to 
be. 
Because agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed back to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I need to take account 
of relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. Ultimately, Im required to make a decision that I consider to be fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the case.
Having considered all of the submissions made, my findings remain as set out in my 
provisional decision. Ive largely reiterated these below, where appropriate Ive expanded on 
these to address arguments made in response to my provisional decision. Relevant considerations
I have carefully taken account of the relevant considerations to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence, including the submissions in response to 
my provisional decision, Im still of the view that the relevant considerations in this case are 
those that Id previously set out in my provisional decision. As such, and while taking into 
account all of the submissions that have been made, Ive largely repeated what Id said 
about this point in my provisional decision.
At the time Mr Bs application form was accepted by Westerby the regulator was the 
Financial Services Authority (FSA). Not long after Mr Bs SIPP was established the regulator 
became the FCA. For ease of reference, outwith quotations, Ive referred to the FCA 
throughout. 
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance. The Principles 
for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general statement of the 
fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G). Principles 2, 3 
and 6 provide:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
I have carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The 
Specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The general 
notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific 
rules. 
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which find expression in 
the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the decision of an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and had not treated 
its client fairly. 
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out above, 
said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to 
cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they 
are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the 
Principles-based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to 
formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general 
duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6. 
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of FSMA and the approach an 
ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL 
upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which I 
have described above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant 
time as relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account. 
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. Im therefore 
satisfied that the Principles are a relevant consideration that I must take into account when 
deciding this complaint. 
On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v Options 
SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision of the High 
Court and, on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. Ive taken account of both these 
judgments when making this decision on Mr Bs case. 
I note that the Principles for Businesses didnt form part of Mr Adams pleadings in his initial 
case against Options SIPP. And, HHJ Dight didnt consider the application of the Principles 
to SIPP operators in his judgment. The Court of Appeal also gave no consideration to the 
application of the Principles to SIPP operators. So, neither of the judgments say anything 
about how the Principles apply to an ombudsmans consideration of a complaint. But, to be 
clear, I dont say this means Adams isnt a relevant consideration at all. As noted above, Ive 
taken account of both judgments when making this decision on Mr Bs case.
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain Principles, and that this 
rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that Options 
SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, was 
actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected this 
claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on the facts of 
Mr Adams case.The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different 
to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal didnt 
so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the COBS 
claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.  
I note that in Adams v Options SIPP, HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case 
would inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at paragraph 
148: 
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one
has to identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the 
submissions of each of the parties that the context has an impact on the 
ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the 
context is the agreement into which the parties entered, which defined their roles and 
functions in the transaction.
I note that there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by 
Mr Adams and the issues in Mr Bs complaint. The breaches were summarised in paragraph 
120 of the Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, as HHJ Dight noted, he wasnt asked to 
consider the question of due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept the store pods 
investment into its SIPP. The facts of the case were also different. And I need to construe 
the duties Westerby owed to Mr B under COBS 2.1.1R in light of the specific facts of Mr Bs 
case. In the published decision it was noted that in Adams v Options SIPP HHJ Dight 
accepted that the transaction with Options SIPP proceeded on an execution-only basis i.e. 
without any advice from the business introducing the SIPP application. In contrast to that, 
the transaction between Mr B and Westerby proceeded on the footing that Mr B was being 
advised by an authorised advisor. 
In its response to my provisional decision Westerby said that Id sought to distinguish Mr Bs 
complaint from the situation in Adams on the basis that Joseph Oliver LDA was offering an 
advisory service. That its unclear how Joseph Oliver LDAs contractually defined role 
impacted upon the scope of duty owed by Westerby under COBS 2.1.1R. And that in 
attempting to distinguish Mr Bs complaint from the decision in Adams Id made a material 
error of law. 
Ive carefully considered what Westerby has said about this, but Im still of the view that 
there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by 
Mr Adams (summarised in paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal judgment) and the issues in 
Mr Bs complaint. In particular, as HHJ Dight noted, he wasnt asked to consider the question 
of due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept the store pods investment into its 
SIPP. 
I explained in my provisional decision that the facts of the case were also different. And that I 
had to construe the duties Westerby owed to Mr B under COBS 2.1.1R in light of the specific 
facts of Mr Bs case. And thats still my view.
In my provisional decision, I explained that in the published decision it was noted that in 
Adams v Options SIPP HHJ Dight accepted that the transaction with Options SIPP 
proceeded on an execution only basis, i.e. without any advice from the business introducing 
the SIPP application. And that the transaction between Mr B and Westerby proceeded on 
the footing that Mr B was being advised by an authorised advisor. I made that point in the 
provisional decision, and Ive repeated it here, simply to highlight that there are factual 
differences between Adams v Options SIPP and Mr Bs case.  So, Ive considered COBS 2.1.1R  alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, 
and within the factual context of Mr Bs case, including Westerbys role in the transaction.  
However, I think its important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And, in doing that, as above, Im required to take into account relevant considerations which 
include: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the 
judgments in Adams v Options SIPP.  That was a legal claim which was defined by the 
formal pleadings in Mr Adams statement of case.  
I also want to emphasise here that I dont say that Westerby was under any obligation to 
advise Mr B on the SIPP and/or the underlying investments. Refusing to accept an 
application because it came about as a result of advice given by a firm which didnt have the 
required permissions to be giving that advice, and had been introduced by that same firm, 
isnt the same thing as advising Mr B on the merits of making certain investments and/or 
transferring to the SIPP. 
So, Im still satisfied that COBS 2.1.1R is a relevant consideration  but that it needs to be 
considered alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, and within the factual 
context of Mr Bs case.   
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which remind 
SIPP operators of their obligations and which set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles, namely:
The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, 
are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged 
to ensure the fair treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member 
of a pension scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of 
Principle 6 includes clients.
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks to 
themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.

We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP 
advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP 
operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them to have procedures and controls, and to be gathering and analysing 
management information, enabling them to identify possible instances of financial 
crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such instances could then 
be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by contacting the members to 
confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and asking for 
clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate SIPPs that are unsuitable or 
detrimental to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and 
inadequate to the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of 
poor advice and/or potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and 
circumstances of individual cases, we may take enforcement action against SIPP 
operators who do not safeguard their customers interests in this respect, with 
reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm must take reasonable 
care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken 
from examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to 
firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that 
they do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP 
investment) and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give 
advice and introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can 
be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together 
with the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to 
seek appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is 
concerned about the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the intermediary 
giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for advice, having this 
information would enhance the firms understanding of its clients, making the 
facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering and 
analysing data regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the reasons 
for this.
The later publications In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA states:
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms 
further guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or 
amended requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a 
requirement in April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 
6 and treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension 
scheme is a client for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a 
SIPP operators responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF 
consumer outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members 
and SIPP operators  
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include 
the following: 
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, 
nor its approved persons are on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled 
firms and have a clear disciplinary history; and that the firm does not appear 
on the FCA website listings for un-authorised business warnings. 
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm. 
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of 
the firm, what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, 
the levels of business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of 
investments they recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. 
Being satisfied that they are appropriate to deal with. 
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small 
or large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares 
which may be illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate 
clarification, for example from the prospective member or their adviser, if it 
has any concerns. 
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation 
rights and the reasons for this. 
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice 
given, as a SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP 
business it administers. Examples of good practice we have identified include: conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the 
information they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm 
with, is authentic and meets the firms procedures and are not being used to 
launder money 
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern 
relationships and clarify responsibilities for relationships with other 
professional bodies such as solicitors and accountants, and 
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP 
operators have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business 
from non-regulated introducers.
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence 
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct 
and retain appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and 
monitoring introducers as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for 
personal pension schemes) to help them justify their business decisions. In doing this 
SIPP operators should consider: 
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, 
or where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed 
and the tax charge paid 
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the 
processes that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the 
members and the scheme 
having checks which may include, but are not limited to: 
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, qualifications 
and skills to introduce different types of business to the firm, and 
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House 
records, identifying connected parties and visiting introducers 
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been 
independently produced and verified 
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of benchmarks, or 
minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the firm is 
prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or accept investments, and 
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a firm 
to decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations such as 
instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may breach HMRC tax-
relievable investments and non-standard investments that have not been 
approved by the firmThe July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment
ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation
ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally enforceable)
ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of purchase 
and subsequently, and
ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous investors have 
received income if expected, or that any investment providers are credit worthy etc.)
Although Ive referred to selected parts of the publications, to illustrate their relevance, Ive 
considered them in their entirety. 
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter arent formal 
guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, the fact that the reports and 
Dear CEO letter didnt constitute formal guidance doesnt mean their importance should be 
underestimated. They provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and are 
an indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its 
customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect, the 
publications which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators should be 
doing also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice, and 
Im, therefore, satisfied its appropriate to take them into account.
Its relevant that when deciding what amounted to good industry practice in the BBSAL case, 
the ombudsman found that the regulators reports, guidance and letter go a long way to 
clarify what should be regarded as good practice and what should not. And the judge in 
BBSAL endorsed the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman. Im also satisfied 
that Westerby, at the time of the events under consideration here, thought the 2009 thematic 
review report was relevant, and thought that it set out examples of good industry practice. 
Westerby did carry out due diligence on Joseph Oliver LDA. So, it clearly thought it was 
good practice to do so, at the very least. 
Ive carefully considered what Westerbys said about the publications post-dating the events 
that are the subject of this complaint. However, I remain of the view stated in my provisional 
decision, like the ombudsman in the BBSAL case, I dont think the fact the publications, 
(other than the 2009 Thematic Review Report), post-date the events that took place in 
relation to Mr Bs complaint, mean that the examples of good practice they provide werent 
good practice at the time of the relevant events. Although the later publications were 
published after the events subject to this complaint, the Principles that underpin them existed 
throughout, as did the obligation to act in accordance with the Principles. Its also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports (and the Dear CEO letter in 2014) 
that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the recommended good 
practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst the regulators comments 
suggest some industry participants understanding of how the good practice standards 
shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, its clear the standards 
themselves hadnt changed.
That doesnt mean that in considering whats fair and reasonable, Ill only consider 
Westerbys actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and 
guidance gave non-exhaustive examples of good practice. They didnt say the suggestions 
given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO letter 
notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the circumstances. 
In response to my provisional decision Westerbys stated that the Options appeal decision 
commented that s27 of the FSMA is designed to shift the risks of accepting business from 
unauthorised parties onto providers. But s20 of the FSMA does the exact opposite  it 
explicitly shields authorised parties from the risks of accepting business from authorised 
parties acting outside their permissions (such as Joseph Oliver LDA). And Westerbys 
highlighted that FCA guidance Id referred to in my provisional decision, and which Ive 
repeated above, appears to directly contradict the intention of legislation. 
Ive carefully considered Westerbys submissions, and the contents of s20 and s27 of the 
FSMA. But, to be clear, its not my role here to determine whether an offence has occurred, 
or whether a transactions void or unenforceable or whether theres something thats taken 
place that gives rise to a right of action for breach of statutory duty. Rather, Im making a 
decision on whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case  and for all the 
reasons Ive set out above Im satisfied that the Principles and the publications listed above 
are relevant considerations to that decision.
In determining this complaint, I need to consider whether, in accepting Mr Bs SIPP 
application from Joseph Oliver LDA, Westerby complied with its regulatory obligations to act 
with due skill, care and diligence, to take reasonable care to organise its business affairs 
responsibly and effectively, to pay due regard to the interests of its customers, to treat them 
fairly, and to act honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to the 
Principles and the publications listed above to provide an indication of what Westerby 
couldve done to comply with its regulatory obligations and duties.
In this case, the business Westerby was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. Im satisfied 
that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include deciding 
whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of business. The 
regulators reports and guidance provided some examples of good practice observed by the 
FSA and, later, FCA during its work with SIPP operators. This included confirming, both 
initially and on an ongoing basis, that introducers that advise clients have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice theyre providing. 
So taking account of the factual context of this case, its my view that in order for Westerby 
to meet its regulatory obligations, (under the Principles and COBS 2.1.1R), it shouldve 
undertaken sufficient due diligence checks to ensure Joseph Oliver LDA had the required 
permissions to give advice on and make arrangements in relation to personal pensions in 
the UK before accepting Mr Bs business from it. 
Westerby says it did carry out due diligence on Joseph Oliver LDA before accepting 
business from it. And I accept that it did undertake some checks. However, the question I 
need to consider in this complaint is whether Westerby ought to have, in compliance with its 
regulatory obligations, identified that Joseph Oliver LDA didnt in fact have the top up permissions from the FCA it required to be giving advice on and arranging personal 
pensions in the UK, and whether Westerby should therefore not have accepted Mr Bs 
application from it. 
At the outset I should note that, in this case, it appears to be accepted that Mr F of Joseph 
Oliver LDA was the advisor who advised on this business. However, based on the 
paperwork, it isnt definitively clear which business Westerby was accepting business from  
Joseph Oliver LDA or Joseph Oliver Marketing Limited (JOML)  a UK registered company, 
which wasnt authorised by the FCA. The SIPP application simply says Mr Fs full name and 
the investment application says Joseph Oliver is the advising business  which could refer 
to either Joseph Oliver LDA or JOML. So, Ive considered both possibilities  starting with 
Joseph Oliver LDA. 
If the advisor was Joseph Oliver LDA? 
The regulatory position 
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence on this point, including the submissions in 
response to my provisional decision, Im still of the view that Id previously set out in my 
provisional decision. As such, and while taking into account all of the submissions that have 
been made, Ive largely repeated what Id said about this point in my provisional decision.
Joseph Oliver LDA is based in Portugal and is authorised and regulated in Portugal by 
Autoridade de Supervisao de Seguros e Fundos de Pensoes (the ASF). 
Under Article 2 of the Insurance Mediation Directive 2002/92/EC, insurance mediation and 
reinsurance mediation are defined as:
3. insurance mediation means the activities of introducing, proposing or carrying out 
other work preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of insurance, or of concluding 
such contracts, or assisting in the administration and performance of such contracts, 
in particular in the event of a claim.

4. reinsurance mediation means the activities of introducing, proposing or carrying out 
other work preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of reinsurance, or of concluding 
such contracts, or of assisting in the administration and performance of such 
contracts, in particular in the event of a claim.
In the FSAs consultation paper 201, entitled Implementation of the Insurance Mediation 
Directive for Long-term insurance business its stated (on page 7):
We are implementing the IMD for general insurance and pure protection business 
from January 2005 (when they will require authorisation).
Unlike general insurance and pure protection policies, the sale of life and pensions 
policies is already regulated. Life and pensions intermediaries must be authorised by us 
and are subject to our regulation.
Chapter 12 of the FCAs (then FSA) Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) offers guidance 
to persons, such as Westerby, running personal pension schemes. The guidance in place at 
the time the application was made for Mr Bs SIPP confirms that a personal pension scheme, 
for the purpose of regulated activities (PERG 12.2): 
is defined in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) 
Order 2001 (the Regulated Activities Order) as any scheme other than an occupational pension scheme (OPS) or a stakeholder pension scheme that is to 
provide benefits for people:
on retirement; or
on reaching a particular age; or
on termination of service in an employment.
It goes on to say:
This will include self-invested personal pension schemes ('SIPPs') as well as 
personal pensions provided to consumers by product companies such as insurers, 
unit trust managers or deposit takers (including free-standing voluntary contribution 
schemes).
So, under the Regulated Activities Order, a SIPP is a personal pension scheme. Article 82 of 
the Regulated Activities Order (Part III Specified Investments) provides that rights under a 
personal pension scheme are a specified investment.
Westerby itself had regulatory permission to establish and operate personal pension 
schemes  a regulated activity under Article 52 of the Regulated Activities Order. It didnt 
have permission to carry on the separate activity under Article 10 of effecting and carrying 
out insurance.
At the time of Mr Bs application, SUP App 3 of the FCA Handbook set out Guidance on 
passporting issues and SUP App 3.9.7G provided the following table of permissible 
activities under Article 2(3) of the Insurance Mediation Directive in terms of the attendant 
Regulated Activities Order Article number:
Table 2B: Insurance Mediation Directive  2 
Activities 
2 Part II RAO Activities Part III RAO 
Investments 
1.Introducing, proposing or carrying out other 
work preparatory to the conclusion of 
contracts of insurance.Articles 25, 53 and 64 Articles 75, 89 
(see Note 1)
2.Concluding contracts of insurance Articles 21, 25, 53 and 64 Articles 75, 89
3.Assisting in the administration and 
performance of contracts of insurance, in 
particular in the event of a claim.Articles 39A, 64 Articles 75, 89
I note this shows Article 82 investments arent covered by the Insurance Mediation Directive. 
The guidance in SUP 13A.1.2G of the FCA Handbook at the time of Mr Bs application for 
the SIPP explains that an EEA firm wishing to carry on activities in the UK which are outside 
the scope of its EEA rights (i.e. its passporting rights) will require a top up permission under 
Part 4A of the Act (the Act being FSMA). In other words, it needs top up permissions from 
the regulator to carry on regulated activities which arent covered by its IMD passport rights.The relevant rules regarding top up permissions could be found in the FCA (then FSA) 
Handbook at SUP 13A.7. SUP 13A.7.1G states (as at September 2012):
If a person established in the EEA:
(1) does not have an EEA right;
(2) does not have permission as a UCITS qualifier; and
(3) does not have, or does not wish to exercise, a Treaty right (see SUP 13A.3.4 G 
to SUP 13A.3.11 G);
to carry on a particular regulated activity in the United Kingdom, it must seek Part IV 
permission from the FSA to do so (see the FSA website "How do I get authorised": 
http://www.fsa.gov.uk/Pages/Doing/how/index.shtml). This might arise if the activity itself 
is outside the scope of the Single Market Directives, or where the activity is included in 
the scope of a Single Market Directive but is not covered by the EEA firm's Home State 
authorisation. If a person also qualifies for authorisation under Schedules 3, 4 or 5 of the 
Act as a result of its other activities, the Part IV permission is referred to in the Handbook 
as a top-up permission.
In the glossary section of the FCA Handbook EEA authorisation is defined (as at 
September 2012) as: 
(in accordance with paragraph 6 of Schedule 3 to the Act (EEA Passport Rights)):
(a)in relation to an IMD insurance intermediary or an IMD reinsurance intermediary, 
registration with its Home State regulator under article 3 of the Insurance 
Mediation Directive;
(b)in relation to any other EEA firm, authorisation granted to an EEA firm by its 
Home State regulator for the purpose of the relevant Single Market Directive.
The guidance at SUP App 3 of the FCA Handbook (which I set out above) was readily 
available in 2012 and clearly illustrated that EEA-authorised firms may only carry out 
specified regulated activities in the UK if they have the relevant EEA passport rights. 
In this case the regulated activities in question didnt fall under IMD passporting  they 
required FCA permission for Joseph Oliver LDA to conduct them in the UK. Westerby, acting 
in accordance with its own regulatory obligations, shouldve ensured it understood the 
relevant rules, guidance and legislation Ive referred to above, (or sought advice on this, to 
ensure it could gain the proper understanding), when considering whether to accept 
business from Joseph Oliver LDA, which was an EEA firm passporting into the UK. It should 
therefore have known  or have checked and discovered  that a business based in Portugal 
that was EEA authorised needed to have top up permissions to give advice and make 
arrangements in relation to personal pensions in the UK. And that top up permissions had to 
be granted by the UK regulator, the FCA.
In my view, its fair and reasonable to conclude that in the circumstances of this case 
Westerby ought to have understood that Joseph Oliver LDA required the relevant top up 
permissions from the FCA in order to carry on the regulated activities it was undertaking. 
Westerbys checks on Joseph Oliver LDAs permissions
Again, having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence on this point, including the 
submissions in response to my provisional decision, Im still of the view that Id previously set 
out in my provisional decision. As such, and while taking into account all of the submissions that have been made, Ive largely repeated what Id said about this point in my provisional 
decision.
Westerby says it took appropriate steps to conduct due diligence on Joseph Oliver LDA and 
it couldnt and shouldnt reasonably have concluded that Joseph Oliver LDA didnt have the 
required top up permissions. Ive carefully considered all of Westerbys submissions on this 
point. 
The Register
Im satisfied that in order to meet its regulatory obligations, Westerby ought to have 
independently checked and verified Joseph Oliver LDAs permissions before accepting 
business from it. I therefore consider its fair and reasonable to expect Westerby to have 
checked the Register entry for Joseph Oliver LDA in the circumstances. And, to be clear, I 
think it fair and reasonable to say that the checks Westerby ought to have conducted on 
Joseph Oliver LDAs Register entry shouldve included a review of all the relevant 
information available.  
Ive carefully considered the format of the Register in or around 2012 when Mr Bs 
application was submitted by Joseph Oliver LDA. 
The third-party report on the Register provided by Westerby during the investigation of the 
complaint which was the subject of the published decision is helpful on the question of the 
format of the Register at the time of Mr Bs SIPP application. 
Snapshots of entries in the register provided show the information that was available at the 
time, as depicted in the image below. Each of the red titles at the top of the entry (i.e. 
Regulators, Basic details, and Contact etc) is a hyperlink to another page of the entry on 
the Register. Whilst this pre-dates Mr Bs application by a few months, Im satisfied the entry 
for Joseph Oliver LDA wouldve followed the same format (a similar format is also depicted 
in later snapshots provided). So, this screenshot shows that Joseph Oliver LDAs 2012 entry 
on the Register wouldve included both Permission and Passports pages (amongst other 
pages). Its therefore reasonable to conclude from the below screenshot that the format of 
the Register at or around the time of Mr Bs SIPP application was submitted to Westerby in 
2012 included pages which provided information in relation to both a firms passport details 
and in relation to a firms permissions. Indeed, Westerby appears to accept Joseph Oliver 
LDAs entry wouldve included a permissions page at the relevant time. 
Westerbys position, in short, is that the permissions page was blank, and the Register entry 
couldnt therefore be used to check a firms permissions. 
The report provided by Westerby on the complaint which was the subject of the published 
decision, helpfully, provides examples of several Permission pages for other firms  such as 
the one below  which were archived, dating from the around the time of Mr Bs SIPP 
application or earlier. The below example, dating from 2012, and relating to a Cypriot firm 
which, like Joseph Oliver LDA, was an incoming EEA firm, is particularly helpful:This shows that the Permission page for this incoming EEA firm did exist in 2012, and that it 
showed no matches found. This is strong evidence that the format of the Register for EEA 
firms did include a page with information on a firms permissions, even if all it recorded is 
that no matches are found, (i.e. it had no permissions from the FCA). 
The third-party report also includes a screenshot of a 2013 Permission page for a UK firm 
which ceased to be authorised in 2008 (which also shows no matches found), and a page 
for a UK firm which was authorised and held FCA permissions at the relevant time, which 
shows the firms permissions set out in detail. 
All of this information taken together demonstrates that, when Mr Bs application was 
submitted to Westerby, the format of the Register did contain a page labelled Permission 
and this page is where a firms permissions would be set out on the Register. And, where a 
firm didnt have any FCA permissions at the time of the search, the Permission page on their 
Register entry would state no matches found  (as there were no permissions to display).  
This is consistent with the information we received from the FCA when we asked it to 
confirm whether top up permissions appear on the Register, and whether this has changed 
since around the time Mr Bs application was accepted. In response to our query, the FCA 
confirmed that top up permissions do appear on the Register under the Permission page, 
and that the FCA understands the same information was available on the Register at  or 
around  the relevant time. In other words, the FCAs response to our question accords with 
what Ive already said Im satisfied has been demonstrated by the evidence thats available 
in this case. 
Westerbys said, amongst other things, more information should be provided about the 
details of the contact with the FCA. But, as I explained in my provisional decision, 
Westerbys already been provided with the FCAs response to our question. So, Im satisfied 
that Westerbys had the opportunity to consider the response Ive considered, and that its 
also had the opportunity to make further submissions to us, and indeed it has made further 
submissions to us. So, I remain satisfied that I can fairly determine this complaint now and 
that Westerby doesnt need to be provided with further information on this point.
Further, and as Ive already mentioned above, the FCAs response to our question accords 
with what Ive already said Im satisfied has been demonstrated by the evidence thats 
available in this case. So, my decision on this complaint would still be the same with or 
without the FCAs response to our question.
To summarise my conclusions so far, Im satisfied:
That in order to meet its regulatory obligations, Westerby ought to have 
independently checked and verified Joseph Oliver LDAs permissions before 
accepting business from it. And its fair and reasonable to expect Westerby to have 
checked the  totality of Joseph Oliver LDAs entry on the Register in the 
circumstances.
The format of the Register in 2012 did include a Permission page and it follows that 
the entry for Joseph Oliver LDA on the Register at the time of Mr Bs application 
wouldve included a Permission page which Westerby ought to have checked. 
If Westerby did check the Permission page for Joseph Oliver LDA at the relevant time, it 
appears to have failed to have kept a record of this check and, unfortunately, I dont have a 
record of the Permission page for Joseph Oliver LDA at the relevant time. So, we have no 
evidence of what specific information was available on this page for Joseph Oliver LDA at 
the relevant time. However, in light of the evidence Ive set out above, Im satisfied that there 
wouldve been a permission page available on Joseph Oliver LDAs Register entry. And, if 
this page had erroneously failed to contain any information on whether or not Joseph Oliver 
LDA held the relevant permissions, (i.e. it had been left entirely blank), Westerby ought to 
have taken further steps to ascertain what the correct position was. 
To be clear, I dont accept Westerbys submission that information about a firms 
permissions was simply not available for an online user in  or around  2012. Indeed, 
evidence provided by it contradicts this assertion.
Westerby has, in previous submissions, referred to reports from the Complaints 
Commissioner both of which highlighted errors and/or weaknesses of the Register. In its 
more recent submissions it says the Register is known to have historically had significant 
errors, and the FCA itself recognises that there can be errors on the Register  it refers to a 
disclaimer shown on the Register which says the FCA provided no warranty as to its 
accuracy. Ive considered the submissions Westerby has made on this point. 
Whilst I appreciate thereve been criticisms of the Register, and it may on occasion have 
contained errors, Im satisfied that a regulated market participant such as Westerby, acting in 
accordance with its regulatory obligations, ought to have understood that Joseph Oliver LDA 
needed permission from the FCA to give advice on and make arrangements for personal 
pensions in the UK. Therefore, before accepting business from Joseph Oliver LDA, 
Westerby needed to confirm that Joseph Oliver LDA held the required permissions. And, for 
the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied that Joseph Oliver LDAs entry on the Register 
at the relevant time wouldve included a page with information on its permissions. And, if this 
page hadnt set out any information (if itd erroneously been left blank) Westerby, in accordance with its regulatory obligations, shouldnt have accepted Mr Bs application from 
Joseph Oliver LDA before carrying out further enquiries to clarify the correct position on the 
firms permissions.
On this point Westerby says that the FCA will not (and nor would it have at the relevant time) 
confirm details about a firm that arent available on the public register. It says the published 
decision concedes that information which wasnt available on the Register wouldnt have 
been provided to Westerby. 
I accept FCA will not (and wouldnt) confirm details about a firm that arent available on the 
public register. However, for all the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied that top up 
permissions are something which are recorded on the FCAs public register, and that this 
was also the case in 2012 when Westerby accepted Mr Bs application from Joseph Oliver 
LDA. 
Although we dont have evidence of exactly what did appear on Joseph Oliver LDAs 
Permission page in 2012, if itd erroneously been left blank, I think its fair and reasonable 
to conclude the FCA wouldve been able to confirm the position that Joseph Oliver LDA 
didnt  in fact  have the required permissions, as this was information that ought to have 
been publicly available on the Register. So, Im not persuaded by Westerbys submissions 
on this point and Im satisfied contacting the FCA was a sensible and proper route open to it 
to verify Joseph Oliver LDAs permissions before accepting business from it.
So, if Westerby had thought it necessary to contact the FCA directly to confirm Joseph Oliver 
LDAs permissions because the Register didnt contain the relevant details, I dont think the 
restriction it refers to on what the FCA could confirm wouldve prevented it getting the 
information it needed. Joseph Oliver LDA didnt have any top up permissions. That was a 
matter of public record. So, the FCA wouldve been able to confirm this to Westerby. 
In response to my provisional decision Westerbys highlighted that this complaint arises from 
the FCAs negligence in failing to complete the permissions page for Joseph Oliver LDA on 
the public register. But, to be clear, even if there was an issue with Joseph Oliver LDAs 
entry on the Register I still dont think it is fair and reasonable to conclude that it was 
appropriate  or in accordance with its regulatory obligations  for Westerby to have 
proceeded with Mr Bs application from Joseph Oliver LDA in those circumstances. 
Westerby ought to have independently checked and verified Joseph Oliver LDAs 
permissions before accepting business from it. If there was no information available or 
accessible on the Register at the relevant time to reveal the permissions position of Joseph 
Oliver LDA, then Westerby ought to have either found another way to verify Joseph Oliver 
LDAs permissions, or it ought to have declined to accept any applications from Joseph 
Oliver LDA until such a time as it could verify the correct position on Joseph Oliver LDAs 
permissions. 
Furthermore, if Westerby was simply unable to independently verify Joseph Oliver LDAs 
permissions at all  a position I think is very unlikely given the available evidence  I think it 
is fair and reasonable to say that Westerby shouldve then concluded that it was unsafe to 
proceed with accepting business from Joseph Oliver LDA in those circumstances. In my 
opinion, it wasnt reasonable, and not in-line with Westerbys regulatory obligations, for it to 
proceed with accepting business from Joseph Oliver LDA if the position wasnt clear. 
So, to summarise, Im satisfied:It wasnt fair and reasonable for Westerby to proceed to accept business from 
Joseph Oliver LDA if, as Westerby says, it was unable to establish what permissions 
Joseph Oliver LDA held. 
In that case Westerby should have sought confirmation from the FCA as to whether 
Joseph Oliver LDA held any top up permissions. And, as Im satisfied this wouldve 
been a matter of public record, Im satisfied the FCA wouldve been able to confirm 
whether or not Joseph Oliver LDA held any permissions. 
Alternatively, if it was unable to independently verify Joseph Oliver LDAs 
permissions, Westerby should simply have declined to accept business from Joseph 
Oliver LDA. 
Could Westerby have relied on what Joseph Oliver LDA told it? 
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence on this point, including the submissions in 
response to my provisional decision, Im still of the view that Id previously set out in my 
provisional decision. As such, and while taking into account all of the submissions that have 
been made, Ive largely repeated what Id said about this point in my provisional decision.
Westerby says that it agreed Terms of Business with Joseph Oliver LDA (the Agreement) 
and, in signing the Agreement, Joseph Oliver LDA confirmed it held the permissions it 
required. 
Westerby, in previous submissions, has referred to the FCAs thematic review TR16/1, and 
to Gen 4 Annex 1 of the FCA Handbook. These set out respectively that: firms can rely on 
factual information provided by other EEA-regulated firms as part of their due diligence 
process (TR/16/1, Para 5), and the statutory status disclosure incoming EEA firms are 
required to make.
COBS 2.4.6R (2) provided a general rule about reliance on others:
(2) A firm will be taken to be in compliance with any rule in this sourcebook that 
requires it to obtain information to the extent it can show it was reasonable for it to 
rely on information provided to it in writing by another person. 
And COBS 2.4.8 G said:
It will generally be reasonable (in accordance with COBS 2.4.6R (2)) for a firm to 
rely on information provided to it in writing by an unconnected authorised person or 
a professional firm, unless it is aware or ought reasonably to be aware of any fact 
that would give reasonable grounds to question the accuracy of that information.
So, it would generally have been reasonable for Westerby to rely on information provided to 
it in writing by Joseph Oliver LDA, unless Westerby was aware or ought reasonably to have 
been aware of any fact that would give reasonable grounds to question the accuracy of the 
information. 
In the Agreement Joseph Oliver LDA warranted that it had the required permissions to 
introduce SIPP business. However, the Agreement appears to be a generic document and 
not specific to Joseph Oliver LDA. It doesnt refer to, nor require either party to confirm or 
warrant the accuracy of information supplied during a prior due diligence process. Ive carefully considered what Westerbys said about the Written Agreement in response to 
my provisional decision. Amongst other things, its contended that the Written Agreement 
wasnt vague and generic in nature and that the term permissions encompasses top-up 
permissions.
However, I remain of the view that the Agreement appears to be a generic document and not 
specific to Joseph Oliver LDA. It doesnt refer to, nor require either party to confirm or 
warrant the accuracy of information supplied during a prior due diligence process.
The Agreement provides as follows: 
The Intermediary warrants that he/she is suitably authorised by the Financial 
Services Authority in relation to the sale of the SIPP, and advice on underlying 
investments where appropriate, and will maintain all authorisations, permissions, 
authorities, licences and skills necessary for it to carry out its activities under this 
contract and will in all aspects comply with all Applicable Laws. 
I remain of the view that this doesnt amount to a clear statement that Joseph Oliver LDA 
had the required top up permissions for it to advise on and arrange personal pensions in the 
UK that Westerby would be entitled to rely on. 
The activity of advising on rights under personal pension schemes isnt mentioned; rather, 
the authorisation is said to relate to the sale of the SIPP which is an ambiguous term. And 
the warranty that he/she is suitably authorised is generic and doesnt refer specifically to 
top up permissions being required and Joseph Oliver LDA warranting that it has top up 
permissions to conduct personal pension business in the UK.  
After carefully considering the terms of the Agreement Im not satisfied on the evidence 
provided that Westerby did establish what top up permissions Joseph Oliver LDA required to 
be arranging and giving advice on personal pensions in the UK and that it requested, and 
received, confirmation from Joseph Oliver LDA that it held those permissions. Im also not 
satisfied, for the reasons given above, that Westerby met its regulatory obligations in 
seeking to rely on the terms of the Agreement to conclude that Joseph Oliver LDA warranted 
it had the required top up permissions. 
In any event, its my view that Westerby shouldve done more to independently verify that 
Joseph Oliver LDA had the required top up permissions. If Westerby had carried out 
independent checks on Joseph Oliver LDAs permissions as required by its regulatory 
obligations, it ought to have been privy to information which didnt reconcile with what 
Joseph Oliver LDA had told it about its permissions. So, in failing to take this step, I think its 
fair and reasonable to conclude that Westerby didnt do enough in order to establish whether 
or not Joseph Oliver LDA did have the permissions it required.   
So, for all the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think COBS 2.4.6R (2) applies to the 
Agreement the parties entered into. However, Ive also given careful thought to whether it 
was reasonable for Westerby to rely on it generally. Westerby has referred, in previous 
submissions to the FCAs thematic review TR16/1 and to Gen 4 Annex 1 of the FCA 
Handbook, and Ive considered this question with those details in mind. However, Im not 
satisfied there was any other basis on which it was reasonable for Westerby to rely on 
Agreement, for much the same reasons as Ive given above in relation to COBS 2.4.6R (2).
As the 2009 Thematic Review report makes clear, good practice, consistent with a SIPP 
operators regulatory obligations under the Principles, included:Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they 
do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
The 2009 report also makes it clear that a SIPP operator should have systems and controls 
which adequately safeguarded their clients interests. So, it was good practice to confirm a 
firm had the appropriate permissions and to do so in a way which adequately safeguarded 
their clients interests. And I dont think simply asking the firm if it had the permissions or 
requiring it to sign something providing this confirmation was sufficient to meet this standard 
of good practice. This is a view Westerby itself appears to have shared at the time. Its told 
us it checked the Register. Its also told us its procedure was to check the Register every 
time a SIPP application is received from an introducer, and every time advisor fees are paid 
from the SIPP. It says that, in its view, this demonstrates good practice, as per the FCAs 
2009 thematic review report. Thats a view I share. 
So Westerby shouldnt have  and didnt  rely solely on the Agreement. And, as mentioned 
above, for all the reasons Ive given, I think Westerbys check of the Register ought to have 
led to the conclusion that Joseph Oliver LDA didnt have the required top up permissions (i.e. 
if the information on Joseph Oliver LDAs Permission page had been correctly recorded), or 
in the alternative, that the Register didnt record the information on Joseph Oliver LDAs 
Permission page in order for Westerby to confirm the position one way or the other (for 
example, if the Permission page had erroneously been left blank). This means that either 
Westerby ought to have become aware of information which didnt reconcile with what 
Joseph Oliver LDA had confirmed to it about its permissions by way of the Agreement or 
otherwise, or that it was still under a regulatory obligation to undertake further enquiries to 
independently check Joseph Oliver LDAs permissions, and by failing to do so, it didnt meet 
the requirements it was under as a regulated SIPP operator.
If the advisor was instead JOML? 
As noted at the outset, it isnt definitively clear which entity was the advisor here  Joseph 
Oliver LDA or JOML. The SIPP application form lists Mr F and the platform application form 
simply lists Joseph Oliver. Westerby appears to have accepted the business on the basis 
that it was dealing with Mr F acting for Joseph Oliver LDA and the evidence points to this 
being the correct position. However, Ive nonetheless accounted for the possibility of JOMLs 
involvement. 
If the advisor was JOML, it was clearly engaged in regulated activities. And so, it was 
breaching the General Prohibition, which prohibits unauthorised businesses from carrying 
out regulated activities. This is a fundament of financial services regulation in the UK and, as 
such, I think it fair and reasonable for Westerby to have been aware of it. And I therefore 
think it is fair and reasonable to say Westerby shouldve refused to accept either the SIPP or 
investment application from JOML. 
However, Ive only briefly covered this point as there is evidence to show Mr F was 
representing Joseph Oliver LDA at the time and Westerby says the provider of the 
E-Portfolio platform has confirmed its relationship was with Joseph Oliver LDA, not JOML. 
So, I think the likely outcome, had Westerby either assumed the application(s) were advised 
on by JOML and rejected it/them on that basis  or have queried this on the basis the 
application(s) had to be advised on by an authorised business  wouldve been that the 
application(s) was/were then submitted through Joseph Oliver LDA. Or, it wouldve simply 
been confirmed the Joseph Oliver referenced in the application was indeed Joseph Oliver 
LDA.Anomalous features 
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence on this point, including the submissions in 
response to my provisional decision, Im still of the view that Id previously set out in my 
provisional decision. As such, and while taking into account all of the submissions that have 
been made, Ive largely repeated what Id said about this point in my provisional decision.
In my view, Westerby ought to have identified a risk of consumer detriment here. Mr B was 
taking advice on his pension from a business based in Portugal. That advice was to transfer 
from a conventional pension scheme into a SIPP, and then to send the majority of the 
money transferred into the SIPP to investments based in Mauritius. The investments 
involved were unusual, and specialised. And the chances of them being suitable investments 
for a significant portion of a retail investors pension were very small. So, given the relevant 
factors, Westerby ought to have viewed the application from Mr B as carrying a significant 
risk of consumer detriment. And it shouldve been aware that the role of the advisor was 
likely to be a very important one in the circumstances  emphasising the need for adequate 
due diligence to be carried out on Joseph Oliver LDA to independently ensure it had the 
correct permissions to be giving advice on personal pensions in the UK. 
I dont expect Westerby to have assessed the suitability of such a course of action for Mr B  
and I accept it couldnt do that. But, in order to meet the obligations, set by the Principles 
(and COBS 2.1.1R), I think it ought to have recognised this as an unusual proposition, which 
carried a significant risk of consumer detriment. So, it ought to have taken particular care in 
its due diligence  it had to do so to treat Mr B fairly and act in his best interests. 
I think this should reasonably have been viewed by Westerby as a further risk of consumer 
detriment. And, therefore, a further reason why it ought to have taken particular care in its 
due diligence, to treat Mr B fairly and act in his best interests.
In any event, regardless of the points Ive made above about the anomalous features of the 
proposed business, Im of the view that Westerby ought to have properly checked Joseph 
Oliver LDAs permissions in order to comply with its regulatory obligations. I make the above 
point only to highlight the importance of carrying out this check. 
Further points 
Westerbys said its contrary to European Union law to discriminate against a firm on the 
basis of the EEA country in which its been established. However, in my view, carrying out 
adequate checks on Joseph Oliver LDAs permissions doesnt equate to treating Joseph 
Oliver LDA differently by virtue of its location. Westerby shouldve carried out these checks 
on any firm introducing advised business to it. 
Westerbys said it provided quarterly Product Sales Data reports to the FCA, and that the 
FCA never expressed any concerns about it accepting business from Joseph Oliver LDA. 
Ive seen no evidence to suggest that at the time Westerby accepted Mr Bs application from 
Joseph Oliver LDA, a factor in its decision to do so was that it had been reporting the 
previous business it had been doing with Joseph Oliver LDA to the FCA, and that the FCA 
hadnt raised any concerns with it about this business. In any event, Im of the view that this 
is irrelevant, because if Westerby had acted in compliance with its regulatory obligations, it 
wouldnt have accepted business from Joseph Oliver LDA at all and Joseph Oliver LDA 
would therefore not have featured in its reporting to the FCA. 
There seems to be no basis on which Mr Bs application could, or would, have proceeded on 
the understanding Joseph Oliver LDA was an unregulated introducer. Westerby seems to 
have understood from the outset that Joseph Oliver LDA wasnt simply an introducer of investments to its customers. It was carrying on the regulated activities of advising and 
arranging. It seems that in any event, Westerby had a policy not to accept introductions from 
unregulated businesses. So, in the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
make any findings based on the fact that Westerby was able to accept introductions from 
unregulated businesses, as that wasnt what happened in this case.
I appreciate that theres also an argument that if it had been identified that Joseph Oliver 
LDA didnt have the required top-up permissions, Joseph Oliver LDA might have applied 
for, and been granted, the relevant top-up permissions. However, I find no merit in this line 
of argument. Im required to consider whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this case. And in this case, Westerby accepted business from a firm which didnt have the 
required permissions to be carrying on the business that it did. And, Westerby failed to 
identify this fact prior to accepting Mr Bs application. So, this is what I need to consider here 
 not a possible situation that couldve happened.
Westerbys submitted that where complaints have been received by this service against both 
Joseph Oliver LDA and Westerby, that we should decide the complaint against Joseph 
Oliver LDA before, or at the same time as, the complaint against Westerby. Later in this 
decision, Ive addressed the question of whether its fair to ask Westerby to pay Mr B 
compensation in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In conclusion 
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence in this case, including the submissions in 
response to my provisional decision, Ive arrived at the same conclusion as I reached in my 
provisional decision. For completeness, Ive repeated this conclusion below.
Westerby ought to have identified that Joseph Oliver LDA needed top up permissions to 
advise on and make arrangements for personal pensions in the UK and taken all the steps 
available to it to independently verify that Joseph Oliver LDA had the required permissions. 
If Westerby had taken these steps, it wouldve established Joseph Oliver LDA didnt have 
the permissions it required to give advice or make arrangements for personal pensions in the 
UK, or that it was unable to confirm whether Joseph Oliver LDA had the required 
permissions. 
In either event, it wasnt in accordance with its regulatory obligations nor good industry 
practice for Westerby to proceed to accept business from Joseph Oliver LDA. 
Additionally, Westerby ought to have considered the anomalous features of this business 
Ive outlined above. These were further factors relevant to Westerbys acceptance of Mr Bs 
application which, at the very least, emphasised the need for adequate due diligence to be 
carried out on Joseph Oliver LDA to independently ensure it had the correct permissions to 
be giving advice on personal pensions in the UK. 
Its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to conclude that none of the points 
Westerby has raised are factors which mitigate its decision to accept Mr Bs application from 
Joseph Oliver LDA.
Im therefore satisfied the fair and reasonable conclusion in this complaint is that Westerby 
shouldnt have accepted Mr Bs SIPP application from Joseph Oliver LDA. 
Due diligence on the underlying investmentsIn light of my conclusions about Westerbys regulatory obligations to carry out sufficient due 
diligence on introducers, and given my finding that in the circumstances of this complaint 
Westerby failed to comply with these obligations, Ive not considered Westerbys obligations 
under the Principles in respect of carrying out sufficient due diligence on the underlying 
investments. Its my view that had Westerby complied with its obligations under the 
Principles to carry out sufficient due diligence checks on Joseph Oliver LDA, then this 
arrangement wouldnt have come about in the first place.
Is it fair to ask Westerby to pay Mr B compensation in the circumstances? 
Would the business have still gone ahead if Westerby had refused the application? 
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence on this point, including the submissions in 
response to my provisional decision, Im still of the view that Id previously set out in my 
provisional decision. As such, and while taking into account all of the submissions that have 
been made, Ive repeated much of what Id said about this point in my provisional decision.
I still think its most likely that if Westerby had refused to accept Mr Bs application from 
Joseph Oliver LDA, and explained to Mr B why it wasnt able to do so, Mr B wouldnt have 
continued to accept or act on pensions advice provided by Joseph Oliver LDA (as he would 
then have been aware it wasnt able to provide such advice). And I think it very unlikely 
advice from an appropriately authorised business wouldve resulted in Mr B taking the same 
course of action. I think it reasonable to say Mr B wouldve sought out a business with the 
required permissions and that a competent business wouldve given suitable advice. 
In Adams v Options SIPP, the judge found that Mr Adams wouldve proceeded with the 
transaction regardless. HHJ Dight says (at paragraph 32):  
The Claimant knew that it was a high risk and speculative investment but 
nevertheless decided to proceed with it, because of the cash incentive...
But, in this case, Ive seen no evidence to show Mr B proceeded in the knowledge that the 
investments he was making were high risk and speculative, and that he was determined to 
move forward with the transaction in order to take advantage of a cash incentive offered by 
Joseph Oliver LDA. 
Instead, it appears Mr B understood the investment, via the SIPP, would offer a higher return 
than his existing pension, and he says he told Mr F of Joseph Oliver LDA that he didnt want 
to expose his pension to risk and doesnt recall being told there was any risk involved. In his 
submissions to us Mr B highlighted on a number of occasions that he thought hed been 
dealing with a FCA authorised advisor, so I think this was important to him and he appears 
to have placed some weight on the fact that he was (so far as he was aware at the time) 
dealing with an appropriately authorised advisor.
Ive also not seen any evidence to show Mr B was paid a cash incentive. It therefore cant be 
said he was incentivised to enter into the transaction. Im satisfied that Mr B, unlike 
Mr Adams, wasnt eager to complete the transaction for reasons other than securing the best 
pension for himself. So, in my opinion, this case is very different from that of Mr Adams.
In response to my provisional decision, Westerbys contended that Mr B would likely have 
proceeded with the transfer and investments regardless of the actions it took. Its highlighted 
that other SIPP providers were accepting such investments at the time and says the 
transactions wouldve been effected with another provider.Westerby might argue that another SIPP operator wouldve accepted Mr Bs application, had 
it declined it. But I dont think its fair and reasonable to say that Westerby shouldnt 
compensate Mr B for his loss on the basis of speculation that another SIPP operator 
wouldve made the same mistakes as Ive found Westerby did. I think its fair instead to 
assume that another SIPP provider wouldve complied with its regulatory obligations and 
good industry practice, and therefore wouldnt have accepted Mr Bs application from Joseph 
Oliver LDA. 
Further, and in any eventuality, even if another SIPP provider had been willing to accept 
Mr Bs application from Joseph Oliver LDA, that process would still have needed Mr B to be 
willing to continue to do business with Joseph Oliver LDA after Westerby had rejected his 
application for another application to proceed. And, for the reasons Ive given above, Im not 
satisfied that Mr B wouldve continued to accept or act on pensions advice from Joseph 
Oliver LDA in such circumstances. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied it is fair and reasonable to conclude that if Westerby had 
refused to accept Mr Bs application from Joseph Oliver LDA, the transaction wouldnt still 
have gone ahead. 
In response to my provisional decision Westerbys said that had it uncovered that Joseph 
Oliver LDA didnt have the relevant permissions, it wouldnt have accepted business from 
Joseph Oliver LDA and it would never have received Mr Bs application. Westerby also says 
its contract was with Joseph Oliver LDA not Mr B and that if Mr Bs application had been 
refused it wouldnt have been at liberty to, or had reason to, contact Mr B.
But Westerby did receive Mr Bs application, so Im considering what it ought to have done 
having received Mr Bs application. And for the reasons Ive explained at length above Im 
satisfied that, having received Mr Bs application from Joseph Oliver LDA, it shouldnt then 
have accepted Mr Bs SIPP application.
Mr B went through a substantive process with Joseph Oliver LDA that culminated in him 
completing paperwork to set up a new Westerby SIPP and with the expectancy that monies 
from existing pension provision would be transferred into the newly established SIPP. 
Having gone to the time and effort of doing this, I think its most likely that if the Westerby 
SIPP wasnt then established, and if his pension monies werent then transferred to 
Westerby, that Mr B wouldve wanted to find out why from Joseph Oliver LDA and Westerby. 
And I wouldnt think it fair and reasonable to say that Westerby shouldnt compensate Mr B 
for his loss on the basis of any speculation that Joseph Oliver LDA and/or Westerby wouldnt 
have confirmed to Mr B the reason why the transfer hadnt proceeded if asked by him. 
Instead, I think its fair to conclude that one or more of the parties involved wouldve then 
explained to Mr B that his application hadnt been accepted because Joseph Oliver LDA 
didnt have the necessary top-up permissions it needed to provide the advice, or 
alternatively, because Westerby hadnt been able to independently verify that Joseph Oliver 
LDA had the necessary top-up permissions to provide the advice. And that Mr B wouldnt 
then have continued to accept or act on pensions advice provided by Joseph Oliver LDA. 
Further, I think its very unlikely that advice from a business that did have the necessary 
permissions wouldve resulted in Mr B taking the same course of action. I think its 
reasonable to say that a business that did have the necessary permissions wouldve given 
suitable advice. 
In response to my provisional decision, Westerby highlighted a number of things which it 
believes support its contention that Mr B wouldve continued to act on pension advice from 
Joseph Oliver LDA regardless, such as: Mr B appointed KB Wealth as his financial advisor. 
An accountancy firm linked to Joseph Oliver LDA/Abana LDA was appointed in 
relation to Mr Bs business. 
Mr B had a longstanding relationship with Mr F, who he considered to be his trusted 
adviser. 
I dont dispute that Mr B trusted Mr F as his adviser but I disagree with Westerbys assertion 
that the corollary of that is that, even if Mr B discovered that Mr F was acting for a firm that  
had been giving him advice it wasnt permitted to, he wouldve continued to accept pension 
advice from Mr F/Joseph Oliver LDA. To the contrary, Mr B trusted Mr F/Joseph Oliver LDA 
to act honestly, in his best interests, to give suitable advice and look after his finances so I 
think the discovery that Joseph Oliver LDA didnt have the necessary permissions to advise 
him would have, if anything, a more devastating impact on the relationship than it might 
under different circumstances. 
Ive noted what was said in Westerbys June 2015 and July 2015 letters about Abana (FS) 
Ltd. But Ive not seen sufficient evidence to show that Mr B was aware that KB Wealth was 
the same business as Abana (FS) Ltd. But, even if I had, I cant see that Mr B was ever told 
that KB Wealth didnt have the necessary permissions to provide him with pension advice 
and that he still then decided to consult with it. 
So, I dont think the situation with KB Wealth is analogous to the situation with Joseph Oliver 
LDA. And its still my view that, once hed been told that his application hadnt been accepted 
as Joseph Oliver LDA didnt have the necessary top-up permissions it needed to provide 
the advice, or alternatively as Westerby hadnt been able to independently verify that Joseph 
Oliver LDA had the necessary top-up permissions to provide the advice, Mr B wouldnt then 
have continued to accept or act on pension advice provided by Joseph Oliver LDA. 
Further, I think its still reasonable to say that a business that did have the necessary 
permissions wouldve given suitable advice. And as Mr Bs application for the SIPP was 
received before Abana (FS) Ltd had been incorporated, Im also satisfied that any advice 
given to Mr B in 2012 from a firm other than Joseph Oliver LDA wouldnt have been from 
Abana (FS) Ltd/KB Wealth. 
The involvement of Joseph Oliver LDA
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence on this point, including the submissions in 
response to my provisional decision, Im still of the view that Id previously set out in my 
provisional decision. As such, and while taking into account all of the submissions that have 
been made, Ive repeated much of what Id said about this point in my provisional decision.
In this decision Im considering Mr Bs complaint about Westerby. While it may be the case 
that Joseph Oliver LDA gave unsuitable advice to Mr B to switch from his existing pension to 
a SIPP and make unsuitable investments, Westerby had its own distinct set of obligations 
when considering whether to accept Mr Bs application for a SIPP. 
Joseph Oliver LDA had a responsibility not to conduct regulated business that went beyond 
the scope of its permissions. Westerby wasnt required to ensure Joseph Oliver LDA 
complied with that responsibility. But Westerby had its own distinct regulatory obligations 
under the Principles. And this included to check that firms introducing advised business to it 
had the regulatory permissions to be doing so. In my view, Westerby has failed to comply 
with these obligations in this case. Im satisfied that if Westerby had carried out sufficient due diligence on Joseph Oliver LDA 
and acted in accordance with good practice and its regulatory obligations by independently 
checking Joseph Oliver LDAs permissions before accepting business from it, Westerby 
wouldnt have done any SIPP business with Joseph Oliver LDA in the first place. 
Im also satisfied that if Mr B had been told Joseph Oliver LDA was acting outside its 
permissions in giving pensions advice, he likely wouldnt have continued to accept or act on 
advice from that business. And, having taken into account all the circumstances of this case, 
its my view that its fair and reasonable to hold Westerby responsible for its failure to identify 
that Joseph Oliver LDA didnt have the required top up permissions to be giving advice and 
making arrangements on personal pensions in the UK. 
The DISP rules set out that when an ombudsmans determination includes a money award, 
then that money award may be such amount as the ombudsman considers to be fair 
compensation for financial loss, whether or not a court would award compensation (DISP 
3.7.2R). 
As I set out above, in my opinion it is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to 
hold Westerby accountable for its own failure to comply with the relevant regulatory 
obligations and to treat Mr B fairly.  
The starting point, therefore, is that it would be fair to require Westerby to pay Mr B 
compensation for the loss hes suffered as a result of Westerbys failings. Ive carefully 
considered if theres any reason why it wouldnt be fair to ask Westerby to compensate Mr B 
for his loss, including whether it would be fair to hold another party liable in full or in 
part. And, for the following reasons, I consider it appropriate and fair in the circumstances for 
Westerby to compensate Mr B to the full extent of the financial losses hes suffered due to 
Westerbys failings. 
I accept that it may be the case that Joseph Oliver LDA, in advising Mr B to enter into a 
SIPP, is responsible for initiating the course of action that led to Mr Bs loss. However, its 
also the case that if Westerby had complied with its own distinct regulatory obligations as a 
SIPP operator, the arrangement for Mr B wouldnt have come about in the first place, and 
the loss he suffered couldve been avoided. 
I explained in my provisional decision that Westerby could have the option to take an 
assignment of any rights of action Mr B has against Joseph Oliver LDA before compensation 
is paid. Compensation could be made contingent upon Mr Bs acceptance of this term of 
settlement. 
In response to this, Westerbys said that any indemnity from Joseph Oliver LDA and/or 
assignment of any action against it from Mr B is effectively worthless. 
I accept that may be true. However, the key point here is that but for Westerbys failings, 
Mr B wouldnt have suffered the loss hes suffered. As a result, the trading/financial position 
of Joseph Oliver LDA, and the fact that Westerby may not be able to rely on an indemnity 
from Joseph Oliver LDA and/or the fact that any assignment of any action against Joseph 
Oliver LDA from Mr B might be worthless, doesnt lead me to change my overall view on this 
point. And, as such, I remain of the opinion that its appropriate and fair in the circumstances 
for Westerby to compensate Mr B to the full extent of the financial losses hes suffered due 
to its failings, and notwithstanding any failings by Joseph Oliver LDA.
In response to my provisional decision Westerbys also highlighted that in a previous 
decision involving an EEA firm that had acted outside its permissions, a different ombudsman made an apportionment between the SIPP provider and the advisor on a 50/50 
basis. 
We consider each complaint on its own merits, and the question I have to address in this 
case is whether, in all of the circumstances of this specific complaint, its fair to ask Westerby 
to compensate Mr B to the full extent of the financial losses hes suffered due to its failings 
and, for the reasons Ive already given above, Im satisfied it is.
I want to make clear that Ive carefully taken everything Westerby has said into 
consideration. Its my view that its appropriate and fair in the circumstances for Westerby to 
compensate Mr B to the full extent of the financial losses hes suffered due to Westerbys 
failings. And, taking into account the combination of factors Ive set out above, Im not 
persuaded that it would be appropriate or fair in the circumstances to reduce the 
compensation amount that Westerby is liable to pay to Mr B. 
In addition to the financial loss suffered, I think the loss of the pension provision thats the 
subject of this complaint caused Mr B significant distress. Its clear from his submissions to 
us that Mr B was reliant on these funds being available to him in retirement and that their 
loss is a source of great concern for him. I think its fair that Westerby compensate Mr B for 
this as well.   
Mr B taking responsibility for his own investment decisions/choice of adviser 
I note the point has been made by Westerby that consumers should take responsibility for 
their own investment decisions and choice of advisers. Ive considered the actions of Mr B in 
relation to the mitigation of loss, in the section below. Beyond that, Im satisfied that it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable to say Mr Bs actions mean he should bear the loss arising as 
a result of Westerbys failings. 
Mr B took advice from a regulated advisor (albeit one acting outside the permissions it held  
a fact unknown to Mr B) and used the services of a regulated personal pension provider, 
Westerby. And Im satisfied that in the circumstances, for all the reasons given, its fair to say 
Westerby should compensate Mr B for the loss hes suffered. I dont think it would be fair to 
say in the circumstances that Mr B should suffer the loss because he ultimately instructed 
the investments to be made. 
Opportunity to mitigate losses
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence on this point, including the submissions in 
response to my provisional decision, Im still of the view that Id previously set out in my 
provisional decision. As such, and while taking into account all of the submissions that have 
been made, Ive repeated much of what Id said about this point in my provisional decision.
Westerby says it wrote to Mr B to highlight issues with the funds his SIPP invested in and to 
inform him of an opportunity to realise some of his investment value. It says Mr B had a 
responsibility to take appropriate action to safeguard his funds and so should be responsible 
for at least some of the losses he has suffered. 
Westerby says it disagrees with the finding in my provisional decision that efforts to redeem 
the investments wouldnt have been successful. Westerby says that in the complaint that 
was the subject of the published decision, the consumer was able to redeem their funds in 
May 2016. And its likely that Mr B couldve also mitigated his losses with a timely 
redemption request.Ive carefully reconsidered this point but dont think it is fair for any reduction to be made to 
fair compensation on the basis of a failure by Mr B to mitigate his loss.
In response to my provisional decision Westerbys said, amongst other things, that it was 
acting in the best interests of investors by keeping an eye on the investments and flagging 
issues with them. Further, that following its November 2014 letter, any investor wouldve 
sought independent financial advice or made some reasonable lines of enquiries. 
I dont think it fair to say Mr B shouldve made a redemption request when Westerby wrote to 
him in November 2014. That letter required Mr B to seek advice, and urged him to contact 
his then financial advisor, Abana LDA. Mr B appears to have taken action having received 
that letter and approached his financial advisor. I say this because Mr B returned the 
member instruction form, this confirmed hed sought advice from Mr F of Abana LDA and 
wanted to retain his existing holdings. 
Im also of the view that Westerby didnt act in accordance with its regulatory obligations in 
sending this letter. In the complaints about introductions from Abana LDA, Westerby says its 
process was to check an advisory firms permissions every time it received an application to 
open a SIPP, and every time an advisors renumeration was to be paid. So, by the time 
Westerby wrote to Mr B in November 2014, it wouldve had many opportunities to discover 
that Joseph Oliver LDA then (later) Abana LDA didnt have the top up permissions they 
respectively needed to give advice or make arrangements on personal pensions in the UK. 
For Westerby to have suggested that Mr B seek advice from Abana LDA once problems with 
the funds hed invested in had come to light, is a further failing of it to comply with its 
regulatory obligations and the requirement to treat Mr B fairly. In fact, it shouldve alerted 
Mr B to the fact that Abana LDA didnt have the required permissions and have suggested 
he seek independent advice from an appropriately regulated advisor as a matter of urgency. 
By the time of the June and July 2015 letters to Mr B from Westerby, Abana FS Ltd  a UK 
based firm authorised by the FCA  had replaced Abana LDA. I note Westerby concludes in 
the July 2015 letter that Abana FS Ltd wasnt sufficiently independent. And it recommends 
Mr B seek advice from a suitably authorised advisor. I think that was a fair and reasonable 
step to take in the circumstances, which goes some way towards correcting Westerbys 
earlier failure to meet its regulatory obligations by referring Mr B back to Abana LDA. 
Its not clear what, if any, action Mr B took following these letters. There is reference to a 
redemption request in one of the letters, but weve not been provided with details of any 
request or what may have came of it. In any case, Im not persuaded any effort to redeem 
the investments at that point wouldve been successful. I note the December 2015 letter is 
somewhat contradictory as it says the suspension of SAMAIF has been lifted but then says 
that the lift of the suspension is not yet active (i.e. its still suspended). Weve also seen a 
letter from Westerby which suggests SAMAIF was still suspended in June 2016 and hadnt 
been trading in the meantime. So, Ive also not seen sufficient evidence to show a 
redemption request wouldve been successful even if it had been made. 
Putting things right
My aim is to return Mr B to the position he would now be in but for what I consider to be 
Westerbys failure to verify that Joseph Oliver LDA had the correct permissions to be 
providing advice on pensions in the UK before accepting Mr Bs SIPP application from it.  If Mr B had sought advice from a different advisor, I think its more likely than not that the 
advice wouldve been to stay in his existing pension. I think it is unlikely that another advisor, 
acting properly, wouldve advised Mr B to transfer away from his existing pension. Equally, 
as Mr B wasnt unhappy with his existing pension and had only considered moving it due to 
contact from Mr F, he may well have simply decided not to seek further advice and keep the 
pension. 
In light of the above, Westerby should calculate fair compensation by comparing the current 
position to the position Mr B would be in if he hadnt transferred from his existing pension. 
We dont have details of the pension that was transferred to the SIPP beyond the name of 
the provider and the amount transferred. There is some reference from Mr B to this being a 
workplace pension. So, Ive set out alternative ways for Westerby to go about calculating 
redress depending on the nature of Mr Bs then existing pension. 
If the pension was a personal pension with no guarantees (safeguarded benefits as 
per their current FCA Handbook glossary definition) or a defined contribution 
workplace pension. Westerby should follow the below steps.
Treatment of the illiquid assets held  within  the SIPP
I think it would be best if any illiquid assets held could be removed from the SIPP. Mr B 
would then be able to close the SIPP, if he wishes. That would then allow him to stop paying 
the fees for the SIPP. The valuation of the illiquid investment/s may prove difficult, as there is 
no market for it. For calculating compensation, Westerby should establish an amount as a 
commercial value. It should then pay the sum agreed plus any costs and take ownership of 
the investment/s.
If Westerby is able to purchase the illiquid investment/s then the price paid to purchase the 
holding/s will be allowed for in the current transfer value (because it will have been paid into 
the SIPP to secure the holding/s).
If Westerby is unable, or if there are any difficulties in buying Mr B's illiquid investment/s, it 
should give the holding/s a nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. In this 
instance Westerby may ask Mr B to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from the relevant holding/s. That undertaking 
should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the amount Mr B may receive from the 
investment/s and any eventual sums. Westerby will have to meet the cost of drawing up any 
such undertaking. 
Calculate the loss Mr B has suffered as a result of making the transfer
Westerby should first contact the provider of the plan which was transferred into the SIPP 
and ask it to provide a notional value for the policy as at the date of this decision. For the 
purposes of the notional calculation the provider should be told to assume no monies 
wouldve been transferred away from the plan, the monies in the policy wouldve remained 
invested in an identical manner to that which existed prior to the actual transfer.
Any contributions or withdrawals Mr B has made will need to be taken into account whether 
the notional value is established by the ceding provider or calculated as set out below. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the SIPP should be deducted at the point 
it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. 
The same applies for any contributions made, these should be added to the notional 
calculation from the date they were actually paid, so any growth they wouldve enjoyed is 
allowed for. If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation from the provider, then Westerby
should instead arrive at a notional valuation by assuming half the monies would have 
enjoyed a return in line with the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index and
the other half would have enjoyed a return in line with the monthly average rate for the fixed
rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for
each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those rates should be
applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. That is a reasonable proxy for
the type of return that could have been achieved over the period in question.
The notional value of the plan of Mr Bs existing plan if monies hadnt been transferred 
(established in line with the above) less the current value of the SIPP is Mr Bs loss. 
Pay an amount into Mr Bs SIPP so that the transfer value is increased by the loss calculated 
above. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
If the pension transferred was a defined benefit workplace pension  the loss of the 
safeguarded benefits will need to be taken into account, and Westerby should follow 
the approach below. 
As above, I think Mr B would most likely have retained his existing scheme. If the pension 
transferred was a defined benefit occupational pension scheme, I consider he wouldve 
remained in the occupational scheme. Westerby must therefore undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the FCA in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision.
Westerby may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Bs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or 
S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
As above, if the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if 
possible be paid into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr B within 90 days of the date 
Westerby receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must 
be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
Westerby to pay Mr B.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
If the pension transferred was a personal pension with guaranteed benefits of some 
form, these should be taken into account in order to accurately calculate the loss that 
Mr B has suffered as a result of transferring his pension to a SIPP. 
However, without knowing the form that these took I cant set out redress that would 
effectively take these into account. I invited Mr B to send me details of any applicable 
guarantees in response to my provisional decision and if appropriate Id set out revised 
redress. I explained that any such information had to be provided by the deadline the parties 
were given for responding to this provisional decision at the very latest. And unless such 
information is forthcoming from Mr B by this date, Id then proceed on the basis that there 
were no such guarantees. No information in relation to applicable guarantees was 
forthcoming, so Ive not set out how redress should be calculated if there are any applicable 
guarantees. 
Lastly, in order to be fair to Westerby, as set out above, it should have the option of payment 
of this redress being contingent upon Mr B assigning any claim he may have against Joseph 
Oliver LDA, to Westerby  but only in so far as Mr B is compensated here. The terms of the 
assignment should require Westerby to account to Mr B for any amount it subsequently 
recovers against Joseph Oliver LDA that exceeds the loss paid to Mr B. I understand that 
Westerby believes any such assignment would be worthless but I think it fair that this option 
is available to it. 
SIPP fees
If the investments cant be removed from the SIPP, and it hence cannot be closed after 
compensation has been paid, then it wouldnt be fair for Mr B to have to continue to pay 
annual SIPP fees to keep the SIPP open. As such, Westerby should pay an amount into 
Mr Bs SIPP equivalent to five years worth of the fees that will be payable on the SIPP 
(based on the most recent years fees). Five years should allow enough time for the issues 
with the investments to be dealt with, and for them to be removed from the SIPP. As an 
alternative to this, Westerby can agree to waive any future fees which might be payable by 
Mr Bs SIPP.
InterestThe compensation resulting from this loss assessment must be paid to Mr B or into his SIPP 
within 28 days of the date Westerby receives notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision. Interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement if the compensation is not 
paid within 28 days. Unless the pension transferred was a defined benefits occupational 
pensions scheme, in which case the interest applicable is set out within the relevant section 
above. 
Distress & inconvenience
I think the loss of the pension provision that is the subject of this complaint caused Mr B 
significant distress, and this is clear from his submissions to this service, and Westerby 
should pay him £750 to compensate him for this.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to uphold Mr Bs complaint against Westerby. I 
direct it to compensate Mr B as set out above. 
determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above. My final decision is that Westerby Trustee Services Limited 
should pay the amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £150,000 
(including distress and/or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest set out above.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that Westerby Trustee Services Limited pay Mr B the balance plus 
any interest on the balance as set out above.
If the loss does not exceed £150,000, or if Westerby accepts the recommendation to pay the 
full loss as calculated above, Westerby should have the option of taking an assignment of 
Mr Bs rights in relation to any claim he may have against Joseph Oliver LDA, and an 
assignment of the right to any future payment Joseph Oliver LDA may make to Mr B as part 
of the settlement agreed following the third-party review.
If the loss exceeds £150,000 and Westerby doesnt accept the recommendation to pay the 
full amount, any assignment of Mr Bs rights should allow him to retain all rights to the 
difference between £150,000 and the full loss as calculated above.
If Westerby elects to take an assignment of rights before paying compensation, it must first 
provide a draft of the assignment to Mr B for his consideration and agreement. Any 
expenses incurred for the drafting of the assignment should be met by Westerby.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Nicola Curnow
Ombudsman