DRN-4311314
The complaint
Miss B complains that Shop Direct Finance Company (Shop Direct), lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss B applied for a credit shopping account with Shop Direct in September 2017. She 
opened an account with a credit limit of £400.  The credit limit was increased four times over 
the following three years or so until it reached £2,200 in January 2021. In July of the same 
year, Shop Direct decreased her limit to £1,125.
Miss B says that Shop Direct shouldnt have provided her with increases in the credit limit. 
She says she couldnt afford the extra borrowing. 
Our investigator partially upheld Miss Bs complaint. They said that although the account 
opening was appropriate that when it came to the first credit limit in March 2018 Shop Direct 
ought to have done more checks on her finances and had it done so it was likely it would 
have seen that Miss B couldnt afford any more credit. 
Miss B agreed with the outcome. Shop Direct didnt agree. It said the evidence suggested 
that Miss B could afford the borrowing and it believed the checks it performed were 
proportionate and reasonable. 
As Shop Direct didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to make a decision. When I 
reviewed the complaint I provisionally decided that Miss Bs complaint shouldnt be upheld. I 
wrote to both parties to explain my provisional decision and to invite further comments and 
evidence.
Shop Direct responded with more information about how it reached its lending decisions. 
Miss B didnt respond.
Having reviewed the additional information from Shop Direct I consider that it supports my 
provisional findings and so I see no reason to change it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considering Miss Bs complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Miss Bs complaint should be upheld. I will explain my decision. 
Shop Direct needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss B 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amount, Miss Bs borrowing history and her income and expenditure.
While Miss B has only directly complained of the credit limit increases, I have looked at all of 
the lending decisions, including the initial decision to lend.
Shop Direct has said that it completed proportionate checks when Miss B opened her 
account and there was no reason to think that Miss B couldnt afford the credit. She had 
declared an income of £29,501 providing a net monthly income of around £1,900 and she 
said she was in full time employment and living with her parents. I note now that Miss B 
declared she had a dependant, but that doesnt make a difference to the outcome of this 
complaint.  This information was verified through external information derived from a credit 
reference agency. 
At the time of my provisional decision Shop Direct hadnt explained how it verified Miss Bs 
income and personal circumstances. However, I still dont think this was sufficient in the 
circumstances. While Shop Direct thought it understood her income and her living 
arrangements it still had no knowledge of her wider financial circumstances. I think Shop 
Direct ought to have obtained more information about these before it lent to her.
Shop Direct It has provided a copy of the results of checks it made from October 2017 
onwards. While these are from the month after Miss B opened her account I think its likely 
the checks give a good picture of what Miss Bs circumstances would have been like the 
preceding month had Shop Direct completed adequate checks. 
 
From these checks I can see that Miss B had a balance of £2,985 on credit cards and had 
utilised 100% of her available credit in the last 12 months. It didnt receive any information 
about whether she had accounts in default, but it could see that she had been in arrears on 
other accounts for five out of the last 12 months and that it had only been five months (so, 
four at the time of account opening) since she had been in arrears for two or more 
consecutive months. 
 
So, if Shop Direct had completed adequate checks at account opening I think it would have 
seen information which ought to have caused it to make further enquiries to be assured the 
credit was affordable for Miss B. I think this would have involved asking Miss B about her 
income and essential expenditure.
I cant know for sure what Miss B would have told Shop Direct if she had been asked about 
her circumstances. Miss B has been able to provide copies of bank statements from 
November 2017 (so, two months following her successful application) and I dont think her 
circumstances would have been significantly different two months before. Looking at these, I 
can see that she was overdrawn and that her income was around £1,400 a month net rather 
than £1,900 a month. Our investigator thought that as this information was about the same 
at the point of the first credit limit in March 2018 that this was evidence that Miss B couldnt 
afford the credit and that Shop Direct shouldnt have increased her credit limit.
However, I dont think I can safely say the same. Looking at Miss Bs bank statements I 
agree that she was overdrawn and that her income was lower than she declared on 
application. But I also cant see that Miss Bs essential expenditure was particularly high. 
The vast majority of Miss Bs spending was on non-essential expenditure and I can see very little to suggest that Miss B wouldnt be able to afford the increased borrowing because her 
essential expenditure was too great. Shop Direct also makes the point that in March 2018 
Miss B had regularly making larger payments to her account that would have been required 
even with the higher credit limit. 
I noted from Miss Bs records that she had five or six bank accounts during the course of her 
Shop Direct account and I could see that Miss B made transfers between the current 
account she provided statements for and at least one other account. I thought that her 
essential expenditure may be evidenced on these other bank account statements, so I asked 
to see copies of these  or at least to have an explanation of what essential expenditure 
Miss B had and how she paid for it. Unfortunately, I didnt receive a response. So I can only 
assume that Miss B had no or little essential expenditure because she was living at home 
with her parents.
Having reviewed the later credit limit increases (which werent examined in much detail by 
our investigator as they had already upheld Miss Bs complaint from the earlier point) I have 
similar concerns about the checks Shop Direct completed. For example, by the time it came 
to the final credit limit increase to £2,200 in January 2021, Shop Direct had information that 
Miss B had taken out substantial loans and had increased her number of credit accounts by 
seven since the account opening. Her monthly repayments were around £432. But even if I 
take this £432 into account as essential expenditure I dont have evidence to support that the 
additional repayments on her increased credit limit for her Shop Direct account would have 
been unaffordable. Since my provisional decision Shop Direct has said that in February 2020 
Miss Bs income was validated with a credit reference agency as being £37,000.  I note from 
Miss Bs bank account statements and her credit file that she had taken some short-term 
lending and two unsecured loans, but even taking these into account I cant support a finding 
on the information I have that had Shop Direct completed necessary and proportionate 
checks it ought to have realised the lending was unaffordable. 
On the basis of the information I have, I think Shop Direct didnt complete necessary and 
proportionate checks, but I cant safely say if it had done so, that it ought to have considered 
the increased lending would be unaffordable for Miss B. So, I dont currently think Miss B lost 
out as a result of anything Shop Direct did wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I do not uphold Miss Bs complaint and Shop Direct 
Limited does not need to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman