DRN-3393688
Complaint
Mr M has complained about a loan AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant Credit) provided to him. 
He says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Avant Credit provided Mr M with a loan for £2,000.00 in March 2016. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 48 monthly instalments of around £81. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Ms complaint and she thought Avant Credit shouldnt 
have provided Mr M with this loan. So she thought that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. 
Avant Credit didnt agree so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Avant Credit needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Avant Credit needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Mr M could afford to repay any credit it provided. Our website sets out what we typically think 
about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Avant Credit may argue that the relatively low monthly payments for this loan meant that it 
was reasonable and proportionate for a relatively light touch affordability assessment to have 
been carried out. However, the information provided suggested that Avant Credit carried out 
a credit check. The results of which clearly demonstrated that Mr M had a history of 
borrowing further to repay payday type loans. 
So Im persuaded by what Mr M has said about already being in a difficult financial position 
at the time. And while its possible he could have been taking these loans through choice 
rather than because he was struggling, Id add that my experience of these types of cases 
suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from Avant 
Credit, Ive been persuaded to accept Mr Ms version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Ms existing debts as well as his previous history of 
borrowing further to repay existing debts meant that he was unlikely to be able to afford the 
payments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing further. And as reasonable and 
proportionate checks should have extended into finding out about Mr Ms income and 
expenditure, Im satisfied that they would more like than not have shown Avant Credit that it 
shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr M. As Avant Credit provided Mr M with this loan, 
notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. 
Mr M has ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan he shouldnt have been 
provided with. So Im satisfied that Mr M lost out because of what Avant Credit did wrong 
and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Avant Credit needs to do to put things right for Mr M
Having thought about everything, Avant Credit should put things right for Mr M by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr M paid as a result of this loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments, if any, from the 
date they were made by Mr M to the date of settlement
removing any adverse information recorded about this loan should be removed from 
Mr Ms credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Avant Credit to take off tax from this interest. Avant 
Credit must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman