DRN-2331333
The complaint
Mr B complains that Towergate Underwriting Group Limited mis-sold him a home insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr B took out an insurance policy to cover his holiday home. Towergate sold the policy to Mr 
B whilst another company provided the insurance cover.
He made a claim after there was a landslip near his home. The insurer declined the claim 
because it said there had been no damage to the building. Mr B complained to Towergate. 
He recalled speaking to Towergate before taking out the policy and being reassured this kind 
of problem would be covered by the policy. As it hadnt been, he felt the policy had been 
mis-sold to him. He also complained about the service hed been offered by Towergate when 
making his claim initially.
Towergate was satisfied it had given Mr B the correct information when selling the policy. It 
thought the policy should cover the claim and said it would ask the insurer to reconsider its 
decision. It accepted the wording of the documents it had sent Mr B could have been clearer 
about what number to call to make a claim and would have caused him some concern. It 
apologised and refunded its customer service fee of £31.50.
Unhappy with this response, Mr B referred his complaint to our service. An investigator 
considered it and didnt recommend it be upheld. Mr B disagreed and so his complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurer is responsible for the outcome of the claim and the way it was handled. Its a 
separate business to Towergate and so I cant consider those points in this decision.
This complaint is against Towergate. Its about the way it sold the policy and the service it 
offered. Thats what Ill consider in this decision.
Policy sale
When selling the policy to Mr B, Towergate had a duty to provide him with information that 
was clear, fair and not misleading, so he could make an informed choice about whether it 
was right for him. That duty included answering Mr Bs questions about policy cover.
The policy contains a term which says, in summary, that subsidence and landslip is covered, 
subject to some specific situations in which this cover is limited or excluded entirely. One 
situation excluded from cover is where there is a subsidence or landslip problem, but it 
doesnt damage the main building. The insurer relied on this term to decline the claim.
When he made his complaint to Towergate, Mr B said hed been assured that if landslip or 
subsidence occurred on the land on which the property stands, he would be covered. Im not 
satisfied thats the impression Towergate gave him. Ill explain why.
Mr B obtained a quote for the policy online. He called Towergate to discuss it and ultimately 
chose to buy the policy during that call. Ive listened to the call carefully. I wont set out 
everything said during the call, Ill summarise the points I think are key to this complaint.
Towergate said the policy covered subsidence and landslip. But any damage to hedges, 
gates or fences wouldnt be covered unless the main building was also damaged.
Mr B asked about a situation where landslip damaged a gate or fence and could go on to 
damage the building. Would he have to wait until the building was damaged in order to make 
a claim? He gave an example of perhaps two months between the landslip and damage to 
the building. Towergate said it would depend on the circumstances. But if the only damage 
was to things like gates or fences, it wouldnt be covered.
Mr B said he wasnt concerned about gates or fences, more the wider impact of a landslip or 
subsidence problem as it could damage the building within a matter of days. Towergate 
indicated this kind of situation would be covered.
Im satisfied Towergate gave Mr B the impression that any landslip or subsidence problem 
that led to the building being damaged in a short period of time would be covered. Im not 
persuaded it gave the impression that other situations, where the main building wasnt 
damaged, would be covered.
The insurer declined Mr Bs claim around a month after the landslip occurred. At that time, it 
understood there was no damage to the building. I havent seen anything to suggest that 
understanding was wrong or challenged at that time. So the circumstances Mr B faced in his 
claim, and which led the insurer to decline it, are different to those he described to 
Towergate  and which led to Towergate saying Mr B would be covered.
Mr B has recently told us the building has suffered damage. As the investigator told Mr B, 
thats something for him to take up with the insurer. This has been said around a year after 
the claim was declined. So again, the circumstances in Mr Bs claim are different to those 
discussed with Towergate  and which led to Towergate saying Mr B would be covered.
I havent seen anything to suggest the answers Towergate gave to Mr Bs questions were 
wrong or misleading. And I dont agree it gave him reassurance that any problem associated 
with a landslide or subsidence would be covered.
After the call, the policy was setup and the policy documents were sent to Mr B. The term is 
highlighted within these documents. That means Towergate gave Mr B the opportunity to 
double check he was willing to continue with the policy which contained the term.
Overall, Im not satisfied the policy was mis-sold. Towergate discussed the policy term with 
Mr B during the call and included it clearly in the policy documents. When Mr B asked follow-
up questions about the term, Towergates answers were fair. Mr B understood the cover was 
more extensive than it was, but Im not persuaded Towergate was responsible for this 
misunderstanding.
Mr B has said hes found a different policy which does provide the cover he wanted, so cover 
for landslide even without building damage is available. I havent seen a copy of the policy, 
so I dont know exactly what it covers. But even if it does provide more extensive cover than the Towergate policy, as I havent found Towergate mis-sold the policy, I dont think it makes 
a difference whether alternative policies with different cover may have been available.
Service offered
When Mr B tried to make his claim, he used a number in the policy for holiday homes. But he 
was unable to get through to the right department and it took a number of calls before he 
was able to make his claim. Its clear this caused him frustration at an already distressing 
time.
Towergate has said the policy contained two different numbers for holiday home claims  
one of which would put Mr B in touch with the right department and the other wouldnt. It 
accepted the correct number could have been more prominent and refunded its customer 
service fee of £31.50. Im satisfied that was fair.
The correct number was in the policy and clearly labelled. So, the right information had been 
made available to Mr B. But the other number wasnt as clearly labelled, so I can see how it 
may have appeared to be right and led to Mr B spending more time trying to reach the right 
department than he should have.
Mr B also said Towergate had been unclear about who his insurer was, the impact of Brexit 
on the policy and who administered it. Im satisfied Towergate was reasonably clear on 
these points. And I havent seen anything to indicate these matters caused any difficulties 
with the claim or influenced Mr Bs decision to take out the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman