DRN-3955784
The complaint
Vs complaint is about a claim they made on their Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
(RSA) commercial liability insurance policy.
V says RSA treated it unfairly. 
In this decision Ive referred to Vs submissions as its own rather than made by its 
representatives for ease of reading. And all references to RSA include their claims handlers.
What happened
In July 2018 V made a claim on its RSA commercial liability insurance policy for cover to 
defend a claim against it in relation to the installation of cavity wall insulation. The Claimant 
in that claim alleged that the insulation caused damage to their property. 
V informed its broker and insurer of the claim but the matter didnt progress for a significant 
period of time. RSA did eventually acknowledge the claim but didnt confirm cover under the 
policy until March 2022. 
By that time V had instructed Solicitors to help defend the claim against it at its own cost. 
When RSA confirmed cover, V was in the process of trying to settle matters with the 
Claimant. Its Solicitor had negotiated a global offer that was over 50% less than the claim 
being made against V. 
V asked RSA to cover the settlement sum and its own costs. RSA agreed to pay part of the 
settlement but not all of it on the basis that cover wasnt available for all of the items claimed 
by the Claimant under Vs policy. They did however offer to pay all of the Claimants costs 
but not all of Vs Solicitors costs. 
The complaint V initially brought to this Service was about the delays in RSA dealing with its 
claim. It later submitted another complaint about the settlement offer RSA was making, 
which RSA answered. For the sake of expediency, the parties agreed for this Service to look 
at both complaints together. 
Our investigator considered Vs complaint and said that we could look at RSAs actions from 
1 April 2019 because that was the time that V, as a small/medium sized enterprise came 
under our jurisdiction. Having considered Vs complaint from that date, he concluded it 
should be upheld. The investigator determined that the delays caused by RSA in dealing 
with the claim were unreasonable and because of this V was left to navigate the litigation 
without assistance and wasnt able settle things with the Claimant at a much earlier stage. 
Because of this he felt that RSA should cover the settlement sum reached between V and 
the Claimant in its entirety on a global basis as well as Vs own Solicitors costs in dealing 
with the claim. He also said RSA should pay V £650 for the inconvenience caused. The 
investigator didnt however think that RSA needed to pay Vs Solicitors costs in dealing with 
the claim for cover with RSA or Vs broker because thats something that V could have done 
itself.
RSA didnt accept the investigators view in its entirety. They said they werent prepared to 
make any further payments towards the settlement sum, having already paid £14,000 in 
respect of this, but they would pay Vs Solicitors costs in their entirety and £650 in 
compensation to V. They also made the point that no payments had been deducted from the 
sums paid by them to V on account for the £500 excess applicable to the policy- nor indeed 
on their offer to settle the claim.
Because the offer fell £8,000 short of the settlement sum V agreed with the Claimant and the 
investigator remained of the view that it was reasonable for RSA to pay this, the matter has 
been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator that Vs complaint should be upheld in the way 
he directed but for one adjustment to the compensation sum which I will address below in 
further detail.
As the investigator explained, I can only look at RSAs actions from 1 April 2019 because Im 
not able to decide complaints made by V before this time as small/medium sized enterprises 
didnt fall within this Services jurisdiction at that time.
Given the position of both parties, the issue before me to decide is essentially whether RSA 
should pay another £8,000 in respect of the settlement sum V agreed with the Claimant. 
RSA takes the view that this amount is essentially representative of sums that wouldnt have 
been covered under the policy so they shouldnt have to pay this.
Having considered everything, I dont think its fair or reasonable for RSA to apply the terms 
of the policy strictly in this case. RSA has accepted that they did something wrong by failing 
to consider the claim from 1 April 2019 and explain what V was covered for. So, it falls to me 
to determine what the consequences of this were. RSA didnt accept the claim until March 
2022- so almost three years later. In that time V was left to deal with the claim without the 
benefit of the policy cover it purchased. 
In that time V sought to defend the claim and explored settlement. But I appreciate why V 
didnt settle the claim sooner- it was after all covered for a big proportion of the loss being 
claimed for by its RSA policy- so settling the claim without RSAs approval wouldve 
potentially meant it wouldve had to cover that loss itself. Despite this, Vs Solicitors 
continued with their efforts to agree a reduced settlement, thereby reducing RSAs liability 
rather than proceeding to trial. And whilst its true that RSA didnt approve the settlement 
figure before it was agreed, they were at the very least responding to V at that point to 
confirm the availability of cover. Indeed, settlement appears to have been reached after Vs 
Solicitor obtained the advice of a Barrister who said that V was likely to be liable for 60% of 
the claim. Given the circumstances, and Vs Solicitors repeated requests for RSA to confirm 
its agreement to the settlement reached, I can see why V felt it had no option but to bring 
matters to conclusion by settling without RSAs approval. The effect of doing so did in any 
event reduce RSAs liability on both costs and the sums claimed by the Claimant. 
And I agree with the investigator that the offer agreed with the Claimant was a global one- so 
it wouldnt be fair to reduce it on the basis that a proportion of it might relate to items that 
werent initially covered by the policy. Had V waited for RSA to approve the offer and not 
settled, I have no doubt that RSAs exposure to both costs and damages wouldve been 
considerably more than the £8,000 its refusing to pay V.RSA say that V settled the claim on the terms it did in the knowledge that RSA wasnt 
prepared to cover every aspect of the claim. Ive already set out why I think it was 
reasonable for V to settle the claim when it did. The fact that they did so without RSA 
agreeing every aspect of it some considerable time after they failed to do anything at all, 
doesnt in my view mean that RSA shouldnt cover the additional £8,000 being claimed by V 
in respect of the settlement.
Overall, had matters gone as they should, I dont think V wouldve found itself in the position 
it did because RSA wouldve confirmed what was covered under the policy and allowed Vs 
Solicitors to explore settlement for an amount that reflected that much sooner in the 
litigation- and certainly not three years into it. 
I note that RSA has referenced that fact that no deductions have been made by it for the 
£500 excess applicable to the policy. I agree that RSA is entitled to deduct that from the 
claim, but I also take the view that the award of redress the investigator has awarded doesnt 
go far enough to compensate V for the three years of inconvenience of defending litigation 
without the benefit of a response on insurance cover that it instructed Solicitors to continue 
chasing. Because of this I think that an additional award of £500 is appropriate, which would 
be cancelled out by deduction of the excess in any event. This issue is one I asked the 
investigator to put to the parties and invite any further comment before I determined it. V has 
accepted what Ive said but RSA hasnt. They take the view that there isnt any evidence of V 
chasing for a response after making the initial claim beyond a few times. They say contact 
from V was sporadic and infrequent and when the complaint was made to this Service it was 
about a different insurer. RSA also questioned what the additional award was for.
Ive considered what both parties have said on this point and Im not satisfied that RSA did 
enough in the circumstances. The various items of correspondence Ive seen from Vs 
Solicitors chasing for a reply on the claim was enough in my view to warrant a response. 
And even if there were periods where V didnt chase say every month in the three year 
period, I can understand why. Firstly, no substantive response on cover was being received 
from anyone who was potentially responsible for their claim and secondly, their focus was 
very much on dealing with the claim itself whilst seeking cover. And its true that V thought 
another insurer was responsible for the claim when they got in touch but thats because of 
the way in which the policy was set up. RSA is ultimately responsible for the claim its claims 
handlers actions in failing to properly deal with the claim. And its true that the compensation 
Im suggesting is higher than that awarded by the investigator but I think its more 
appropriate to accounts for almost three years of inconvenience to V in defending litigation 
without the benefit of a response on insurance cover that it was entitled to. 
Finally, I know that V has accepted the investigators view but for the sake of completeness I 
agree that V isnt entitled to its own Solicitors costs in pursuing its insurance claim either 
with RSA or its broker because theres nothing to suggest that V couldnt have done this 
itself and without incurring Solicitors costs as a result. Putting things right
For the reasons set out above RSA should pay V:
A total of £22,000 in respect of the settlement offer it reached with the Claimant, but they 
will be entitled to deduct the sum of £14,000 theyve already paid towards this;
Vs Solicitors costs amounting to £64,278.20 but they will be entitled to deduct 
£38,247.23 theyve already paid towards this;
£1,150 for the inconvenience it caused in failing to respond substantively to Vs claim for 
three years
Any interest on sums V has already paid the Claimant or its Solicitors that has yet to be 
reimbursed by RSA at a rate of 8% per year simple from the time that payment was 
made, until its paid. I havent received any representations that interest is applicable in 
this case but if it is Id expect V to evidence what its paid and when in order to allow 
RSA to calculate if anything is payable in respect of this. 
RSA will be entitled to deduct £500 from the sums its paying to V to represent the policy 
excess applicable to this claim.
My final decision
I uphold Vs complaint and direct it to put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman