DRN-4041725
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs T have complained that St Andrew's Insurance Plc (St Andrews) unfairly 
declined a claim for malicious damage under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T and Mrs T needed some repairs to their roof. They found a company to carry out the 
work. When the work started, the company explained said there was more damage that 
needed to be repaired. Mr T and Mrs T became concerned by the damage described and 
the costs quoted to repair it. After disputes with the company, the work was stopped. 
When Mr T and Mrs T had another assessment of the roof, a range of damage was found, 
including from the use of inappropriate materials to carry out a repair. Mr T and Mrs T 
contacted St Andrews to make a claim for malicious damage to their roof by the company 
that had attempted the repairs. St Andrews declined the claim. It said the companys action 
had been to gain payment and the damage was the result of poor workmanship, which 
wasnt covered by the policy.
So, Mr T and Mrs T complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He said it 
was reasonable for St Andrews to decide the damage to the roof was the result of poor 
workmanship rather than malicious intent and to decline the claim.
As Mr T and Mrs T didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I have considered all of the evidence on the file, including Mr Ts detailed comments. If I 
dont comment on it here, it doesnt mean I havent considered it. Rather my decision has 
focussed on what I think is necessary to make a fair and reasonable decision.
Looking at the policy, this provided cover for malicious damage. It didnt define malicious 
damage. In the absence of a policy definition, I think it is reasonable to consider that damage 
was malicious if the person intended harm by damaging the property. 
Im aware Mr T and Mrs T have been dealing with this matter through trading standards 
organisations and that offences were being investigated under unfair trading regulations and 
fraud legislation. I also read an overall assessment of the situation from a surveyor, which 
said:
"Clearly what I believe to have potentially been a simple problem of minor water
penetration has been escalated to extensive unnecessary works charged at an
extortionate rate. The work has been very poorly executed and taken an excessive
amount of time to undertake and ultimately the property was left open, exposed and
in a dangerous condition."
Ive thought about this carefully. From what I can see, this showed that the issues were 
considered to be related to the range and standard of work and the charges involved. The 
work was described as poorly executed rather than malicious. Im aware of the more recent 
comments Mr T provided following a visit from another surveyor.
Im also aware of Mr T and Mrs Ts description of the circumstances in which they said the 
main person who worked on their roof had come to work for the company. Despite the 
concerning circumstances described, this doesnt persuade me that the work was carried out 
maliciously. In my view, it more likely suggests that the person was unqualified or unable to 
carry out the work to a satisfactory standard. 
Im also mindful of the intimidation Mr T and Mrs T said they experienced when they tried to 
question or challenge the work and the costs involved. I dont doubt this was distressing but, 
from what Ive seen, including reading the statements Mr T and Mrs T later gave to explain 
what had happened, this seemed primarily to gain payment. So, I think it was reasonable for 
St Andrews to decline the claim on the basis that the damage to the property wasnt 
malicious and was, instead, poor workmanship.
Having thought about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require St Andrews to 
do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman