DRN-2619646
The complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
The policy was taken out in connection with a mortgage that Mr G arranged in 1990. 
Halifaxs records suggest the policy was taken out in 1991. It covered Mr G if he couldnt 
work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators 
conclusions so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it
recommended was suitable for Mr Gs needs?
- Did Halifax give Mr G the information he needed to decide whether to take out
the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether
Mr G is worse off as a result. That is, would he have done something different 
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr G suggests Halifax presented the PPI as part of the overall mortgage package, and that 
he wasnt given a proper choice about buying it. Ive noted everything Mr G has said.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr G and
Halifax when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events happened many years
ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
In addition, Halifaxs records suggest the PPI was sold some time after Mr Gs mortgage was 
arranged. This wasnt unusual, as lenders sometimes offered the PPI during the lifetime of 
the original borrowing. If Mr G bought the PPI after his mortgage was in place, I think he 
wouldve realised that it wasnt a condition of getting the loan he wanted.
So without anything else to support what Mr G has told me, I dont think I can fairly
and reasonably say that Halifax didnt make him aware that the PPI was optional.
Halifax has accepted that it advised Mr G to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it
was unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I say this
because:
- Mr G was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and
conditions.
- Mr D says he was entitled to employer benefits if he couldnt work due to
sickness or accident, and that his father wouldve helped him if things went wrong. 
But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Gs employer benefits. Having the 
policy in place wouldve meant Mr G could use his employer benefits to pay for other 
expenses. And it wouldve meant he didnt have to rely on his father. So I still think 
the policy wouldve been useful to him, despite his existing arrangements. 
- Mr G wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits,
such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical
conditions. As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it 
unlikely he needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and 
limitations.
- I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr G before he agreed to buy
it. But he took out the cover knowing he would have to pay something for it. The 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr G
would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been
provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should
have been. But as Ive already said, Mr G wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or
limitations and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr G would have
made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think he would 
still have taken out the policy.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman