DRN-3271156
The complaint
Mr K complains that Stackhouse Poland Limited trading as Medical Professional Indemnity 
Group (MPIG) didnt report a notifiable circumstance to his insurers and that this has caused 
him a loss. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. 
Mr K held an insurance policy between February 2018 and February 2019. The policy 
provided the following cover:
Medical Professional Indemnity & Public Liability Insurance which was underwritten 
by an insurer Ill refer to as W.
Legal Protection Insurance which was underwritten by an insurer Ill refer to as A. 
He also had the benefit of a Medico Legal Advisory Service which was provided by MPIG. 
In January 2019 Mr K contacted MPIG. He had been asked to prepare a statement for a 
Coroner relating to one of his former patients and wanted to use the advisory service to 
review his statement. The statement was reviewed and MPIG confirmed at the time that they 
hadnt notified any claim to any insurer. 
In February 2019 Mr Ks policy lapsed and he took cover elsewhere with an insurer Ill refer 
to as C. 
In September 2019 Mr K again contacted MPIG. He sought some further advice. MPIG 
responded and asked if he was now named as an interested party, as if he was, they would 
notify the insurer. MPIG followed this up later the same day to refer Mr K to his current 
insurer as theyd responded in error not realising his previous policy had lapsed. 
I understand Mr K made a claim to C for representation at Coroners court but this was 
declined due to an exclusion relating to circumstances known at inception. Essentially both 
MPIG and C were saying that the other ought to respond to the claim. 
An offer was made to fund a barrister to represent Mr K at the inquest. But Mr K declined this 
as hed already arranged representation. Mr K complained about the actions of MPIG. MPIG 
didnt believe theyd done anything wrong, but they did offer Mr K £700 to resolve his 
complaint as this is what they would have spent on the barrister had he taken them up on 
their offer. 
The complaint was referred to our service and one of our Investigators didnt recommend 
that it should be upheld. In summary she didnt think MPIG had acted unfairly. As he 
disagrees, Mr K has asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for similar reasons. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr K, so Ill explain why. 
I think it would be useful to clarify that any claims decision is the responsibility of the relevant 
underwriter of the policy. This complaint is about the actions of MPIG, who arent an insurer. 
So, as our investigator has pointed out, should Mr K be unhappy with any claims decision, 
this is something he should take up with the relevant insurer. 
The consideration here amounts to whether MPIG were wrong when they didnt notify either 
insurer (W or A) when Mr K contacted them in January 2019. Ill look at each policy in turn 
when assessing this. Id expect MPIG to be familiar with Mr Ks policies. 
Professional Indemnity and Public Liability  (underwritten by W). 
This policy says: 
The insured shall give to the Insurer, as soon as possible, but in any event within 30 days 
from the Insured becoming first aware and no later than expiry of the Period of Insurance, 
notification of:
3.2.1 any Claim;
3.2.2 any circumstance. The Insurer agrees that any Circumstance notified to them during 
the Period of Insurance which subsequently gives rise to a Claim after expiry of this 
insurance shall be deemed to be a Claim first made and notified during the Period of 
Insurance.
The policy defines claim as A written demand for Compensation or damages (including 
claimants costs and expenses) against the Insured. 
The word circumstance is also specifically defined as Information or facts or matters of 
which the Insured is aware which may give rise to a Claim against the Insured in respect of 
which the Insured could become legally liable and which arises out of the exercise and 
conduct of the Insureds Business.
I think its fair MPIG didnt consider that Mr K contacting them for advice about a statement 
for Coroners court, was something which should have been notified to the insurer as a 
claim. There is no suggestion that there had been a written demand for compensation or 
damages and Mr K himself confirmed his involvement was not directly related to the patients 
death. 
I likewise think it was reasonable that MPIG didnt report this as a circumstance either. At 
that stage Mr K had only been asked for a statement for Coroners court. He wasnt listed as 
an interested party. And the background is that Mr K had operated on a patients leg and 
then a few days later the patient sadly died of unrelated complications. I dont think MPIG 
were unreasonable when thinking that at that time there was nothing to suggest that this 
may later give rise to a claim against him. Indeed, Ive seen evidence from a claims solicitor 
at W which supports that they wouldnt have expected to have been notified of this as a circumstance at the time. And in any case even if what happened here did amount to a claim 
or circumstance, the policy terms require that to be notified to MPIG (which would constitute 
notification to the insurer). So thered be nothing further MPIG needed to do in relation to 
this. 
Im aware Mr K has concerns about a later claim being made against him. Should a claim 
arise, it will be the responsibility of his insurers (current and previous) to give him an answer 
as to whether they will assist. And given my finding above that MPIG werent at fault for not 
notifying a claim or circumstance to W in January 2019, there isnt a reasonable basis upon 
which I can tell them theyd need to provide indemnity themselves should such a claim be 
made. 
Legal Protection Insurance  (underwritten by A)
A relevant term within the policy says: 
The Insurer agrees to indemnify the Insured against Legal Expenses incurred in 
representing the Insured at an inquest into the death of a third party provided that:
4.1 the Insured was responsible for the medical care of the deceased subject to the 
inquest; and
4.2 the Insured is deemed an interested party in the inquest proceedings.
The policy goes on to say:
It is a condition precedent to the liability of the Insurer that Coverholder be notified, as 
explained above, during the Period of Insurance as soon as possible from the date on which 
the Insured becomes aware of any cause, event or circumstance which has given, or may 
give rise, to a Claim, dispute, legal proceedings or HMRC Investigation involving the 
Insured.
Its arguable whether or not the situation amounted to a circumstance where the legal 
protection policy was concerned. And I understand Mr Ks suggestion that he had nothing to 
lose in reporting it (as opposed to not). But on balance, I think MPIG concluding that this 
wasnt a circumstance was reasonable. At that stage Mr K had only been asked to provide a 
statement, there was no suggestion he would be called to court and that hed require legal 
representation. 
But having said that, even if Im wrong and this was a circumstance that ought to have been 
notified to A, Im not persuaded that this has caused any detriment. Ive not seen evidence to 
support that a claim was made to A for assistance with representation at the inquest and that 
this was declined because they hadnt previously been notified of the potential for a claim. 
And even if that were the case, I think MPIG offering to fund a barrister to represent Mr K at 
the inquest was fair in all the circumstances. Im satisfied the barrister they proposed was 
suitably qualified and they would have effectively provided comparable service to that which 
would have been available under his policy with A. Ive considered Mr Ks submissions about 
why he doesnt agree with this and his reasons for wishing to continue with his own 
representation. But ultimately it was Mr Ks choice to use his own solicitor rather than the 
barrister MPIG offered to fund. So, I dont think MPIG ought to be liable for any of the costs 
Mr K incurred as a consequence of his decision. I also think MPIG offering to pay Mr K the 
£700 they would have paid the barrister is fair and reasonable.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman