DRN-4077239
The complaint
Mrs A has complained that replacement phones provided to her under her insurance policy 
with WDP Insurance Limited (WDP) were unsatisfactory.
References to WDP include its agents and administrators.
What happened
Mrs A bought an insurance policy for her phone through a retailer on 14 July 2018. The 
insurer under that policy after 15 November 2017 was WDP. The phone was used by Mrs 
As daughter and Mrs A was concerned about her daughters security when the phone didn't 
work as expected. 
In July 2020 the original phone broke because of a smashed screen. WDP sent out  a 
refurbished replacement  (Replacement 1) on 13 July 2020. 
On 21 September 2020, over two months after receiving it, Mrs A reported to WDP that there 
were issues with Replacement 1. WDPs records show that Mrs A reported that there was a 
problem with the camera, the signal dropped, it didnt pick up calls, and it was slow and 
froze.
When Replacement 1 was returned to WDP and inspected, it was found to be functionally 
sound but with a scratched screen. 
WDP sent out another replacement (Replacement 2) which was delivered to Mrs A on 25 
September 2020.
In November 2020, nearly two months after receiving it, Mrs A returned Replacement 2. 
WDP replaced it with another (Replacement 3). 
When WDP inspected Replacement 2, it was found to be functionally sound but with a deep 
scratch on the screen. 
Mrs A complained to WDP on 26 October 2020 that shed received more than one faulty 
replacement phone and by way of resolution shed like a brand-new phone. WDP told Mrs A 
that as it couldnt find any faults with the returned phones, it couldnt provide her with a new 
phone. 
Mrs A brought her complaint to this service. Shes said shed like some compensation for the 
inconvenience shes been caused by having to return replacement phones and for the time 
when the phone wasnt working.
Our investigators view was that even if the replacement phones were functional as WDP 
says they were, for it to supply a replacement phone with scratches on the screen  wasnt 
fair or reasonable. She referred to a term of Mrs As policy which states that a customer 
should not be able to tell the difference between a new and a refurbished phone, which 
wasnt the case here. Her view was that WDP should pay Mrs A £100 compensation.
In response to our investigators view, WDP has said that the replacement phones when 
returned were not found to be faulty, and that theres no evidence to suggest they were sent 
to Mrs A with scratches. If they had been scratched, it wouldve expected Mrs A to have 
reported this immediately instead of waiting a number of months to do so.
As it doesnt agree with our investigators view, Mrs As complaint has been referred to me 
as an ombudsman for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I initially issued a provisional decision in this case to enable Mrs A and WDP to provide any 
further information they wanted me to take into consideration. Having not received any 
further information, Im maintaining my decision which is as follows.
Ive considered what Mrs As policy says about the condition that can be expected of 
replacement phones. It says this:
We dont offer new for old cover so any replacement device you receive may be 
refurbished to our standard using original equipment manufacturer parts. Our aim is that 
you will not be able to tell the difference between a new and refurbished device. In the 
unlikely event we cant send you a same model replacement, well offer you a different 
make, model or colour device with comparable features and functionality.
In my view, if a replacement phone is delivered with a scratched screen, this wouldnt satisfy 
the requirement for it to look like a new phone. In this respect I agree with our investigator.
But if Mrs A had received two phones with scratched screens, one apparently with very deep 
scratches, I consider it was incumbent on Mrs A to report this to WDP promptly following 
delivery of these phones to her. It is up to her to prove what she alleges. It is easier for her to 
prove that a phone was damaged upon receipt than for WDP to prove some months later 
that it wasnt. 
The fact that Mrs A didnt mention scratched screens for some months makes it in my view 
more likely than not that they werent scratched when she received them. WDP has said that 
any scratches on device screens wouldve failed its internal inspection prior to them being 
sent out to customers.  Nor is there any evidence that the phones were faulty. They were 
examined by WDP and no faults were found. 
Mrs A has also said that her daughter needed a phone for her safety, but for the best part of 
twelve months her daughter was unable to use the phone, for which she seeks 
compensation. I consider it was also incumbent on Mrs A to report to WDP as soon as a 
phone became faulty, thereby minimising any period of inconvenience. 
Im therefore unable to conclude that WDP has done anything wrong or otherwise acted 
unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs A, so on the evidence before me Im unable to uphold 
her complaint or to ask WDP to do anything. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman