DRN-1143513
The complaint
This complaint is about how Nationwide Building Society administered a mortgage account 
after being informed that its customer, Mr C, had died. The complaint is brought on behalf of 
Mr Cs estate, by his daughter Mrs M, in her capacity as executor.
What happened
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so. No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the 
informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral. Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Mrs M when my decision is 
published.
Mr C had a mortgage with Nationwide, consisting of two sub accounts, the monthly 
payments for which were made by direct debit. Sadly, Mr C died in April 2016; his will 
appointed Mrs M as the executor of his estate. Its my understanding that the mortgaged 
property was the estates sole asset.
Mrs M and her husband decided theyd like to sell their own home and move into her late 
fathers property. Unfortunately, theyve not been able to find a buyer for their existing home, 
and in the spring of 2019, with arrears of over £6,000 having accrued on the mortgage, 
Nationwide decided to begin legal action for possession of the property. 
When Mrs M complained, Nationwide agreed to give her a further three months leeway in 
which to complete a sale. Our investigator thought Nationwides offer was fair. Mrs M has 
asked that the complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. My remit is to take an overview and 
decide whats fair in the round. Where theres a dispute about the evidence, its for me to decide if I have everything I need to determine the case fairly. Here, Im satisfied I can do so 
on the basis of what I have in front of me. 
I make another observation before I address the merits of the complaint, which is that for the 
purposes of my investigation (and our rules) Mrs M doesnt have a claim for losses of her 
own that we would be able to consider or remedy. This isnt a matter of respect or courtesy. 
Its a matter of our rules, as they determine who is eligible to bring a complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service (known as an eligible complainant).
The rules say the late Mr Cs estate is an eligible complainant. Mrs M represents the estate 
but that doesnt make her a customer of Nationwide, or an eligible complainant under our 
rules. Mrs Ms standing in respect of this complaint stems from her appointment as executor 
for the estate. 
This means that when assessing fair compensation, I cant take account of any time Mrs M 
has taken, or any trouble and upset or distress she feels shes been put to, as shes not the 
eligible complainant. Ive no doubt this has been a thoroughly unpleasant experience for Mrs 
M. Sadly, for the reasons outlined above, Ive no power to order that she be compensated 
personally for that. I can award compensation to Mr Cs estate if I believe it has suffered 
financial loss (and Ill come to that shortly) but I cant award compensation to the estate for 
upset, as its not possible for an estate to suffer upset.
It seems to me that the main thrust of Mrs Ms complaint is that she feels Nationwide hasnt 
communicated with her enough. Ive noted what she has said about assuming the dialogue 
she had with a third party about her late fathers other arrangements included the mortgage. 
To me, thats not what the outcome of the complaint turns on. 
Nationwide has provided copies of letters it (not the third party) sent to Mrs M (at her 
address, not the mortgaged property) in her capacity as executor, on the following dates:
7 September 2016;
10 October 2016;
31 October 2016;
12 February 2018;
3 December 2018;
28 December 2018;
17 January 2019.
In terms of content, the most important of these letters was the earliest; the 7 September 
2016 letter was the one that informed Mrs M that the mortgage payments were still due and 
should be paid from the estate. It also made clear that Mrs M, as executor, wasnt personally 
liable for the payments. 
Of equal importance in a complaint like this are Nationwides contact notes. The value of 
such notes is that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what was said and 
agreed at the relevant times. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible 
information might be recorded incorrectly; But its typically more reliable than peoples 
individual recollections which, although given in good faith, can sometimes be inaccurate or 
contradictory. So unless theres a compelling reason to believe the information is inaccurate, 
well generally attach some weight to it.
I said a moment ago that the most important letter was the first. Its apparent from the notes 
that Mrs M received the 7 September 2016 letter, because she replied to it enclosing a copy 
of the grant of probate. The notes also summarise Mrs M as saying in her reply that she was 
aware the house needed to be sold (at this stage, the plan to move into the house hadnt been formed), was aware interest would continue to accrue and if need be, she and her 
husband would meet the payments from their own resources.
As far as the remaining letters are concerned, I accept that not all post reaches its intended 
destination; but the vast majority of letters do get delivered correctly, so it seems rather 
unlikely that Mrs M received none of the other letters Nationwide sent her, particularly those 
from 2018 asking for updates on how the sale of her own property was progressing. 
I can see why Nationwide didnt write any chaser letters during 2017. It does look as though 
a sale of the mortgaged property was in progress initially because the contact notes record 
that on 29 March 2017, Nationwide agreed an extension of time on being informed a sale 
had been agreed. However, by May 2017, the contact notes show that Mrs M and her 
husband, unable to sell the mortgaged property, had decided by then to sell their own and 
move into the estate property. The notes also record Nationwides concern that it wasnt until 
August 2017 that Mrs Ms own home went on the market.
By February 2018, Nationwide was once again concerned at the lack of a sale to bring 
matters to a conclusion, and in fairness, I can understand why, given that by then, almost 
two years had passed since Mr C had died, during which time not a single payment had 
been made to the mortgage account.
I established earlier in my findings that Nationwide informed Mrs M the mortgage payments 
still needed to be met, and that Mrs M had indicated shed make them herself if need be 
(although Nationwide had made it clear she was under no obligation to do so). To be clear, 
Im not for one moment suggesting Mrs M should have done that or that she is at fault for not 
having done so. But the fact that no payments were being made will clearly have been a 
factor in Nationwide eventually deciding to initiate its own action to recover the debt.
Nonetheless, it was another year before that happened, and even after Mrs M complained, 
Nationwide was still prepared to give her another three months grace. Mrs M has said that 
three months is not long enough to sell a house; I dont mean this unkindly, but she appears 
to be forgetting that Nationwide has, at the time of my writing this decision, given her four 
years to repay the mortgage.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman