DRN-1917182
The complaint
Mr M complains that Premium Credit Limited cancelled his finance agreement for his motor 
insurance policy. He wants it to reinstate it as he cant afford to pay the annual premium 
upfront.
What happened
Mr M renewed his policy and the broker sent him his policy documents and details of his 
finance agreement with Premium Credit. But Mr M found a week later that the finance 
agreement had been cancelled without his knowledge.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He explained that 
Premium Credit carries out its credit checks once the arrangement has been sent to it. He 
saw that Mr M hadnt passed its credit checks and it had written to him to tell him to contact 
his broker to make other arrangements. He thought it was for Mr M to do this.
Mr M replied that it had taken three days for Premium Credit to carry out the credit check 
and hed received his policy confirmation in the meantime. He asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr M feels frustrated that his application for finance was declined after 
he thought it was set up. Hes explained that he needs to drive for work, and he cant afford 
to pay the premium upfront. I can understand that this must be stressful for him. 
Premium Credit told Mr M that it was obliged to make credit checks when providing finance. I 
think that as a responsible lender its obliged to do this. It said that in its Terms of Business 
under C3, Restrictions on further credit, it explains that it will cancel the credit agreement if 
it finds creditworthiness to be unsatisfactory. Ive checked these Terms and I think this is 
clearly explained. 
Premium Credit told us that it carried out credit checks after the arrangement was passed to 
it by the broker. This process is its commercial decision, so this isnt something I can 
comment on. 
Premium Credit received Mr Ms details and it carried out a credit check two days later. It 
said Mr M didnt pass the check. So it said it wrote to Mr M at the address provided by the 
broker to tell him this. Mr M said he didnt receive this letter. But I cant hold Premium Credit 
responsible for this as I can see the letter was sent. 
Ive noticed that Mr M called the broker a few days later to tell it of a change of address. He 
hasnt told us exactly when he moved or what arrangements were made for forwarding his 
post. I can see that Premium Credit sent its letter to the address provided by the broker 
which is different to where Mr M now lives. This may explain why he didnt receive the letter. 
I can see that Mr M was misinformed on two occasions by agents about who Premium Credit 
informed if the credit check failed. I can understand that this must have been frustrating. But 
I cant see that this caused Mr M any loss as its letter told him to contact his broker and the 
broker had access to Premium Credits records. 
So I think Premium Credit as a responsible lender carried out its credit check in a timely 
manner. Mr M didnt pass its check for creditworthiness. So I think it wrote to him cancelling 
the finance agreement, as it was entitled to do under its Terms of Business. I think it was 
then up to Mr M to make other arrangements for paying for his policy. I cant reasonably hold 
Premium Credit responsible for Mr Ms finances. So I cant say that Premium Credit did 
anything wrong or needs to compensate Mr M for not honouring the agreement. 
Mr M has subsequently told us that the broker told him that Premium Credit cancelled the 
agreement in error. But he hasnt sent in any evidence of this for me to consider.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman