DRN-3153162
The complaint
Miss K is unhappy because Bank of Scotland plc (Bank of Scotland) did not reimburse the 
money she transferred to a fraudster.
What happened
On the day of the Euro 2020 final in July 2021 Miss K used an online ticket marketplace to 
search for four tickets to the game. She couldnt find tickets at a price she wished to pay but 
left her contact details on the site to allow sellers to contact her if they had tickets. Miss K 
then received a message from someone offering her four tickets for £1,000 each. The seller 
asked Miss K if she wanted to see identification and she confirmed that she did. He sent a 
picture of himself and a driving licence. The name on the licence matched the name the 
seller provided when requested. Miss K says she knew she couldn't ask for proof of the 
tickets because she'd spoken to multiple sellers who confirmed that for security reasons, 
they were unable to show the tickets until after they had been bought.
Miss K says she spoke to the seller and agreed to pay half of the cost of the tickets and then 
she would pay the balance on receipt of the tickets. Miss K asked the seller for his bank 
details to make the transfer. Initially Miss Ks boyfriend made a £50 payment from his 
account and then tried to pay £1,950 but his bank blocked the second payment. Miss K then 
transferred £50 followed by £1,900 to the seller and asked him to send the tickets. The seller 
said he thought she was paying in full and went on to say that Miss K could either send the 
remaining £2,000 or hed refund her when he returned home. Miss K asked for the two 
tickets she had paid for and the seller refused. Ultimately Miss K didnt receive any tickets, or 
a refund, and the seller stopped communicating with her.
Miss K would like Bank of Scotland to refund the £1,950 she lost because she thinks Bank of 
Scotland failed to protect her. Bank of Scotland told Miss K that she entered the name of the 
recipient three times and it didnt match the account on each occasion. Particularly given 
this, Miss K thinks Bank of Scotland should not have made the payment. She says her 
partners bank refunded the initial £50 payment and blocked the larger one, and that Bank of 
Scotland should have done the same. In addition, she would like Bank of Scotland to 
compensate her for the additional stress its handling of her complaint and decision has 
caused. Miss K suffers from a condition that is triggered by stress and says this condition 
has flared following the scam. Her condition also played a part in falling victim to the scam, 
as she thought that her condition may worsen in time and so it might be her only opportunity 
to go to a European cup match. Miss K also thinks that Bank of Scotland delayed contacting 
the receiving bank and this meant funds couldnt be recovered.
Bank of Scotland is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  Bank of Scotland says one 
of those exceptions applies in this case. It says Miss K didnt complete enough validation 
checks on the seller or take steps to ensure the tickets existed. It pointed to the fact Miss K 
moved away from the ticket marketplace to pay for the tickets so lost the protection the site 
offered and entered the name of the account she was paying three times and none of the 
names matched the account holder.
The investigator who considered Miss Ks complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
- Miss K didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the seller was legitimate. This 
was because:
oThe seller contacted her out of the blue
oThe price of the tickets was unrealistic
oThe limited checks Miss K completed shouldnt have given her confidence the 
seller was genuine.
oThe fact that the seller asked for payment outside of the marketplace should 
have concerned Miss K.
- The payments werent remarkable enough to say that Bank of Scotland should have 
identified a scam risk. 
- Miss Ks vulnerability didnt impact her ability to protect herself from this particular 
scam.
- Bank of Scotland did what it could to recover Miss Ks funds.
- The time taken by Bank of Scotland to resolve the complaint was reasonable. 
Miss K didnt agree with the investigator and asked for her complaint to be reviewed, so its 
been passed to me to consider. In summary, she said:
- Bank of Scotland didnt complete enough due diligence for a customer of over 15 
years. It had a duty of care to protect and warn her, especially as she was paying a 
new payee. 
- She did ask the seller for evidence the tickets existed, but he said the same thing as 
the other sellers - which was that he couldnt show her the tickets. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Bank 
of Scotland should have reimbursed Miss K under the provisions of the CRM Code and 
whether it ought to have done more to protect Miss K from the possibility of financial harm 
from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Miss K was tricked into making the payment. But this isnt 
enough for her to receive a refund of the money under the CRM Code. The Code places a 
level of care on Miss K too. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
- The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate
*There are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code that do not apply to this case. The CRM Code says that customers should be reimbursed, irrespective of whether any 
exceptions apply, if they were vulnerable to the extent that they were unable to
protect themselves from the scam. The wording in the Code is as follows:
A Customer is vulnerable to APP scams if it would not be reasonable to expect that 
Customer to have protected themselves, at the time of becoming victim of an APP scam, 
against that particular APP scam, to the extent of the impact they suffered.
Miss K has told this service that she suffers from a long-term health condition and that it was 
partly because of this that she fell victim to this scam. Whilst Im sorry to hear about Miss Ks 
health, and Im sympathetic to her, Ive not seen anything to suggest that because of her 
health condition Miss K was unable to protect herself from this particular scam. I understand 
that because of her health condition Miss K was more keen to get tickets to the Euro 2020 
final, but this isnt the same as being unable to protect herself. 
Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of Miss K 
and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Bank of Scotland has raised about the 
legitimacy of the transactions Miss K made are enough to support its position that she failed 
to meet her requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the payments she made. I dont 
think she had a reasonable basis for believing the payments were for genuine goods or that 
the person she transacted with was legitimate. Ill explain why. 
- Miss K was contacted by a seller around four hours before the Euro 2020 final. 
Although Miss K says she had left her details on a ticket marketplace the seller didnt 
suggest he was contacting her in response. The ticket marketplace Miss K viewed 
earlier that day verified all sellers and sellers could gain trust points based on 
successful transactions and positive reviews. The marketplace also provided a 100% 
money back guarantee and only sent funds to a seller once the buyer had received 
their tickets. Miss K asked the seller for his bank details to make a transfer and didnt 
make any reference to the ticket marketplace. I believe she should have had 
concerns about completing a transaction outside of the marketplace meaning she 
had no protection if anything went wrong and about a seller who was prepared to do 
so. 
- The seller offered tickets that cost £1,000 each. Tickets through the official site sold 
out well before the day of the game but there was substantial media coverage of the 
high cost of tickets through resale websites (and the dangers of this). A newspaper 
article from the day of the final said tickets were being sold on resale sites from 
£1,600 to £15,000 each. When Miss K viewed the ticket marketplace she left her 
details on earlier that day tickets were being sold at prices Miss K didnt wish to pay, 
so I consider she had some understanding of how much tickets were being sold for. I 
think Miss K should reasonably have had concerns about being able to buy four 
tickets for the final at a total cost of £4,000 just hours before the game. I consider the 
price was too good to be true and the availability of four tickets at this stage 
questionable. 
- Miss K completed no independent checks and didnt ask for any information that 
verified the seller was genuine and had tickets to sell. It was the seller who offered to 
provide identification. This showed the name on his driving licence matched the email 
address the seller provided but not that he had tickets to sell. I understand Miss K 
has said none of the sellers would show the tickets until theyd received payment. But 
I consider a seller who had tickets would be prepared to provide some evidence, 
such as a screenshot from the Euro 2020 app (as all tickets were through the app) 
but not the actual ticket. 
- Bank of Scotlands records show that when Miss K transferred funds, she entered 
three different names and each time saw a message that said, This type of account cant be checked to see if the payee name and account number match. The fact that 
Miss K entered three different names suggests she had concerns. Particularly given 
that Miss Ks partner had initially attempted to make a £1,950 payment and his bank 
blocked it, and the factors I have set out above, I consider Miss K should have had 
concerns about proceeding with the payments.   
Should Bank of Scotland have done more to try to prevent the scam and protect Miss K? 
The CRM Code says that where firms identify authorised push payment scam risks in a 
payment journey, they should take reasonable steps to provide Effective Warnings to their 
customers. The Code also says that the assessment of whether a firm has met a standard or 
not should involve consideration of whether compliance with that standard would have had a 
material effect on preventing the scam. 
In the circumstances of this case I dont think Bank of Scotland should have provided Miss K 
with an effective warning. Miss K initially made a payment of £50 to a new payee, followed 
by a further payment of £1,900. I dont consider either payment was unusual. Having 
considered Miss Ks statements for the 12-month period before she made the payments its 
clear she regularly made faster payments for £500 and £1,000 and also some larger sums 
including a £7,000 transfer. 
Im aware Miss K set up a new payee and that making payments to a new payee can 
indicate that there is a greater risk of the payment being fraudulent than if the payment is 
made to an existing payee. But at the same time, its important to recognise that most 
payments to new payees are legitimate and not a cause for concern. So Ive thought about 
whether there was anything else about the payments that ought to have alerted Bank of 
Scotland to a scam risk. But I dont consider that either payment was remarkable. For 
example, they werent significantly out of keeping with how Miss K tended to operate her 
account and the payments didnt clear the balance of her account. 
Miss K believes Bank of Scotland should have stopped the payments because there was no 
confirmation of payee match. The message Miss K got when she made the payments was 
that the type of account couldnt be checked to see if the details matched. The message 
went on to say that the details may be correct but should be checked with the payee if the 
customer is unsure. So, Bank of Scotland didnt know whether the details matched. In these 
circumstances, I dont believe there was enough going on that Bank of Scotland should have 
stopped the payments.
Im also mindful that when Miss K made these payments, Bank of Scotland should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud. So Ive also considered 
whether the payment Miss K made was unusual or suspicious. But for the same reasons Ive 
set out above, the payments Miss K was making were unremarkable so I dont think they 
stood out enough for Bank of Scotland to have been concerned that Miss K might have been 
at risk of financial harm from fraud at the time she made them. Miss K had made legitimate 
payments for similar and greater amounts in the months before. 
Ive also considered Bank of Scotlands actions once it was made aware of the scam. Miss K 
reported the scam on 12 July 2021 and Bank of Scotland contacted the receiving bank on 
the same day, but no funds remained. In the circumstances, I consider Bank of Scotland 
acted reasonably and promptly in attempting to recover Miss Ks funds. 
Overall
I consider Miss K didnt have a reasonable basis for believing she was making a payment for 
genuine tickets and/or the seller of the tickets was legitimate. Im sorry to have to disappoint 
Miss K, but I cant fairly say Bank of Scotland should have done more or that it should refund 
the money that she has lost.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman