DRN-4042389
The complaint
Mr T complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money he lost when he was the victim 
of a scam.
What happened
In June 2021, Mr T received a phone call from someone claiming to be from the fraud team 
of another bank he had an account with. The caller told him fraudsters were trying to steal 
his money, and so he should move it to another account to keep it safe. They asked if Mr T 
had accounts with any other banks and, when Mr T said he had an account with Monzo, the 
caller suggested he move his money there. Mr T then transferred the balance of his account 
with the other bank to his Monzo account.
The caller said theyd arrange an appointment for Mr T to sort out his account with a local 
branch. But, as the soonest appointment they could get was the following day, they then 
suggested Mr T move his money from his Monzo account to a new account they had set up 
for him  to keep it safe until then. Mr T then made three payments from his Monzo account 
to the new account details the caller gave him, totalling £2,050. Unfortunately, we now know 
the caller was a scammer.
The scam was uncovered as Mr T messaged his wife while he was on the call with the 
scammer, and she suggested it sounded suspicious. Mr T then said he wanted to do more 
checks into who the caller was. The caller said they would call back later to give Mr T time to 
do those checks, but then never called back. Mr T contacted his other bank, who confirmed 
it was a scam, and then contacted Monzo to report the payments as fraud and ask it to 
refund the money he had lost.
Monzo investigated but said, when Mr T was making the payments, it showed him warnings 
that this could have been a scam but he chose to make the payment anyway. So it didnt 
agree to refund the money he had lost. Monzo was able to recover £41.75 from the account 
the money was sent to though. Mr T wasnt satisfied with Monzos response, so referred a 
complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They didnt think Monzo had established 
that Mr T ignored an effective warning, or made the payments without a reasonable basis for 
believing that they were legitimate. So they thought Monzo should refund the money Mr T 
had lost, less the money it had already recovered. Monzo disagreed with our investigator, so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
Monzo isnt a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code) but has said it is committed to applying the principles set out in it. This code 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim of authorised push payment 
scams, like the one Mr T fell victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. And it is 
for the firm to establish that one of those exceptions to reimbursement applies.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Did Mr T ignore an effective warning in relation to the payments?
The CRM code says that an effective warning should enable a customer to understand what 
actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not doing so. And it 
says that, as a minimum, an effective warning should be understandable, clear, impactful, 
timely and specific.
Monzo has sent us screenshots of the warning Mr T was shown before making the first 
payment. And this does mention being told your account is at risk. But it also mentions a 
number of other possible scams and doesnt provide much detail on what each type of scam 
might look or feel like. And I dont think its clear enough about the seriousness of the 
potential consequences of sending money to a scammer. So I dont think this warning was 
impactful or specific enough to be effective in Mr Ts circumstances.
Before Mr T made the second payment, Monzo spoke to him through its in-app chat and 
gave him a number of warnings about possible scams. These warnings mentioned that 
legitimate organisations would never claim that your account is in danger or ask you to move 
large amounts of money. They said that its almost impossible to retrieve money after its 
sent by a bank transfer. And they said that, if Mr T had provided Monzo with any 
misinformation in the chat that results in him sending a fraudulent payment, it wouldnt be 
able to refund the money he lost.
But I dont think these warning went into enough detail on what the scam might look or feel 
like either. They didnt mention that scammers could pressure you to make payments 
immediately. And they didnt mention that scammers could spoof phone numbers, to make it 
appear as if they were calling from a legitimate organisation, which is often an integral part of 
this type of scam.The warnings also didnt mention any actions Mr T could take to address the risk that he was 
falling victim to a scam, such as hanging up the phone and calling the organisation back on 
a different phone number. And the warnings were in the middle of a chat and in amongst 
introductions by Monzo staff and questions about what Mr T was doing, so I think they will 
have been less impactful than a standalone warning that fully interrupts the payment process 
and makes a consumer stop and think about it.
So I dont think the warnings Mr T was shown before the second payment were specific or 
impactful enough to be effective in his circumstances.
Monzo hasnt sent us anything to suggest Mr T was shown a warning before the third 
payment he made.
So as I dont think any of the warnings Mr T was shown were effective, I also dont think 
Monzo has established that he ignored an effective warning in relation to any of the 
payments.
Did Mr T have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments?
Monzo has said there were a number of red flags about what the scammer said and asked 
Mr T to do, that should have caused him concern. So it doesnt think he had a reasonable 
basis for belief that the payments were legitimate.
But when the scammer first called him, Mr T says they knew his full name and went through 
a security and identity verification process with him where they gave him partial information 
about his date of birth and address and asked him to complete the rest. And from what hes 
told us about this I think its reasonable that this will have felt genuine and like a process a 
genuine bank would use.
The scammer had also disguised the phone number they were calling from, spoofing a 
genuine phone number for Mr Ts other bank. So when Mr T asked the scammer to prove 
who they were, they asked him to check the number that appeared on his phone against one 
from the back of his bank card  and these matched. And I think its reasonable that this will 
also have made Mr T think the call was coming from his genuine bank.
Mr T says the scammer asked him if he had recently received a text message from his bank, 
a charity or Royal Mail. And, as Mr T had recently received a text from Royal Mail about a 
missed delivery and followed the link to enter his details, the scammer suggested this was 
how fraudsters had got his details and were now trying to access his accounts to steal his 
money. And as the scammer knew about the text message he had received, and then based 
their explanation of what was happening around that, I think its reasonable this made it 
seem believable to Mr T.
When the scammer suggested Mr T send the money to a new account they had set up for 
him, they explained they had set the account up under an alias to try to stop the fraudsters 
being able to follow the money. So while Mr T was asked to send money to a new account 
that wasnt in his name, I think he was given a seemingly plausible explanation for this.
And while Mr T was told to lie to Monzo about the reasons for the payments, his call records 
show he had been on the phone with the scammer for more than an hour by that point. And 
as I think the initial parts of the call will have felt genuine, I think its reasonable that Mr T 
was convinced the call was genuine at that point. The scammer said the fraudsters might be 
able to follow the money if he told Monzo the truth, so gave him a plausible explanation of 
why he needed to lie. The scammer also talked him through the screens that would appear 
and the questions Monzo would ask, so it would have seemed like they knew what they were talking about. And the scammer was on the phone with Mr T the whole time, coaching him 
through his answers, which will have made it more difficult for Mr T to stop and think about 
what was happening.
The scammer also told Mr T they couldnt keep the fraudsters at bay for long, and so he 
needed to make the payments as quickly as he could. And I think its reasonable that this will 
have made Mr T feel under time pressure and so less able to question what was happening.
With the benefit of hindsight, its possible to identify a number of red flags about what was 
happening that should have caused Mr T some concern, particularly that he was told to lie to 
Monzo when it contacted him to ask about the payments he was making. But based on what 
hes told us I dont think it was unreasonable that, in the moment, Mr T either didnt pick up 
on these issues or they didnt cause him enough concern to overcome the parts of what was 
happening that did feel genuine.
So I dont think Monzo has established that Mr T made the payments without a reasonable 
basis for belief that they were genuine.
I therefore dont think Monzo has established that any of the exclusions to reimbursement 
under the CRM code apply here. And so, under the CRM code, I think Monzo should refund 
the money Mr T lost as a result of this scam.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Monzo Bank Ltd to:
Refund Mr T the £2,050 he lost as a result of this scam, less the £41.75 already 
recovered  for a total of £2,008.25
Pay 8% simple interest on this refund, from the date it initially rejected his claim until 
the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman