DRN-1930172
The complaint
Mrs D complains about her contents insurer, AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision to limit the 
payment on her claim for her stolen jewellery.
What happened
Mrs Ds home was burgled and jewellery was stolen and AXA sent a loss adjuster to assess 
her claim. Mrs D said AXAs agent told her that she could choose any item from its product 
list to the full monetary value and she selected items worth £4,619, but many items werent 
available. She said she was then offered a voucher for £4,730 at high street jewellers, or 
£4,045 to spend with a larger group of jewellers, or £2,051 cash. 
Mrs D said some of the stolen items were costume jewellery made of non-precious metal 
and no high street jeweller could supply these. She said there would have been a shortfall in 
the claim payment if she had been able to replace the items from a high street jeweller, but 
in any event these were no longer available. She said its unfair that if she doesnt accept the
Items offered by AXAs agents, she wont receive the full financial recompense for her loss.
AXA said it had replaced the majority of Mrs Ds stolen items. AXA responded to Mrs Ds 
complaint saying that she had opted to take a cash settlement and the policy advises that it 
only pays a cash settlement that reflects what it would pay its preferred supplier and so it 
wouldnt change the discounted settlement it had offered her. The policy term states:
How we settle claims:
We may repair, reinstate or replace the lost or damaged property. If we cannot replace
or repair the property we may pay for the loss or damage in cash or cash alternative
(including vouchers and/or store cards).
Where we can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier, but we agree to
pay a cash or cash alternative settlement, then payment will not exceed the amount we
would have paid the preferred supplier.
If no equivalent replacement is available, then we will pay the full replacement cost of the
item with no discount applied. The sums insured will not be reduced by any claim.
Mrs D remained unhappy with AXAs discount to the cash settlement of her claim. She said 
shed been told our service had decided that insurers were not to apply discounts in these 
circumstances, and she brought her complaint to our service.
AXAs agents said Mrs D had referred to costume jewellery worth £100, which it also valued 
at £100 for a cash settlement. It said it had suggested a cash settlement with no discount for 
the other items, other than three watches and some glassware which it said it can obtain at a 
discount or would offer a discounted cash settlement. It said it could replace Mrs Ds charm 
bracelet with a similar item or pay a discounted sum.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld as she said that AXA had acted 
fairly to Mrs D. She said Mrs D had agreed with the overall valuation of her jewellery, but 
said replacements werent available from AXAs preferred suppliers and would like the cash 
equivalent so she has the option to replace the items from the original suppliers. 
The investigator said AXA offered Mrs D full value to spend at its agents but as some items 
werent available she could use two other preferred suppliers. Mrs D didnt want to go ahead 
and so the final option was the discounted cash settlement. She said AXA will only pay what 
the items would cost it at a preferred supplier as it would receive a discount. She said this is 
explained in the policy documents and AXA had acted in line with the terms and conditions. 
Mrs D disagreed with the investigator. She said the policy term states, If no equivalent is 
available then we will pay the full replacement cost of the item with no discount applied. She 
said AXA agreed it cant provide equivalents as per her list and so it should pay full value. 
Mrs D requested an ombudsman review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D wants a cash settlement for her loss with no deductions, equivalent to the amount 
claimed, which had been assessed as a fair claim by AXAs loss adjuster. Ive looked 
carefully at AXAs decisions on Mrs Ds claim to see if it acted in accordance with the policy 
terms and to see if it has treated her fairly. I have decided that it has, and I will explain my 
reasons here.
I sympathise with Mrs D for the loss of her items in a burglary, some of which held 
sentimental value.
Policies such as Mrs Ds include a term which sets out how the insurer will settle a claim. In 
this case the relevant term states that: We may repair, reinstate or replace the lost or 
damaged property. This is known as a subrogation term and it gives the insurer the authority 
to reach a decision on how a claim should be settled. 
It may seem unfair to Mrs D that she doesnt have a choice about using her preferred 
jewellers at the same value, but we dont think this is unreasonable in principle  the insurer 
is paying for the claim, and so its fair that it decides how the claim will be settled and, as a 
result, how much it costs. It follows from the remainder of the term above, that the amount 
the insurer offers the policyholder as a cash alternative will usually be the amount it would 
have paid to replace the item through its nominated jeweller, at a discount. This amount, 
after deduction of the policy excess, is what AXA has offered to Mrs D.
We might still say the application of this term is unreasonable where the policyholder isnt 
put back in the position they were in prior to the damage or loss. In other words, we expect 
to see the policyholder has been indemnified for their loss. Mrs D said that AXAs agents 
cant provide equivalent items to those she lost, and she said AXA agreed to this. She thinks 
the latter part of the policy term: If no equivalent replacement is available, then we will pay 
the full replacement cost of the item with no discount applied, should apply.
In considering this point I have seen AXAs agents response to Mrs Ds list of lost items. 
AXAs agents said Mrs D had referred to costume jewellery worth £100, which it also valued 
at £100 for a cash settlement. It said it had suggested a cash settlement with no discount for 
the other non-replaced items, other than three watches and some glassware which it said it 
can obtain at a discount or would offer her a discounted cash settlement. It said it could 
replace Mrs Ds charm bracelet with a similar item or pay a discounted sum. 
I havent seen anything to indicate that what AXAs agents have proposed isnt possible and 
so, I think Mrs D has been indemnified by AXAs offer of a voucher or cash settlement to cover her loss. However, if Mrs D can demonstrate to AXA that it has made a discounted 
cash settlement offer for an item of jewellery that cannot be replaced with a reasonably 
similar item then AXA should reconsider its offer for that part of her claim.
The policy supports the approach AXA has taken to Mrs Ds claim. As I think AXA has acted 
in accordance with the term of the policy, I find that it has treated Mrs D fairly in the offer of 
settlement it has made for her claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman