DRN-2383499
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about a lifetime mortgage they took out with Prudential 
Lifetime Mortgages Limited. The complaint came about when Mr and Mrs H applied to port 
their lifetime mortgage to a new property, and was summarised by our investigator as:
1. They feel they were misinformed. Specifically, they were told at the time of taking the 
loan that the property they move to must not be less than the sum mortgaged.
2. They were told they dont need to make any payments during the life of the mortgage 
and that they can move the mortgage with them to the new property. However, they were 
forced to pay £22,990.43.
  
What happened
In 2007 Mr and Mrs H took out an equity release mortgage on an interest roll-up basis, so 
they didnt need to make any monthly payments. They moved house in 2020 and had to part 
repay £22,520.43 (plus pay a £595 arrangement fee) to reduce their loan to value to 30%.
Mr and Mrs H complained about needing to make a part repayment. They said theyd 
discussed wanting to move house in the future when they took the lifetime mortgage out in 
2007. They knew they would have to make a part repayment if the new property was worth 
less than the old one, but they believed the comparison would be made between the 
purchase price of the new one and the value of their existing property when they took out the 
lifetime mortgage, not how much they sold it for now. 
As their property was worth £400,000 when they took out the lifetime mortgage, and they 
were buying their new property for £525,000 they thought no part repayment would be 
needed. Whereas Prudential said the calculation was based on the sale price, so as they 
were selling their existing property for £660,000 and buying their new property for £525,000 
a part repayment was needed.
Prudential didnt uphold the complaint, but it did send Mr and Mrs H £100 compensation in 
recognition of the fact Mr and Mrs H were referred to its financial planning team in error, and 
for the time it took to respond to their complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the main thrust of the complaint should be upheld, but he 
did feel Prudential should pay a further £100 compensation as he thought things should 
have been made more clear to Mr and Mrs H. 
Prudential didnt accept our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Ive reviewed Prudentials internal lending policy documents and Im satisfied it has correctly 
followed its lending criteria. As these criteria are commercially sensitive were unable to 
disclose them to Mr and Mrs H, but Ive seen them and Im satisfied Prudential fairly applied 
them to the application.
Having looked at everything, Im satisfied Prudential was fairly allowed to agree to this port 
only if Mr and Mrs H reduced the amount they owed. Mr and Mrs H have said they thought 
the value used for their existing property should be that from when they took out the equity 
release mortgage, not how much they sold it for, but that isnt how it works. Any calculation 
to see if they are downsizing would be based on the value of the two properties at the same 
time; that is the sale price of the existing property (or valuation figure if lower), and the 
purchase price (or valuation figure if lower) of the new property.
The calculation that required Mr and Mrs H to reduce their loan amount was due to the 
maximum loan to value (LTV) Prudential was willing to lend on the new property. That was 
capped at 30% LTV due to the specific product Mr and Mrs H held, and their ages at the 
time.
I cant know for sure what was discussed when Mr and Mrs H took out the lifetime mortgage 
in 2007 about how a port would work. I can see that they did discuss a future potential house 
move with the Prudential adviser so it seems the adviser was on notice that this was 
something of interest to Mr and Mrs H. Prudential has said that it was made clear in the 
paperwork in 2007 that porting was subject to an assessment of the LTV of the new property 
and there would be a maximum loan amount, which if the existing borrowing was already 
over that amount then a part reduction would be required.
I agree there was information about that in the paperwork, but Mr and Mrs H had no way of 
knowing what the maximum loan value would be for any potential new property and so 
wouldnt have known if that would impact them. I feel the adviser could have done more to 
explain that to Mr and Mrs H, as the recommendation notes dont explain that Prudential 
would calculate the maximum loan amount for any new property based on factors, such as 
Mr and Mrs Hs ages at the time of any future application. It also only talks about the impact 
of moving to a lower value property so I can see why Mr and Mrs H felt this didnt apply to 
them as their existing property had been valued at £400,000 when the 2007 lifetime 
mortgage was agreed, and the new property was £525,000 so to their mind it wasnt a lower 
value property.
All that said, I think Mr and Mrs H would still have taken out this lifetime mortgage in 2007 
even if they understood this as it met their needs at the time, and over the years to come as 
they were able to not only borrow the original amount for their home improvements, they 
also drew down further funds when they needed to over the years.
I dont uphold the main thrust of the complaint as I dont think this lifetime mortgage was 
mis-sold, and I dont think Prudential did anything wrong when it told Mr and Mrs H they had 
to reduce the size of the mortgage if they wanted to move to their new property. But I do 
think the information could have been made more clear for them, and Prudential could have handled the request to port the mortgage  and then the subsequent complaint  better than 
it did. 
For example, the initial response to the complaint took the full eight weeks that Prudential is 
allowed to be issued but still didnt explain why the part redemption was needed. It took 
Mr and Mrs H sending a follow up complaint for an explanation to be given about the 30% 
LTV cap. Prudential accepted it wasnt fair to have taken the full eight weeks allowed when 
the complaint related to a house purchase.
Prudential awarded Mr and Mrs H £100 compensation in its first response to their complaint. 
Having considered everything I agree with our investigator that a further £100 should be paid 
by Prudential for the fact things werent made clear to Mr and Mrs H, and the distress and 
inconvenience that was caused to them when moving house.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint, but only insofar as I order Prudential Lifetime Mortgages Limited to 
pay a further £100 to Mr and Mrs H. Im making this award on the assumption that the first 
cheque was cashed by Mr and Mrs H. If it wasnt cashed, then Prudential should cancel that 
cheque and pay the full £200 to Mr and Mrs H now.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman