DRN-2324222
The complaint
Miss T complains about the way Nationwide Building Society handled her chargeback claim.
 
What happened
In early February 2020, Miss T used her debit card to pay for a service provided over the 
phone. However, she was unhappy with the service provided. So, just over a week later she 
called Nationwide to raise a chargeback. But during this call, Nationwides adviser told 
Miss T shed need to contact them again in 15 days to raise the chargeback.
Miss T followed Nationwides advice and called them 15 days later. During this call 
Nationwides adviser said hed need to ask several questions in order to start the 
chargeback process. Miss T was unhappy with the questions she was asked and requested 
to discuss her chargeback with a different adviser. Unfortunately, when transferring Miss T to 
someone else, the call was cut off. But Miss T was able to call Nationwide back and raise a 
complaint.
Nationwide investigated Miss Ts concerns and issued their final response. In this they 
explained they were satisfied with the way their adviser handled the call when trying to raise 
Miss Ts chargeback. However, they acknowledged they should have raised Miss Ts 
chargeback when she first called them in early February. They apologised for their mistake 
and offered £50 for giving her the wrong information. They also asked Miss T to send copies 
of the correspondence between Miss T and the company that didnt provide the service she 
was claiming for.
Miss T sent Nationwide the information they requested and chased them when she didnt 
hear anything from them for a number of weeks. Nationwide asked her to send the 
information again. But after reviewing this, Nationwide said they couldnt pursue Miss Ts 
chargeback because the information had been sent too late. 
Miss T was unhappy with the service Nationwide had provided and brought her complaint to 
our service. After reviewing Miss Ts complaint, our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. He explained he felt Nationwides adviser had handled his call with her 
professionally. He also felt it wasnt likely her chargeback would have been successful if it 
had been raised in time. And that was because he thought it was most likely the merchant 
would have disputed the assertion they hadnt provided the service Miss T paid for.
Miss T disagreed with our investigator, so her complaint was passed to me to look into. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Miss Ts complaint. I know this isnt the outcome she 
hoped for, but Ill explain my reasons below.
Level of customer service Miss T received when trying to raise the chargeback
Having reviewed everything, I agree Nationwides adviser gave Miss T the wrong information 
when she first called them trying to raise a chargeback. She shouldnt have been told she 
needed to wait 15 days, and this misinformation caused Miss T avoidable delays. 
I was pleased to see Nationwide acknowledged their mistake in their final response letter. 
They offered Miss T £50 in recognition of the inconvenience their mistake caused, and 
I wouldnt expect Nationwide to increase this offer. Thats because its in line with the amount 
I would have awarded for their mistake which meant Miss T experienced two weeks of 
delays.
When listening to the calls between Miss T and Nationwide, Ive also considered whether 
any of their advisers asked inappropriate questions - or didnt speak to Miss T in a 
professional manner. And having done so, I havent heard anything concerning in any of 
those calls. Nationwides advisers needed to ask questions in order to understand what type 
of service Miss T had attempted to use, and why she felt a chargeback was necessary. 
Thats because, without this information they wouldnt have been able to start the 
chargeback process. None of the questions Miss T was asked were inappropriate, and 
Nationwides advisers remained professional throughout those calls. I appreciate Miss T may 
not have wanted to share some of this information, or felt it was necessary. However, it was 
for Nationwide to determine what information they needed so that they could be best placed 
to progress her chargeback. And as mentioned above, I consider Miss T was only asked 
reasonable questions in the circumstances. In light of this, I dont consider Nationwide needs 
to do anything further regarding this point.
How Nationwide handled the chargeback
When dealing with chargebacks, banks need to do so within the remit of the rules set by the 
relevant card scheme. In Miss Ts case, the relevant card scheme rules that apply are 
Visas, and they say a chargeback needs to be submitted within 120-days of the relevant 
transaction. Miss T believes her chargeback wasnt submitted in time due to Nationwides 
delays.
Ive reviewed Nationwides contact notes, alongside the correspondence between them and 
Miss T. And having reviewed everything, I agree that Nationwide were the main cause of 
delays with Miss Ts chargeback.
Firstly, Nationwide incorrectly told Miss T to call them again in 15 days after she first tried to 
raise a chargeback. So, shed already lost time before the process had started. Ive also 
noted the lack of clear information in Nationwides final response letter when they asked 
Miss T to provide additional information so that they could progress the chargeback.
Given Visas strict timeframes, I would have expected Nationwide to have set a deadline by 
which Miss T needed to provide the requested information. They also should have explained 
why this was necessary in their final response letter. So, their failure to do this meant Miss T 
wasnt aware of the implications of sending information late  or that information could be 
deemed late when dealing with chargebacks.I also dont wholly agree with Nationwides assertion that Miss T sent the requested 
information outside the relevant timeframe. Nationwides own contact notes show Miss T 
emailed their complaints department in early May with the requested information. The 
information was sent to the correct email address, but the she used Nationwides complaint 
reference instead of the reference for her chargeback claim detailed in the final response 
letter. 
From my calculations, Miss T sent this information on the 120th day. But it seems 
Nationwide didnt pick up on this due to the reference Miss T used. But, given that Miss Ts 
complaint was about the progression of her chargeback, Nationwide should have picked up 
on what Miss T had provided and directed it to the correct area of their business. And had 
they done this, Miss T wouldnt have needed to send the information again when chasing 
Nationwide for an update. So again, I consider Nationwides failure to act hindered Miss Ts 
ability to pursue her chargeback.   
As Im satisfied Nationwide should have done more to progress the chargeback, I next had 
to consider what the likely outcome would have been. This is so I could determine whether 
Miss T was left in a detrimental position because of Nationwides mistakes.
As mentioned above, Ive listened to the calls Miss T made to Nationwide. And while 
I appreciate Miss T didnt want to share specific details about the service she was claiming 
for, this meant Nationwide had limited information to determine how this service wasnt 
received. And having reviewed the correspondence between Miss T and merchant  there is 
little more to explain what happened that resulted in Miss T not receiving the service she 
paid for.
Ordinarily, if there is insufficient information to pursue a chargeback in the first instance, 
I would expect a bank to request further information to enable them to get a better 
understanding. And this is important as it would have enabled Nationwide to assess the 
likelihood of a chargeback being successful and determine any likely pushback they may get 
from the relevant merchant. However, that wasnt possible in Miss Ts case because the 
correspondence showing how shed tried to resolve the matter herself was sent to them on 
the final day of the relevant timeframe (through no fault of Miss T). But, even if theyd 
received Miss Ts email sooner, Im not persuaded they would have received the information 
they required. Thats because Miss T had made it clear in her calls with Nationwide that she 
didnt want to give further details about the service she was claiming for.
In the absence of the information detailed above, I cannot safely say that Miss Ts 
chargeback claim would have been successful  even if Nationwide hadnt caused delays. 
Thats because the correspondence between Miss T and the merchant suggests the 
merchant would have disputed the chargeback. And Im not persuaded Nationwide would 
have had enough information to determine whether the merchants response was correct. 
And its for this reason I wont be asking Nationwide to do anything further to put things right.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Miss Ts complaint about 
Nationwide Building Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman