DRN-4379242
The complaint
Mr C complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds actions when he claimed 
for accident repairs under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Cs car was damaged when his car hit a large object which fell onto the motorway from
another vehicle.
Advantages approved repairers (Advantages garage) agreed to repair the accident-
related damage. But afterwards Mr C discovered other damage to the cars turbo inlet pipe
(the pipe) and front bumper. Mr C felt this other damage must have been caused by his
accident and that Advantages garage had missed it and hadnt repaired his car fully. And
he said theyd delayed giving him a courtesy car while his car was being repaired and
hadnt replaced a front tyre for safety reasons. He was also unhappy with their service
overall. He wanted them to repair the bumper, reimburse him for the pipe which he had
repaired at his own cost, and compensate him for the distress he experienced.
Advantage partially upheld his complaint to them but only regarding what they accepted
was their poor communication with him. They offered him £30 compensation for that. They
didnt agree that theyd delayed with the courtesy car. They were willing to repair the
bumper damage on seeing evidence of that, but they wouldnt pay for a new front tyre as it
wasnt a safety requirement. And they wouldnt reimburse for the pipe as they said it wasnt
accident-related.
The investigator recommended that his complaint should be partly upheld and that
Advantage should repair his cars bumper, give him a courtesy car during the repair,
reimburse him for the pipe repair cost hed incurred and compensate him £300 for his
inconvenience. Advantage agreed, with the exception of reimbursing the pipe. 
Mr C didnt agree and so I was asked to decide.
On 29 September 2023 I issued my provisional decision partly upholding the complaint. Both 
Mr C and Advantage replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said this: 
Car hire
Mr C said that he didnt get a courtesy car until about five days after hed made the claim 
and had to collect it himself though Advantage s website said theyd deliver it. This caused 
him inconvenience in travelling to work as his home had limited public transport and they 
had to rely on family and friends for help.
But having looked at Mr Cs policy I see that hire car delivery was a feature of an optional 
extra to Mr Cs policy. It only applied in certain circumstances and Mr C hadnt chosen that 
option under his policy. So I dont think Advantage did anything wrong there. His policy does 
entitle him to a courtesy car while his own car was being repaired, but the repairs didnt start 
right away as it took a few days for Advantage to check his car and authorise the claim and 
the repairs. This is normal in the industry, and I dont think it was unreasonable for him not to 
get a courtesy car within about five days. Again I dont think that Advantage did anything 
wrong there.
Replacement front tyre
One of Mr Cs cars front tyres which had been damaged in the accident and Advantage
replaced that. Mr C wanted them to replace the other front tyre too. But when they
wouldnt , Mr C paid for it himself. He said that it was widely recommended by tyre
manufacturers and fitters that front tyres should be replaced in pairs so that they have
even tread to reduce imbalance of grip and rolling resistance. He said that this was a
safety issue and if the accident hadnt occurred, he wouldnt have had to replace the other
front tyre as it was in good condition. However Ive not been shown any independent
expert evidence that both tyres must be replaced in this situation or been shown that its a
legal requirement to do so, and so I think that Advantage have done all they needed to do
here.
Repair issues
We dont assess whether or how damage to a car would be caused as this is a matter for
the experts in these situations, the insurance companies, and engineers. Our role in these
complaints is to determine whether an insurer has considered all the available evidence
and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for additional repairs. We look at all the
available evidence - including anything provided by the consumer, the insurer, and the
repairer. However we normally give the greatest weight to independent expert motor
engineer reports.
Mr C said as follows. A few weeks after Advantage s garage returned his car it was
making a noise, so he took it to a manufacturers dealership ( which Ill call  Mr Cs
garage). They told him that the pipe and front bumper were damaged, and that this was
likely due to the accident as it was consistent with hitting an object. Mr C said they also
told him that it wasnt safe to drive like that, so he paid for them to fix the pipe problem,
costing about £200.
Advantage asked for photos of that damage. They then agreed to repair the bumper. They
did not agree to reimburse Mr C for the pipe. Their engineers said it wasnt shown to be
accident related. They thought the damage was such that their garage wouldnt have
missed it and questioned why it had taken him two months to notice it after their garage
gave him his car back. They thought it could have happened after the accident, in some
other way, and that Mr C should have made them aware of it before having it fixed.
Advantages photos show bumper damage when his car was in for repair with their
garage. Some weeks after there was still bumper damage. This suggests it was there
when Mr Cs car went into Advantages garage for repair, and that their garage didnt fix
it. And so I think it reasonable that they repair it now and give him a courtesy car while
doing so.However the pipe issue is different. Although said the garage told him it was likely
damaged in the accident, Mr C hasnt shown us a report from them to that effect. More
importantly, he hasnt shown us an independent engineers report being conclusive that
the accident caused the pipe damage.
Advantages engineers thought it hadnt been shown that the accident caused that
damage. Even if it wasnt as long as two months as Advantage claim, there was an
intervening period of several weeks between Advantages garage giving Mr C his car
back, and Mr C noticing the pipe issue. During that period, something else could have
happened.
Often an insurer will offer to arrange for an independent inspection report of a car to
establish the cause of damage. But Advantage couldnt do that here as Mr C had already
repaired it, without giving Advantage the opportunity to inspect it and make it right if they
were responsible, as we would expect. Mr C said he had no choice about that as his
garage said his car wasnt safe to drive. However Advantage werent even made aware of
the pipe damage, giving them no opportunity to establish its cause or to try to resolve it.
Mr Cs had a frightening accident through no fault of his own and I realise that. However
in the absence of independent expert evidence I dont think it would be fair to assume that 
the accident damaged the pipe too. Nor is it fair to assume, again without such evidence, 
that because Mr Cs garage missed the bumper damage they must also have missed the 
pipe damage. So I dont think that there is enough evidence to suggest that Advantage 
should reimburse Advantage for the repair of the pipe, and I dont think they need to do any 
more there. They have already offered to do what we would expect in the circumstances.
Mr C complained that Advantage s customer service was poor. Mr C had to follow up
progress many times, deal with multiple departments and repeat information. Advantage
accepted that they could have kept him updated better. They apologised and offered him
£30 compensation for that. But they said it wouldnt have affected the result of his claim. I
think that the compensation for that is fair. However, while there will always be some
inconvenience involved in pursuing an insurance claim particular where repairs are
involved, I think that Mr C has been put to more inconvenience than necessary here and I
think that compensation of £300 better reflects that. Advantage have agreed to pay that.
Its not clear if they have already paid Mr C the £30 they offered him. If not, Id expect
them to do that, and pay him the £300 in addition.
Both Mr C and Advantage responded to my provisional decision, and both accepted it. So 
my final decision is the same.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I partly uphold the complaint and I 
require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
Repair Mr Cs cars bumper and provide him a courtesy car during the repairs.
Pay Mr C an additional £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him by 
their missing the damage to his cars bumper.
Advantage must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mr 
C accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
