DRN-2654653
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as E have complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly 
turned down their business interruption insurance claim after they were impacted by the 
Covid-19 pandemic.  
Mr B, a director of E, has brought the complaint on Es behalf. 
What happened
E hold a business interruption insurance policy with UKI. Mr B claimed on Es policy after E 
was impacted by the Governments actions in response to Covid-19. However, UKI said the 
policy didnt cover Es claim under either the extensions for public emergency or disease. It 
said this was because the extension for public emergency specifically excluded cover for 
infectious or contagious diseases. And while the policy did cover interruption or interference 
to business as a result of a list of specified diseases, Covid-19 wasnt on that list.  
 
As UKI refused to pay Es claim, Mr B brought Es complaint to our service. He thought UKI 
should pay the claim. He also said UKI hadnt provided him with a copy of the policy, 
meaning E didnt know which terms applied to their policy. 
Our investigator looked into Es complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought 
UKI had turned down Es claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. He didnt 
think Covid-19 had caused damage to property and thought Covid-19 was specifically 
excluded under the extension for public emergency because it was an infectious or 
contagious disease. He also didnt think Covid-19 was one of the diseases covered by the 
disease extension. Our investigator thought that UKI had shown that it had sent E a copy of 
the terms in 2016 and pointed out the relevant changes from the previous policy.
In response, Mr B said he hadnt received the policy document in 2016 and thought the 
terms in the policy appeared to be different to the ones that UKI had provided when E initially 
made their claim. He asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Es business, but I wont be upholding Es complaint. Ill explain why.  
 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
if UKI has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Es claim. 
Having reviewed Es policy, I dont think there are any terms which provide cover for their 
closure as a result of the Governments response to the national pandemic. However, I 
would like to explain why I dont think the parts of the policy which appear most relevant 
provide cover.
Damage
Section 2 of Es policy provides cover in the event of damage caused by specified 
contingencies, or other events as listed in the schedule, to property used at Es premises. 
Damage is specifically defined in the policy as Accidental loss, destruction or damage.
I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused damage to property used at Es 
premises, so this section doesnt cover Es claim. 
Extension for Public Emergency
The policy sets out extensions to the cover in Section 2. This particular extension covers:
Loss resulting from interruption to or interference with the Business at the Premises in 
consequence of the actions or advice of a competent Public Authority, due to an emergency 
likely to endanger life or property, in the vicinity of the Premises, which commencing during 
the Period of Insurance, prevents or hinders the use of or access to the Premises, excluding:
a any loss during the first four hours;
b cover provided by Extension M L Bomb Scares;
c labour disputes;
d any loss occurring in Northern Ireland; or
e infectious or contagious disease. 
These exclusions are specific to this particular term and not the whole policy. 
On its website the World Health Organisation describes Covid-19 as an infectious disease 
so, I think it was fair and reasonable for UKI to say this exclusion would apply, even if the 
extension had provided cover. 
Extension for Disease
The relevant part of this extension covers interruption or interference at Es business 
premises in consequence of:
the occurrence of the following diseases:
Acute Encephalitis, Acute Poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chickenpox, Cholera, Diphtheria, 
Dysentery, Legionellosis, Legionnaires Disease, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Malaria, Measles, 
Meningococcal Infection, Mumps, Ophthalmia Neonatorum, Paratyphoid Fever, Bubonic 
Plague, Rabies, Rubella, Scarlet Fever, Smallpox, Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Typhoid Fever, 
Viral Hepatitis, Whooping Cough or Yellow Fever, at the Premises: 
Unfortunately, this extension also doesnt provide E with cover in the current circumstances 
as Covid 19 isnt one of the specified illnesses.  
 
In reaching this finding Im mindful that Covid-19 wasnt something UKI might have known 
about when the policy was drafted. However, there are policies that provide cover for all 
notifiable diseases, which is a defined list of diseases regularly updated by the Government, 
and which does include Covid-19, but Es policy doesnt refer to this list. In contrast, Es policy sets out an exhaustive list of specified illnesses which are covered by the policy; and 
there is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for illnesses not included, 
including any new illnesses which emerge. The purpose and effect of this policy is to provide 
cover in the event of these specific illnesses. There are in fact many illnesses that the policy 
doesnt cover, including SARS. Therefore, I dont think the policy can fairly be read to cover 
Covid-19. 
Changes to the policy terms
UKI has provided a copy of the letter it said it sent to E in 2016 which included a Notice to 
Policyholder document setting out the changes to the policy. It has also provided a 
screenshot from its system showing this letter was sent. Mr B said the letter he received 
didnt mention any changes to the policy terms and he didnt receive changes to the policy 
document.
From the information UKI has provided, I think its most likely this letter was sent to E. This is 
supported by Mr B having also provided a copy of the letter. This says that UKI is making 
some changes to the policy and a Notice to Policyholder document which sets out the 
important changes is enclosed.
UKI has provided a copy of the Notice to Policyholder document. This says E should read 
their new policy carefully so theyre aware of changes. I havent seen anything to suggest E 
contacted UKI to say they didnt receive the new policy at that time and as they received the 
rest of the letter, I think its most likely UKI provided E with the updated policy.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr B, but I dont think I can fairly 
require UKI to pay Es claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman