DRN-2074879
The complaint
Mr O has complained on behalf of himself and Mrs O, that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) 
repaired his car when it should have dealt with it as a write-off (total loss). 
What happened
Mr O took out a car insurance policy with UKI in May 2018. He was involved in an accident 
in November 2018 and submitted a claim to UKI in July 2019, which was accepted. Mr O 
was initially told his car would be dealt with as a write-off. UKI then decided to repair Mr Os 
car. 
Mr O complained to UKI as he felt it should have written his car off. He also queried why UKI 
changed its mind and decided to repair the car, rather than write it off as it initially said it 
would.  
UKI didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. It said the car valuation estimate was £3,500 and the 
repair estimate was £2,300. After the excess of £500, the amount paid by UKI was 
£1883.48. It said, therefore, the value of repairs were not more than the market value of the 
vehicle and it was economical to repair the car. UKI also said, in relation to it changing its 
decision to write the car off, that it bases its decision on the initial damage noted, but if an 
engineer advises that the car can be repaired then it will go down that route. 
Mr O complained to this service. He said that while he is happy with the quality of the repairs 
carried out, he thinks his car should have been written off because of its age and mileage. 
He said his understanding is that insurers will generally write a car off when the cost of 
repairs exceeds 50% of the value of the car. Mr O said that the cost of repairs was around 
£2,300 and UKI valued the car at around £3,500. And this means the cost of repairs was 
higher than 50% of the value. Mr O said hes unsure why UKI would originally decide to write 
the car off and then decide to repair it. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. He said Mr Os policy documents explain 
what actions UKI can take in these circumstances. And these say that UKI will pay the cost 
of repairing or replacing Mr Os vehicle up to its UK market value. Our investigator carried 
out his own valuation of the car using the relevant trade guides. These valuations were 
between £2,190 and £3,350. Our investigator said the repair cost is lower than the lowest 
valuation of the car and so he wont be asking UKI to take any further action. 
Mr O responded and said his car is over 17 years old and had covered a distance of 78,351 
miles when booked in for repair. He queried which of the guide valuations were used, as the 
valuations give a range of prices broadly based on whether the car is being sold privately or 
by a dealer. Mr O also said the body work on his car was in poor condition and so his car 
should have been valued at less because of this. Mr O also said he thinks UKI should take 
his excess into consideration when valuing his car. 
As Mr O was unhappy with the outcome, this case has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Os complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator.  
When Mr O brought his complaint to this service he said that insurers, in general, will opt to 
write cars off rather than repair them if the cost of repairs is greater than 50% of the value of 
the car. Its certainly the case that if an insurer considers it to be uneconomical to repair a 
car then it will often write the car off. And some insurers will likely decide that its 
uneconomical to repair a car if the repairs cost more than a certain percentage of the 
vehicles value. 
But how an individual insurer decides how to deal with a claim should depend on the policy 
terms. And, in this case, Mr Os policy says: 
How much will you pay if my car is damaged?
If your car is damaged, we will pay the cost of repairing or replacing your vehicle up to its UK 
market value. This is the current value of the vehicle at the time of the claim  and it may be 
different to the amount you paid or any amounts we spoke about when you insured your 
vehicle with us.
And this means that UKI doesnt have to deal with a car as a total loss if the cost of repairs is 
greater than 50% of the value of the car. UKI can repair or replace the vehicle up to its UK 
market value. 
The policy also says: 
If your car is damaged, we have the option to:
 pay to repair the damage or repair the damage ourselves;
 replace what is lost or damaged, if this is more cost-effective than
repairing it; or
 settle your claim by sending you a cheque or by bank transfer
This means that its up to UKI to decide whether it repairs, replaces or writes the car off. I 
know that Mr O wanted clarification about why UKI initially said it would deal with the car as 
a total loss and then changed its mind. But the policy allows UKI to deal with the claim as it 
sees fit. And if this involves changing its mind, then its allowed to do that. I think its 
reasonable for UKI to say that it carried out a more detailed assessment of the car and 
decided that repairing the vehicle was a better option. 
Ive also used the recognised motor vehicle guides to check the valuation of Mr Os car. 
These guides are based on extensive research of nationwide selling prices and are 
considered more accurate than adverts as they look at prices vehicles sold for rather than 
advertised prices. I should also say that these guides arent an exact science and its usual 
for there to be some variations in valuations, if the valuations are carried out at different 
times. And this is just because the data in relation to selling prices is being constantly 
updated. 
Nonetheless, the two guides I used give an average valuation of £2,573  and its 
appropriate to use an average of the valuations here to arrive at the market value. And so Im satisfied that as the cost of the repairs (£2,383.48) was less than the valuation of the car, 
UKI acted in line with its policy terms when it decided to repair the car. 
Mr O also said he believes his policy terms say UKI should consider the excess amount 
when valuing his car. Mr O says the relevant policy term is: 
The most we will pay
We will not pay more than the market value of your car at the time of the loss (less any 
excess that may apply).
But this does not mean the excess is taken into consideration when valuing the car. The 
excess is the amount paid by any consumer as their contribution to the claim costs and has 
no bearing on how an individual car is valued. 
I know that this outcome will disappoint Mr O, but I could only ask UKI to uphold his 
complaint if I thought it had done something wrong. And Im satisfied that it hasnt.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman