DRN-2197449
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Endsleigh Insurance Services Ltd (Endsleigh) charged him a 
cancellation fee when he arranged a policy with a different insurer.
What happened
Mr F bought his contents insurance using Endsleigh, which automatically renewed each year 
for around six years. When Mr F received the last renewal notice from Endsleigh, he decided 
to take out a policy separately with another insurer.
Endsleigh asked Mr F to pay a cancellation fee because his direct debit payment couldnt be 
collected. He didnt pay the fee, so Endsleigh referred the debt to a collections agency 
(DCA). Mr F paid the DCA and complained to Endsleigh.
Endsleigh said it had applied the cancellation fee correctly because Mr F hadnt cancelled 
his policy, so it automatically renewed. Because the direct debit couldnt be collected, the fee 
was applied because Mr F had effectively cancelled the policy part way through the policy 
term.
Mr F felt that Endsleigh had made it too onerous to cancel and wanted Endsleigh to refund 
his payment.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. She thought that Endsleigh had acted in line 
with the terms of the policy, therefore it was fair to charge the cancellation fee.
Mr F didnt agree. He still thought that Endsleigh had made it too difficult to cancel.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr F will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Mr F decided not to renew his policy using Endsleigh, so it charged him a cancellation fee of 
£30. The issue is that he doesnt think its fair to pay the fee which he thinks is a charge for 
not renewing. 
The policy and renewal letters set out what Mr F shouldve done to cancel the automatic 
renewal, and what would happen if he didnt cancel. In the policy for the year leading up to 
the renewal, the terms states:
By agreeing to pay monthly, You consent to the automatic renewal of Your Policy at its 
expiry for a further 12 month period of cover with either Your current insurer or an alternative 
insurer. We will write to You beforehand with details of your renewal premium and cover and 
tell you what you need to do should you choose not to proceed.
During the month that the policy was due to end, Endsleigh sent Mr F a renewal letter which 
stated:
As you have chosen to pay your premium in monthly instalments via a [loan], to make 
things easier for you, if we do not hear from you before your policy expires we will 
automatically renew your cover based on the cover and premium in the enclosed quotation.
If you do not want this to happen, please call us on [number supplied] before [date given].
I dont think theres a lack of clarity here  the policy would automatically renew if Mr F didnt 
cancel - so Im satisfied that Endsleigh properly communicated the renewal process.
Mr F renewed his insurance using Endsleigh for several years, so I think he wouldve been 
used to the automatic renewal process  that the cover would continue if he did nothing. He 
says he tried, unsuccessfully, to contact Endsleigh but he thinks it made cancellation difficult 
by only accepting the request by phone during office hours. Mr F hasnt provided any 
evidence of trying to cancel and Endsleigh couldnt find any record of him trying to contact it.  
I appreciate that would be difficult if Mr F wasnt able to get through on the phone, or if he 
simply couldnt find a convenient time to call. But Im aware that Endsleigh operates an 
online chat service, customers can sign in to their account online, or email. These 
communication methods are provided in the policy covering letter:
youll find a number of ways of contacting us at [website address]. You choose whatever 
suits you best, whether its an online chat, talking to one of our friendly Insurance 
Consultants, or email.
While I appreciate these methods of contact arent specified in the process for cancelling a 
policy renewal, I think it wouldve been reasonable to try to use one of these alternative 
methods. 
I understand Mr F cancelled his direct debit so Endsleigh couldnt take the payments, but 
thats not the same as cancelling the policy. The policy was in place for two months before 
Endsleigh wrote to Mr F to say that it had cancelled the policy due to non-payment. The 
policy terms are quite clear on this:
about monthly payments
 Please note that failure to make Your monthly payment when due will result in an 
administration chargeon each occasion the payment is rejected.
If we are unable to recover the outstanding amount, we will pass this to our Debt Collection 
Agency which will incur additional chargesincluding any cancellationfees.
Cancellation Fee:
If you cancel more than 14 days after purchasing your policy, a charge will be made based 
on the number of days you have had cover. We will also charge a cancellation fee of £30.00
Overall, Im satisfied that Endsleigh provided the information necessary to allow Mr F to 
cancel the automatic renewal without charge. And it provided details of what would happen if 
he didnt take any action. As he didnt contact Endsleigh before the policy renewed, I think it 
was fair for Endsleigh to charge the £30.00 cancellation fee in line with the terms of the 
policy. To be clear, the fee is for cancelling after the policy had already renewed: it isnt a 
penalty for not renewing.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman