DRN-3088708
The complaint
X and Ms C are unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined their travel 
insurance claim.  
What happened
X and Ms C had an annual travel insurance policy with URV. Theyd booked a trip to the 
south of France and planned to travel by Eurostar on 12 June 2020 and would be returning 
home on 3 July. However, three days before they were due to travel, Eurostar cancelled 
their train. And so, X and Ms C were unable to make other arrangements because Eurostar 
cancelled all direct trains between St. Pancras International and Marseille. X and Ms C were 
out of pocket for not only the train fare, but also the unused accommodation costs of 1000 
Euros. They claimed on their travel policy with URV but their claim was declined. 
URV said there was no cover available in the circumstances. It acknowledged the difficult 
situation X and Ms C were in but explained it had never intended to cover this type of 
situation. It said that COVID-19 was the cause of several insurance claims and that itd never 
expected or intended to offer cover in these circumstances. 
Our investigator said that URV hadnt done anything wrong by declining the claim. She said 
that the policy simply didnt cover X and Ms Cs situation. But they disagreed. In summary, X 
and Ms C said that their claim should be considered under the if you decide to abandon 
your trip section of the policy as they believe this best captures the reason they were unable 
to travel. They highlighted that another part of the policy if you are unable to go on your trip 
is too restrictive as their reasons dont fit within it. X and Ms C would now like a final 
decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. My reasons are similar to those 
already given by the investigator, however, in summary, theres no cover available in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I know X and Ms C have attempted to push their complaint 
forward by asking for it to be considered under the abandonment section of the policy, but 
theres simply no cover here because their transport provider wasnt delayed  it was 
cancelled. For the purposes of this complaint, I must be clear that being delayed and being 
cancelled are two entirely separate scenarios and each with different outcomes. And so, I 
dont think URV has made a mistake here. Ill explain why. 
The term X and Ms C would like their claim considered under is;
If you decide to abandon your travel plans
If this happened:
You decided that you did not want to go on the trip because your transport providers service
from your international departure point was delayed for 24 hours or more.
This is what we will do: We will pay you up to £5,000 for your share of any pre-paid 
expenses that are directly related to your trip, which you cannot get back from anyone else, 
or which cannot be transferred or used for another purpose
Its crucial to note that the train wasnt delayed. I say that because it was cancelled three 
days prior to the intended date of travel. For me to agree with X and Ms C that this was not 
the case and the train was indeed delayed Id have expected them to produce evidence 
from Eurostar, explaining the train was delayed and for how long. Id have also expected to 
see the train rescheduled departure time. In the absence of this information and given that 
the train was cancelled, Im satisfied that X and Ms Cs claim should not be considered 
under the above term. 
X and Ms C have referred to another policy term in their correspondence with our 
investigator if you are unable to go on your trip section of the policy, but I note their 
circumstances dont fit within that section either as they personally werent the reason for the 
trip not going ahead. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman