DRN-3146786
The complaint
Miss I complains that Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited (Virgin) didnt support a claim 
she made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) about 
the quality of a mobile phone she was financing through a fixed sum loan.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss I, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Miss I made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the phone should have been of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then theres been a breach of contract and 
Virgin are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they 
meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account 
any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
Legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to assume it was 
present at the point of supply, when Virgin were responsible for the phones quality, unless 
the business can demonstrate otherwise. But as this fault occurred after Miss I had been in 
possession of the phone for more than six months the law puts the onus on Miss I to 
demonstrate the fault was there, or developing, from the beginning.
I dont think Miss I has been able to demonstrate that. Miss I has suggested the retailer told 
her the phone had failed due to a manufacturing fault and if that was the case I would 
consider a fault at manufacture to be a fault present when the phone was supplied. But Ive 
not seen any evidence to corroborate Miss Is assertion that the fault was a manufacturing 
one, the diagnostic report from Apple, for instance, doesnt suggest that.
Virgin have explained that their specialist technician identified a fault with the motherboard 
that required its replacement. They didnt suggest this fault was developing when Miss I 
bought the phone.
Miss I has provided some evidence from discussion groups where she says consumers had 
been experiencing the very same issue on the same device. I dont doubt that other users 
would experience motherboard failures, but I dont think that evidence is enough to persuade 
me that the issue Miss I experienced with her phone was the same as that referred to in the 
discussion groups or that it could fairly be considered to be an issue present when the phone 
was supplied to her. I dont therefore think there is evidence this phone was not of 
satisfactory quality.
In those circumstances I dont think Virgin have been unreasonable and Im not asking them 
to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman