DRN-2819622
The complaint
Ms T complains about the service provided by Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) under her 
landlord combined cover with excess policy (home emergency cover). 
This complaint relates specifically to a claim made by Ms T in respect of damp that appeared 
in a property she owned.
Aviva uses agents to administer and provide services under the policy, as well as to deal 
with claims and complaints. Any reference to Aviva in this decision includes those agents. 
What happened
Ms T held a policy that provided landlord insurance cover relating to emergencies and other 
domestic incidents involving plumbing and drainage, electrical wiring, boiler leaks and 
breakdown, as well as security (broken windows and doors, loss of keys). Ms T paid an 
annual premium for the policy, with a separate excess of £60 for each claim made under the 
policy.
In October 2020 Ms T had an issue with damp appearing in a wall between the bathroom 
and the sitting room in a property that she owned and rented out to tenants. An Aviva 
plumber attended the property the following day and diagnosed that the damp was being 
caused by gaps in the sealant around the wash basin and shower (the latter affecting the 
other side of the wall in the sitting room). The plumber also recorded the flooring around the 
wash basin being rotten because of the leak (and that the tenant also observed the leak). 
The Aviva case notes indicate that Ms T was advised that she would need to renew the 
sealant, but it appears that Ms T wasnt aware of this when she subsequently complained to 
Aviva a week after the plumbers visit. 
Due to the dampness Ms Ts tenant moved out in November 2020, allowing her access to 
the property. Ms T then told Aviva that she had engaged her own contractor who had 
concluded that the damp was in fact being caused by a hole in a pipe in the toilet, leading 
water to leak out when the toilet was flushed.
Ms T was unhappy that the cause of the dampness had not been correctly diagnosed by 
Avivas plumber and complained again to Aviva in December 2020. She asked for 
compensation for the loss of rent due to her tenants moving out (£1,625 per month). She 
also requested reimbursement for the repair to the toilet waste pipe and the damage caused 
by the leak, including a replacement bathroom suite, replacement flooring where affected, 
and redecoration (estimated at £9,600). She subsequently sent Aviva photographs of the 
damage caused by the leak and a report from a contractor she engaged to repair the toilet 
waste pipe. 
Aviva considered Ms Ts complaint but rejected it in February 2021, concluding that their 
plumber had diagnosed the most likely cause of the damp and was not responsible for then 
looking for any additional leaks. Aviva noted that the toilet was a concealed unit and 
therefore the plumber could not reasonably have been expected to locate a leak from such a 
source. Avivas view was that Ms T should have carried out the renewal of the sealant as 
they maintain she was advised, and then if the damp issue persisted then she should have 
contacted them again for a further inspection and diagnosis. Accordingly, they rejected Ms 
Ts request to reimburse her for the costs of repairs.
Ms T was unhappy at the response to her complaint by Aviva and made a complaint to this 
service in January 2021. The main elements of her complaint were the mis-diagnosis of the 
cause of the dampness at her property and the lack of action from Aviva when she raised 
complaints with them. 
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He concluded that 
Avivas plumber had diagnosed what he had thought the likely cause of the leak. He also 
concluded that Ms Ts policy wouldnt have covered the remedial work advised by the 
plumber (renewal of the wash basin and the sealant). He also concluded that as Ms T 
hadnt carried out the remedial work advised by the plumber following their initial visit, and 
the property was vacant from November, then had a further visit from an Aviva plumber 
happened at that point, it was likely that it would have reached the same diagnosis.
Ms T disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. In particular, Ms T was unhappy at the outcome of the initial visit by Avivas 
plumber and their diagnosis of the cause of the leak. She maintained that she should have 
been compensated from that point.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Aviva has acted fairly towards Ms T.
Ms T has two main points of complaint, firstly that Avivas plumber incorrectly diagnosed the 
source of the leak. Secondly, as a consequence, Aviva should be responsible for the 
subsequent work necessary to fix the leak and to repair the damage arising from the leak, as 
well as compensating her for the loss of rental income after the tenants moved out.
On the first point, Ive looked at the Aviva case notes as well as the report from the plumber 
from their visit. Ive noted that it refers to a leak from the wash basin and from the shower 
curtain (the latter affecting the wall adjacent the other side being the sitting room). While Ive 
noted that Ms T doesnt agree with these observations, they were made by the plumber from 
having visited the property and making a physical inspection. Ive also noted that it states 
that they advised that the wash basin be re-installed, that the silicone sealant around the 
wash basin needed redoing, and that the flooring around the basin was rotten (from the leak) 
and needed replacing. Ive also noted a comment that the tenant also witnessed the leak and 
that the plumber spoke to the landlord (Ms T) to advise them of the leak and the remedial 
work identified.
From this Ive concluded that the plumber made a diagnosis of the cause of the leak that 
was, in his opinion, consistent with the observed issues from what was immediately 
apparent. I think thats reasonable. From the evidence Ive seen, the remedial work advised 
wasnt carried out by Ms T. Had it been, and the leak continued then a further visit by Aviva 
may have identified the toilet pipe as the source of the leak (as it was subsequently by Ms 
Ts own contractor). 
Ive noted that Ms T did request a further visit from an Aviva plumber after she accessed the 
property following the departure of the tenants in November 2020. But this would appear to have been included in a letter to Aviva that was principally concerned with a separate 
complaint that she had made regarding a boiler service. It wasnt made by phone, which is 
the means for calling out a plumber as set out in the policy document. There is no record of 
such a request on the Aviva account records for Ms Ts policy, suggesting that it wasnt 
logged. As the work advised from the first visit wasnt carried out, then had a second visit 
taken place, it is likely a similar conclusion would have been reached (particularly as the 
initial record would have been available to inform any second visit).
Ive also considered the point about the subsequently identified cause of the leak (the toilet 
pipe) being part of a concealed unit. Aviva have stated that having diagnosed what they 
thought was the most obvious (visible) source of the leak, their plumber would not then 
continue to look for other potential causes that would require more extensive work to provide 
access. I dont think thats unreasonable.
On the point about Aviva being responsible for the cost of the work needed to both fix the 
cause and damage from the leak identified by Ms Ts contractor,  then in the first instance 
Ive considered the nature of the policy Ms T had with Aviva. As a landlord combined cover 
with excess policy, the policy (in respect of plumbing and drainage) covers a range of repairs 
to pipes, joints, toilets, blocked sinks and other problems. But it specifically excludes 
replacement of sanitary ware (such as basins and toilet bowls) or showers. It also excludes, 
under the heading of General Exclusions the following items:
a) any item not forming part of your policy coverage as detailed in What is 
Covered?
k) normal day-to-day maintenance of the items covered by your policy at your 
property, for which you are responsible
From these terms and conditions, its clear that renewal of sealant and the flooring around 
the wash basin isnt covered under the policy. Nor is the cost of repairs in respect of damage 
caused by a leak. Such damage would, potentially, be covered through buildings and 
contents insurance and Ive noted that Ms T had separate buildings insurance (with another 
insurer) that covered her property, including for escape of water. 
As the damage caused by the leak (the damp) was the reason for Ms Ts tenants vacating 
the property, Ive concluded that Aviva also cant be held responsible for this (and the 
consequential loss of rental income). In any event, the damage caused by the leak would 
need to have been repaired in order for the property to be let to new tenants.
For these reasons, Ive concluded that Aviva havent acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
rejecting Ms Ts claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman