DRN-4335459
The complaint
Mr B and Ms C complain that the interest rate Mortgage Express has applied to their 
mortgage is excessive and unfair. They bring this complaint through a law firm.
What happened
Mr B and Ms C took out this mortgage with GMAC-RFC Limited in July 2007. They borrowed 
around £165,000 over a 20-year term, on an interest-only payment basis. The interest rate 
was fixed at 5.89% until 30 June 2009. It was then subject to the lenders standard variable 
rate (SVR) for the remainder of the term. The SVR at the time Mr B and Ms C took the 
mortgage out was 7.49%. By 1 July 2009 the SVR had fallen to 4.84%. It remained at that 
level until 2016.
In August 2007, Mr B and Ms Cs mortgage was transferred from GMAC to Mortgage 
Express. Mortgage Express was the specialist lending brand of Bradford & Bingley Plc. 
During the global financial crisis of 2007-2009, Bradford & Bingley collapsed and was 
nationalised. Mortgage Express remained a separate firm owned by the nationalised 
Bradford & Bingley, and it stopped offering new mortgage interest rate products. Mr B and 
Ms Cs mortgage has remained with Mortgage Express ever since.
In September 2021, through their representative, Mr B and Ms C complained to Mortgage 
Express about the interest rate they had been paying on their mortgage. In summary, they 
complained that:
- Mortgage Expresss SVR has consistently been too high, and excessive when compared 
to other lenders SVRs, particularly when Bank of England base rate was 0.5% or less. 
- Mortgage Expresss discretion to set and vary its SVR was subject to an implied term 
that it could not be exercised dishonestly, for an improper purpose, capriciously, 
arbitrarily, or in a way that no reasonable lender acting reasonably would do. In varying 
its SVR as it had, Mortgage Express had breached both this implied term and the 
express terms of its mortgage contract with Mr B and Ms C.
- Mortgage Express stopped offering new interest rate products in 2009, and Mr B and 
Ms C were unable to remortgage elsewhere. They had a reasonable expectation that 
they would be able to take a new interest rate when the initial fixed rate ended, but were 
unable to do so  and as a result they have had to keep their mortgage on Mortgage 
Expresss SVR. Mortgage Express should have taken this into account in setting its SVR 
but did not do so.
- In setting its SVR at the level it had, Mortgage Express had treated Mr B and Ms C 
unfairly, in breach of Principle 6 in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook, and in 
breach of Mortgage Conduct of Business rules. 
- Mortgage Express should refund interest charged above Bank of England base rate plus 
1.5%, and pay Mr B and Ms C compensation.
Mortgage Express said it had done nothing wrong and it had operated the interest rate on 
Mr B and Ms Cs mortgage fairly and in line with the mortgage terms. It said the SVR isnt a 
tracker rate and it had never described it as such. While it doesnt offer new interest rates, 
there had been no early repayment charge applicable to Mr B and Ms Cs mortgage since 
2009 and no other barrier to their remortgaging elsewhere if they wished. 
Through their representative, Mr B and Ms C referred their complaint to us. Our Investigator 
said that time limits apply to this complaint, and these mean we can only consider the 
interest charged in the six years leading up to this complaint  so, since 7 September 2015. 
She also said that in considering interest charged during that six-year period we could take 
account of earlier variations to Mr B and Ms Cs mortgage interest rate, because they 
contributed to the rate applied during the period we could consider.
The Investigator went on to look into the complaint, and didnt recommend that it be upheld. 
Through their representative, Mr B and Ms C asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our Investigator explained, the scope of my power to consider this complaint is limited to 
the six-year period leading up to the date Mr B and Ms C made this complaint on 
7 September 2021. This is because of the time limit rules I must apply. The relevant rules, 
which are set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook at DISP 2.8.2 R and are 
available online, say that complaints must be made within six years after the date of the 
event complained of, or, if it gives more time to complain, within three years of when the 
complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that they had cause for complaint.
I cant consider a complaint made outside those timescales, unless theres a record of an 
earlier complaint, unless the business complained about consents, or unless there are 
exceptional circumstances to explain the complaint having been made late. Here, theres no 
record of an earlier complaint, Mortgage Express hasnt consented, and I dont find there are 
exceptional circumstances to explain the delay in complaining.  
Mr B and Ms C complained to Mortgage Express about the interest rate on 7 September 
2021. I think they should reasonably have known over the years what interest rate they were 
being charged, because Mortgage Express wrote to them regularly with details of the rate in 
letters and statements. So I think they ought reasonably to have known when they received 
rate change letters and statements that they had cause for complaint about paying the SVR 
and about the level of the SVR. 
This means I can only consider this complaint from 7 September 2015, which is six years 
before Mr B and Ms C complained. In doing so, however, I will take account of earlier 
variations to Mr B and Ms Cs mortgage interest rate because they form part of all the 
circumstances of this complaint leading up to the interest applied after 7 September 2015.
Mr B and Ms Cs representative says that they only became aware of cause for complaint 
when they saw media reports about mortgage interest rates in 2019, which led them to seek 
legal advice. But the relevant time limit rule is not just about when Mr B and Ms C actually 
knew of cause for complaint, its also about when they ought reasonably to have known.
Knowledge of cause for complaint merely requires knowledge that something has gone 
wrong causing loss for which Mortgage Express is responsible. Im satisfied that Mr B and 
Ms C ought reasonably to have realised that they were being charged a higher interest rate than they were expecting more than three years before they complained  and thats enough 
to say they ought reasonably to have realised they had cause for complaint.
The same is true of the ongoing failure to offer a new interest rate. Mr B and Ms C would 
have known they were on the SVR and that Mortgage Express hadnt offered them a new 
rate  as they say they expected it would. That was enough to tell them they had cause for 
complaint about that. And so we can only consider the failure to offer a new rate for the six 
years leading up to the complaint.
Turning now to the merits of this complaint, I dont think that Mortgage Express did anything 
wrong in not offering Mr B and Ms C a new interest rate after 7 September 2015. There was 
nothing to say that it had to do so, either in the mortgage offer and terms and conditions, or 
in law or the rules of mortgage regulation.
Mortgage Express didnt offer new rates to any of its existing customers either, so in not 
offering Mr B and Ms C a rate it wasnt treating them less favourably than other customers. 
And no early repayment charges applied to the mortgage after the fixed rate ended in June 
2009, so Mortgage Express didnt stop Mr B and Ms C from applying for better rates with 
other lenders.
Ive carefully considered the fairness of the interest rate Mortgage Express charged Mr B 
and Ms C. Their mortgage was subject to Mortgage Expresss SVR from 1 July 2009 
onwards. The SVR had reduced between July 2007, when Mr B and Ms C took out the 
mortgage, and July 2009  it had fallen from 7.49% to 4.84%. Bank of England base rate fell 
further during that period  from 5.75% to 0.5%.
The SVR remained at the same level until 2016. Between 2016 and September 2021, when 
Mr B and Ms C made this complaint, the SVR varied at the same time, and by the same 
amount, as Bank of England base rate. 
In changing the interest rate from time to time, Mortgage Express was limited by the terms of 
the mortgage contract. The terms and conditions are the ones entered into by GMAC  they 
remained in force and applicable after the transfer. Theres a term in those terms and 
conditions which says that Mortgage Express could only vary the interest rate in certain 
circumstances:
3.1 If the interest rate is the standard variable rate we may vary it for any of the following 
reasons:
(a) to reect a change which has occurred, or which we reasonably expect to occur, in the 
Bank of England base rate or interest rates generally;
(b) to reflect a change which has occurred, or which we reasonably expect to occur, in the 
cost of the funds we use in our mortgage lending business;
(c) to reect a change which has occurred, or which we reasonably expect to occur, in the 
interest rates charged by other mortgage lenders;
(d) to reflect a change in the law or a decision by a court; or
(e) to reflect a decision or recommendation by an ombudsman, regulator or similar body. 
Theres nothing in the mortgage offer or terms and conditions to say that the SVR must track 
Bank of England base rate, with or without a margin. That said, for the period I can consider, 
from 7 September 2015, the SVR did only vary to reflect changes to the Bank of England base rate. Thats explicitly provided for in the terms and conditions, and so I dont think the 
variations to the SVR from 7 September 2015 onwards were unfair.
Ive also thought about whether the SVR was set at a fair level at the start of the period thats 
in time. In order to do so, Ive taken account of historic variations to the SVR, which  from 
the starting point of when Mr B and Ms C took the mortgage out  cumulatively led up to the 
rate they were charged from 7 September 2015 onwards. Thats because if one of those 
earlier changes wasnt made in accordance with the contract, for example, it might not be 
fair to charge an interest rate from 7 September 2015 which relied  in part  on that earlier 
variation.
In making the changes to the SVR it made from when the mortgage was taken out to when it 
reached 4.84% in late 2008  after which there were no further changes before 7 September 
2015  Mortgage Express has told us that it relied on condition 3.1 (b)  to reflect actual or 
anticipated changes in the cost of funding its mortgage lending business. It has given us 
detailed information about these costs. Im satisfied its appropriate to receive that 
information in confidence, as permitted by our rules, subject to providing a summary of it.
In summary, the information shows that Mortgage Express was funded by its parent 
company, Bradford & Bingley, in the form of loan facilities. Bradford & Bingley, before its 
collapse and nationalisation, predominantly raised funding on the wholesale markets. These 
wholesale market funding costs were generally driven by or related to the London Interbank 
Offered rate (LIBOR), not the Bank of England base rate. Before the financial crisis, LIBOR 
and base rate were broadly comparable. But during the financial crisis there was a 
significant dislocation between LIBOR and base rate, such that reductions in base rate 
werent matched by corresponding reductions in LIBOR  and, therefore, reductions in 
Bradford & Bingleys cost of wholesale funding. 
This divergence meant that while Mortgage Expresss SVR reduced (reflecting the 
reductions in LIBOR), it didnt reduce by as much as base rate. This was the case across the 
mortgage industry, not just for Mortgage Expresss SVR.
Following Bradford & Bingleys collapse, it was less exposed to movements in the wholesale 
markets and became primarily government funded. There were certain conditions and costs 
associated with its government funding  which in turn influenced the funding it, as the 
parent company, was able to provide to Mortgage Express.
Having considered all this information, Im satisfied that when Mortgage Express made 
changes to the SVR between 2007 and 2008, it did so relying on condition 3.1. Im further 
satisfied that it was entitled to rely on condition 3.1 and, in particular, on condition 3.1 (b) 
when reducing the SVR but increasing the margin over base rate, because the cost of 
funding its mortgage lending business was in fact changing, and the changes to the SVR 
reflected the changes to the cost of funding its mortgage lending business. Its true that 
Mortgage Express ceased to be an active mortgage lender, seeking out new business. But it 
still operated a mortgage lending business in respect of its existing loan book, which 
included Mr B and Ms Cs mortgage.
Its also important to note that condition 3.1 gives Mortgage Express the power to vary the 
interest rate, but it doesnt create an obligation to vary it. In other words, Mortgage Express 
has the power to change the SVR  but only if certain conditions are met. If those conditions 
are not met it has no power to change the SVR  and even if they are met, it is not obliged to 
change the SVR.
I dont accept Mr B and Ms Cs representatives argument that Mr B and Ms C had a 
reasonable expectation that the SVR would always be at 1.5% or a similar margin above Bank of England base rate. Thats not in the mortgage offer or terms and conditions, and Ive 
seen no evidence of such a policy or, if there was one, that it applied to Mr B and Ms Cs 
mortgage. Mr B and Ms Cs representative has referred to an archived webpage, but that 
refers to Mortgage Expresss variable interest rate products, not its SVR. It also pre-dates 
the financial crisis. Ive seen nothing to indicate that GMAC made any such commitment, 
and Mr B and Ms C cant have relied on something Mortgage Express said when they took 
out their mortgage with GMAC, a different lender. 
Mr B and Ms Cs representative has also said there is an implied term that Mortgage 
Express shouldnt exercise its power to vary the interest rate dishonestly, for an improper 
purpose, capriciously, arbitrarily, or in a way that no reasonable lender acting reasonably 
would do. Ive explained why Ive found that Mortgage Express acted fairly in varying its SVR 
during the period I can consider, and in reaching my conclusions Ive also kept in mind the 
Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations, as well as the relevant rules about 
mortgage lending and FCA requirements. I dont think Mr B and Ms Cs representatives 
argument about an implied term adds anything substantive for me to consider.  
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied that Mortgage Express acted in line with the mortgage 
terms in varying the SVR as it did, and I dont consider that it applied interest to Mr B and 
Ms Cs mortgage unfairly for the period I can consider.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman