DRN-4461463
The complaint
Mr R complains that PayrNet Limited didnt do enough to prevent the loss he suffered when 
he sent money to one of their accounts as the result of a scam.
Mr R has used a representative to bring his complaint, but for ease of reading, Ill mostly only 
refer to Mr R himself.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In June 2021 Mr R made two payments towards an investment with a business Ill refer to as 
L. The payments were each for £20,000 and were made a few days apart. Both payments 
came from Mr Rs personal account with his own bank N and they arrived in the same 
PayrNet account. 
Mr R had made prior investments with L on behalf of his limited company M (which he is the 
sole director of). These were for £5,000 and £10,000 and M initially received returns in 
relation to those investments. But later, Mr R realised hed been the victim of a scam. 
In June 2022 Mr R reported this to N. N declined to provide any redress. Mr R also 
complained to PayrNet as he alleged they had allowed a scammer to open and operate an 
account and that their failure to monitor that account had caused his loss. PayrNet likewise 
dont believe they need to pay any redress.
Im aware that our Investigator has already considered a linked complaint about Ms 
payments to PayrNet and that this wasnt upheld. But Mr R still wants to pursue his 
complaint about PayrNet in relation to the £40,000 he paid from his personal account 
towards an investment in his own name. Our Investigator didnt recommend this complaint 
should be upheld either. In summary she didnt think it would be fair to ask PayrNet to make 
a payment as the invested funds had originated in money from the Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme (BBLS) and using such funds for personal gain was against the terms of the BBLS 
agreement.
Mr R didnt agree and has asked for an Ombudsman to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for largely the same 
reasons. I know this will be disappointing for Mr R, so Ill explain why. 
In line with what Ive set out above, this decision only concerns the sum of the two payments 
Mr R made as an investment in his personal name. 
Mr R told our service that the money he sent was funded by a loan provided to M under the 
BBLS. I can see that the BBLS scheme funds credited Ms account before £40,000 was 
moved to Mr Rs personal account and from there it was sent to L. 
The BBLS terms required all borrowers to declare: they will use the loan only to provide 
economic benefit to the business, and not for personal purposes.
In the circumstances here, I dont think Mr R investing the BBLS funds into a personal 
investment (particularly given M is a limited company  Mr R is the sole director but M is a 
separate legal entity) can fairly be said to be to provide an economic benefit to M. I 
appreciate Mr R doesnt seemed to have differentiated between his companys funds and his 
own. But the other investments from his linked complaint were made in Ms name and the 
one relevant to this complaint was in his personal name. 
As such Mr R used the loan funds for a purpose that was explicitly outside the terms of the 
BBLS, which was intended to support businesses through the pandemic. And in these 
circumstances, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask PayrNet to make a 
payment with regard to the outstanding loss that Mr R is seeking from them. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman