DRN-4305252
The complaint
Mr T complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly closed his business account.
What happened
Mr T had a business account with Santander, which he used to run his business, E.
In November 2022, following a review Santander decided to close the account. Santander 
wrote to Mr T giving him two months notice that he needed to make alternative banking 
arrangements for E. 
Mr T complained to Santander about the closure of the account and asked Santander to 
explain why it no longer wanted him as a customer. Mr T said he suspected Santanders 
decision was based on out of date information about him in the media and because he had a 
previous spent conviction. All of which had occurred many years ago. He said if this is the 
reason Santander closed his business account it is discriminatory and a breach of the 
Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974. In response, Santander didnt provide Mr T with much 
information. The bank said it hadnt done anything wrong and had acted in line with the 
terms of the account and relevant regulations when it had closed the account.
Mr T wasnt happy with the banks response and brought his complaint to this service. He 
said Santander had treated him unfairly based on what had happened many years ago. He 
said Santanders actions had caused him a great deal of trouble and upset and impacted his 
business, which he says had to cease trading.  
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. She said that Santander hadnt done 
anything wrong when it had closed the account and had closed it in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. Mr T disagreed. He said Santander has broken the law because 
he believes the bank closed the account based on old information about him and because 
he has a spent conviction. He said Santander is a discriminatory organisation and there is no 
point in him bringing his complaint to us as this service doesnt work on behalf of consumers. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr T was disappointed by the investigators opinion and I can see that he has 
provided a detailed response to what she said about his complaint. Id like to reassure Mr T 
that Ive considered the whole file and whats hes said. But Ill concentrate my comments on 
what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because I failed to take it 
on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I 
think is a fair and reasonable outcome. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking this 
approach. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that Mr T and Santander have 
said before reaching my decision.
Firstly, in response to the investigators view, Mr T has said he is concerned that this service 
doesnt work on behalf of consumers because the investigator didnt uphold his complaint  
with the implication being that the bank is influencing our conclusions inappropriately. Whilst 
I do recognise his concern, as an ombudsman service our approach is to consider what both 
parties say and then reach our own independent conclusions on that evidence. That is what 
we have done in this complaint. If Mr T does not agree with our view, he does not have to 
accept it, and if he does not accept this final decision, he will be free to continue to pursue 
his concerns by other means should he wish to do so. I cannot, however, advise him on how 
to go about doing that.
Mr T suspects that Santander has not taken account of the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 
1974 when it closed his business account  in other words he says it has broken the law. 
Our service is an informal alternative to the courts. It is not the role of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service to decide whether the business has acted unlawfully or not  thats a 
matter for the courts. I cant make a finding as to whether the law has been broken, and I 
dont need to in order to decide this complaint. So, whilst the law is a relevant consideration, 
we dont look at complaints in the same way a court might. Were able to reach an outcome 
based on what we believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Santander are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations when providing account services to customers. 
They can broadly be summarised as a responsibility to protect persons from financial harm, 
and to prevent and detect financial crime.
In order to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations, its not unusual for a financial 
business to periodically review its customers accounts, even if the account holder has been 
a customer for some time. Having looked at all the evidence and information, Im satisfied 
that Santander were complying with their legal and regulatory obligations when they 
reviewed Mr Ts business account. So, I cant fairly say theyve done anything wrong. 
Following a review, banks sometimes decide to close an account. Banks are entitled to 
decide for themselves whether to do business or continue doing business with a customer. 
Each financial institution has its own criteria and risk assessment for deciding whether to 
continue providing accounts and providing an account to a customer is a commercial 
decision that a financial institution is entitled to take. Thats because it has the commercial 
freedom to decide who it wants as a customer. And unless theres a good reason to do so, 
this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer. But they shouldnt decline 
to continue providing an account without proper reason, for instance of unfair bias or 
unlawful discrimination. And they must treat new and existing customers fairly.
Before Santander closes an account, they must do so in way which is fair and complies with 
the terms and conditions of the account. Ive looked at the terms and conditions and they 
state that Santander could close the account by giving at least two months notice. Ive seen 
the notice to close letter that Santander sent Mr T in November 2022, giving him the full 
notice period, so Im satisfied that they have complied with this part.
Ive then gone on to consider whether Santanders reason for closing the account was fair. In 
doing so, I appreciate that Santander are entitled to set their own policies and part of that will 
form their risk criteria. It is not in my remit to say what policies or risk appetite Santander 
should have in place. I can however, while considering the circumstances of individual 
complaints, decide whether I think customers have been treated fairly.
 Ive considered carefully what Mr T has said regarding his spent conviction and the 
Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974.  Mr T has explained that he got mixed up in something 
more than a decade ago and received a suspended prison sentence as a result. Hes also 
said that the matter was reported in the media at the time. Mr T says it would be a breach of 
the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 if Santanders decision to close his business 
account was based on his previous spent conviction. He says it would also be unfair for 
Santander to base its decision to close the account on out of date media stories about him. 
After considering all the available evidence and information I havent seen any evidence to 
show Santanders decision breached the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 or that 
Santander reviewed and closed Mr Ts account for an improper reason. Theres nothing that 
Ive seen, that suggests it amounted to anything other than a legitimate exercise of its 
discretion. It follows then that Ive not seen any evidence that would lead me to conclude 
Santander treated Mr T differently because of his previous spent conviction and what was 
reported in the news. The reason Santander gave for closing the account is that it was 
outside the banks risk appetite. That in turn means it can choose who it has a customer 
relationship with. This is a decision that I cant interfere with as it is a commercial business 
decision.
I understand of course why Mr T wants to know the exact reasons behind Santanders 
decision, other than what hes been previously been told. And I can see that Mr T has asked 
Santander to explain itself on several occasions. I appreciate it cant be pleasant being told 
that you are no longer wanted as a customer. But Santander doesnt disclose to its 
customers what triggers a review of their accounts. And its under no obligation to tell Mr T 
the reasons behind the account review and closure, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant 
say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr T this information. And it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to require it to do so. 
In summary, I understand Mr T will be unhappy with my decision but ultimately Santander is 
entitled to set its own risk appetite. Having reviewed all the evidence and circumstances of 
this complaint, Im satisfied that Santander has acted in line with the terms and conditions of 
the account and as such I cant conclude that it has treated Mr T unfairly when it closed his 
business account. So, I wont be asking Santander to reopen the account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman