DRN-2734987
The complaint
Miss E complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited refused to let her reject a faulty car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
MotoNovo is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for 
a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
The car was some three years old and had covered approximately 30,000 miles so it would 
be reasonable to expect the car to be in good condition. There were a couple of minor issues 
such as a broken mirror which were rectified by the dealer. A matter of days after she took 
delivery the rear window shattered. This has been repaired and we cannot say what was the 
cause, but I have no reason to presume the window was inherently faulty. It is possible that 
a chip had led to the shattering, but this is not clear.
However, there is another fault which I believe was present at the point of sale. The car 
failed its MOT in January and again in June 2020 for the same reason. The tyre pressure 
monitoring system malfunctioned on both occasions and each time it was reset or repaired 
and the car passed the test.
However, the issue arose again shortly after the point of sale. Miss E has supplied this 
service with a date stamped photo showing this had happened again on 26 August 2020 
which was only a few days after the sale. Furthermore, Moneybarns system notes refer to 
the fault as having been reported to the dealer within 30 days. She obtained a diagnostic on 
24 September which confirmed there was a recorded fault with the tyre pressure monitor. 
This also shows a number of history codes.
Moneybarn has argued that this issue wasnt raised with it within 30 days and so the dealer 
has the right to attempt one repair. I dont agree. She sent an email to Moneybarn on 25 
August and she was told not instruct any repairs or diagnostics. So, Miss E was aware of the 
fault (she had already notified the dealer) and was ready to arrange a diagnostic test but was 
instructed not to do so. 
It has also queried whether the date stamping may have been edited. I have no reason to 
think that has happened. Miss E submitted it as part of her evidence when she first brought 
her complaint to this service and I am satisfied it is genuine.
I also note that she made little use of the car. Her recorded mileage on 22 January 2021 was 
30,829. I gather she has been using another car, the one she had intended to sell after 
buying the one which is the subject of her complaint. 
In summary the car has a fault which caused it to fail two MOT tests and as such I am 
satisfied that it was faulty at the point of sale and as Miss E raised the issue within 30 days, 
she is entitled to reject the car. 
Putting things right
 Miss E should be allowed to reject the car.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct MotoNovo Finance Limited to:  
action-
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Collect the vehicle at an arranged date that is mutually agreed between both parties.
Remove any adverse information from Miss Es credit file as a result of rejecting the 
vehicle.
Refund Miss E her monthly payments, minus two months for use of the car
Pay the cost of the diagnostic test of £60.
Pay 8% interest on the monthly payments- from the date of payment until the 
settlement date.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Ivor GrahamOmbudsman