DRN-1040215
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2004. Mr S
says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold him the PPI.
Mr S bought a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) in 2004. TMPP can be split into
sections  Mortgage Repayments Cover (which is a form of PPI), life cover and critical
illness cover. Mr S has complained about the PPI so Ive looked at the sale of the PPI cover
only.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mr S aware that the PPI policy was optional and gain his consent before 
adding the PPI to his mortgage. There isnt much paperwork available from the sale of the 
policy, but from what we know about how Halifax sold this type of policy at the time I think its 
likely Halifax would have presented the PPI as optional and gained Mr Ss consent before 
adding it to his mortgage. So, I think Halifax made it clear that Mr S didnt have to take out 
the PPI and that he chose to take it out.
Halifax recommended the PPI policy to Mr S, so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him. Mr S has told us he was entitled to sick pay when he took the PPI, he also had savings, 
so he didnt need the PPI. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Ss sick pay, 
and for longer. It would also have protected Mr Ss savings so they could be used towards 
any other expenses he may have had.
Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ss circumstances at the time, he wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve
been. But I think he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And
it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it
was affordable. So, I think the policy was right for him, and I dont think better information
about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr S has told us including that we shouldnt assume what 
happened at the time the policy was sold, but the PPI was sold a long time ago and as 
businesses arent required to keep this type of information indefinitely it isnt surprising that 
the paperwork is no longer available. Neither Halifax nor Mr S has provided enough 
evidence to show the PPI was mis-sold so, I cant say that it was.
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman