DRN-3712153
The complaint
The estate of Mr D, represented by Mr CD, has complained that Scottish Friendly Assurance 
Society Limited misrepresented what was likely to be paid in the event of a claim.
What happened
Mr D had a whole of life policy  originally with a different provider but for simplicity I shall 
just refer to it being with Scottish Friendly. During the life of the policy he was sent 
statements showing the estimated amount payable on death.
A claim was made by Mr Cs estate when he passed away in 2021. Mr CD felt that amount 
paid was incorrect, so far was it from the sums referred to in the statements. Scottish 
Friendly confirmed that the breakdown was correct. 
On behalf of the estate Mr CD referred the complaint here. Our investigators ultimately 
explained why they were satisfied that the correct amount had been paid.
Mr CD appealed. He felt that the statements that had been sent to Mr C were very unclear  
failing to explain that the death benefit included the bonuses payable at the maturity of the 
policy or on death.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties 
No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find is the key issue here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. 
Secondly, my role is to resolve individual disputes. However it is not the function of this 
service to penalise financial businesses  we are not the regulator. Nor can we tell them how 
to operate. In considering whats fair and reasonable in any given complaint, I need to have 
regard to the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes 
of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. 
Ive carefully considered the statements that were sent to Mr D  they form the crux of this 
complaint. I accept Mr CDs argument that the layout could have been improved and that it 
was not readily apparent to Mr CD what the guaranteed pay-out would be. However to 
uphold the complaint Id need to be sure Mr D himself didnt understand the statements or 
how the death benefit would be calculated.
I note the £7,000 sum assured wasnt shown in the annual statements. But the original 
schedule does show this as the sum assured and Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr D 
wasnt aware of that. This was the sum guaranteed from the beginning and not subject to 
change. Accumulated bonuses once added are also guaranteed, unlike the final bonus 
which wont necessarily be added  for example if the policy is cashed in early. This wasnt 
the case here - the total payable therefore included a final bonus. As the accumulated 
bonuses were available either to be taken early, or as part of the death benefit, they were 
listed separately on the statement. 
I can also see in the most recent statement, before Mr D passed away, Scottish Friendly had 
added a new line to the statement under the your life assurance heading to show the 
guaranteed benefit, clarifying the payment further. It included the following explanation:
The guaranteed benefit is the guaranteed minimum value that would be paid on death. This 
figure excludes an estimate of an additional final bonus, but does include the total bonuses 
to date.
The guaranteed benefit was paid to Mr Ds estate, along with a final bonus, which was 
reasonably close to the amount it had estimated. 
In the circumstances Im not persuaded that Scottish Friendly has paid the wrong sum or 
that it represented to Mr D that a greater sum would be paid. There is no evidence that Mr D 
was confused by the statements or about how the amount payable on death would be 
calculated. But if he was, it was of course open to him to seek an explanation from Scottish 
Friendly. 
I do understand how disappointing the claim payment has been for the estate, but I have no 
power to award compensation to the estate for disappointment. Likewise I have no power to 
look at Scottish Friendlys handling of this complaint, as complaint handling is not a 
regulated activity. In all the circumstances I cant say that any greater sum or any sum in 
compensation is due. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman