DRN-2022759
The complaint
Mr G complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited is pursuing him for the costs of its 
solicitors after a claim was made against his motor insurance policy. He wants it to waive 
this fee.
What happened
Another driver said Mr G had hit his car in the rear, but Mr G denied this. Calpe investigated 
the claim. The outcome was that Mr G wasnt involved and there was no damage to his or 
the other car. Calpe received notification of a personal injury claim from the other drivers 
passenger. And it sought legal advice. Calpe contested this claim and it was dropped. But 
Calpe had incurred costs in defending Mr G, and it sought reimbursement. It waived its 
investigation fees and engineers fees as a gesture of goodwill. But it wanted Mr G to pay 
£780 for its solicitors costs under his policy excess.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr Gs 
policy excess was £3,000 and Calpe had incurred costs in defending the claim. But he 
thought the claim had been defended on the basis that Mr G wasnt involved and no legal 
action followed. He thought Calpe had enough evidence to argue liability itself. And so he 
thought it was unfair for Calpe to ask Mr G to pay solicitors fees. He thought they should be 
waived. 
Calpe replied that Mr G would have incurred these fees himself if he hadnt been insured. It 
said they were Mr Gs uninsured losses. It asked for an ombudsmans review, so the 
complaint has come to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Mr Gs policy had a £3,000 excess which applied to all sections of the policy. This meant that 
Mr G would normally have to pay up to £3,000 of the costs incurred in dealing with a claim. I 
think this is clearly set out in the policy and I think it would normally be fair and reasonable 
for Calpe to apply this policy excess. 
Calpe incurred costs in defending the claim made against Mr G. And I think these charges 
against Mr Gs policy excess are normally regarded as uninsured losses that he should try 
and recover from the other drivers insurer. 
Calpe said it would waive its claim investigation costs as a gesture of goodwill. But we think 
its unfair for an insurer to charge a consumer for its investigation costs as these are incurred 
as part of its business. Calpe also waived its engineers fees and I think that was fair and 
reasonable.
But Calpe is still pursuing Mr G for its solicitors fees. These were incurred because Calpe 
decided to take legal advice after receiving a claim for personal injury from the other drivers 
passenger. It said it was required to seek legal advice as the other side had instructed 
solicitors. 
But I think in the particular circumstances of Mr Gs case, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to 
ask him to pay this fee. This is because when Calpe received the claim from the other 
drivers passenger, some six months after the alleged incident, it had already established 
from its investigation and engineers reports that Mr G wasnt responsible for any damage to 
the other car. Its investigator recommended that the claim should be rejected out of hand. 
The solicitor provided detailed advice after considering the investigation and engineers 
reports. But the solicitors letter to the other side simply pointed out the engineers reports 
and threatened to recover costs from the claimants. The claim was then dropped. There was 
no further legal action and the case didnt go to court. This is unlike other cases that have 
come to us that Calpe has drawn to our attention. And, in any case, each complaint is 
decided on its merits. 
So I think Calpe had already completed detailed investigations establishing that Mr G wasnt 
responsible for the other drivers damage or injuries by the time it took legal advice. I think it 
could then have refuted the passengers claim, but it chose to take advice first. I think it was 
entitled to make this decision. But in the circumstances, I dont think its fair or reasonable to 
ask Mr G to reimburse this cost from his policy excess.
Putting things right
I think its unfair for Calpe to ask Mr G to reimburse its solicitors fee and I think it should 
waive this fee. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Calpe 
Insurance Company Limited to waive its charge against Mr G for its solicitors fee.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman