DRN-3534586
The complaint
Mr H complains about the payment of the maturity amount of a policy from The Prudential 
Assurance Company Limited. Hes unhappy that he received two payments and is being 
asked to return one of them.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont go over it in great 
detail, but the key facts are as follows:
Mr Hs policy matured in October 2019 and Prudential sent him a letter at that time 
advising the estimated value would be £27,753.79. A payment of £27,692.37 was 
subsequently made to him.
In November 2019 he received another letter confirming that a payment of 
£27,753.79, representing the maturity value of the policy would be made within three 
days. The payment was then made and the correspondence he received noted it was 
an ex-gratia payment.
Prudential contacted Mr H in March 2020 and informed him that theyd overpaid him 
and asked him to return the payment of £27,753.79 as it was made in error. They 
sent him two further letters requesting the return of the funds and in June 2020 they 
wrote to him explaining how the error was made and offered him a payment of £150 
for the inconvenience caused.
They subsequently confirmed that whilst it was the larger of the two payments that 
had been overpaid, they were willing to accept the lower of the two amounts to be 
returned and offered a further payment of £350 for the inconvenience caused. They 
also confirmed that whilst the second cheque stated ex-gratia, that was an error and 
the amount to be returned was the lower of the two payments less the £500 in total 
theyd offered for inconvenience.
Mr H complained to Prudential about their decision. They didnt uphold the complaint 
so he asked for our help.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who didnt uphold it. In 
summary, the investigator was satisfied that the second payment had been made in 
error and needed to be returned despite the cheque stating it was an ex-gratia 
payment. He didnt think the payment related to any bonuses from the transfer of 
another business (B1) to Prudential as Mr H had suggested. Mr H had received a 
payment relating to the transfer in 1997 with a further special bonus added that year 
and therefore wasnt due any further payments. The investigator also thought the 
compensation offered was fair and reasonable.
He noted Mr Hs comments regarding Prudential requesting repayment of the first 
payment not the second. The investigator explained this was because theyd decided 
to request the lower of the two payments as a gesture of good will. However, as Mr H 
had confirmed that he wished to retain the first payment as he believed this to be the 
contractual payment, Prudential had agreed to amend their records and send a 
revised request to return the second payment. 
Mr H didnt think his complaint had been fully resolved. He explained that he still had 
issues with how his complaint had been handled and also with the problems caused 
by the second payment being classed as an ex-gratia payment. 
As theres been no agreement, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld and I will go on to explain why. 
But Id firstly like to say that I appreciate Mr Hs strength of feeling regarding this complaint. 
Id like to assure him that Ive read and considered everything hes told us. Im aware Ive 
summarised his complaint points in less detail than he has, but this simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service.
I think it may also be helpful to remind him that this service isnt the regulator, that is the role 
of the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service therefore doesnt have the power to make 
rules for financial businesses, or direct that they change their policy or procedures. Our role 
here is to look at what happened in the circumstances of this complaint and check that 
Prudential followed their rules and procedures - as well as those set by the regulator and any 
relevant industry guidance and good practice - and applied them fairly.
Prudential have admitted they made an error when they sent Mr H the second payment and 
classed it as ex-gratia. Theyve explained that they had made changes to their computer 
systems in October 2019 which caused the error. Their systems didnt recognise that Mr H 
had received his maturity payment in October and therefore the second payment was sent to 
him in November. 
Ive considered about what Mr H has said regarding the second payment being a surplus 
asset payment for B1 members. From what Ive seen, he received a payment of £429.53 in 
1997 relating to the transfer of B1 to Prudential and a special bonus was added to his policy. 
The letter he received in 1997 said that he may be entitled to further bonuses, but there was 
no guarantee of this. I think that given the similarity in the amounts of the two payments, it is 
more likely that the second payment was a duplicate maturity payment and not a surplus 
asset payment. 
So, when taken into account with what Prudential have explained about their system issues, 
Im satisfied that the second payment was made in error and I dont think Prudential have 
acted unfairly in asking Mr H to repay one of the payments.
Prudential have admitted that they have caused Mr H distress and inconvenience and have 
offered him £500 compensation. Ive thought about the impact of their errors on Mr H and 
the effort hes had to put into getting an answer. Having done so, I think that their offer is fair 
and reasonable. It is in line with what I would have awarded and recognises the significant 
inconvenience and considerable distress they have caused to Mr H. So, I wont be asking 
them to offer Mr H any more compensation or take any further action to resolve his 
complaint. It therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman