DRN-3143863
The complaint
Mr R says Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly.  
What happened
Mr R took out an 18-month instalment loan from Loans 2 Go in May 2021. It was for
£250 and the monthly repayments were £57.14. The total repayable was £1028.52.
Mr R says he was struggling financially at the time and making loan applications one after 
the other. Having this loan caused him stress every month.
Our adjudicator said Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. He thought the lender should have 
carried out further checks. And had it done so it would have realised the loan was most likely 
not sustainably affordable for Mr R.
Loans 2 Go disagreed, saying whilst there was some adverse data on Mr Rs credit file it 
was on the whole positive and there wasnt enough evidence Mr R was under financial 
duress. Given the size of the loan its checks were proportionate, and it was not required to 
ask for bank statements.
As an agreement wasnt reached, the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Loans 2 Go lent to Mr R required it to carry out a
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment
or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Loans 2 Go had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mr R. In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr R.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for. In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to before agreeing
to lend to Mr R. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Mr Rs loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in
a sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
- did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Loans 2 Go asked for some information from Mr R before it approved the loan. It
asked for his monthly income and expenditure. It verified his declared income with a payslip. 
It increased his declared expenditure to ensure it was reasonable based on national 
statistics. It checked Mr Rs credit file to understand his existing monthly credit commitments 
and credit history. From these checks combined Loans 2 Go concluded Mr R had enough 
disposable income for the loan to be affordable.
I think these checks were initially proportionate given the size and term of the loan and its
repayments, but I think based on the information it gathered Loans 2 Go should have carried 
out further checks. Ill explain why.
The credit check Loans 2 Go carried out showed that whilst Mr R was up-to-date with his 
active credit accounts, he had a County Court Judgement (CCJ) registered against him as 
recently as February 2021. And in the 24 months prior to this application Mr R had taken out 
13 payday loans  so on average one every other month. So I cannot agree with the lenders 
opinion that the credit check was largely positive without enough evidence of financial 
duress. Given a seeming reliance on short-term high-cost credit I think it ought to have 
completed a fuller review of Mr Rs finances.
I have reviewed Mr Rs bank statements from the months prior to this loan. Loans 2 Go 
points out it was not required to do this. I am not saying it had to, but its one way it could 
have better understood Mr Rs financial situation. And it helps me work out what the lender 
would most likely have learnt had it carried out better checks.
These show Mr R was gambling frequently, spending in excess of his monthly income, and 
using more payday loans than appeared on the credit check to try to manage his money. So 
had Loans 2 Go carried out better checks I think it would have realised there was a high risk 
the loan would not be sustainably affordable for Mr R.
It follows I think Loans 2 Go was wrong to give the loan to Mr R.  I have not found evidence 
that Loans 2 Go acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way. 
Putting things rightI think its fair and reasonable for Mr R to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been provided to him.
Loans 2 Go should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments Mr R
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Rs loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Rs loan account leaves an outstanding capital balance the parties 
should work together to agree a repayment plan that is fair and affordable for Mr R.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Rs credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go should
give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.  
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Rs complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited must put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman