DRN-3299065
The complaint
Mrs Hs complaint is about the refusal of a claim under her pet insurance policy with 
Fairmead Insurance Limited, trading as Legal and General.
What happened
Mrs H was provided with a months free pet insurance policy with Fairmead from 25 October 
to 24 November 2020, when she first got her dog. Mrs H took out insurance with another 
provider when this policy ended. 
On 24 November 2020, Mrs H made a claim for treatment in relation to her dogs teeth. The 
dog had to have some teeth removed as they were causing trauma to the inside of his 
mouth. Fairmead refused the claim, as it said the treatment was due to a congenital jaw 
misalignment and the policy only covers treatment for accidents or illnesses. Mrs H made 
another claim in March 2021 in relation to more treatment for the dog in relation to this. 
Fairmead also refused this claim, for the same reasons as the first claim but also said it 
would not be covered in any event, as the policy was no longer in force at the time of the 
treatment. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as he was satisfied that Fairmead was entitled to refuse the claims. 
Mrs H does not accept the Investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
She has made a number of submissions in her initial complaint and in response to the 
Investigator, which I have summarised below: 
the policy covers illness and physical disease; jaw alignment disease would clearly 
come within this definition and the treatment costs of around £2,000 are well within 
the limit of the policy. 
This was extremely stressful, her puppy was in pain and had to have the treatment 
and she has been left with crippling vets bills. She was provided with the policy and 
should not be treated like this.  
Insurance companies should not be allowed to give one months free insurance to 
puppy breeders as enticement to new puppy owners which are basically worthless if 
they do not pay out in genuine cases like this. 
If they do not cover a situation like this then do they really cover anything? 
Hers is a genuine claim and should be covered by the pet insurance she was 
provided with. 
The second treatment in March 2021 was a continuation of the initial treatment for 
the illness that arose during the period of cover with Fairmead, so it is not the 
responsibility of the new insurers and is part of the claim under this policy.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fairmeads policy, like most other pet insurance policies, provides cover for:
all reasonable charges made for treatment carried out by a vet for an accident or Illness 
occurring to your puppy.
An illness is defined as a:
Physical disease, sickness, infection or failure which is not caused by injury.
The policy also excludes cover for any pre-existing conditions; treatment occurring outside 
the period of the policy and for dentistry that is not the result of an accident.
Theres no dispute that the dog has a deformity of his jaw, however, Mrs H says that it was 
the trauma this caused to his mouth that was the issue and not the jaw misalignment and 
this comes within the definition of a physical disease. 
I do not agree. The vets notes state that the dog had a severe underbite so the teeth were  
impacting the upper and lower palate. The underlying issue is therefore the jaw 
misalignment and while this might not have required treatment if it were not causing trauma, 
the fact remains the trauma was caused by this congenital deformity, which would not 
reasonably be considered to be an illness. 
In addition, while the removal of the teeth and surgery to the jaw were medically necessary, 
the dentistry exclusion would also apply in my view.  
I am also not convinced it would be fair or reasonable to require and insurer to pay for 
treatment that took place after the policy ended. Even if the first claim had been covered, the 
policy clearly does not cover costs of treatment that take place outside the policy period of 
cover. This is not unusual or unfair. 
Mrs H says that policies such as this should not be provided, as it is worthless and misled 
her into thinking she had cover. Fairmead didnt sell the policy it was provided free with her 
dog by the breeder. No policy of insurance will cover every issue that might arise with a pet. 
Most insurance policies are designed to cover unforeseen and fortuitous events and so will 
normally only cover illnesses or injuries that arise during the period of cover. I do not think 
that the terms relied on by Fairmead are unusual or inherently unfair and I consider they are 
presented reasonably clearly. I also doubt that Mrs H would have found any other insurance 
policy which would have covered this treatment so I do not think there is any reason to 
require Fairmead to meet the claim.
While I understand the distress at having to arrange and pay for such treatment for a new 
puppy, I do not consider Fairmead has done anything wrong.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman