DRN-1615051
The complaint
Mr K complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) won't reimburse him for his 
costs in replacing his flooring following a call out he made under a residential emergency 
policy, provided by his employer. 
The policy is administered by Legal Insurance Management (LIM), but for ease I'll refer to 
RSA throughout my decision. 
What happened
On 20 September 2019 Mr K experienced a loss of power to a number of plug sockets in his 
home. He called RSA to arrange for an electrician to attend his property. This was arranged 
for 21 September. Before they attended, Mr K managed to get some of the sockets working, 
but he was still without power to others. 
The electrician removed the four affected sockets but was unable to reset the miniature 
circuit breaker. He completed further checks and felt the problem was likely situated 
between the consumer unit and the lounge socket, under the flooring. In order to carry out 
further checks, the electrician needed the flooring removed, so he could access the cabling. 
Mr K had laminate flooring and as it couldn't be removed during that visit another 
appointment was arranged. 
The following day, Mr K checked what needed to be removed. RSA checked with the 
electrician, who confirmed the flooring needed lifting between the consumer unit and the 
lounge. He was also told the electrician would be able to re-attend in a few days as he was 
going on a course. 
Mr K started lifting the laminate in his hallway. The pictures he has provided shows the 
laminate didn't stay intact. Worried about the damage being caused and the delay in the 
electrician being able to attend, Mr K contacted another electrician who had rewired his 
home a few years prior.  The second electrician identified the problem as one of the sockets 
being faulty. He replaced it which resolved the issue with the remaining sockets. 
Mr K complained as he felt RSA's electrician must have missed something during his visit; 
had he correctly diagnosed the problem he wouldn't have incurred the additional cost of 
replacing his damaged flooring. He wanted reimbursing for his costs and compensation for 
the stress and anxiety caused. 
RSA didn't uphold the complaint. It was satisfied its electrician had provided a detailed report 
of the tests and checks done, which were all correct. It also questioned why Mr K had asked 
a second electrician to look into the fault. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She was satisfied that something must have gone 
wrong during the initial visit by RSA's electrician; and but for that Mr K wouldn't have pulled 
up his flooring. 
RSA disagreed. In summary, it:asked for a report from Mr K's electrician which was provided and considered by a 
party that regulates the training and work of electricians. It was felt Mr K's electrician 
was in a far better position to understand the wiring of the property and so provide a 
quicker resolution. 
It feels it would be unjust for it to pay towards the costs of the flooring as its 
contractor completed all of the necessary tests. Mr K was also advised to speak with 
his buildings and contents insurer which would have ensured any damage was 
covered by the insurer. 
Our investigator pointed out that in the call, RSA didn't explain that buildings and contents 
could complete a trace and access just that it might be able to help. She was still persuaded 
RSA should reimburse the cost of the replacement flooring. RSA asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman. It said:
Mr K's electrician had more knowledge about the property. Its contractor was under 
the apprehension there was a junction box beneath the floor, had he been aware 
there was not, additional tests would have been conducted. 
Both electrician's carried out diagnostic tests which cannot be disputed. It isn't a 
claim where one contractor is incorrect. It feels it has established neither contractor 
acted negligently. 
Mr K's policy covered the insured event when he initially reported an issue. But he 
was then able to complete a circuit yet it continued to provide assistance which went 
beyond the policy requirements. 
It feels it is outrageous to hold a company liable,  if additional advice is provided 
which may assist a policyholder and prevent additional cost and the information is 
unclear. Mr K should have contacted his buildings and contents provider. It feels it 
would be unjust and unfair if the ombudsman chooses to penalise it if it is guiding a 
customer outside its requirements as a home emergency provider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point is the contract between RSA and Mr K - the policy terms and conditions.  
The policy defines emergency as:
A sudden and unforeseen situation which if not dealt with quickly would:
i) render the Property unsafe or insecure; or
ii) damage or cause further damage to the Property; or
iii) cause significant discomfort, risk or difficulties for or to You. 
For electrical supplies the policy covers the 'Electricity failure of at least one complete 
circuit'. 
RSA has said that when Mr K initially called to arrange an appointment, the circumstances of 
the electrical failure fell within the policy terms. But it said before its contractor attended Mr K 
managed to fix some of the sockets, so he no longer had the failure of a complete circuit. RSA hasn't been clear, but it seems to be saying that the work carried out by its contractor 
and the advice it gave were both outside of the policy terms and conditions. I'm not sure I 
necessarily agree with that. In the event, that wasn't made clear to Mr K who should have 
been told, if indeed, that was the basis on which the diagnostic tests were carried out. As 
RSA proceeded as if it was providing a service under the policy, that is the basis on which I 
also proceed. 
I accept that Mr K's electrician would have a better knowledge of the wiring in Mr K's house. 
But I don't agree with RSA that it has been established neither electrician had been 
negligent. The fact remains that RSA's electrician carried out diagnostic tests and couldn't 
locate the problem. And it was RSA's electrician that advised the flooring would need to be 
taken up. Yet when Mr K's electrician carried out the same diagnostic tests on the sockets, 
the problem was located. So either RSA's electrician missed something, or his equipment let 
him down. Whichever it is, the problem wasn't located by RSA's electrician when it should 
have been. And but for missing the correct diagnosis, Mr K wouldn't have been advised that 
his flooring would need to be lifted. 
RSA thinks it outrageous that it might be held liable if information it gives isn't very clear. I'm 
surprised at its strength of feeling about this. It is the party with the knowledge about 
insurance policies, not the policy holder. And it would have been very easy to explain that 
some home insurance covers trace and access. Rather it simply said Mr K's home insurance 
might be able to help. That wasn't wrong. But as it wasn't clear in its advice, then I don't think 
Mr K can be blamed for not following it. In any event, Mr K has explained that had he 
contacted his home insurer that would have likely caused further delay, he would have had 
an excess to pay and it was work he could complete himself. Given the location of the 
flooring and what RSA's electrician said it needed access to, I'm not surprised Mr K decided 
to do this work himself - after all lifting laminate flooring isn't a particularly complicated job, 
albeit it is messy and laminate rarely stays intact. 
The only reason Mr K lifted the laminate was because RSA's electrician advised him too. 
And that was because the electrician had missed the correct diagnosis of the problem. Had 
he correctly discovered the issue with the socket, the repair would likely have been carried 
out there and then, without needing any laminate to be lifted. I therefore find RSA got things 
wrong and it needs to put that right.  
Putting things right
Mr K has already provided RSA with evidence of the costs incurred in lifting and replacing 
his laminate flooring. I'm satisfied this is reasonable information on which to base 
reimbursement. I require RSA to:
Reimburse all of Mr K's costs in replacing his laminate flooring (I understand the cost 
of having the socket fixed has already been reimbursed); and 
add 8% simple annual interest on Mr K's costs from the date he incurred them to the 
date of settlement, as he has been without the use of those funds.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and required Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Plc to pay Mr K redress in accordance with what I have set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2020.Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman