DRN-3813086
The complaint
Mr A and his mother  Mrs A - complain about errors made by OneSavings Bank Plc when 
they tried to re-mortgage their property.
Mr A has led the complaint throughout.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A have a buy-to-let mortgage with OneSavings Bank. In 2020 they approached it 
as their interest rate product was due to expire at the end of June 2020.
OneSavings Bank sent them an initial choices letter which gave them information on how to 
choose a new interest rate product before their fixed rate expired. The letter outlined that 
their loan to value (LTV) was 79.2% at the time and that there was no need for a revaluation 
of the property or for a solicitor, so there was no additional costs in switching to a new 
interest rate product except for a product fee (if one applied). 
In May 2020 Mr A got back in touch with OneSavings Bank as his address had changed. It 
sent a new letter (but later explained that it shouldnt have done as the April 2020 letter was 
still valid). It said that, due to changes in the market, the Automated Valuation Model (AVM) 
that it usually uses was out of date and so it undertook a desktop valuation to get an up to 
date valuation of the property. 
The result of this put the LTV above 90% which meant that Mr A became ineligible for better 
interest rates. 
Mr A waited until his product came to an end and then made an overpayment of £14,500 to 
reduce the LTV to just under 85%. He was then able to access a better interest rate and 
fixed a new rate for two years. 
Mr A complained to OneSavings Bank  he said it should not have completed the new 
valuation and that he suffered direct financial loss as a result.
It apologised for the error and admitted that it did not follow the correct procedure. It offered 
£100 in recognition of this and offered to refund the difference in the amount that Mr A and 
Mrs A paid when their mortgage account reverted to the standard variable rate (SVR) 
compared to the new rate taken. 
Mr A remained unhappy and referred the matter to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He 
also said that OneSavings Bank should reduce the LTV to 75% and offer him better rates on 
this basis.
Our investigator considered the matter. He thought the offer made by OneSavings Bank 
didnt go far enough and recommended £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused but 
didnt think that OneSavings Bank should do anything further to put things right. 
Mr A disagreed with this and said he should be put back in the position he would have been 
in - had the error not occurred. He asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted what Mr A has said about this matter and can appreciate that this must have been 
a frustrating experience. Im sorry to have to disappoint them, but Im afraid I dont think I 
should uphold their complaint in the way they want me to. Ill explain why. 
OneSavings Bank is entitled to set various criteria for the interest rate products it offers  
including LTV. Where theres a simple product switch, it doesnt generally require a new 
valuation. And here its explained that it wouldnt normally have carried out a new desktop 
valuation. OneSavings Bank has explained that it made a mistake and has apologised for 
this. 
And its unfortunate that this occurred at a time that the housing market was affected by the 
coronavirus pandemic. But I dont think that I can fairly ask One Savings Bank to disregard 
the desktop valuation. This provided a more accurate reflection of the property value at the 
time. 
Mr A has pointed to the documentation provided which estimated the property value at 
around £250,000 and that this was valid until November 2020. Mr A says it should honour 
this. Ive considered this documentation which has assumed a value of around £250,000. Bit 
I dont think it would be fair for OneSavings Bank to disregard the outcome of the desktop 
valuation as that provided a more accurate and up to date figure. 
But I do think that OneSavings Bank should have given Mr A the option to have his own 
valuation completed at a cost to himself and Mrs A - as he disputed the valuation. I cant 
see that this happened here. But I also havent seen anything to suggest that, if a full 
valuation had been undertaken, that it would have returned a substantially different result to 
the desktop valuation. And Ive kept in mind that at the time the housing market was volatile 
due to the coronavirus pandemic and so it could have been valued at less than the desktop 
valuation. 
Where an error has occurred, we would generally look to put the consumer back in the 
position they would have been in  but for the mistake. Ive already said that I wont be 
asking OneSavings Bank to disregard the desktop valuation. Ive also kept in mind that, if Mr 
A was given the option of arranging his own valuation then he would have incurred that cost 
 and there was no guarantee that this would have returned a different result to the desktop 
valuation. 
And so, Ive looked at what OneSavings Bank has done to address this issue. Mr A and 
Mrs As mortgage reverted to the SVR for two months before the new rate was taken. In 
recognition of this, OneSavings Bank has reworked the account to refund the difference 
between the SVR paid and the new monthly payments - which amounts to £767.38. I 
consider that this fairly reflects the direct financial loss caused here. 
Ive also considered the offer of £100 compensation in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Here, Im in agreement with our investigator that this does not go far 
enough.Mr A has explained the impact that this situation had on him  he said that he was very 
worried about this and had sleepless nights. He also said that he suddenly needed to find 
the extra £14,000 and ended up asking his mother for this, which resulted in her using some 
retirement savings.
I can understand the difficult position that Mr A and Mrs A were in. But Ive also kept in mind 
that  although this was not the intention - they are now in a better position than they would 
have been in by paying off more of the mortgage and increasing the equity in the property  
in turn decreasing the outstanding balance they needed to pay interest on. 
Having thought about all of this  I consider £250 is fair in all the circumstances to address 
the trouble and upset this matter caused.
They may now be in a position to have a new valuation on the property which could alter the 
LTV  or choose to go to another lender if better rates are available elsewhere. 
Putting things right
Having thought carefully about everything  I think £250 is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold this complainant in part  and direct OneSavings Bank 
Plc to pay Mr A and Mrs A £250 for the trouble and upset caused by this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman