DRN-4230213
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Next Retail Limited trading as Next acted irresponsibly when it 
increased the credit limit on her catalogue shopping account in 2016.
What happened
Mrs B opened a catalogue shopping account with Next in 2010. Over the following six years 
her credit limit was increased from £1,400 to £5,000. Mrs B has said that by January 2016, 
when the final increase happened, her account wasnt affordable to her and that she 
ultimately ended up in a debt management plan (DMP). She believes that Next failed to do 
sufficient affordability checks when increasing her credit limit, and that once she joined the 
DMP in 2019, it failed to stop her from spending on the account despite it clearly being 
something she couldnt afford to do. 
Next has said that when it increased the limit on Mrs Bs account in 2016, it had been well 
maintained. It says that she had never missed a payment and had often paid more than the 
minimum amount required. It also says that when it was contacted by Mrs B in 2019 about 
the fact shed entered a DMP her Next account wasnt included in the plan and it had been 
told the account would run normally. Between 2019 and 2021 the limit on Mrs Bs account 
was reduced up until the point it was suspended in full. Therefore, it didnt think it had done 
anything wrong in 2016 when the limit was increased, or in 2019 when it became aware of 
the DMP. 
Mrs B disagreed with Nexts findings and brought her complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint already. He found that although it was unclear that 
Next completed sufficient checks in 2016 before the limit increase, he couldnt see anything 
that indicated the limit increase was inappropriate. And he felt that Next wasnt wrong to 
allow Mrs B to continue to use the account after it found out about the DMP because it 
hadnt been included in the plan and Next had been told the account would continue to be 
maintained as normal. So he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Unhappy with our investigators findings Mrs B asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint and so its been passed to me to consider. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the findings reached by our investigator and wont be upholding 
the complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs B so Id like to explain why 
Ive reached the outcome I have. 
The initial lending decision by Next happened in 2010 and so is time barred under our rules. 
Therefore I can only look at what happened when Mrs Bs credit limit was increased in 
January 2016 from £3,600 to £5,000.
Mrs B has told us that she was only working part time and couldnt afford such a high limit 
increase. Unfortunately, due to the passage of time its not been possible to review Mrs Bs 
financial information in detail as she doesnt have bank statements or credit file information 
dating back to January 2016. This is perfectly understandable given it was over six and a 
half years ago, but it does mean that Im limited in what evidence Ive been able to rely on. 
Next has confirmed that Mrs Bs account had been properly maintained and shed met either 
the minimum repayments every month or above minimum. Therefore, it relied on a mixture 
of account history and credit scoring at the time when it approved the increase in January 
2016. It has said there was nothing to indicate that Mrs B wouldnt be able to afford the limit 
increase and indeed looking at the account history I can see the first missed payment Mrs B 
ever had on the account didnt happen until after the limit increase. So, I cant see anything 
that wouldve indicated that the limit increase in January 2016 was unaffordable or that Mrs 
B would struggle to maintain the account. And so, I cant uphold her complaint on that basis. 
Mrs B has also asked why in July 2019, when Next were notified she was on a DMP, it didnt 
immediately freeze her account and prevent her from spending on it. She has said that the 
fact that she had to enter a DMP shouldve alerted Next to the fact that she was struggling 
financially, and it shouldve realised she couldnt afford to keep running the account. 
I sympathise with Mrs Bs thinking on this point. However, it is important to acknowledge that 
just before it was made aware of the DMP Next reduced Mrs Bs credit limit to £3,750 and 
then it continued to reduce it incrementally down to £1,500 before it was eventually closed in 
May 2021. Given the Next account wasnt included in the DMP and Next had been told the 
account would continue to be maintained as normal, I dont think it wouldve been an 
appropriate response for it to have immediately withdrawn the account as soon as it became 
aware of the DMP. And Im satisfied that the limit on the account never increased again after 
the DMP was put in place. 
Mrs B has alluded to the fact that other lenders, who provided her with different forms of 
credit around the same time, have upheld the complaints she brought to them. I cant 
comment on those cases as Im unaware of the facts and we assess cases on their own 
individual merits. However, I can say that different forms of credit, such as personal loans or 
credit cards, are different to catalogue shopping accounts and the obligations expected of 
businesses can vary depending on the type of credit theyve provided. 
I know Mrs B will be upset with this outcome but having looked at everything shes provided, 
along with everything Next has provided, I cant say Next acted irresponsibly when it 
provided the credit limit increase in 2016 or in how it managed Mrs Bs account after July 
2019 once it became aware of the DMP. So, I cant uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint against Next Retail Limited 
trading as Next. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman