DRN-3609770
The complaint
L, a sole trader business, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly closed its business 
current account.
What happened
L is a sole trader business operated by Mr W. Ill mainly refer to Mr W in this decision.
In October 2021, Barclays closed Ls business account. It did so because it hadnt received 
a response to some letters that it says it sent to Mr W.
These letters were sent as part of a wider exercise, which Barclays undertook for its 
business banking customers, to help meet its legal and regulatory obligations. The letters 
asked customers to provide information about their business, explained why those details 
were necessary, and also made clear the consequences of not providing the required 
information. One of which was that accounts could be closed.
Barclays says it sent Mr W several letters, but it didnt receive a response. So, in line with its 
process, it closed Ls business current account. 
When Mr W realised what had happened, he complained about Barclays decision. He said 
that he hadnt received any contact, no letters, phone calls, emails, SMS or online banking 
messages. Mr W explained that Barclays actions had created significant issues for L, he 
couldnt trade or pay suppliers and the damage to his reputation had been substantial.
 
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. It said that, given it hadnt received a response to its 
letters, it had correctly followed its process and closed Ls business account. Barclays said 
that it was unfortunate if Mr W hadnt received any of its letters, but it couldnt be held 
responsible for their delivery once theyd been sent. That was down to the postal service. 
In December 2021, Mr W approached our service for an independent review. He remained 
unhappy at Barclays actions and reiterated the considerable impact of them. Mr W was also 
dissatisfied with some of the general service hed received.
 
An investigator here looked at what had happened. They empathised with Mr W for the 
position he had found himself in but, in the circumstances, didnt think Barclays had acted 
unreasonably. 
In short, the investigator said:
Barclays had provided copies of some of the letters it said it had sent to Mr W. The 
letters were correctly addressed; they explained what information was required and 
why, as well as the consequences of not providing what had been requested. 
On balance, because Barclays had shown that the letters were correctly addressed, 
it was more likely than not that they were sent and received. In any event, once the 
letters were sent, Barclays couldnt be held responsible if they werent then delivered.
Barclays had correctly followed its process. It hadnt received the information it 
needed from Mr W, so it had closed Ls business account. This wasnt unreasonable 
in light of Barclays legal and regulatory obligations. 
Mr W hadnt been able to make an in-branch appointment as quickly as hed have 
liked, but Barclays had tried to  and did  arrange one as soon as it could. That 
wasnt unreasonable. 
Mr W disagreed with the investigator, and he ultimately asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
He questioned why Barclays hadnt thought to call him  or contact him by any other means 
 if the matter was so important. He also said the bank had been inconsistent in its version 
of events, causing confusion. 
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has raised several points, but Ive summarised the complaint in far less detail. I also 
havent commented on everything hes raised, instead, Ive focussed on the key areas of the 
complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by this. Rather, it reflects the informal nature of this 
service.
In my view, the crux of this matter appears to be whether Barclays did, indeed, contact Mr W 
as its said it did  and whether it acted reasonably when it closed Ls account. Simply put, 
Barclays says that it followed its process correctly in the circumstances; Mr W says that he 
didnt receive any communication from the bank, so it acted unfairly in closing Ls account. 
With that in mind, I should be clear that where evidence is incomplete (as it is here), 
inconclusive or contradictory, I must reach my decision on the balance of probabilities. That 
is, what is considered most likely to have happened given the evidence that is available to 
me, and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
The letters Barclays says it sent Mr W
Its fair to say that there has been some inconsistency, or perhaps simply some confusion, 
over how many letters Barclays says it sent. I know thats frustrated Mr W, and I can 
appreciate why  its not been particularly helpful of Barclays to have displayed some 
variation on this point.
As I understand it, Barclays sent four unique letters  one of which contained a copy of its 
initial letter. I asked Barclays if it could provide copies of all the letters it says it sent, but it 
couldnt  it could only provide two. Thats unfortunate, but nonetheless Ive reviewed the 
copies that are available.
Theyre specific to L, in that I can see they are both correctly addressed to it at the address 
Barclays holds on file.
 
The first appears to be the initial request for information. Its dated 31 March 2021 and is 
quite clear about what Barclays requires. It also explains, generally, that complications may 
occur if the requested information isnt provided.The second letter appears to be a follow up. It was sent fairly soon afterwards, in May 2021, 
and it contains the same request for information. Crucially, though, this letter contains a 
stronger warning about the consequences of information not being provided. Essentially, it 
explains that Barclays may introduce restrictions to  or ultimately close  Ls business 
account.
Mr W says he didnt receive any letters but, as Ive said above, I must reach my decision on 
the balance of probabilities here given the circumstances. And because both of those letters 
I have a copy of were correctly addressed to L, I share the view of our investigator that its 
most likely that they  as well as the other letters that I dont have a copy of  were sent. 
I think its likely too that at least some of them were received. Ultimately, Im not persuaded 
that all of Barclays letters wouldnt have arrived. But in any case, I hope Mr W appreciates 
that I cant fairly hold Barclays responsible for the letters not being received by him given its 
not responsible for the delivery of mail.
More broadly, I dont think Barclays intention here  to gather information from its business 
account customers  was unreasonable. I say that because the bank has several legal and 
regulatory obligations to meet. It also has a duty to protect itself, and its customers, from the 
ever-increasing threat of illegal activity. Requiring its business banking customers to provide 
information about their business is one way of doing that.
 
It follows that, if the requested information isnt received, I dont think it unreasonable of the 
bank to take action. And that could involve closing accounts, which is just what happened 
here. 
With all of that in mind, Im satisfied  on balance  that Barclays did send the letters it says 
it did, and that at least some were most likely received. Im also satisfied that given it hadnt 
received what it had asked for, it was reasonable of the bank to act as it deemed appropriate 
which, here, was to close Ls business account. 
Should Barclays have contacted Mr W through other means?
I know Mr W feels very strongly about this point. Hes asked why the bank didnt phone, 
send an email, or message him through the internet banking service when it hadnt received 
a response.
 
Thats an understandable view to take, but I must keep in mind the scale of Barclays 
exercise here. The bank has explained that this was a significant and extensive contact 
operation to request information from its business banking customers, and I dont think it 
would be reasonable to expect the bank to follow-up  by phone, email or otherwise  with 
individual customers if it didnt receive a response.
 
Fundamentally, though, I think the central point to explain is that Barclays has the right to 
determine how to run its business. It isnt the role of our service to tell a business to alter its 
processes and procedures. And I think that deciding to contact customers on multiple 
occasions by post was a legitimate commercial decision on Barclays part. 
Put simply, if Barclays decided this exercise would be best run via postal contact then thats 
a choice it was entitled to make.
 
On that basis, I cant fairly say that Barclays did something wrong by not attempting to 
contact Mr W through any other communication channel. Rather, Barclays has shown that it 
followed its process for contacting customers affected by this exercise. So, I dont find that 
Barclays did something wrong by not reaching out to Mr W through any other medium.  Overall
I know what Ive set out will come as a considerable disappointment to Mr W. Im sorry to 
hear of the impact he says this matter had on him, his family, and his business. I really do 
hope that things have since improved.
 
For the reasons Ive explained, though, I cant fairly or reasonably say that Barclays did 
something wrong here. The evidence I have available doesnt support that conclusion. And 
while I dont intend to doubt Mr Ws version of events, I must reach my decision based on 
what I consider most likely to have happened. 
To that end, I think it most likely that Barclays did send the letters. It didnt receive a 
response to its requests for information and, as such, it reasonably decided to follow its 
process for such circumstances.
 
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint and I dont require Barclays to take any further 
action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman