DRN-3263441
The complaint
Mrs W complains about her mortgage with Yorkshire Building Society. She says its unfair 
that it will take a share of the propertys price when its sold, and she says its unfair it hasnt 
let her take a new lower interest rate.
What happened
Mrs W took out this mortgage jointly with her former husband Mr W. The mortgage remains 
in joint names, though this complaint has been brought by Mrs W alone.
This is whats known as a homebuy mortgage  part of a special scheme which no longer 
exists. Under the scheme, eligible people, such as Mr and Mrs W, could get assistance with 
the deposit needed to buy a property as well as the main mortgage.
That means that this mortgage is in two parts. Part one is a standard repayment mortgage, 
which behaves in the usual way. This part of the mortgage was on a fixed rate until 2012, 
since when its been on YBSs standard variable rate (SVR).
Part two is a shared equity loan, which means that when the property is sold (or the 
mortgage paid back in another way), Mr and Mrs W will need to pay YBS 12.5% of the 
propertys value at that time, since YBS contributed 12.5% of the original purchase price. In 
the meantime, the original borrowing attracts interest at a rate of 3% fixed for the rest of the 
term.
In around 2015, Mr and Mrs W separated and divorced. Their divorce was finalised by a 
court order, which said that:
Mrs W was to live in the property and pay the mortgage, and indemnify Mr W against 
any consequences of non-payment;
Mrs W was entitled to 60% of the equity in the property and Mr W to 40%;
The property is not to be sold until July 2023, when their child turns 18. It is then to 
be sold and after the mortgage and other expenses have been paid, the equity is to 
be divided between them as above.
YBS were given a copy of this court order after it was issued, in around 2017.
Soon after the separation, Mrs W contacted YBS to say that she was concerned about 
whether shed be able to make the mortgage payments on her own. But in fact she was able 
to do so, and the mortgage continued.
By this time, the main part of the mortgage had been on the SVR since 2012, and there had 
been no application to take a new interest rate.
Mrs W says that it was a struggle for her to keep up with the mortgage payments, and she 
was only able to do so by making sacrifices in her family life.
In 2019, Mrs W complained to YBS. She said it wasnt fair that it would take 12.5% of the 
propertys value, and this was preventing her from moving the mortgage elsewhere. She 
said this was never properly explained, and the mortgage was mis-sold to her at the start. 
And Mrs W said that she felt trapped in the mortgage, and was paying a variable rate that 
she couldnt easily afford.
YBS said that it couldnt give Mrs W a new interest rate on the mortgage without Mr Ws 
consent  which he had not given.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision to set out my thinking to the parties. I said:
This mortgage was taken out a long time ago, and so any complaint about what 
happened around the time of the sale is out of time. In any case, the mortgage was 
sold by a broker, not by YBS, so the broker is responsible for the advice Mrs W was 
given at the time of the sale.
However, the terms and conditions of the mortgage do provide that there is a shared 
equity element, with 12.5% to be paid on sale or redemption. That was the nature of 
the scheme that this mortgage was part of, and I dont think its unfair that YBS would 
require that to happen in the event that the mortgage comes to an end.
Turning to the interest rate, this is a joint mortgage and remains in the names of both 
Mrs W and Mr W.
Some mortgage lenders have terms in their terms and conditions that allow one 
borrower to speak on behalf of both  meaning that only one borrower needs to 
agree to a change. But theres no such term in YBSs terms and conditions, which 
means that both parties do need to agree to any changes.
Taking out a new interest rate involves a formal variation of the mortgages terms, 
and therefore that does need both parties to agree.
Ive thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask YBS to go ahead 
with a product switch for Mrs W  even without Mr Ws agreement  despite the 
general need for both to agree.
I bear in mind that Mrs W is the one paying the mortgage, and Ive also taken into 
account what shes said about how the current payments are affordable for her  but 
only at the cost of making considerable sacrifices in other areas of her family life. Im 
sorry to hear that things have been a struggle for her, and I appreciate why a 
reduced interest rate would help her financial situation.
But while thats an important factor, its not the only consideration I have to take into 
account. Ive seen the divorce order and, while it requires Mrs W to make the 
payments and says the property cant be sold before 2023, it also says that both 
parties continue to have an interest in the property, with Mr W entitled to a share of 
the equity when its sold after 2023.
The only interest rates YBS has available come with an early repayment charge 
(ERC)  an additional charge if the mortgage is paid back (for example by selling the 
property) before the end of the fixed rate. An ERC can be substantial, up to 5% of the 
mortgage balance. While the court order says the property cant be sold before 2023, it says it then has 
to be sold. And even though its not supposed to be sold before then, I cant be sure 
that wont happen. Its possible, for example, that if Mrs Ws circumstances were to 
change between now and then such that she could no longer pay the mortgage, the 
property would have to be sold or even repossessed before then. And if that were to 
happen, the ERC would be payable  which would reduce Mr Ws share of the 
equity.
As things stand, therefore, as a matter of contract law Mr Ws agreement is required 
for a new rate to be taken. And  given that a new rate would create a risk of 
prejudicing his position by reducing his share of the equity  YBS wasnt prepared to 
go ahead without his agreement.
While I recognise how difficult and disappointing it is for Mrs W, I cant say that was 
an unreasonable position for YBS to take. But it is still open to her to apply for a new 
rate with Mr Ws agreement, if thats possible.
And even without granting a new rate, YBS has ongoing obligations to her as the 
party actually making the payments  so if she is facing difficulty in making the 
payments she should contact YBS, and it should consider what it can offer by way of 
forbearance to help her. But as things stand, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mrs W said she was very disappointed with the outcome I reached. But she didnt make any 
further arguments. YBS didnt add anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry if my provisional decision disappointed Mrs W. I do see what a difficult position 
shes in, and why it would make things much easier for her if YBS would offer her a lower 
interest rate. But  as I explained  I also have to think about YBS acted unreasonably. It 
knew there was a dispute between Mrs W and Mr W, and in those circumstances decided it 
needed both parties to agree to any changes to the mortgage. 
Bearing in mind that a new rate would come with an ERC  which risks reducing Mr Ws 
share of the equity in the property  I dont think that was an unreasonable position for YBS 
to take. If Mrs W does find it difficult to make the mortgage payments, she should keep in 
touch with YBS  and it should think about what other options it may have to assist her. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman