DRN-3930265
The complaint
Mrs K complains Society of Lloyd's trading as Lloyd's of London [SOL] has unfairly 
declined a claim shes made on her buildings insurance policy following a fire at a property 
she owns. Shes also unhappy SOL voided the policy following this.
What happened
Mrs K is represented by a third party in bringing this complaint. References I make to her 
actions include those of her representative.
SOL is the underwriter of the policy i.e. it is the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents which SOL has accepted responsibility for. Any reference to SOLs 
actions includes those of its agents.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive summarised whats 
happened here.
Mrs K owns a commercial premises which is let to tenants, insured under a buildings 
insurance policy underwritten by SOL.
In October 2020, there was a fire at the premises and there was damage to a room 
on the second floor. SOL appointed agents to investigate, validate and manage the 
claim.
Having undertaken an investigation, including attending the property and interviewing 
one of the tenants and a proprietor of another business close by, SOL declined the 
claim and avoided the policy. It said the investigations had revealed the property 
wasnt fully occupied as stated by Mrs K at the inception of the policy and so she had 
breached her duty of disclosure in relation to the occupancy of the building. It said 
the breach was deliberate or reckless as Mrs K knew or ought to have known the 
second-floor tenant had vacated the premises some time before. But it still returned 
the premium to Mrs K. 
Mrs K was unhappy with SOLs decision and complained but it maintained its position 
so Mrs K brought a complaint to this Service. She argued the premises in question 
were not vacant as SOL alleged. Our Investigator considered the evidence and 
decided not to uphold it. He said, on balance, he thought the second floor was 
unoccupied at the time the insurance was taken out and that Mrs K hadnt made a 
fair presentation of the risk. 
He said SOL had shown it wouldnt have provided cover if it had known the true facts 
and the relevant law allowed SOL to avoid the policy and retain the premiums but he 
noted, SOL had returned the premium as a gesture of goodwill.
Mrs K disagreed with the Investigators findings. She said the tenants testimony that 
he didnt occupy the area in question shouldnt be relied on and she highlighted the 
financial dispute they were involved in. She said it served the tenants purpose to say 
this as it gave him justification for not paying the rent. She disagreed she had 
deliberately or recklessly misrepresented the facts. 
She also questioned why the Investigator believed the underwriters statement that 
cover wouldnt have been offered if SOL had known the whole property wasnt 
occupied. She believed SOL would have covered the risk and highlighted a term in 
the policy which she said supported this belief.
But these comments didnt change the Investigators mind so the complaint has 
come to me for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making a claim on an insurance policy, the onus is on the policyholder to show 
the claim is covered under the policy terms. Ill be keeping this principle in mind when 
considering this complaint together with what I consider to be fair and reasonable.
My role at this Service requires me to focus on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint and that may mean I dont comment on everything the parties have said 
but I can confirm I have considered everything even where I dont reference it 
specifically. When theres conflicting or inconclusive evidence, as there is on this 
complaint, I will make my decision on the balance of probability, thats to say what I 
consider most likely.
The relevant legislation in this case is the Insurance Act 2015. Under this act, as a 
commercial customer, Mrs K is required to make a fair presentation of the risk when 
buying the insurance policy. For SOL to take any action, it needs to show that Mrs K 
didnt do that and that she made what is known as a qualifying breach. 
To show a qualifying breach has occurred, SOL needs to show that if Mrs K had 
made a fair presentation of the risk, it would either not have offered the policy or 
would only have done so on different terms. In order to make a fair presentation of 
the risk, Mrs K needed to disclose every material circumstance which she knew, or 
ought to know about or to give enough information to enable SOL to know It needed 
to undertake further enquiries.
Theres a number of things I need to consider in reaching my decision on this complaint. Ill 
deal with them in turn.
Was there a misrepresentation and was there fair presentation of the risk?
In May 2020, SOL questioned Mrs K at inception about the tenancy of the property 
as it had noted the premises seemed to be bricked and boarded up and there was 
only one business in residence at that time. It asked Mrs K if the three stated 
businesses  a gym, a clothing supplier and a food supplier  were still occupying the 
building. The broker acting for Mrs K confirmed the businesses were in occupation 
and the building was fully tenanted. 
Whilst its not a requirement under the Act, I still consider SOLs question about the 
occupancy of the building to have been clear and specific. Im satisfied Mrs K ought reasonably to have known that full occupancy of the building was material 
information she needed to disclose to SOL, given its questioning about this.
While investigating the claim in 2021, SOL interviewed Mr R who was the tenant of 
one of the floors in the property. He said the tenant of the fire-damaged floor in 
question  a business Ill refer to as F - had moved out two to three years before, 
following ongoing disagreements with Mrs K about her failure to address the 
damaged roof. 
Mr R said he had initially shared the floor with F for some time, but had moved out at 
the same time and for the same reason, unhappy with the state of the roof and the 
lack of repairs to it. He said this was the cause of the disagreement between him and 
Mrs K. 
I know Mrs K has questioned Mr Rs honesty, character and the reliability of his 
testimony. And shes said equipment left behind and Mr Rs behaviour around access 
show he was still using the floor in question. While I acknowledge what shes said 
here, I dont consider this persuasive evidence which supports full occupation of the 
property. 
During the investigations into the claim, one of SOLs experts confirmed there was no 
electrical supply at the time of the fire and the evidence supported that this had been 
disconnected some time before. This was in line with what Mr R said about 
disconnecting the electricity supply when he left the floor. It seems unlikely to me that 
a tenant would have been able to occupy this floor without an active electricity 
supply. 
Mr R says the items left behind on the damaged floor belonged to F and had been 
left behind when it moved out. Given the nature of the business and the equipment 
left behind, I find this explanation plausible. 
In summary, Im not persuaded that Mrs K has provided enough evidence to support 
her claim the property was fully occupied at inception or when the fire occurred. 
Taking everything into account, on balance, I think its more likely than not the 
property wasnt fully occupied as stated by Mrs K when she took out the policy, so 
she failed in her duty to make a fair presentation of the risk. 
Having established that, Ive then gone on to consider whether Mrs K has made a 
qualifying breach.
Did Mrs K make a qualifying breach?
SOL has provided testimony from its underwriter which states, if the true position 
regarding occupancy had been known, SOL wouldnt have offered cover in Mrs Ks 
particular circumstances.
And that means the breach was a qualifying breach under the Act and that affords 
SOL certain remedies.
Ive gone on to consider whether it applied these correctly below.
Did SOL take appropriate action?Where there has been a qualifying breach and the insurer has shown it wouldnt have 
offered cover, as is the case here, it is allowed to avoid the policy and refuse all 
claims. SOL says the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless and, under the 
Act, this would allow it additionally to retain the premium Mrs K had paid.
But SOL decided to return the premium to Mrs K, and this was the remedy available 
to it if the misrepresentation wasnt deliberate or reckless. 
And because of this, any further deliberation on the subject wouldnt be material as it 
has already provided Mrs K with the remedy I would award if I disagreed with its 
findings. So, Im not going to comment further on how SOL classified the 
misrepresentation. 
The cancellation clause
Mrs K says the policy terms include a cancellation clause the wording of which she 
thinks implies SOL would consider providing cover for a building that was 
unoccupied. She acknowledges this would likely have involved additional conditions 
and restrictions. 
But having considered this term, its clear to me this cancellation term relates to 
properties that were declared as being unoccupied at inception and that simply 
doesnt apply to Mrs Ks property which was stated to be fully occupied. 
While, SOL may offer cover for properties declared as unoccupied in some 
circumstances, as Ive explained above, SOLs underwriter has confirmed it wouldnt 
have offered Mrs K cover had it known the true facts about the buildings occupancy 
so this doesnt change my mind.
In summary, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think SOL has acted fairly and in line with 
the policy terms and the relevant legislation in voiding the policy and declining the claim. So I 
wont be asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman