DRN-3469485
The complaint
Ms T has complained, through her representative, about the shares she bought through
Templeton Securities Limited (an appointed representative of Alexander David
Securities Limited). The representative has said that the firms failings resulted in Ms T
investing in shares which were high risk and unsuitable.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 21 April 2022. The background
and circumstances to the complaint, and the reasons why I was minded to uphold it were set
out in that decision. Ive copied the relevant parts of the decision below, and it forms part of
this final decision.
The provisional decision said:
My understanding is that Ms T was advised by an unauthorised firm to open a SIPP
and transfer her existing personal pension into it. The total amount transferred into the
SIPP was approximately £58,600. My understanding is that Templeton Securities
Limited wasnt involved in the advice given to Ms T to switch her pension to the SIPP.
Ms T was then persuaded by another unregulated firm to open an account with Templeton
Securities. She completed an application form on 19 May 2014 for a Private Client Portfolio
account.
On the same date (19 May 2014), Ms T signed a letter of authority for the unregulated firm
allowing it to obtain information about her pension.
When Ms T opened the account she completed a Private Client Portfolio Agreement
and Application Booklet. These said, amongst other things:
What to expect as a client of Templeton Securities
We understand that individual client investment needs vary with differing goals and as an
independent stockbroker, Templeton Securities aim is to provide the best private client
investment service with clarity and vision whilst tailoring our advice to suit individual client
needs.
To understand your investment requirements and to create your personal portfolio, we will
need to know the details of your financial background and your plans for the future which will
enable us to advise a tailored solution to suit your aims and objectives. It is therefore
imperative that you fully complete this Application as failure to do so may mean that we are
unable to affect a suitable portfolio or offer an appropriate service.
We are required under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 {"FSMA") to 
provide you with suitable investment advice and services, based on the information you 
provide to us about your circumstances. By completing this form in its entirety, you will 
enable us to fully comply with the requirements of this Act.
Under the section Important Financial Information it said:
In order for us to properly assess your ability to bear investment risks in relation to the 
services we provide, we need to understand the composition of your assets and 
liabilities, and income and expenditure. We are required to take this into account when 
assessing the suitability of our investment management service we provide...
Please enter details of your total assets and liabilities (Please enter amounts to 
the nearest thousand pounds)
Under a list of asset types including Property, Cash, Investment ISAs, Equity Investments 
and Investment Bonds, only £56,000 was listed under Pension Plans. Ms Ts total assets 
were recorded as £56,000. Ms Ts income was noted as £1,400 per month and her 
expenditure £1,000 per month.
Under Investment Risk and Objectives it said:
Preferred Level of Portfolio Risk
Please indicate below your preferred level of portfolio risk as part of your overall 
investment strategy.
A tick was placed in the medium category.
The section headed Investment Experience asked what types of investment Ms T had 
traded previously and the box Advisory Broking was ticked. When asked to describe 
her level of experience for various asset classes, the novice category (less than 1 year) 
was ticked for equities, fixed interest and alternative assets. And the intermediate (1-5 
years) for Funds.
Under Acceptance Form it said, amongst other things:
l/We wish Templeton Securities Limited (Templeton") to advise on a portfolio of 
investments for me in accordance with the Terms and Conditions, a copy of which we have 
received and which I agree to.
The relevant sections of the General Terms and Conditions of Business included:
2 Introduction
2.1 This document contains details of the investment advisory and execution only 
services which Templeton Securities (TEMPLETON) shall provide you with our 
services in accordance with the Client Application Form, and it sets out the 
obligations and rights applying between us and you.
2.2 These Terms and Conditions and all transactions are subject to 
Applicable Regulations. The term Applicable Regulations means:
a. the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) including the Handbook issued by
the FCA (FCA Rules) or any other rules of a relevant regulatory authority;
b. the rules of a relevant stock or investment exchange; and
c. all other applicable laws, rules and regulations as in force from time to time.
This means that:(i) if there is any conflict between these Terms and Conditions and any Applicable 
Regulations, the latter will prevail;
3. The services we will provide
3.1 If you are designated as an execution-only client or if you have not supplied us with
sufficient information (either orally or in writing) about your investment objectives,
financial circumstances and the degree of risk you are prepared to accept or when, even
though you have previously supplied us with information, we may reasonably believe that
you are not expecting us to advise you about the merits of a particular transaction in a
non-complex financial instrument, then we will not make any personal or product
investment recommendations. Nothing in our literature or in these Terms & Conditions
should be treated as a solicitation or recommendation to buy, sell or maintain any product.
We will action all instructions on an execution-only basis. This means that we are only
able to act on the instructions that you provide. We cannot give you advice about what
instructions you should give us. You are responsible for the investment decisions that you
make when you engage our services as an execution-only customer. We do not accept
responsibility on a continuing basis for advising you on the composition of your portfolio
3.2 If we have agreed to provide you with an advisory service, we accept responsibility
for advising you as to the merits of any particular investment based on the information
supplied by you in the TEMPLETON Application Form pertaining to your individual
circumstances, requirements and objectives. We may provide you with investment
advice on your request. Information supplied by you, via the TEMPLETON Application
Form, should be updated as necessary before we give you advice on a particular
transaction. If you do not inform us of any investment or types of investments, which you
do not wish us to recommend or purchase for you, we may recommend to you any
investments provided that we have reasonable grounds for believing that each
investment product we do recommend is suitable and appropriate for you, in accordance
with FCA rules. We do not undertake discretionary management of your investments,
any investment advice we give you is provided on the understanding that we do not
accept responsibility on a continuing basis for advising on the composition of your
portfolio.
3.7 We may, at our discretion, decline to accept any order or instruction from you or
instigate certain conditions prior to proceeding with your order.
4.9 Specific client instructions
4.9.1 Where you give us a specific instruction as to the execution of an order, we
will execute the order in accordance with those specific instructions.
5. Suitability
5.1 In providing a managed portfolio service or giving investment advice to you, we are
required by the FCA to obtain the necessary information from you regarding your
knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of
investment or service provided to you, your financial situation and your investment
objectives in order to assess the suitability of our advice and of the transactions to be
entered into by us on your behalf. In particular, we must obtain from you such information
as is necessary for us to understand the essential facts about you and have a reasonable
basis for believing, giving due consideration to the nature and extent of the service
provided, that the specific transactions to be recommended, or entered into in the course
of managing:(a) meets your investment objectives;
(b) is such that you are able to financially bear any related investment risks consistent
with your investment objectives; and
(c) is such that you have the necessary experience and knowledge in order to
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of your portfolio.
6. Appropriateness
6.1 In providing services other than investment advice management, we may be subject
to an obligation under Applicable Regulations to assess the appropriateness of the
contemplated product or service for you by determining whether you have the necessary
experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in relation to the
specific type of product or service offered or demanded. In such circumstances, where on
the basis of information received we consider that the contemplated product or service is
not appropriate for you, we will provide you with a warning to that effect.
6.4 Please note, however, that we will not advise you about the merits of a particular
transaction if we reasonably believe that, when you give the order for that transaction,
you are not expecting such advice and are dealing on an execution-only basis. Where the
transaction relates to non-complex financial instruments such as shares, bonds and
UCITS, we will inform you at the time that we will execute your order on that basis and
we will not be required to ensure that the transaction is suitable or appropriate for you.
Please note therefore, that you will not benefit from the protection of the relevant FCA
Rules requiring us to assess the suitability or appropriateness of the transaction for you.
The Terms definitions provided Execution-Only means that we act on your instructions
and offer no advice as to whether such an investment is suitable for you.
A total of £56,000 was transferred into the account on 17 June 2014.
On 20 June 2014 Ms T e-mailed Templeton Securities. The e-mail included:
I wish to invest £28,000.00 in Global Auto-Trade Group plc (GATG) gxg listed securities
with a 20 pence limit for T3 settlement.
I wish to invest £28,000.00 in Emmit pic (EMT) aim listed securities with a £2.03 limit for
T1 settlement.
Please advise me via e-mail when this has been transacted.
Templeton Securities bought these shares investing £27,758 in Emmit and £27,853 in
Global Auto (after commission and costs). My understanding is that the instruction was
prompted by the one of the unregulated firms who provided Ms T with the wording for it.
Ms T was paid an upfront sum of approximately £2,000 by one of the unregulated firms for
the transaction.
Templeton Securities said it wrote to Ms T on 11 September 2014. The letter said:
Appropriateness of your Investment - Emmit
We are writing to draw your attention to the investment of your pension in the above type of
stocks and believe that you need to consider whether or not you feel its appropriate to invest
in such high risk investments.We fully understand that you have purchased these Execution only but wish to advise that
in the provision of this execution, Templeton Securities is not required to assess the
suitability of the service provided or offered and that therefore, as a client, you do not benefit
from the corresponding protection of the relevant FCA Conduct of Business Rules.
The FCA issued a statement about the promotion of shares in EMMIT on 31 October 2014.
It said it had been made aware that individuals were being encouraged to transfer money
from their work pension schemes into Self-Invested Personal Pensions (SIPPs) and use
that money to buy shares in Emmit plc. It said some investors were being offered cash
back on their investments in Emmit plc of up to 30% of the transfer value, paid by a third
party, as an incentive to do this. Some investors appeared to have invested 100% of their
pension assets into Emmit plc shares and could suffer significant financial loss if they have
done this without fully understanding what they were doing.
Trading of shares in Emmitt plc was suspended in October 2014 and the shares were
cancelled for trading in May 2015. The exchange that the Global Auto shares were listed on
closed in August 2015. The shares were no longer listed and had zero value.
Ms T complained to Alexander David through her representative in January 2020. The
representative said, in brief, that Templeton Securities knew or ought to have known that it
was extremely suspicious to receive multiple almost identical instructions to invest in at least
two non-mainstream companies trading on alternative markets within a short space of
time. It said if proper enquiries had been made it would have become apparent that Ms T
didnt understand the potential risks and consequences of making the investments. And if
they had been pointed out she could have avoided proceeding. It said that it should have
been clear to Templeton Securities that the nature of the investments made were wholly
unsuitable for Ms T. And that Templeton Securities shouldnt have permitted the investments
to be made.
Templeton Securities didnt uphold Ms Ts complaint, and Ms Ts representative referred the
complaint to us. One of our investigators considered the complaint. He recommended that it
should be upheld. In summary, he thought that the circumstances of the transaction ought to
have alerted Templeton Securities that a third party was likely to be involved. And that
Templeton Securities should have been prompted to look into the matter further before
accepting Ms Ts investment instructions. He thought if Templeton Securities had completed
adequate due diligence they would have identified the unregulated introducers involvement
and decided not to act on the instruction until Ms T received regulated advice. He said if
Templeton Securities hadnt allowed the investment to proceed Ms T wouldnt have been
able to invest in the two companies.
Ms T, through her representative, said she agreed with the investigators view.
Templeton Securities didnt agree with the investigators findings. It said, in summary:
Ms T had made a complaint to it in November 2018 which it didnt uphold. She hadnt 
referred the complaint to us within the required six-month time limit, and so we 
shouldnt look at the complaint.
The Ombudsman Service had found in its favour on other complaints that had been 
referred to us with a very similar pattern of circumstances.
Although the Principles stood over the specific COBS Rules, they didnt replace 
them. PRIN was primarily guidance rather than rules. The findings were supported 
neither by the contractual terms or the COBS rules.Ms Ts annual salary was around £17,000 at the time of the transaction. The £2,000 
being offered to transfer her pension was therefore a great incentive.
Emmits shares werent suspended until June 2015. Therefore Ms T had ample time 
to sell them after it wrote to her in September 2014 regarding the appropriateness of 
investing in high risk shares. Ms T wanted to stick with the investments and hadnt 
mitigated her position.
The investments werent obscure and they were listed on regulated markets. They 
were on the SIPP providers permitted list.
The trades were execution only and fully complied with FCAs Rules. The instruction 
came directly from Ms T. It said it didnt understand what the investigator meant by 
completing reasonable due diligence on the instruction, also it is the FCAs duty to 
prevent acts of fraud and to protect retail investors from being exploited by 
unregulated firms.
At all times Templeton Securities had conducted its business with integrity and paid 
due regard to Ms Ts interests. It didnt agree that Templeton Securities had a duty to 
query the investment instruction. The appropriateness test didnt apply as it was an 
execution only transaction in a non-complex financial instrument. And clause 6.4 of 
its terms provided that it wouldnt advise about the merits of a transaction if it 
reasonably believed that when the client gave the order they werent expecting 
advice and were dealing on an execution only basis. It didnt believe the firms 
obligations should be extended so far beyond what the substantial and 
comprehensive rules required.
Ms T was recorded as a medium risk investor and had one to five years experience 
of investing in funds. The SIPP provider defined the SIPP as a sophisticated and 
regulated financial product and the SIPP provider should have fully explained the 
risks involved.
The investigator had said the wording of the e-mail instruction should have raised 
alarm bells. However the term T1 settlement was used widely in execution only 
orders.
It asked whether any investigations had been made relating to the SIPP provider or 
unregulated introducers, and whether compensation had been sought from them.
The investigator had said it was unsuitable for Ms T to place nearly all her pension 
savings into high risk funds. However it said there was no way it would have known 
this at the time.
Ms Ts representative provided a further submission on Ms Ts behalf. Ive taken it into 
account in making my provisional decision below.
The investigator considered the firms response to his view of the case but wasnt persuaded 
to change his opinion. He said, in summary:
The firms final response letter dated 18 November 2015 wasnt a valid final 
response letter. It didnt explain the firms position on consent with regards to the six-
month time limit, and it also didnt provide our website address as it was required to 
do.Although the firm had provided examples of where we had found in its favour in other 
complaints referred to us about the same matter, we considered each complaint on 
its own merits.
We had received a number of very similar complaints about the same investments 
arranged at around the same time. It was a matter of fact that Templeton Securities 
had received a number of near identically worded e-mails from different investors to 
invest in the same investments. He thought Templeton Securities ought to have been 
aware of this.
The accounts terms and conditions recognised that the Regulators rules overrode 
anything contrary to those rules in the terms. When considering the matter in the 
context of the Regulators Principles and the wider circumstances, he thought it was 
clear that Templeton Securities ought to have been alerted that the instruction was 
unusual and warranted further investigation before it was processed.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service can consider a complaint under its compulsory
jurisdiction if that complaint relates to an act or omission by a firm in the carrying on of one
or more listed activities, including regulated activities (DISP 2.3.1R).
Regulated activities are specified in Part II of the Regulated Activities Order (RAO) and
include advising on investments (article 53 RAO). And arranging deals in investments
(article 25 RAO). So I can consider the complaint either about advice  or the omission to
provide advice. Or about arranging the purchase of the shares if it was an execution only
sale.
Ive therefore read and considered all the available evidence and arguments to
provisionally decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this
complaint. When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the Financial Conduct
Authoritys Handbook to take into account the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at
the relevant time.
When evidence is incomplete Ive made my decision on the balance of probabilities 
which, in other words, means Ive based it on what I think is most likely to have happened
given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The firm has referred to other cases considered by Our Service that were resolved at an
informal stage in our process by our investigators and on the facts as they understood them.
They werent decided by a final decision issued by an Ombudsman. Ive made my decision
on Ms Ts case on the basis of what I consider are all the relevant circumstances to decide
what I consider be fair and reasonable given all the evidence and arguments available.
My understanding is that both shares were allowable as per the SIPP PermittedInvestment document.
The documentation and literature that was provided at the time that the Private Client
Portfolio account was opened clearly described it as providing an advisory service. However,
whilst the account was advisory, the terms did also provide for Templeton Securities to
accept execution only instructions in some circumstances.
Clause 6.4 came under the heading Appropriateness. Clause 6.1 said we may be subject
to an obligation under Applicable Regulations to assess the appropriateness of the
contemplated product or service. I think this is reference to the requirements under COBS
10 (the regulators Conduct of Business Rules). My understanding is the shares bought here
werent subject to COBS 10. But Clause 6.4 went onto say:
Please note, however, that we will not advise you about the merits of a particular
transaction if we reasonably believe that, when you give the order for that
transaction, you are not expecting such advice and are dealing on an execution-only
basis. Where the transaction relates to non-complex financial instruments such as shares,
bonds and UCITS, we will inform you at the time that we will execute your order on that
basis and we will not be required to ensure that the transaction is suitable or appropriate
for you.
And Clause 3.1 provided:
3.1 If you are designated as an execution-only client or if you have not supplied us with
sufficient information (either orally or in writing) about your investment objectives, financial
circumstances and the degree of risk you are prepared to accept or when, even though
you have previously supplied us with information, we may reasonably believe that
you are not expecting us to advise you about the merits of a particular transaction in
a non- complex financial instrument, then we will not make any personal or
product investment recommendations. [My emphasis].
The documentation that has been provided doesnt show that Ms T was designated as
an execution-only client. However Clause 3.1 and 6.4 provided an alternative basis for
carrying out execution only services as highlighted. And Clauses 3.1 and 4.9 went onto
say:
You are responsible for the investment decisions that you make when you engage our
services as an execution-only customer. We do not accept responsibility on a
continuing basis for advising you on the composition of your portfolio
4.9 Specific client instructions
4.9.1 Where you give us a specific instruction as to the execution of an order, we will
execute the order in accordance with those specific instructions..
Given the particular wording of the 20 June 2014 e-mail, I think Templeton Securities was
entitled to reasonably believe that Ms T wasnt expecting advice about the merits of the
transaction. It was an order to buy particular shares and at a particular price, on a
specific settlement basis. I dont think there was anything in the e-mail that suggested that
Ms T was asking for advice about the merits of the purchases or otherwise suggested that 
Ms T was expecting Templeton Securities to give her advice. I think this is consistent with 
the transaction been driven by the unregulated firm(s). Templeton Securities wasnt 
therefore accepting responsibility for the investment decision executed on an execution only 
basis as per Clause 3.1. And it carried out the instruction as per Clause 4.9.Clause 6.4 of the terms said that Templeton Securities would write to Ms T where it
executed a transaction in non-complex financial instruments to inform her it had placed the
order on that basis. Templeton Securities didnt do this at the time. It says it did write to Ms T
on 11 September 2014 which I will consider further below.
Im required to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. We
have received a number of complaints against Templeton Securities representing
Alexander David, about very similar transactions that all happened at around the same
time.
Its apparent that Templeton Securities received a number of requests to open this type
of advisory account with it, all within a relatively short period. And very shortly after the
accounts were opened e-mailed instructions with almost identical wording were sent to
Templeton Securities asking to invest in these same two shares (and in some cases
one other share).
By the time that Templeton Securities received Ms Ts e-mail (20 June 2014), it had already
received a significant number of e-mails from different investors all with near identical
wording. The e-mails were sent to the same person at Templeton Securities (who I
understand held the CF30 function with Alexander David Securities at that time). Templeton
Securities/Alexander David should have copies of these e-mails on their files. However
details (to the degree that it is appropriate to provide) of these e-mails can be requested
from the investigator if required.
Templeton Securities primary duty was to implement its clients instructions. But that
duty wasnt unqualified.
Firstly, it had a broad contractual discretion whether to accept any order or instruction from
Ms T as provided in Clause 3.7 of the Terms and Conditions. Second, it had an obligation to
comply with the FCAs rules.
As I have set out above, the accounts Terms and Conditions included:
2.2 These Terms and Conditions and all transactions are subject to Applicable
Regulations. The term Applicable Regulations means:
a. the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) including the Handbook issued by
the FCA (FCA Rules) or any other rules of a relevant regulatory authority;
b. the rules of a relevant stock or investment exchange; and
c. all other applicable laws, rules and regulations as in force from time to time.
This means that:
(i) if there is any conflict between these Terms and Conditions and any Applicable
Regulations, the latter will prevail.
So the duty to comply with the FCAs rules was recognised in the Terms and Conditions as
an overriding duty that prevailed over anything to the contrary in those Terms.
The FCA is responsible for consumer protection which it seeks to achieve through
application of its Rules, including its Principles for Business (PRIN). Templeton Securities 
was providing regulated financial services and was bound by these Principles and
other Rules. This is consistent with the accounts terms and conditions.
As the investigator said, in British Bankers Association v The Financial Services Authority &
Anor [2011] EWHC 999 (Admin), Ouseley J said [at paragraph 162]:The Principles are best understood as the ever-present substrata to which the specific rules
are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The Specific rules do not
supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are but specific applications of
them to the particular requirement they cover. The general notion that the specific rules can
exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the
Principles to augment specific rules.
And at paragraph 77:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to reach
a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what would be fair
and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had been produced by the
FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory duty without having regard to
the sort of high-level principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated
them. They are of the essence of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the argument about
their relationship to specific rules.
In deciding what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about the Principles which I think
are relevant to this complaint. In my view they are Principles 2, 3 and 6 which say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk
management systems
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of
its customers and treat them fairly.
Alexander David has said although the Principles stood over the specific COBS Rules, they
didnt replace them. And PRIN was primarily guidance rather than rules.
We havent said that the Principles replace the COBS rules. Im obliged to consider the
Principles and as I set out above this was recognised by the courts in the case British
Bankers Association v The Financial Services Authority & Anor [2011] EWHC 999 (Admin).
That the Principles must always be complied with has also been confirmed by Jacob J in
Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] WHC 2878
(Admin) at paragraph 134. The Principles are not just guidance but rules in their own right
and it is established that firms must comply with them, and I have considered them in that
context. And as I have said above, the duty to comply with the FCAs rules was provided in
the Terms and Conditions as an overriding duty that prevailed over anything to the contrary
in those Terms.
Ive therefore considered the FCAs Principles in deciding whats fair and reasonable in all
the circumstances of this complaint. Ultimately, I need to consider whether in conducting this
business Templeton Securities complied with these Principles. Ive considered the matter in
the context of the wider circumstances as I have described in considering Templeton 
Securities obligations; that Templeton Securities was receiving a number of e-mails sent to 
the same person; there was a pattern of remarkably similar worded execution only 
instructions from different clients with SIPP accounts it was being asked to process, in the 
same niche shares, on non-mainstream markets, and within a reasonably short period of 
time.
I think in these circumstances a stockbroker, acting reasonably, ought to have been alertedthat something unusual and concerning might be going on. In my view, the circumstances
ought to have been a trigger for Templeton Securities to intervene in the normal processing
of the transaction and take a closer look behind it.
If it had done so, it would have identified that the instructions were coming from ordinary
retail customers who: 
had all recently opened advisory accounts and yet within a short period of time from 
opening were all sending execution only instructions to make their first investment;
were investing the majority of the money in their SIPP in these same niche shares 
presenting significant risks; they werent the type of investments that you would 
normally expect to form the significant part of anyones pension provision;
had sent almost identically worded instructions to invest in the same niche shares, 
suggesting these retail consumers may be being systematically advised by someone 
to buy these shares and on how to go about it.
And this was in the context that:
Only an FCA authorised firm was lawfully able to give investment advice. And a 
regulated firm giving investment advice would usually arrange the transactions 
themselves so as to charge dealing commission. It raised the possibility of serious 
malpractice if an unauthorised person was giving investment advice in breach of s19 
of The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
The number of instructions to purchase two niche shares, specifying particular days 
for settlement at particular prices, was highly unusual for seemingly unconnected 
retail customers. Including settlement details in their instructions was not only 
unusual but served no obvious purpose from a pension investors point of view.
The possibility that the advice to buy the shares was coming from an unauthorized 
person was increased by the riskiness of concentrating pension funds in the shares 
of one or two small, obscure companies: an FCA-authorised firm would have 
regulatory obligations not to give unsuitable investment advice, and would be unlikely 
to find such shares a suitable pension investment for many (if any) of their clients, let 
alone a string of clients, and all at around the same time.
In my view, the circumstances surrounding the receipt of Ms Ts instructions ought
reasonably to have caused Templeton Securities to take a closer look at the transaction. If it
had done so, and looked at the information it already had available through the account
opening documentation, it would have seen that Ms T had said she had a modest income;
no savings or investments of note, and the £58,600 invested in the SIPP represented her
total assets. It was recorded that Ms Ts preferred level of risk was medium, and
experience wise she was a novice investor in equities. Ms T has said she had no prior
experience in stockbroking or any other types of investment at all.
Ms Ts instructions to invest her entire net wealth into two niche shares, presenting
significant risks, was clearly at odds with her other financial provision, inconsistent with her
being a novice investor in equities, with a likely limited understanding of the investments,
and preferring a medium level of risk.
Given these inconsistencies, I think Templeton Securities should have recognised that
the investments were clearly unsuitable for Ms T. And that Ms Ts placing of themanifestly unsuitable order wasnt a result of some idiosyncrasy of Ms T herself, because
others were giving virtually identical instructions in similar circumstances. There was
plainly likely to be a third party behind all the instructions.
So in this context, is it reasonable to think that Templeton Securities should have
discovered that the source of the numerous and similarly worded instructions to buy the
niche shares came from an unregulated source?
Templeton Securities has said the unregulated firms werent known to it. And it never had
any discussions or agreements with either of them. It said it had no knowledge of or
arrangement of any kind for the introduction of business or otherwise.
Ive seen no persuasive evidence to suggest there was any formal arrangement between
Templeton Securities and either of the unregulated firms.
However there is a Form of Authority relating to one of the unregulated firms on Templeton
Securities file that was signed by Ms T and dated 19 May 2014. Such a form was on the
majority of the complaints that have been referred to the Ombudsman Service. But
irrespective of that, I think there were clear warning signs in the existing information that
Templeton Securities already had available to it. And on making further enquiries with Ms T
and other clients directly, it would have become apparent that an unauthorised person was
advising clients to invest in these shares and helping them do so; giving investment advice
and arranging deals in investments in breach of s19 of The Financial Services and Markets
Act 2000. I dont think Ms T or the other clients would have reason not to tell Templeton
Securities who had recommended the transactions and the unregulated firms role if
Templeton Securities had asked the question and pointed out the reasons for its concern.
In this context, I think Templeton Securities should have identified that Ms T and other
clients were probably being given regulated investment advice by a firm which lacked
authorisation to give the advice, and that an unregulated firm(s) were probably breaching
the general prohibition under s.19. On making reasonable enquiries it would have
discovered that the advice in Ms Ts case was wholly inconsistent with her circumstances
and manifestly unsuitable for her pension fund, and that executing her instructions was
entirely contrary to her best interests. In these circumstances I think it should have
exercised its discretion to decline to accept the instruction.
So I dont think Templeton Securities met its obligations under Principles 2, 3 and 6. I think
if it had conducted its business with skill care and diligence and took reasonable care to
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk
management systems, it should have identified the unusual pattern of execution only
requests and intervened to take a closer look at the transaction. If it had done so, in the
circumstances as I have described, I think it should have spotted the clear risks to Ms T,
and, acting in her best interests, exercised its discretion to decline to accept her instruction.
Taking all the circumstances into account, I consider that Templeton Securities
unreasonably accepted Ms Ts instruction when it had the opportunity and obligation
to prevent the purchase of the shares.
Given that I think Templeton Securities failed to meet its regulatory obligations, I need to
decide whether its failings caused the losses that Ms T has claimed. So Ive considered
what Ms T would likely have done if Templeton Securities had declined to carry out her
instruction.
Ms T had already transferred her money to the SIPP and switched her money into the
advisory account with Templeton Securities. So if Templeton Securities had declined toaccept the instruction Ms T would have had practical difficulties if she still wanted to buy
the shares; she would have needed to find another broker and get the SIPP provider to
open another account to enable her to do so.
Ms T has confirmed that she received a payment of £2,000 from one of the unregulated
firms.
I recognise the influence of the unregulated firms who appeared to be driving the
transactions in the background. And that a payment could have been motivation for Ms T to
want to continue to buy the same shares, irrespective of the actions of Templeton
Securities and therefore the practical difficulties of doing so.
However I think its likely Ms T would have lost trust in the unregulated firm(s) if Templeton
Securities, as a regulated firm, had said it wouldnt process her instruction and its reasons
for not doing so.
When Ms T opened her account the documentation showed she had limited experience of
investments, was a novice investor in equities and her preferred level of risk was medium.
This isnt consistent with an investment in these high-risk shares.
Given the significant risk of loss of the amount invested in the shares, approximately
£56,000, relative to the £2,000 payment; the practical difficulties of buying the shares if
Templeton Securities had declined her instruction, and that Ms T had indicated her preferred
level of risk was medium, I think, on balance, its unlikely that Ms T would have invested in
Emmit and Global Auto had it not been for Templeton Securities failings.
Templeton Securities has said it wrote to Ms T on 11 September 2014. It said the letter
notified Ms T of the risks of the investment yet she decided to take no action to mitigate her
loss  she wanted to stick with her position.
Ms Ts representative has said that she doesnt recall receiving the letter. However Ms T
has said she did have concerns about the investments. She said she attempted to call the
unregulated introducer but couldnt reach him. She also contacted the SIPP provider but it
wasnt able to assist her. She says she couldnt reach anyone at Templeton Securities to
discuss her concerns. Ms Ts representative has also said there was no market to sell the
shares  they were clearly high risk and the Emmit shares were subject to an FCA warning.
So even if Ms T had known how to sell the shares, she wouldnt have found a buyer and so
couldnt have taken steps to mitigate her loss.
The letter was about the Emmit shares only. It did say the shares were high risk, but it said
the investor should consider whether or not they felt they were appropriate for them. I dont
think the letter itself was sufficient to prompt investors to act. It was relatively brief. It did
draw the investors attention to the high-risk nature of the investment. And that Templeton
Securities hadnt assessed suitability. But the letter didnt indicate there were any particular
problems with the investment. So even if I accepted that Ms T was sent such a letter, I dont
think the wording was sufficiently strong or specific such as it ought to have prompted Ms T
to act.
However, Ms T has acknowledged that she had concerns about the shares in any event.
Clearly she was concerned enough to try and contact the parties involved in the transaction.
As I said, the letter only referred to Emmit  Global Auto wasnt mentioned. Templeton
Securities has said that the Emmit share price was then 132.50p. A sale at that price would
still have represented a significant loss for Ms T, albeit in hindsight shed have avoided the
total loss of her investment which she now faces. But selling wouldve crystallised a loss.And I dont know if Ms T wouldve been able to sell and, if so, at what price. A sudden and
large volume of sell instructions might not have been possible for the market to
accommodate and is likely to have impacted adversely on the share price  I bear in mind
that Templeton Securities appears to have written to other investors at about the same time.
Taking all the above into account, I dont think it would be fair to limit Ms Ts losses to those
sustained by 11 September 2014. Although Ms T herself may have had concerns about the
shares thats not the same as being told they were unsuitable for her. I dont think Templeton
Securities letter did enough to alert her to the unsuitability of the investment in September
2014  even if I accept it was likely she received it. The letter said she needed to consider
whether they were appropriate as they were high risk. But its accepted she was a novice
investor and she had been told they were suitable for her a few months earlier. So I think the
onus was on Templeton Securities to do more, and but for Templeton Securities
shortcomings Ms T wouldnt have been invested in the shares in the first place.
Templeton Securities has asked whether the unregulated firms and product provider were
being investigated and/or compensation sought from them. I have no powers to investigate
complaints against the unregulated firms. Whilst I accept they had a role in the transaction, it
was Templeton Securities that was authorised to provide these regulated financial services,
and was bound by the obligations flowing from the Rules and Principles as I have outlined
above.
Templeton Securities and the SIPP provider had their own distinct regulatory obligations
under the Principles. I think in the circumstances, the onus was on Templeton Securities to
have recognised the clear possibility of detriment to Ms T, and it should have prevented the
investments being made in the first place, for the reasons I have given.
In my view, Ms Ts losses flow from Templeton Securities failings and so its fair and
reasonable that Templeton Securities should redress Ms T for those losses. If Templeton
Securities considers that some other party is responsible, in whole or in part for Ms Ts
losses, I dont think Ms T, if her losses are met in full by Templeton Securities, would decline
to assign any rights of action she might have against any other party to Templeton
Securities.
So I think Ms Ts losses flow from the failure of Templeton Securities to meet its
regulatory obligations. And I think it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for
Templeton Securities to pay compensation to Ms T for the losses that resulted from
those failings.
Weve been told that the FCA conducted an investigation into Templeton Securities with
regard to Emmit, including a full review of all telephone calls and e-mails but then dropped 
the investigation, deciding that there was no case to answer and no wrongdoing found on 
Templeton Securities part. Ive seen a copy of a letter sent by the FCA to Alexander David 
about that investigation, but on the face of it I dont think the FCA were investigating the 
same matter. In the absence of full details of that investigation, Im not persuaded it changes 
my findings as set out above. Im considering if Templeton Securities met its obligations to 
Ms T in its dealing with her. For the reasons Ive set out, I dont think it did.
Applying sections 27 and 28 FSMA
I have also examined a separate basis upon which Templeton Securities may be responsible
for the same losses. Ive considered the findings in the recent Court of Appeal case Adams v
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP. In deciding what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable
in the circumstances, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into
account, amongst other things, relevant law and regulations. In doing so Ive considered thefacts of this case in light of the legal principles expounded by the Court of Appeal in the
recent case Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP, which I think are relevant.
The court considered, amongst other things, the application of sections 27 and 28 of the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
In summary, s27 may apply where an authorised person makes an agreement with
another person in the course of carrying out a regulated activity, which was a
consequence of something said or done by an unregulated party acting in breach of the
general prohibition (s19 of FSMA). S27 provides that an agreement to which it applies is
unenforceable against the other party, and sets out what the other party can recover.
S28 of FSMA provides the court with the discretion to allow an agreement to which
s.27 applies to be in any event enforced, if it considers it is just and equitable to do
so.
The relevant parts of section 27 and 28 of the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 provide:
27 Agreements made through unauthorised persons.
(1) This section applies to an agreement that 
(a) is made by an authorised person (the provider) in the course of carrying on a regulated
activity,
(d) is made in consequence of something said or done by another person (the third party)
in the course of
(i) a regulated activity carried on by the third party in contravention of the general prohibition,
(1A) An agreement to which this section applies is unenforceable against the other party.
(2) The other party is entitled to recover
(a) any money or other property paid or transferred by him under the agreement; and
(b) compensation for any loss sustained by him as a result of having parted with it.
(3)Agreement means an agreement
(a) made after this section comes into force; and
(b) the making or performance of which constitutes, or is part of, the regulated activity in
question carried on by the provider.
28 Agreements made unenforceable by section 26 or 27 [general cases].
(1) This section applies to an agreement which is unenforceable because of section
26 or 27, other than an agreement entered into in the course of carrying on a credit related
regulated activity.
(2) The amount of compensation recoverable as a result of that section is
(a) the amount agreed by the parties; or
(b) on the application of either party, the amount determined by the court.
(3) If the court is satisfied that it is just and equitable in the circumstances of the case, it may
allow
(a) the agreement to be enforced; or
(b) money and property paid or transferred under the agreement to be retained.
(4) In considering whether to allow the agreement to be enforced or (as the case may be)
the money or property paid or transferred under the agreement to be retained the court
must
(b) if the case arises as a result of section 27, have regard to the issue mentioned in
subsection (6).
(6) The issue is whether the provider knew that the third party was (in carrying on the
regulated activity) contravening the general prohibition.(7) If the person against whom the agreement is unenforceable
(a) elects not to perform the agreement, or
(b) as a result of this section, recovers money paid or other property transferred by him
under the agreement, he must repay any money and return any other property received by
him under the agreement.
(8) If property transferred under the agreement has passed to a third party, a reference in
section 26 or 27 or this section to that property is to be read as a reference to its value at
the time of its transfer under the agreement.
The Court of Appeal decided that s27 of FSMA applied in the circumstances of that case.
So it went onto consider s28 (3) - would it be just and equitable, in the circumstances of
the case, to allow the agreement to be enforced/ the money and property paid or
transferred under the agreement to be retained. In deciding the matter s28 (4) required it to
consider s28(6)  did the provider know the third party was contravening the general
prohibition? It considered whether this meant actual knowledge of it or constructive
knowledge. And decided it meant actual knowledge. It found that Carey didnt have actual
knowledge. But then it went onto say:
Where a provider actually knew that the general prohibition was being breached, that
must weigh heavily against use of the power conferred by section 28(3) of FSMA. If, on
the other hand, a provider lacked such knowledge, it may still be appropriate to deny
relief under section 28(3). And
Likewise, meeting the requirements of section 28(6) will not necessarily mean that relief
should be granted. Amongst the factors that it may be proper to take into account is
whether the provider should reasonably have known that the general prohibition was being
contravened.
The court decided, on the particular facts of the case, not to exercise the discretion
provided to it in s28. It didnt think it was just and equitable to grant Carey relief under
section 28(3) of FSMA. It referred to the surrounding circumstances that it thought ought
to have given reason for Carey to be concerned about the possibility of the unregulated
firm arranging and advising on investments, even though it didnt in fact appreciate that
the general prohibition was being contravened.
The court made the following comments:
A key aim of FSMA is consumer protection. It proceeds on the basis that, while
consumers can to an extent be expected to bear responsibility for their own decisions,
there is a need for regulation, among other things to safeguard consumers from their own
folly. That much reduces the force of Mr Greens contentions that Mr Adams caused his
own losses and misled Carey; and
While SIPP providers were not barred from accepting introductions from unregulated
sources, section 27 of FSMA was designed to throw risks associated with doing so onto
the providers. Authorised persons are at risk of being unable to enforce agreements and
being required to return money and other property and to pay compensation regardless of
whether they had had knowledge of third parties contraventions of the general
prohibition.
Ive considered Ms Ts complaint in light of the Courts findings. For s27 of FSMA to
apply, an agreement must have been made by an authorised person (here, Templeton
Securities) in consequence of a contravention of the general prohibition by a third party(here the unregulated firm(s)).
Given the facts of Ms Ts complaint and the surrounding circumstances as I have set out
above, I think its most likely the unregulated firm(s) was/were breaching the general
prohibition by arranging deals in and advising on investments  articles 25 and 53 of the
Regulated Activities Order. And I think the advice and the unregulated firm(s) actions in
providing Ms T with her draft purchase instruction clearly played a crucial part in Ms T
buying the shares. As I have explained, I think its hardly likely that so many ordinary retail
clients would suddenly all unilaterally decide to invest in these two little known niche
shares at around the same time. So I think a court would find that s27 applies, and Ms T
can (subject to s.28), recover the monies she invested through her agreement with
Templeton Securities when it accepted her instructions to purchase the shares and the
investment losses she sustained.
Ive therefore gone onto consider s28.
I think the overriding question is that set out in s.28(3); whether it would be just and
equitable in the circumstances of the case to allow enforcement of the agreement or
retention of the price paid. The significance of s.28(4) and (6) is to require the court to
have regard to whether the firm knew the third party was breaching the general
prohibition. But as the Court of Appeal emphasised, meeting the requirements of section
28(6) will not necessarily mean that relief should be granted. So whilst it has to be taken
into account, it doesnt make that factor necessarily determinative.
Equally, the question of whether the firm should reasonably have known the general
prohibition was being breached is something that it may be proper to take into account,
but it is also not a determinative test, just a potentially relevant circumstance in some
cases.
I think in deciding s28 (3) and what was just and equitable in Ms Ts case, the court
would, as it did in Adams v Options, look at all the circumstances in the round.
For the reasons I set out, I think Templeton Securities ignored several red flags that
should have reasonably alerted it that there was a strong possibility that its clients were
being systematically put in harms way; being given the same seemingly irresponsible
advice by a common, unknown source. As I have said, I dont think Templeton Securities
acted reasonably when ignoring those signals of potential wrongdoing. And I think whilst
the court would take into account it may not have had actual knowledge of the breach, I
think, looking at the circumstances in the round, had it acted reasonably rather than
ignore those clear warnings it would have discovered the breach on making reasonably
enquiries around it.
Taking all this into account, I dont think a court would find it was just and equitable to
allow Templeton Securities relief under s28. And therefore Ms T could recover her money
under s27.
Accordingly, my provisional decision was that I thought it was fair and reasonable to uphold 
Ms Ts complaint on either of the bases I had outlined; that is, that Templeton Securities had
failed to meet its regulatory obligation under the Principles. And that its likely that a court
would decide that Ms T could recover her money under s27.  I went on to set out how I 
thought Alexander David should calculate fair compensation and pay it to Ms T.
I asked Ms T and Alexander David to provide any further evidence or arguments that they
wanted me to consider before I made my final decision.Ms Ts representative said Ms T accepted the provisional decision. 
Alexander David Securities Limited responded to say, in summary that it thought the
provisional decision missed fundamental issues and had failed to take fully into account:
Conditions precedent regarding previous Financial Ombudsman Service rulings.
The FCA had conducted a thorough investigation into TS Capital in regard to Emmit 
including a full review of all telephone calls and e-mails. The FCA had dropped the 
investigation as it decided there was no case to answer. No wrong-doing had been 
found.
TS Capital had accepted and undertook the instruction for the transaction on an 
execution only basis. It hadnt agreed to provide advisory services as per clause 3.2 
in its terms and conditions. 
The account was a trust account opened by a regulated SIPP provider. Ms T was the 
beneficiary with powers to undertake transactions. At the time of Ms Ts instruction, it 
wasnt unreasonable for TS Capital to accept the instruction and to conclude that it 
was an ordinary transaction(s) for investments listed on recognised exchanges.
The terminology in the instruction wasnt necessarily technical for someone who had 
previously made any direct stock market investment. The nature of the instruction 
wasnt in itself, or in a series, necessarily unusual, given the account was opened 
with it by a regulated firm and clients could and did obtain and undertake investment 
research through a variety of mediums. This included web and internet forums, tip 
services etc. At the point of the transaction it was unaware of any issues with the 
investments.
TS Capital wasnt aware of the payment of £2,000. It said this was a pension 
liberation attempt, and Ms Ts version of events surrounding the payment wasnt 
consistent with the known facts surrounding this issue as highlighted by the FCAs 
alert in October 2014. It said the key trigger of the scam was a promise of a 
cashback. It thought this was the motivation for Ms T to transfer and subsequently 
send specific instructions to buy the shares in question. It thought the ability to 
liberate some of her pension savings prior to the dates she was allowed to access 
her pension was the most likely reason for the investments.
It didnt accept that relief should not be provided under s28 (3). It said the 
introduction(s) all came directly from a regulated pension provider, they were 
technically the account holder and Ms T a beneficiary. It didnt believe that it was 
unreasonable to undertake and accept the specific execution only instructions from 
Ms T or the other clients at that time. Or for TS Capital to be unaware that an 
unregulated entity was contravening the general prohibition at the point the 
instruction was received and the investment was made.
It became aware of general market concerns (I understand about Emmit) in 
September 2014, and acting reasonably it sent a letter to Ms T to raise awareness as 
to the potential suitability of the transaction. It thought this letter should have caused 
Ms T to question the investment at around this time. It said Ms T was obliged to have 
mitigated her position and sell the shares prior to their suspension. It thought this was 
the date that any fair and reasonable award should be calculated at.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from my provisional decision to uphold Ms Ts 
complaint.
In respect of the further evidence and arguments made by the firm:
The response to the provisional decision referred to TS Capital. The firm was trading 
as Templeton Securities Limited at the time of the event that the complaint is about. 
Ive taken the references to TS Capital as appropriately referring to Templeton 
Securities Limited at the relevant time.
Alexander David has said my provisional decision didnt take into account previous 
Financial Ombudsman Service rulings. It didnt say which rulings, but Im aware that 
on other cases it has referred to assessments issued by our adjudicators. As I 
explained in my provisional decision, those cases were resolved at an informal stage 
in our process by our investigators and on the facts as they understood them. They 
werent decided by a final decision issued by an Ombudsman. Ive made my decision 
on Ms Ts case on the basis of what I consider are all the relevant circumstances to 
decide what I consider be fair and reasonable given all the evidence and arguments 
available.
As I noted in my provisional decision, weve previously been told about the FCA 
investigation into Templeton Securities with regard to Emmit. I said Id seen a copy of 
a letter sent by the FCA to Alexander David about that investigation, but on the face 
of it I didnt think the FCA were investigating the same matter. We have asked for 
fuller details of the FCAs investigation in other cases and no further detail has been 
provided. And no further information has been provided in response to this 
provisional decision. Given I have seen no further details, Im not persuaded it 
changes my findings as set out above. Im considering if Templeton 
Securities/Alexander David met its obligations to Ms T in its dealing with her. For the 
reasons Ive set out, I dont think it did.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I accept that Templeton Securities 
undertook the instruction for the transaction on an execution only basis. However I 
dont think Templeton Securities wider obligations were diluted because the 
regulated SIPP Provider was technically the account owner; this wasnt unusual, and 
the instruction to invest came directly from Ms T. Ive seen no evidence to suggest 
that the SIPP provider was involved in the instructions to invest.
I accept that the terminology in the instruction may not necessarily have been 
technical for someone who had previously made direct stock market investment. And 
that investors can obtain tips/do their own research from the variety of mediums 
mentioned by Templeton. So it might receive a number of orders for a particular 
investment at around the same time. But the situation here was that a series of        
e-mails were all sent to the same specific person, with near identical technical 
wording, giving very specific instructions to invest in particular niche shares. I think 
this suggested there was likely to be a single source behind the instructions. And that 
its clients were being systematically advised by a third party to buy these shares, and 
on how to go about it. For the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I think the 
series of e-mails should have alerted Templeton Securities that something unusual 
might be going on, and ought to have been a trigger for it to intervene in the normal processing of Ms Ts instruction and take a closer look behind it. And having done so 
it would have identified the role of the unregulated firm(s).
Templeton Securities letter to Ms T in September 2014 wasnt related to Ms Ts 
investment in Global Auto. And for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I 
dont think the content of the letter was such that Ms T ought  to have sold the shares 
(in Emmit or Global Auto), or that she acted unreasonably by not selling them. So Im 
not persuaded it would be fair to say that compensation should be calculated on the 
basis that Ms T should have sold her shares following receipt of that letter.
I accept the payment of £2,000 may not have been known to Templeton Securities 
when it processed the instruction. I dont think this was a pension liberation attempt 
as such, and it appears that Ms T would have been able to take her pension at 
around that time if she had wanted to. But in any event, as I said in my provisional 
decision, I recognise that the unregulated firms were driving the transaction, and the 
cash sum of £2,000 would have been a motivating factor for Ms T. However I think 
irrespective of the motivation behind it, if Templeton Securities had intervened in the 
processing, and said it wouldnt process Ms Ts instruction, Ms T would have had to 
re-assess her options. And for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I dont 
think she would have gone on to invest in Emmit or Global Auto.
As I explained in my provisional decision, in deciding what is, in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs 
Handbook to take into account, amongst other things, relevant law and regulations. 
Ive considered the courts findings in the case of Adams v Options UK Personal 
Pensions LLP in the context of the facts of this case. I think they are relevant. For the 
reasons I set out above and in my provisional decision, I think Templeton Securities 
ought to have been alerted there was something unusual going on, and made further 
enquiries about the investment instructions. And on doing so it would have identified 
it was likely an unregulated firm was breaching the general prohibition. For the 
reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I dont think a court would find it was just 
and equitable to allow Templeton Securities relief under s28 of the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000. And I consider it likely that a court would find that Ms T would 
be able to recover her money under s27.
So for the reasons I have set out above, I think Ms Ts complaint should be upheld. 
Putting things right
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Ms T as close as possible to 
the position she would probably now be in if Templeton Securities had not agreed to 
purchase the shares for Ms Ts account.
If it had done so I think Ms T, having already completed the switch of her pension to the 
SIPP, would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what she would have 
done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Ms T's 
circumstances and objectives when she invested.
what should Alexander David Securities Limited do?
To compensate Ms T fairly Alexander David Securities Limited should:Compare the performance of Ms T's investments with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value no 
compensation is payable.
It should also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, Alexander David Securities Limited should pay into Ms T's pension plan,
to increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Alexander David
Securities Limited shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict
with any existing protection or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Ms T's
pension plan, it should pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into
the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The 
notional allowance should be calculated using Ms T's actual or expected marginal rate
of tax at her selected retirement age.
I think Ms T is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at her selected retirement age. So the
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Ms T would have been able
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
investmentbenchmarkfrom
(start date)           to
(end date)additional 
interest
The amounts 
invested in 
Global Auto 
(£28,000 and 
Emmit 
(£28,000)  
including 
charges, less 
a deduction of 
£2,000  
divided 
equally - so 
£1,000 from 
each.FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;The date 
of 
purchase 
of each  
shareDate of this  
final  
decision8% simple a
year from date
of this final decision to
date of
settlement if
settlement isnt
made within
28 days of
Alexander
David being
notified of
Ms Ts 
acceptance of
this decision
The deduction of £2,000 reflects the payment that was made to Ms T and which she has
had use of.
In addition, Alexander David Securities Limited should:
Pay Ms T £300 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied the matter has 
caused her.
Provide details of the calculation to Ms T in a clear, simple format.Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities 
Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Ms T how much it has taken off. It should also give Ms 
T a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date, the investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value 
should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Alexander David Securities 
Limited should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation 
and the balance paid as above.
If Alexander David Securities Limited is unable to purchase the investment the actual value 
should be assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Alexander David Securities 
Limited may wish to require that Ms T provides an undertaking to pay it any amount she may 
receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and 
charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Alexander 
David Securities Limited will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced
a return using the benchmark.
why is this remedy suitable?
I dont know exactly how Ms T would have invested. Ms T had indicated she was willing to
take a medium degree of risk. But it appears this was largely driven by the unregulated firm.
Ms T had already switched her money to the pension. I think if Templeton Securities had
refused to accept Ms Ts instructions she could have sought suitable advice from it on how
to invest her pension. Given her particular circumstances, I think she would have been
advised to invest at medium risk  at most.
I think the index I have outlined above is an appropriate benchmark and is a reasonable
proxy for the degree of risk I think its likely that Ms T would have been recommended and
she would have agreed to take.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE
WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices with different
asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ts complaint. 
I order Alexander David Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Ms T as I 
have set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman