DRN-3329548
The complaint
Mr A says Covea Insurance plc acted unreasonably in avoiding his motor insurance policy 
and by declining a claim hed made on it. He also says it provided poor service.
What happened
Mr As car was stolen on 7 January 2021. In assessing his claim, Covea found that he had 
several speeding offences on his driving licence. It said had it known about the four 
endorsements before the policy started on 1 January 2021 it would not have offered him 
cove. Mr A said the non-disclosures on his part amounted to a genuine oversight, as he 
thought he only had to inform the broker or the insurer if he was banned from driving. 
Mr A pointed out that hed had motor policies through the broker since 2017, when his 
driving record was clear. He said the broker hadnt spoken to him at any of the policy 
renewals since then, but cover was renewed automatically each year. He said the broker 
sent the 2021 policy documents to an email address he rarely used, so he hadnt seen them. 
And as they only arrived by post after the car was stolen, he had no chance to correct them. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr As complaint. She said the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) applied to his situation. In her opinion, 
Mr A hadnt taken reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation at renewal. She said on 
31 December 2020 the broker sent the policy documents to the email address Mr A had 
supplied. She thought he had time to correct the details shown. She didnt agree with him 
that Covea should have made licence checks before the policy started. She said its for a 
consumer to provide accurate details to the insurer. The investigator said Covea was entitled 
to rely on CIDRAs provisions, even if Mr A had only made a careless error. She didnt think 
its customer service and the short delays on its part had much adverse impact on Mr A. 
  
Mr As representative queried whether Covea had shown that any misrepresentation had 
made a difference to Covea (as required under CIDRA). He thought it would have been 
more appropriate for Covea to have charged Mr A an extra premium, rather than avoid the 
policy. The investigator said Covea would not have offered Mr A cover had it known the 
facts, so it was entitled to avoid the policy. But it had decided his misrepresentation was 
careless, rather than deliberate or reckless, so it would return his premium.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.   
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As view
Mr A gave Covea a detailed account of the effect the avoidance of the policy had on him. He 
said it caused severe financial consequences and enormous stress and upset. He thinks the 
way Covea acted was disproportionate when all he did was make a careless mistake. He 
suggested it could have taken him off the policy, or not paid the full market value for the 
stolen car instead. I can see why Mr A put forward alternative solutions, but that isnt how 
insurers deal with misrepresentation. They consider the circumstances of each case in line 
with CIDRAs provisions. 
CIDRA
Under CIDRA, an insurer has to show that a consumer made a misrepresentation. That 
depends on whether a clear question was asked, and whether the consumer took 
reasonable care to answer it accurately. The insurer must then show that the 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one. It must have made a difference to the insurer, in that 
it wouldnt have offered the consumer cover had it known all the facts - or would only have 
done so on different terms. If it can show that theres a qualifying misrepresentation, the 
insurer must then decide whether it was deliberate or reckless, or just careless.
Clear question / reasonable care taken to respond
When Mr A first took out a policy through the broker in 2017, he had no points on his licence. 
The broker has shown that he applied for the policy through a comparison website. He was 
informed online that he needed to declare all driving offences (except parking and speed 
awareness courses). It says the renewal documents sent to Mr A for his 2018, 2019 and 
2020 policies (with insurers other than Covea) asked him to check that all the details carried 
over from each previous policy were correct. The broker says Mr A didnt contact it at any 
point from 2017 onwards to change the details of his driving record  although he got a 
speeding endorsement later in 2017, two more in 2018, and a further one in 2019. 
The broker has shown that a renewal invitation was sent to Mr As home address by post on 
7 December 2020. It set out the proposed new premium and details of the policy cover, 
based on the information it held for Mr A. He was asked to check the details and call the 
broker to make any changes. The invitation also said that inaccurate or incomplete 
information could lead to the policy being cancelled or avoided. The documents stated that 
Mr A had no penalties, convictions, endorsements or disqualifications on his licence. 
We think that a consumer failing to amend particulars they have provided previously (which 
are no longer correct) amounts to answering a question incorrectly, in line with CIDRAs 
provisions. I think Mr A was asked a clear question when he was asked to agree to the 
details set out in the renewal invitation (and later on, in the renewal confirmation). If he 
wasnt able to agree that all the details were correct, he was asked to contact the broker.
Mr A didnt contact the broker to amend the policy, or to say he didnt want to renew the 
policy, so the broker sent the renewal confirmation documents to his email address. The 
broker says its the only email address Mr A had ever given it  and Mr A hasnt shown thats 
not the case. The documents were also issued by post on 4 January 2021. They showed 
that Mr A had received no convictions, disqualifications, fixed penalty notices or 
endorsements during the last five years. Warnings were given about reading the documents 
and contacting the broker about inaccuracies, in order to avoid cancellation or avoidance.
I think it was reasonable for the broker and Covea to assume that Mr A had checked the 
documents sent to his home address and to the email address hed provided, and that they 
were accurate. I think Mr A was given the chance to amend any inaccurate details, but that 
he didnt take reasonable care to do so. Consequently, in my opinion, it was reasonable for 
Covea to conclude that Mr A had misrepresented the facts.
Qualifying misrepresentation Covea has provided underwriting evidence to us which shows had it known Mr A had four 
motoring offences (of any type) on his record within the previous five years,  it would not 
have offered him cover, even for a higher premium. So I think it was fair for Covea to decide 
that Mr A had made a qualifying misrepresentation. 
Type of misrepresentation
Under CIDRA, the action Covea was entitled to take depended on whether it thought Mr As 
qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or just careless. It decided hed 
acted carelessly. That meant although Covea had the right to avoid the policy and decline 
the claim, under CIDRA, Mr As premiums would be returned to him. 
     
Contact with Mr  A
 
Mr A says he wasnt aware of the impending renewal, or that any documents had been 
issued, so he had no chance to correct any inaccurate details. He says the broker should 
have called him. But it isnt feasible for brokers to call consumers routinely at renewal, given 
the number of renewals and other issues they deal with. Mr A knew the broker hadnt done 
so in previous years, but his cover had renewed regardless. I think its reasonable for 
brokers to expect consumers to be aware of their policies in general and to be alert to annual 
renewals. In my view, the brokers role is to assist with that by ensuring renewal invitations 
and confirmations are issued to consumers in good time.
Mr A also thinks Covea should have checked his licence before agreeing to offer him cover. 
But insurers cant do that routinely, given the huge volume of policies they deal with. So they 
make random checks, as well as checking when a claim is made. Otherwise, insurers rely on 
consumers to provide accurate details initially, to read the policy documents and to update 
their details as necessary. Theres a duty on all consumers to do that. 
I dont think Mr A can rely on the fact that he was oblivious to his insurance cover being 
renewed and being valid. I dont think its fair for him to suggest that the broker and the 
insurer were responsible for that. But it seems Mr A genuinely thought his approach was 
reasonable. In my opinion, the fact that he believed only driving bans should be reported 
points to his not having read the documents at previous renewals, not just the last one. 
  
Mr A says he didnt see any of the documents before the car was stolen on 7 January 2021, 
despite the renewal invitation being sent to him early in December 2020 and the renewal 
confirmation being received in his email account on 31 December 2020. The business file 
shows that Mr A told an advisor that the renewal documents arrived in the post the day 
before the theft. He said hed noted that the premium had risen by around £1,000 and had 
meant to call the broker to query it. 
Theres some confusion on this point, as Mr A said later on that the documents only arrived 
on 10 January 2021. Its not possible to be sure either way - although I think its fair to say 
that if they arrived after the theft, it does seem unlikely that Mr As main concern would have 
been the rise in the premium. In any event, the policy documents were in his email account a 
week before the theft, so in my opinion Mr A had the chance to read them and call the broker 
about the necessary changes.  
Seriousness of the misrepresentation
Mr A thinks Covea avoided the policy on a technicality. He says an oversight shouldnt lead 
to an avoidance. And his representatives view is that speeding offences arent serious 
enough to justify the action Covea took.I dont think avoiding a policy due to a careless misrepresentation is relying on a technicality. 
CIDRA is the relevant law, and I think Coveas decision was taken in line with its provisions.   
 
I think an insurer is entitled to decide on what basis it will offer cover - and it should be able 
to rely on its underwriting rules. All insurers have the right to say what they consider to be an 
unacceptable risk. Sometimes that may be based on the number of offences on a 
consumers record  and sometimes it may be based on how serious an offence is. So 
offences that may sometimes be considered as minor (such as speeding) still count. 
Customer service
In terms of customer service, I think its clear from the calls that Mr A was frustrated it took 
over a month for Covea to decide what to do with the claim. Although I understand his 
frustration, I dont think thats an excessive period in which to go through the validation 
process - especially as the broker had to supply details to Covea. Its response was outside 
Coveas control. Covea also had to consider whether the avoidance was appropriate. There 
was a delay of five days in issuing a letter to Mr A, but the case handler kept him informed of 
developments. And I think a promised call from a manager could have been made sooner 
than it was. But I dont think there were any significant service failures on Coveas part.
  
In summary
 
I think Covea has shown that it acted in line with CIDRAs provisions in deciding to avoid the 
policy, which meant the claim wasnt dealt with. I appreciate that Mr A has been left in a very 
difficult position, but as I dont think hes shown that Covea acted unreasonably, I cant 
uphold his complaint.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman