DRN-3237082
The complaint
Mr K and Ms Y complain that Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) have amended their horse 
insurance policy and declined a claim.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, and largely not in dispute so 
Ill only summarise it here. When I refer to Lloyds I include its agents and others acting on its 
behalf.
In August 2020 Mr K and Ms Y arranged insurance for a horse theyd recently 
purchased.
In September 2020 a claim was made following a diagnosis of Haemolytic anaemia.
In December 2020 Lloyds contacted Mr K and Ms Y advising the cover on the policy 
had been reduced to include accidental external injury only from inception. And the 
claim was declined.
Lloyds said they took this action as Mr K and Ms Y hadnt disclosed all the material 
facts when setting up the policy, specifically information from a vet who attended 
their horse shortly before the policy was taken out.  
Mr K and Ms Y were unhappy and complained to Lloyds and as they remained 
dissatisfied, they brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered whether there had been a misrepresentation and didnt 
agree that Mr K and Ms Y had incorrectly answered any of the questions asked of 
them. He felt Lloyds had acted unreasonably in reducing the level of cover and 
declining the claim.
Our investigator asked Lloyds to reinstate the policy cover to that provided at 
inception and reconsider the claim. He also asked Lloyds to pay £200 by way of an 
apology for the stress and inconvenience caused.
Lloyds asked that an ombudsman decide the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and largely for the 
same reasons.
Ive considered if Mr K and Ms Y acted reasonably when answering the questions asked 
when they applied for the policy over the telephone.
 
They were asked if the horse had suffered from any disease or injury whether or not 
attended or treated by a vet. And the answer given was no. They were then asked is he 
sound, in good health and normal in eye, wind and action. And the answer given was yes. 
Mr K and Ms Y were also asked to confirm the horse had undergone a 5 stage, and they 
said he had and added this took place in Ireland prior to them purchasing the horse.
Ive also considered the notes from Mr K and Ms Ys vet that Lloyds had requested as part 
of its investigation. These notes related to an examination that took place between the time 
Mr K and Ms Y enquired about insuring their horse with Lloyds and taking the policy out. 
These notes indicated the horse was sound at the time of the examination although 
concerns were raised as to future soundness and athletic use. And it was suggested a farrier 
examine the horse to see if foot balance could be improved with shoeing. 
I note Mr K and Ms Y hadnt seen the vets notes when they set the policy up. They say the 
prime purpose of the vets visit was to see another horse and the discussion about the horse 
they insured with Lloyds was in very general terms. I also note the vet has confirmed there 
is no connection between the observations she made and the medical condition claimed for. 
The vet also notes that since shoeing his foot confirmation and movement are much 
improved. 
On balance Im satisfied Mr K and Ms M acted reasonably when answering the questions 
asked of them. Their horse had been given a reasonable bill of health by their vet and in the 
5 stage undertaken in Ireland prior to completing the purchase. 
In the circumstances of this case I find that Lloyds have acted unreasonably in reducing the 
cover and declining the claim.
Putting things right
To put things right Lloyds should reinstate the policy to the level of cover provided at 
inception and reconsider the claim against the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
And it should pay £200 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons above Im upholding the complaint and require the Society of Lloyds to 
reinstate the policy to the level of cover provided at inception and reconsider the claim 
against the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
I also instruct it to pay £200 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Ms Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman