DRN-3969892
The complaint
Mr S complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard withdrawing his 
promotional balance transfer interest rate.
What happened
Mr S had a 0% interest balance transfer arrangement in place with Barclaycard and he was 
late with his November 2020 payment. It was due on 16 November, however as Mr S didnt 
make a payment until 23 November Barclaycard withdrew this arrangement.
Mr S complained to Barclaycard as he didnt think their action was lawful or contractual. He 
also complained about Barclaycards complaint handling policy and systems.
Barclaycard didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint, so he contacted our service. 
However, our investigator didnt uphold his complaint, so it has been referred to me to look 
at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first point out this service cant instruct a business to alter its processes, procedures 
or polices including both complaint handling and terms and conditions. I say this because we 
arent the regulator of the financial services industry, and our role is to consider each 
individual case. And where we think a business hasnt acted fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstances, our role is to decide what should be done to put right any financial, or non-
financial losses that a consumer has experienced
I found it to be clear that there was a breach of Barclaycards terms and conditions. This is 
because Barclaycard specify that payment must be made by the monthly statement due date 
and unfortunately that wasnt the case here. Also, the statements Barclaycard sent specify 
the due date, Mr S accepts his November 2020 payment was late and the terms and 
conditions say:
You can miss your minimum payment by not making a payment, by only paying part of your 
minimum payment or by making your payment late.
Although I understand Mr Ss point that his payment mightve been late but he didnt miss 
the payment, from reading the terms and conditions and section 4 I think its clear he needed 
to make a payment by the due date and unfortunately missed this date.
I then looked at whether, because of this breach, it was fair and reasonable for Barclaycard 
to withdraw Mr Ss 0% interest balance transfer promotional offer.
I considered Mr Ss challenge that Barclaycards terms and conditions lack clarity and are 
open to interpretation, however Im not persuaded that the following section 10 statement is 
misquoted due to the use of a colon:
You can lose your promotional or instalment plan interest rate before the end of the 
promotional or the instalment plan period if you do not keep to the terms of this agreement:
This is because I think its clear the use of the colon after the last word is to place emphasis 
on minimum payments and a breach wouldnt be limited to those two bullet points. 
So, considering the above, as its Barclaycards policy to withdraw promotional interest rates 
and replace them with the standard interest rate when there is a breach, I think their action 
was fair and reasonable. 
I also took into consideration the legal points Mr S raised with Barclaycard, together with 
their responses about their policy, terms and conditions and the consumer credit act. 
So, although I understand Mr Ss frustration at losing the promotional rate and his 
dissatisfaction with Barclaycards complaint handling process and system, Im not upholding 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman