DRN-3157917
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited hasnt offered him a fair 
settlement for a claim he made on his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D made a subsidence claim in 2019, for damage to his workshop. The workshop is 
attached to the rear of his garage, and a woodshed is attached to the workshop. 
Lloyds accepted the claim. However, it also said the workshop needs to be demolished and 
rebuilt due to non-subsidence related issues. So, Lloyds declined to undertake the repairs 
and offered a cash settlement for the subsidence damage. Lloyds settlement offer has 
increased from £1,230 to £6,000. Mr D remains unhappy with the £6,000 offer. 
Mr D has a quote for £14,400, to demolish and rebuild the workshop. In addition, he has an 
invoice for £3,000, for replacing the garage roof. He says Lloyds damaged the garage roof 
during its temporary repairs. He also says Lloyds temporary repairs failed, allowing 
rainwater to damage some contents items in the garage. 
Lloyds accepts it attended on five occasions in relation to the temporary repairs. However, it 
disputes it damaged the garage roof. Lloyds also told Mr D that he would need to make a 
contents insurance claim, for the damaged items in the garage. Lloyds has offered Mr D 
£325 compensation for delays and issues relating to the temporary repairs, and for a 
missed appointment.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. He made the following findings and 
recommendations:
- Our investigator was persuaded the garage roof had been damaged during Lloyds 
temporary repairs. So, he thought Lloyds should cover Mr Ds £3,000 invoice, and 
add 8% simple interest per annum.
- Our investigator was persuaded the temporary repairs had allowed rainwater to run 
into the garage and damage contents items. Therefore, he said Lloyds should 
consider this loss, without the need for Mr D to make a separate claim.
- Lloyds had concluded the workshop didnt meet building regulations and it gave this 
as a reason for not undertaking the repairs. Our investigator wasnt persuaded the 
building regulations that applied at the time of construction had been breached. 
Lloyds has now accepted the build was exempt from building regulations.
- Our investigator accepted the workshop foundations were only 100mm deep, but he 
noted Lloyds hadnt explained why the foundations should have been 900mm deep. 
Furthermore, the offending roots were found at depths of 1,600mm. So, he wasnt 
persuaded a foundation depth of 900mm would have prevented the damage.
- Our investigator acknowledged that Lloyds had pointed towards previous repairs and 
suspected differential movement between the workshop and garage. However, he 
noted the workshop had stood for over 30 years before the subsidence event.
- Our investigator accepted the policy terms allow Lloyds to complete the repairs or 
cash settle at its option, but he didnt consider forcing a cash settlement was fair 
given the complexities of subsidence repairs. He also said that if Lloyds couldnt 
provide an effective and lasting repair by only repairing the subsidence related 
damage, its repairs would need to go further.
- Our investigator wasnt persuaded a total rebuild is needed to ensure an effective 
and lasting repair to the subsidence damage. So, he explained Mr D could either 
accept the £6,000 cash settlement or allow Lloyds to complete repairs.
- Our investigator noted Mr Ds expert report had shown the workshop was exempt 
from building regulations, and that Lloyds temporary repairs had caused water to 
ingress into the garage. So, he said Lloyds should cover the £600 report fee and 
add 8% simple interest per annum. 
- Our investigator concluded Lloyds should increase the compensation from £325 to 
£600, to reflect the impact various issues had on Mr D.
Because Lloyds disagreed with our investigators outcome, the complaint has been passed 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is inconclusive, incomplete or contradictory, Ive reached my decision on 
the balance of probabilities. This means Ive determined what I consider is more likely to 
have happened, based on all the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Ill set out my findings under the following six headings: cause of damage to the workshop; 
remedial works to the workshop; garage roof; report fee; damaged contents; and 
compensation.
Cause of damage to the workshop
Where the garage and workshop join, there is a vertical crack running the length of the wall 
that has undergone crude repairs. As I understand it, Lloyds now says that damage is from 
differential movement between the two structures, whilst the nearby subsidence cracks are 
relatively minor. However, Lloyds original report makes no mention of the crack not being 
subsidence related. The report simply acknowledges that cracks have appeared in recent 
years and been repaired, before suddenly getting worse. The report refers to the vertical 
crack as damage relating to the claim. 
Furthermore, Lloyds accepts that the subsidence has caused damage between the garage 
and workshop. But it argues the workshop wasnt built correctly, and if it had been built 
differently, the subsidence may not have affected the building in the same way.Lloyds hasnt shown the workshop failed to meet the relevant standards at the time it was 
constructed. In addition, the workshop has stood for over 30 years. So, even if I were to 
accept there had been some differential movement between the garage and workshop, 
based on the information available, Im persuaded the main cause of the damage is 
subsidence, not poor construction.
Remedial works to the workshop
Mr D says the workshop needs to be demolished and rebuilt. Lloyds says it isnt liable for 
demolishing and rebuilding the workshop, as the subsidence related damage can be 
repaired.
However, Lloyds doesnt want to undertake the subsidence repairs itself, on the basis those 
repairs would be jeopardised by non-subsidence related issues. Lloyds points towards the 
original build quality and the general condition of the structure. Therefore, Lloyds wants to 
cash settle the claim based on its estimated subsidence repair costs.
I accept the policy terms allow Lloyds to cash settle the claim. However, if it isnt prepared to 
carry out the repairs, the cash settlement will need to reflect Mr Ds actual costs. Importantly, 
Ive not seen hes found someone willing to carry out isolated subsidence repairs. But rather, 
he says hes been advised by two builders that the whole base needs to be removed as its 
beyond repair (due to the subsidence), which in-turn means rebuilding the workshop. As 
such, he cant repair the subsidence damage for £6,000. 
So, in conclusion, if Lloyds wishes to cash settle the claim instead of completing the repairs, 
its only fair and reasonable that it meets Mr Ds £14,400 quote (or rather, an updated quote 
given that quote is nearly a year old).
If Lloyds now chooses to attempt the repairs rather than meeting Mr Ds rebuild quote, and it 
considers some improvements are needed to facilitate an effective and lasting repair, then 
Lloyds will need to undertake those improvements as part of the insured works. However, 
the improvements can be limited to ensuring its repairs are effective and lasting. Lloyds 
wouldnt need to renew, replace, or add unrelated components. If Mr D isnt happy with 
Lloyds repairs, he can make a new complaint about that matter.
If, on reflection, Lloyds doesnt consider it can repair the subsidence damage, then it follows 
it will have to rebuild the building on a like-for-like basis, but to current standards.
I can understand Lloyds view that Mr D will be in receipt of betterment, whether that be via 
non-insured works to facilitate an effective and lasting repair, or a total rebuild. However, 
regardless of the workshop being tired and of a low build-quality, it was fit for its general 
purpose, and but for the subsidence, Mr D would not be faced with reinstatement costs. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that Lloyds should cover the cost of putting right the subsidence 
damage  be that by completing repairs or a total rebuild, or by meeting Mr Ds rebuild 
quote.
Mr D has confirmed that, whilst he prefers a cash settlement based on his builders rebuild 
quote, hes happy for Lloyds to attempt repairs. However, should Mr D not be prepared to 
allow Lloyds to attempt repairs, then he will need to accept the £6,000 offered.Garage roof
After Lloyds temporary repairs had failed on several occasions, it offered Mr D £500 so he 
could fund his own temporary repairs. However, as I understand it, Mr D instead replaced 
the garage roof for £3,000.
In terms of Lloyds temporary repairs, it says it only lifted the garages cement roof sheets by 
1-2mm to slide under corrugated roof sheets. Lloyds disputes this caused damage to the 
garage roof.
Mr D has provided two reports. The first is a structural appraisal report, which concluded 
the temporary repairs were causing water to track into the garage. It also noted that by 
raising the edge of the garage roofing, edges had been damaged.
The second report is from the contractor who went on to replace the garage roof for £3,000. 
The contractor reported he had attended twice, and he had originally referred Mr D back to 
Lloyds contractors. The report provides a relatively detailed explanation of the temporary 
repairs that had been attempted by Lloyds. The contractors report notes that, during his 
second visit, he identified a piece of the garage roof had been broken off during Lloyds 
latest attempts. The contractor concluded the garage roof now needed to be replaced.
On balance, I find Mr Ds two reports more persuasive that Lloyds assertion the garage roof 
couldnt have been damaged by its temporary repairs. This is because, the reports are from 
two separate parties and the conclusions are consistent with each other.
Furthermore, Ive not seen anything that leads me to believe the garage roof was damaged 
before the temporary repairs  or not watertight before the subsidence.
So, on balance, Im persuaded Lloyds should reimburse Mr D the £3,000 he paid for his 
replacement garage roof.
Lloyds will need to pay 8% simple interest per annum on the invoice amount, from the date 
Mr D paid the invoice, to the date of settlement. As per our approach, the 8% interest is to 
reflect the fact Mr D has been unfairly deprived of his money since paying the invoice.
Report fee
I agree with our investigator that Mr Ds structural appraisal report has made a material 
difference to the outcome of his claim and complaint. So, it follows that Lloyds should 
reimburse Mr D the £600 report fee. 
Again, Lloyds will need to pay 8% simple interest per annum on the invoice amount, from the 
date Mr D paid the invoice, to the date of settlement.
Damaged contents
If contents items have been damaged due to the failure of Lloyds temporary repairs, it will 
need to cover the loss as part of this claim. I dont consider it to be fair or reasonable for 
Mr D to have to record a second claim or be subject to a second excess, as a result of 
Lloyds repairs failing.As I understand it, Mr D is claiming £1,000 for damaged contents. However, although Ive 
seen a few relatively unclear photos of items in the garage, Ive not seen anything that 
persuades me those items were damaged due to the temporary repairs failing.
Lloyds has also commented that its not seen a list of the damaged items or their values  or 
evidence of damage. It says its only seen photos of items under plastic sheets. Lloyds says 
the matter should be referred to its claims team for assessment. 
Im satisfied Lloyds suggested approach is fair here. Mr D will need to provide Lloyds with 
the information it needs, so it can assess his contents loss  which is then to be settled as 
part of this claim. If Mr D is unhappy with the settlement offered for his contents, he can 
make a new complaint about that matter.
Compensation
Theres been several issues during the claim. The issues include delays to rectifying failed 
temporary repairs; Mr D being directed to make a separate claim for damaged contents 
items; incorrect conclusions about building regulations; and unfair settlement offers.
I acknowledge Lloyds overall concerns about the pre-subsidence condition of the workshop 
and the non-subsidence related issues. However, Lloyds still needs to provide an effective 
and lasting repair for the subsidence damage, or a cash settlement that facilitates such 
repairs. Here, theres no evidence that Mr D could get the repairs completed for the 
settlement offered.
In conclusion, Im satisfied Lloyds approach to aspects of this claim has caused delays, and 
avoidable distress and inconvenience. Overall, I consider the £600 compensation 
recommended by our investigator to be a fair reflection of the impact on Mr D.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint.
My final decision is Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited should:
- undertake effective and lasting subsidence repairs to the workshop or rebuild it (and 
if necessary, the attached wood shed), or settle this part of the claim for £14,400 or 
an updated quote (if Mr D is unwilling to let Lloyds carry out works, he will need to 
accept the £6,000 offered);
- pay Mr D £3,000 for his garage roof invoice and £600 for his survey fee, if it hasnt 
yet done so  plus 8% simple interest per annum, from the date he paid those 
invoices, to the date those costs were, or are settled;
- consider Mr Ds damaged garage contents under this claim; and
- pay Mr D £600 compensation, in total (if £325 has already been paid, a further £275 
would be due).
If Lloyds considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from any 
interest paid, it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. If requested, Lloyds should also 
provide Mr D with a certificate showing the amount deducted, so he can reclaim it from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman