DRN-1353280
 
The complaint
Miss G says she was mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by 
Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Birmingham Midshires). 
What happened
In 2001, Bank of Scotland sold Miss G a monthly premium PPI policy to protect her 
mortgage repayments if she was unable to work because of disability. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Miss G disagreed, so the case was 
passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Gs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
There are gaps in the information thats still available from 2001, which isnt surprising given 
how long ago that was. So where Miss G says the PPI was sold over the phone, Bank of 
Scotland hasnt been able to confirm that was the case. Its also said there are no longer any 
call recordings or scripts that might show how the discussion about PPI went.
I note Miss G hasnt argued, for example, that she didnt know the PPI had been added. And 
Ive nothing to show she wasnt told it was optional. Instead, she says she was pressured 
into buying it. In her words, I was made to feel that the PPI will secure the credit being 
agreed (PPI questionnaire). 
Looking at the relevant dates I dont think Miss Gs recollection of the events is accurate. 
And I think thats entirely understandable given the time thats passed. I question the 
accuracy because it doesnt appear that Miss G was in the process of applying for credit 
when the PPI was added. From the information Ive seen, her mortgage began several years 
before her PPI policy started. So I think its unlikely Bank of Scotland put Miss G under 
undue pressure in the way she describes. 
So, I dont uphold the complaint on this basis.
Bank of Scotlands considered the complaint as though it recommended the PPI to Miss G. 
That meant Bank of Scotland needed to take steps to ensure its advice was right for her. 
Regardless of what steps it took, I think the PPI it recommended was right for her in any 
case. For example, from what I know about the scope of the policy and from what Miss Gs told us 
about her circumstances, it seems she was eligible for the cover. And I cant see that Miss G 
was affected by any of the main things the policy excluded or limited cover for.
It seems as though Miss G might have been entitled to enhanced sick pay from her 
employer for a time. But the PPI benefits were considerable and potentially paid out (on top 
of any existing work benefits) for up to 12 months for each successful claim. If Miss G had 
any savings the PPI would have allowed her to retain them or use them to put towards 
covering her other living expenses. 
Taking into account that Miss G was in a long-term financial commitment that was secured 
against her home, I think it likely shed have valued the extra protection the PPI provided. 
Further, Ive no reason to think the PPI premium wasnt affordable for Miss G. And the policy 
was flexible in that Miss G could have cancelled it at any time at no extra cost if she felt it 
was no longer suitable for her.
Bank of Scotland also needed to give Miss G enough information about the PPI to allow her 
to decide for herself if it was right for her. I think its possible that the information it gave her 
could have been better than it was. But, for the same reasons that I dont think the PPI was 
unsuitable for her, I dont think that better information would have changed her decision to 
take it. I think shed still have thought it provided a useful benefit at an affordable cost.
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Miss Gs lost out because of how Bank of 
Scotland sold the PPI. 
Finally, I see Miss Gs suggests she might be owed an amount for high levels of commission 
and profit share she paid on her PPI, in line with the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
rules and guidance on the matter. As our adjudicators already explained, Bank of Scotlands 
provided evidence to show the mortgage in question ended in 2004. Because of when the 
relevant mortgage ended, Im satisfied the FCA provisions dont apply in this instance.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 February 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman