DRN-3624365
The complaint
Ms L complains Domestic & General Insurance Plc has unfairly settled a claim shes made 
on her household warranty policy covering her oven.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties and has been documented 
previously by our Investigator so Ill provide a summary here.
Ms L has an extended warranty policy, underwritten by D&G, which provides cover 
for a number of risks related to her oven.
In October 2020, D&G wrote off Ms Ls cooker as a replacement part wasnt 
available. Ms L wanted a cash settlement but D&G offered replacement options and 
says it didnt hear back from Ms L for some time. 
Ms L complained to D&G as she wasnt happy with the replacements suggested by 
D&G and requested a specific model instead. D&G wasnt able to obtain this through 
its suppliers but found it available via an online retailer for £440, so it settled the 
claim by paying this amount direct to Ms L.
Ms L brought her complaint to this Service as she said D&G should have paid her the 
full cash settlement based on the higher cost as at the time the cooker was written 
off. Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint as he was happy D&G had paid Ms L 
the amount it would cost her to replace the item at that time the settlement was 
made.
Ms L asked an Ombudsman to make a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms L has provided a significant amount of comments and copies of correspondence to D&G 
senior management in support of her case. My role as an Ombudsman at this Service is to 
say how complaints should be solved quickly and with minimal formality. That means I will 
focus my decision on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and only comment on 
those things relevant to the decision I need to make. But I can confirm I have seen and 
considered everything even where I dont reference it specifically.
I have started by looking at the terms of the policy as these detail D&Gs obligations 
under the cover. There are two terms relating to replacements I consider relevant to 
this complaint. 
In some situations we will arrange to replace your product instead of repairing it (for 
example where we cannot repair it or we decide that it is uneconomical for us to 
repair your product). In these circumstances, we will arrange to replace your product 
with one of a same or similar make and technical specification; and 
If we cannot reasonably arrange a replacement, we will give you vouchers instead. 
The vouchers will be for the full retail price (from a retailer chosen by us) of a 
replacement product of the same or similar make and technical specification
So, Im satisfied D&G acted fairly when it originally declined a cash settlement as its 
not required under the policy terms to do so. Ultimately though, when it was unable to 
source Ms Ls preferred replacement through its suppliers, it did settle the claim by 
cash payment to Ms Ls account.
Ms L says D&G should have paid the higher full cash amount at the time the cooker 
was written off. For the reasons Ive detailed above, there was a delay between the 
write off and the settlement. But I would only expect D&G to pay the amount it would 
cost to replace the item at the time the settlement is made. The purpose of the policy 
is to enable a consumer to replace an item with a model that has the same or similar 
specification and D&G has provided evidence to show this was possible at the time 
based on the cash settlement it paid Ms L.
While considering the case, our Investigator confirmed he was still able to find the 
replacement model available, in new condition, in the same colour at the online 
retailer for less than the settlement paid to Ms L.
I know Ms L has a preference for which retailer she uses to purchase electrical items 
but Im satisfied the policy terms are clear that the cost D&G will settle the claim for is 
based on a retailer of its choice, not Ms Ls. 
While the replacement model was Ms Ls original preference, she says it has now 
been discontinued and she considers it to be obsolete. So, she says D&G should pay 
for another, more expensive replacement.
But based on my experience of claims of this nature, I dont think its accurate to say 
a models discontinuation will make it automatically obsolete. If this was applied in 
the way Ms L has described, it would lead to many appliances becoming obsolete 
overnight when newer models are released  which isnt the case
And in this case, the policy requires D&G to provide a replacement model with the 
same or similar specification, and as it was originally Ms Ls preferred choice, on 
balance, Im satisfied this is what D&G has done. 
Overall, Im satisfied D&G has done what its required to under the policy and I wont 
be asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Paul PhillipsOmbudsman