DRN-1732060
The complaint
Ms H complains that the statements downloaded from HSBC Bank Plc (HSBC) via Midata 
are heavily redacted and are not fit for Ms Hs requirements. Further Ms H complains that 
there are inconsistencies in the redaction of that data and that HSBC have not provided Ms 
H with an adequate explanation or solution. 
What happened
In September 2019 Ms H contacted HSBC to complain that she was unable to download 
historical statements in a CSV format.  HSBC advised that Ms H could download statements 
via Midata, however this function does not fully display all the transactional information. Ms 
H complains that the Midata redaction is inconsistent.  
Ms H was advised that HSBC only offered CSV file downloads for recent transactions and 
that the Midata function is used for third party comparison sites and therefore some 
information is masked for data protection as they are not required for comparison purposes. 
Ms H referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. Ms H 
initially raised her concerns regarding the CSV format file change with HSBC in 2017. They 
provided a response to that complaint on 8 September 2017 and advised Ms H that if she 
was not happy with their response she had the option to refer her complaint to the 
Ombudsman Service within six months of the date of that letter. No complaint was received 
by us and Ms H has confirmed that she did receive the final written response to her initial 
complaint. As a result the investigator explained that the part of Ms Hs complaint that relates 
to the CSV format file change was out of jurisdiction and would therefore not be considered. 
The investigator looked into the concerns raised by Ms H and concluded that he could not 
find any issues of poor service and that he would not be upholding Ms Hs complaint. Ms H 
disagreed with our investigator.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H doesnt appear to dispute that she referred her complaint about the CSV format file 
change to us too late. But for the avoidance of any doubt, I find that she did not contact us in 
time. HSBC hasnt consented to us dealing with that aspect and having looked at what Ms H 
has said about why she referred that matter to us after the six-month period had passed, Ive 
no reason to conclude there were any exceptional reasons for her doing so. As a result, my 
decision here will focus on her later concerns regarding the Midata format, which were 
referred to us in time.
I have decided not to uphold the complaint. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Ms 
H but I hope that my explanation below will assist in understanding my reasons. 
Ms H requires her statements to be in CSV format which is what the Midata provides. Due to 
the purpose of Midata the information provided is heavily redacted which means Ms H 
cannot use it for her purposes. 
HSBC explained that the data downloaded via Midata is used for current account 
comparison websites and as such the information that is available has been agreed as an 
industry standard. HSBC do not have control over the data, what is redacted, or what is 
downloaded. 
I have reviewed HSBCs response to Ms H complaint and whilst I believe that they could 
have been more explicit in their explanation of Midata redaction and how it works ultimately 
this would not have changed the outcome of the matter. HSBC does not offer Ms H the 
service that she requires. But it does offer Ms H the ability to access the information she 
requires by regularly downloading it. While I appreciate Ms H has her own preference, Im 
satisfied the banks existing provision meets Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) principles 
relating to the information needs of customers.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here, my final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman