DRN-3262721
The complaint
Mr L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc rejected his claim under section 75. Hes also 
unhappy about the way his complaint was handled.
What happened
In November 2019, Mr L purchased a gas fire and paid using his HSBC credit card. The 
purchase price of £749 didnt include the fitting cost of £100, which Mr L paid separately in 
cash. Following installation of the fire, Mr L experienced issues with smoke and fumes. He 
arranged for an engineer to inspect the fire and was advised that it was dangerous.
Mr L complained to the supplier, who supplied a replacement fire and refunded the cost of 
the fitting. When the replacement fire was fitted, the fire didnt draw properly. Mr L contacted 
the manufacturer, who advised him that he needed an open fronted fire, not a glass fronted 
fire. Mr L then purchased an open fronted fire, which works effectively.
Mr L complained to the supplier of the fire he had initially purchased but was unable to 
resolve matters, so he raised a section 75 claim with HSBC.
HSBC rejected the claim. It said the issue arose as a result of the fitting of the fire, and not 
that there was a fault with the fire itself. It said that because Mr L hadnt paid the installation 
cost using his credit card, the necessary debtor credit supplier relationship wasnt 
established and the criteria for a section 75 claim hadnt been met. HSBC acknowledged 
that Mr L had received poor service in the handling of his complaint and paid him 
compensation of £100.
Mr L wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint.  She said she hadnt seen any evidence to 
suggest that the fire was faulty, but rather that there was an issue arising out of the 
installation. The investigator said that she thought the gas fire supplied was of satisfactory 
quality and fit for purpose. In relation to the way that Mr Ls complaint had been handled by 
HSBC, the investigator thought the compensation reflected the inconvenience caused to Mr 
L.
Mr L didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer the right to claim against the supplier 
of goods or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation, 
and that HSBCs response to the claim wasnt fair or reasonable.
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality, fit for purpose and as 
described. If this isnt the case, then a breach of contract can be said to have occurred. A 
misrepresentation is an untrue statement of fact which induces a consumer to enter into an 
agreement.
For a claim under section 75 to be successful, there has to be either a breach of contract or 
a misrepresentation by the supplier. In order to find that theres been a breach of contract in 
this case, I would need to be satisfied that the fire had a fault which made it of unsatisfactory 
quality, or that the supplier made an untrue statement of fact about the fire which induced Mr 
L to buy it.
Ive looked at the available information. Theres nothing to suggest that the fire itself had a 
fault. The issues which Mr L experienced  escape of smoke and fumes  occurred because 
the back of the fire had been wrenched open during the installation and couldnt be safely re-
fitted to the fire.
I dont think theres any dispute that these issues arose as a result of the installation. A 
failure to supply a service with reasonable care and skill can be a breach of contract, but the 
service in this case  (the installation) was provided by a  third party, not the supplier, and the 
payment was made in cash, not by using the credit card. Its a requirement of a section 75 
claim that there is an unbroken debtor credit r supplier relationship. The debtor in this case is 
Mr L, the creditor is HSBC and the supplier is the supplier of the gas fire. Theres no 
contractual relationship with the installer, so the installation isnt covered under section 75.
Mr L has said that the fire wasnt fit for purpose because it was a glass fronted fire which 
wasnt suitable for his property. Theres no evidence that either the initial fire, or the 
replacement fire, wasnt fit for purpose. Based on what Ive seen, both fires functioned as a 
fire. The reason why the functionality was compromised was because of a compatibility 
issue with Mr Ls property. This isnt a reason to say that the fire wasnt of satisfactory quality 
or fit for purpose.
Ive thought about whether the supplier made a misrepresentation. Theres no evidence to 
suggest that the supplier advised Mr L that a glass fronted fire was suitable for his property. 
Based on what Ive seen, Mr L chose the glass fronted fire himself. In the absence of the 
supplier making an untrue statement of fact about the fire and its suitability for Mr Ls 
property, Im unable to say that theres been a misrepresentation. 
Taking everything into account, I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that the fire 
was of unsatisfactory quality or that an untrue statement was made by the supplier. For this 
reason, Im unable to say that theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. I 
dont think HSBC unfairly declined the section 75 claim. 
In relation to the service aspect of Mr Ls complaint, HSBC has acknowledged that it could 
have handled things better. I understand that Mr L found it time consuming and frustrating to 
deal with HSBC. However, I think the payment of £100 fairly reflects the inconvenience 
caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman