DRN-3809192
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Vanquis Bank Limited have irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Mrs T applied for a Vanquis credit card in October 2019 and she was accepted for a £1,000 
credit limit. Mrs T complained to Vanquis that they had irresponsibly lent to her and they 
shouldnt have accepted her application as she was having financial difficulties at the time. 
Vanquis did not uphold Mrs Ts complaint. They said at the time of the application, Mrs T had 
told them that she was employed, with a gross salary of £40,000. Vanquiss external checks 
showed that Mrs T had active unsecured debt of £13,600. The checks showed she had 
previously defaulted on at least one account, with the last account defaulting 45 months prior 
to her application and at least one County Court Judgement (CCJ) with the last one being 44 
months prior to Mrs Ts application.
Mrs T brought her complaint to our service. She said her salary was lower than £40,000 and 
she may only make this with bonuses and commissions, which werent guaranteed. Our 
investigator did not uphold Mrs Ts complaint. She said that there was an outstanding CCJ 
and Mrs Ts hire purchase agreement was a number of months in arrears. She said this 
should have prompted Vanquis to make further proportionate checks, such as looking at Mrs 
Ts bank statements to see how she was managing her money. 
Our investigator said that if Vanquis would have done this then they would have seen from 
Mrs Ts credits to the account that it was similar to the £40,000 income Mrs T had declared. 
She said Vanquis wouldnt have any reason to consider that the credit card was unaffordable 
based on Mrs Ts income and outgoings 
Mrs T asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary, she said her credit file showed she was responsible for two mortgages, not one 
and she was in arrears on her hire purchase agreement at the time of her application. Mrs T 
says her bank statements showed bounced payments which indicated she was struggling 
financially at the time. 
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to approve the credit limit for Mrs T, Vanquis needed to make proportionate 
checks to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable for her. Theres no 
prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I expect lenders to 
consider include - but are not limited to: the type and amount of credit, the borrower's 
income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well as the 
consumer's personal circumstances. 
Ive looked at what checks Vanquis said they did prior to accepting Mrs Ts application. They 
said at the time of applying for the credit card, they considered the information that Mrs T 
had gave them, such as being employed, earning a salary of £40,000, being a council tenant 
and they looked at her credit file. Vanquis said that Mrs Ts credit file showed she had active 
external unsecured outstanding debt of £13,600. 
But thats not all the credit file showed. It showed that Mrs T had defaulted in the past and 
had CCJs, but this was 44-45 months ago when the last of these were applied. So Vanquis 
would have been aware that Mrs T had previously not maintained her agreements. The data 
also shows that Mrs T was constantly three months in arrears on one of her hire purchase 
agreements.
So Ive considered if the checks that Vanquis carried out were proportionate to the level of 
credit that Mrs T was given. And despite the credit limit not being high in relation to Mrs Ts 
salary, Im persuaded there are other factors which should have persuaded Vanquis to make 
further checks and Ill explain why below.
Mrs Ts application appears to show contradictory information. While on one hand it is 
documented she is a council tenant, on the other hand she is shown as having a mortgage. 
Im persuaded that this should have prompted Vanquis to make further checks to make sure 
the accommodation status was accurate. They then would have found out that despite their 
data showing she had one mortgage, she would have had two mortgages. This then should 
have prompted Vanquis to see if any other information was incorrect and completed 
proportionate checks such as either contacting Mrs T to discuss her situation or by seeing 
evidence of income/outgoings.
Im also persuaded that there was further information available to Vanquis which should 
have prompted them to make further checks with Mrs T. I say this as Mrs T had a CCJ within 
44 months of the application. Given that the amount of one of the CCJs wasnt high (£744), 
it was lower than the credit limit approved here (£1,000), this could indicate that Mrs T would 
struggle to pay back even a modest credit limit, such as the £1,000 credit limit which 
Vanquis approved for Mrs T. 
One of the other indicators of how Mrs T was managing her finances at the time is that 
Vanquiss data showed one of her two hire purchase agreements was constantly three 
months in arrears and had the status of 3 for 12 months meaning that Mrs T was not 
reducing the arrears on the account and they were long standing. This could indicate she 
had no disposable income to clear the arrears or that she may not be able to meet monthly 
payments if she had fallen behind by three months. 
Ive also looked at what Vanquis have calculated Mrs Ts outgoings to be. Vanquiss 
calculations show Mrs Ts rent/mortgage to be calculated at £73 a month which seems 
extremely low. The calculations show £0 for credit commitments, but as Vanquis were 
aware that Mrs T had two hire purchase agreements totalling £13,600, this should have 
been apparent this would not be accurate. There are no calculated costs either for 
household bills, travel, food, clothing or anything else apart from calculated living costs of 
£613.22.
So for the reasons Ive mentioned above, Im persuaded that as part of a proportionate 
check, Vanquis should have requested information from Mrs T to discuss her finances, for 
example, one of the things they could have requested were her recent bank statements to 
validate Mrs Ts income and expenditure and living arrangements.
Mrs T has provided her bank statements so we could see how she managed her money at 
the time. Ive looked at the last three bank statements prior to the credit card being approved. And although Im missing a large part of Augusts transactions, there is clear 
evidence on the other statements that Mrs T is unable to manage her money effectively. 
Based on Mrs Ts account being opened on 28 October, Im persuaded she would have 
been able to provide statements up to her October statement which showed transactions up 
to 16 October on this.
Mrs Ts bank statements show that between 1 September 2019 and 16 October 2019, that 
she had seven direct debits returned (including energy and council tax direct debits on more 
than one occasion) as she did not have enough money in her bank to pay these. The 
statements during this timeframe show she made nine card payments which either were paid 
while she was in an unauthorised overdraft or took her into an unauthorised overdraft. So in 
the space of roughly six weeks, there were 14 transactions where she didnt have enough 
money to pay these from a credit balance. These were not all grouped together either, the 
instances Ive mentioned happened on 2, 3, 11, 20, 23 September and 1, 5, 7, 11, 14 
October. The statements also appear to show Mrs T needing to borrow money from other 
people also. Mrs T has provided more statements from earlier than three months prior to her 
application and these also show a similar pattern of the mismanagement of her finances.
So Im satisfied from the information Ive seen here that Mrs T could not afford her 
commitments prior to Vanquis accepting her for the credit card without her borrowing to do 
so. In my view, this was unaffordable for Mrs T. If Vanquis had asked for details of her bank 
statements as part of a proportionate check when considering her application, considering 
the information they found on her initial credit checks such as being three months in arrears 
on an account, her previously adverse credit history and the apparent contradictory housing 
status on the application, then Im persuaded they would have seen the repayments on the 
credit card would not have been sustainable or affordable for her. And Im satisfied they 
wouldnt have accepted her application for the Vanquis credit card, based on someone who 
was clearly struggling to meet her current commitments. So, I intend to ask Vanquis to put 
things right for Mrs T.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Mrs T did not respond to the provisional decision. Vanquis accepted the provisional 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my decision 
and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint. I said I intend to ask 
require Vanquis Bank Limited to do the following:
Vanquis should arrange to transfer any debt back to themselves if it has been passed to a 
debt recovery agent;
 
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied; 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mrs T along with 8% 
simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement. Vanquis should also remove all adverse information regarding this account from 
Mrs Ts credit file; 
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Vanquis should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Mrs T for the remaining amount. Once Mrs T has cleared the 
balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be removed from her 
credit file. 
Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
*If Vanquis considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mrs T how much theyve taken off. They should also give 
Mrs T a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Vanquis Bank Limited should settle the complaint in line with the 
instructions in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman