DRN-4310121
The complaint
Mr J complains that Bank of Scotland plc unfairly blocked his account access and required 
him to attend a branch to remove any account restrictions.
What happened
Mr J says Bank of Scotland (BoS) blocked his account access following telephone calls he 
made to it about a payment. He says he passed the required security checks, but his 
account was blocked. Mr J was abroad at the time and had no access to his money to pay 
for travel as well as for medical expenses. Mr J would like an investigation into what took 
place and an apology.
BoS says it upheld Mr Js complaint and paid him £73 compensation. It says it correctly 
applied the security blocks but accepts it acted too hastily by telling Mr J he needed to attend 
a branch to remove them. It says it told Mr J to contact it in its letter of 10 May 2023 to avoid 
attending a branch as it initially said. BoS says Mr J told it he would not speak to it, but he 
did so at the end of May 2023 when it removed the account blocks.
Mr J had brought his complaint to us, and our investigator upheld the complaint. The 
investigator thought Mr J was unable to access his account for over two months and 
recommended BoS increase its compensation offer by £150. 
BoS accepts the investigators view.
Mr J has provided a detailed response and in summary says a full investigation into the 
circumstances of the block hasnt taken place. He says he felt unable to communicate with 
BoS due to the outcome of other matters not directly connected to this complaint. Mr J says 
the e-mail he received was different to BoSs final response letter and didnt give him an 
invitation to discuss an alternative to attending a branch. He would like an apology and says 
the compensation level is not the main part of the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I uphold this complaint.
I hope it assists Mr J if I explain our role here. We are not BoSs regulator and so its not our 
role to direct it about its security process, punish it or carry out an investigation into its 
practices. We are not a court, and it would be for a court to decide if BoSs security 
measures were illegal as Mr J suggests. There is also no need for me to comment on all of 
the detailed submissions Mr J makes but I have read all of them and will focus on what I 
think are the main issues.
Banks and building societies must have security and fraud measures in place to protect its 
and its customers money. I am sure Mr J appreciates that fraud is major problem for such 
businesses and there are occasions when genuine transactions as well as genuine 
customers are impacted by security measures being applied to an account as here. That 
doesnt mean in itself that a business has made a mistake and such measures are inevitably 
dealt with in account terms and conditions.
I appreciate Mr Js frustration here that he appears to have passed all of BoSs security 
measures but for what remain unknown specific reasons it applied a security block to his 
account. I would not expect BoS to provide detailed reasons for the application of security 
measures as such information will be commercially sensitive, but it accepts it acted hastily 
by asking Mr J to attend a branch when abroad and without access to his money. So, I dont 
think BoS acted unfairly by applying security measures and think its up to it to decide when 
exercising its commercial judgement when such measures should be applied. I have 
explained that an investigation into such decisions is not something this service conducts.
The key issue here is the requirement for Mr J whilst abroad and without access to his 
money to attend a BoS branch to remove the account blocks. There is no dispute that BoS 
accepts that requirement was applied in its words hastily and I agree. I am sure Mr J would 
have been caused distress in being faced with that decision to end medical treatment and 
return home but without account access to pay for his travel costs.
I appreciate Mr J says the compensation level is not the main outcome he is looking for. But 
I accept that Mr J was without account access for some time, and I have made clear I think 
he would have been caused distress as well as frustration with BoSs decision. I agree with 
the investigator that BoS should pay a further £150 compensation which I think is fair and 
reasonable.
I appreciate Mr J would like an apology but having looked carefully at BoSs final response 
letter of 10 May 2023 Im satisfied that it apologised on two occasions. It says, Im sorry we 
didnt get this right and later says Im also paying you £50 by way of an apology. It 
follows that I cant fairly direct BoS to look again at the issue of an apology as Im satisfied 
that it did apologise.
I accept that the final response letter of 10 May 2023 and the e-mail Mr J received were 
different. And I also appreciate Mr Js reluctance to want to speak to BoS. But I can see in 
any event Mr J did speak to BoS later on that month and the account block was removed. 
So, I dont need to comment on those matters further.
Overall, I find this now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally 
can do. I accept Mr J may have unanswered questions about what took place but its not our 
role to answer them all as an informal dispute resolution service.
Putting things right
BoS should pay Mr J a further £150 compensation and his acceptance of this decision would 
be in full and final settlement of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Bank of Scotland plc to pay Mr J a 
further £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 David Singh
Ombudsman