DRN-3188120
The complaint
Mrs B says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday Loans, lent to her
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mrs B took out two instalment loans from ELL. A summary of her borrowing follows. 
loan taken outvalue, 
£term in 
monthsmonthly 
repayment, 
£total 
repayable, 
£
1 24/10/2017 3,000 36 199.52 7,182.72
2 17/11/2018 7,000 48 334.21 16,042.08
The second loan repaid loan 1. I understand a balance remains on loan 2. Mrs B says ELL 
didnt complete proper affordability checks or assess any signs of over indebtedness.
Our adjudicator said Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld as ELLs checks showed Mrs B 
would need to spend a significant proportion of her monthly income to meet all her credit 
commitments at the time of both loans.
ELL accepted it should not have given loan 1 and made an offer in line with our approach. 
But it disagreed with the assessment for loan 2. It said Mrs B would be spending 49.52% of 
her salary on credit, not the 60% the adjudicator had calculated, and she would have 
£237.57 of disposable income each month so the loan would be sustainably affordable for 
Mrs B.
As an agreement wasnt reached on loan 2, the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision. As the parties reached agreement on loan 1 I wont focus on that lending decision 
here, but I will consider both loans when I set out what ELL needs to do next. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when ELL lent to Mrs B required it to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she owed in a 
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an 
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So ELL had to think about whether repaying
the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs B. In
other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs B.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether ELL did what it needed to before agreeing to lend
to Mrs B. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mrs Bs
second loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a
sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did ELL make a fair lending decision?
- did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see ELL asked for some information from Mrs B before it approved loan 2. It asked for 
details of her income and checked this on a recent payslip. It estimated her living costs using 
national statistics. It also checked Mrs Bs credit file to understand her existing monthly credit 
commitments and credit history. And finally it asked about the purpose of the loan which was 
debt consolidation. From these checks combined ELL concluded Mrs B would have monthly 
disposable income of £237.57 after making this loan repayment and so could afford to take 
on the loan.
I am not wholly persuaded the checks were proportionate as Mrs B was returning to ELL for 
a second loan, again for debt consolidation, 13 months into a 36-month loan term. She was 
looking to borrow over double the amount of capital and was increasing the term of her 
borrowing to four years. So I think ELL needed to make its assessment using her actual 
living costs, and not rely solely on national statistics. However, I wont comment on this 
further as even based on the information gathered I dont think ELL made a fair lending 
decision. Ill explain why.
The adjudicator set out the ongoing impact of the loan, after the debt consolidation, on 
Mrs Bs monthly credit commitments and said ELL ought to have been concerned that 60% 
of her income would be needed to service that debt. ELL challenged his calculations. It 
explained it had used Mrs Bs year-to-date salary data on her payslip to reach an average 
monthly income. I think that is a fair and reasonable approach. It also pointed out that the amount of income needed to repay her debt each month was in fact 49.52%. It explained 
that it didnt include mobile service providers, but from what I can see some of discrepancy 
in the two calculations is due in part to the adjudicator including loan 1, when the second 
loan settled this. 
So I agree that the amount of income Mrs B would need to spend each month to manage 
her ongoing credit commitments was around 50%. However, I dont think this changes the 
finding that Mrs B was going to be spending such a significant proportion of her income on 
consumer credit that there was a risk it would not be sustainable for her over the four-year 
term of the loan. It knew from the credit checks that her overall indebtedness had increased 
from £11,203 at the time she applied for loan 1 to £18,161 at the point of application for loan 
2, suggesting she may not have successfully consolidated debts as planned at the time of 
loan 1. So, I think ELL ought also to have been concerned that its second loan was 
prolonging Mrs Bs reliance on high-cost credit. 
ELL argues that its assessment showed Mrs B had sufficient disposable income to afford the 
loan. But I find it is only looking the pounds and pence affordability, and not at the likely 
impact of the repayment on Mrs B. It was obliged to ensure she could afford to repay the 
loan without borrowing to repay or suffering other adverse financial consequences. Given 
Mrs B was borrowing to repay debt for the second time in 13 months, and the level of 
income she would need to use to service her debt, I cant see it adequately considered this.
It follows I think ELL was wrong to give loan 2 to Mrs B.  
I havent found evidence that ELL acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way towards 
Mrs B.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mrs B to repay the capital that she borrowed, because she 
had the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt 
have been provided to her.
ELL should:
Add up the total amount of money Mrs B received as a result of being given loans 1 
and 2. The repayments Mrs B made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in her having effectively made over payments then ELL should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If there is any capital balance outstanding ELL must try to agree an affordable 
payment plan with Mrs B.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Bs credit file in relation to the
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to deduct tax from this interest. ELL should give Mrs B a
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mrs Bs complaint.  Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday 
Loans must put things right as set out above,Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman