DRN-3214880
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) declined her travel insurance 
claim. 
Any reference to Great Lakes includes all its agents.
What happened
On 31 October 2019, Ms S booked a cruise and the intended travel dates were from 3 June 
2020 to 10 June 2020. Her cousin was going to join her on the trip.
Ms S took out a single trip travel insurance policy on 16 December 2019 for the trip. She 
paid a premium of £299.41 and Great Lakes is the underwriter of the policy. Ms S also took 
out the additional travel disruption cover on the policy.
On 17 March 2020, the UK s Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO)  
formerly known as the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)  advised against all but 
essential international travel in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. And, on 23 March 2020, 
the UK government imposed a national lockdown. As a result, Ms S cancelled her trip in 
April 2020.
Ms S had spoken to the cruise provider and was told that she had the opportunity to change 
the cruise booking to an alternative date. But she didnt feel this came without risks and 
therefore didnt feel comfortable to change the booking. Ms S was entitled to a partial refund 
under the terms of the booking because she cancelled the trip and received this from the 
provider. 
Ms S submitted a claim under her travel insurance for the amount she didnt receive a refund 
for. Great Lakes assessed the claim but declined it. It said Ms S cancelled the trip at a time 
when there wasnt a clear certainty on whether the travel restrictions would remain for June 
2020 (when the trip was due to take place). It also said had Ms S waited for the cruise 
provider to cancel the trip, it would have likely refunded the full balance to Ms S. Great Lakes 
said those costs would have been recoverable had Ms S not cancelled the trip of her own 
accord. 
Unhappy with Great Lakes, Ms S brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt uphold it. She said under the policy terms and conditions, while the 
event itself provides cover, the cost incurred was shown to be potentially recoverable under 
the Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTR) and Ms S 
would have been afforded the protection because the cruise booked was a package holiday. 
Ms S, however, prejudiced Great Lakes position in cancelling the trip. Our investigator said 
she didnt think it was fair for her to expect Great Lakes to step away from terms and 
conditions of the travel insurance contract and ask it to pay the claim. 
Ms S disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been 
passed to me. 
Ms S says:
The cruise provider advised her (and her cousin who she was going to travel with) 
that their only option was to re-book the trip. But neither of them was in a position to 
do so because of their age and health grounds;
They were told even if they did cancel their only option was to re-book the trip;
She was told by the agent who sold her the policy that as she had travel disruption 
cover, she could cancel, and she would receive a refund; and
Ms Ss cousin received a refund from her own travel insurance policy.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Ms Ss policy as they form the basis of 
the travel insurance contract with Great Lakes.
Under the Travel Disruption section of the policy on page 30, section 14:
Optional Travel Disruption Extension
We will pay you up to a maximum of £500 for Basic cover (unless you have 
purchased the optional £1,000/£3,000 additional cover option) or £5,000 for 
Comprehensive cover per insured person for any irrecoverable unused travel and 
accommodation costs (and other prepaid charges) which you have paid or are 
contracted to pay, plus any reasonable additional travel expenses incurred if you 
were not able to travel and use your booked accommodation or the trip was cut short 
before completion as a result of the Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) or the World Health Organisation (WHO) or regulatory 
authority in a country to/from which you are travelling issuing a directive:
a) prohibiting all travel or all but essential travel to; or
b) recommending evacuation from the country, or specific area or event to which you 
were travelling, providing the directive came into force after you purchased, renewed 
or extended this insurance or booked the trip (whichever is the later), or in the case 
of cutting short your trip after you had left your home country to commence the trip.
Its clear from the above terms and conditions that cancellation due to the FCDO advising 
against all but essential travel to the intended destination is cover thats provided on the 
policy. 
Additionally, on page 31, of the same Section 14, it says:
What is not covered (applicable to all of Section 14)

6. any costs incurred by you which are recoverable from the providers of the 
accommodation (or their administrators) or for which you receive or are expected to 
receive compensation or reimbursement.
From the information available, this is the key issue.
Was the claim declined fairly?
I can see that the cruise was cancelled on 6 April 2020. Ms S says it was cancelled by her 
due to the uncertainties and risks associated with the Covid-19 pandemic and also due to 
her own age and health. I appreciate that and do understand her reasons for doing so. 
But, when she cancelled the trip, there was no confirmation that the trip wasnt going to go 
ahead in June 2020. So, even before knowing this, she decided to cancel the cruise. While 
she has cover on the policy due to FDCO advice against all but essential travel, the cost 
Ms S has incurred because of her decision to cancel isnt covered under the policy. 
Ms S has prejudiced Great Lakes position in cancelling the trip before knowing the full extent 
of what was going to happen when the trip was due to take place in June 2020. And had she 
waited to see what was going to happen, its very likely the cruise would have been 
cancelled by the provider as restrictions were still in place in June 2020. If the cruise had 
been cancelled by the provider, it would have been obliged to provide a full refund or a 
reasonable alternative for a future booking as the cruise was booked as a package holiday.
I appreciate Ms S had concerns surrounding her age and health. Ive considered the letter 
provided by her GP but unfortunately while I realise the situation must have been very 
challenging and worrying for Ms S, I havent seen anything that makes me think the 
concerns were unusual or exceptional in the circumstances.
I also understand Ms S has said that even if the cruise provider had cancelled, her only 
option would have been to re-book the trip and this isnt what she wanted to do. However, if 
she had waited, then at least she would have had the opportunity presented to her by the 
cruise provider before making a decision to cancel. In the current situation, shes incurred a 
cost for which I dont think Great Lakes is liable for under the terms and conditions of the 
policy. 
Ive also considered Ms Ss comments that she was told by the agent who sold her the policy 
that her cancellation cost would be covered. I understand that she will be making a separate 
complaint in this regard and as Great Lakes is the underwriter of the policy, its not 
responsible for what Ms S was told. 
Ms S has said her cousin, who was due to travel with her, has received a refund on her own 
separate travel insurance policy. I understand. But each policy is different and has its own 
terms and conditions and I can only look at whats happened in the circumstances of this 
complaint and the travel insurance contract Ms S has with Great Lakes. 
Overall, taking everything into account, Im sorry to disappoint Ms S but Im not persuaded 
Great Lakes declined the claim unfairly or that the claim is covered under the terms and 
conditions of Ms Ss policy. And I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I 
could fairly ask Great Lakes to accept Ms Ss claim. It follows that I dont require Great 
Lakes to do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint against Great Lakes Insurance 
SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman