DRN-3840838
Complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) registered a fraud prevention marker 
against him.
Background
In May 2021, Mr M received a payment of £20,000.00 into his current accounts. The funds 
were immediately transferred on to a crypto-currency platform. 
Lloyds subsequently received a notification from the third-party bank responsible for sending 
the payment stating the payee of the funds had reported being a victim of fraud. Lloyds 
reviewed Mr Ms account and as a result of its investigation, it decided to close Mr Ms 
account and record a fraud prevention marker.
After learning of the fraud prevention marker, Mr M complained that it had been applied 
unfairly. Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. As Mr M remained dissatisfied, Mr M referred 
the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ms concerns. She didnt think that Lloyds had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr M disagreed and the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Lloyds has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility  
relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it isnt 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr M is guilty of fraud or a financial crime, 
but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Lloyds must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Ms account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Lloyds also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr M was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr M allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Ms complaint, I need to decide whether I think Lloyds had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Ms account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Lloyds did have enough 
to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr Ms 
account in May 2021, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr M was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate funds. 
Mr M has said that he was tricked into transferring the funds through his accounts by 
someone he met on social media. He said he was told to transfer money to different places 
and the person from social media was essentially giving away free money. He also said 
brainwashed into thinking what he was doing was legal. Mr M hasnt been able to provide 
any of the messages he exchanged on social media as he says he was blocked by the other 
person. 
Ive thought about what Mr M has said. But even though Ive tried to give him the benefit of 
the doubt, Im afraid that there are a number of things which dont add up and which mean I 
cant reasonably accept his version of events here. I firstly say this because hes given a 
number of different versions of events during the investigation of this matter. 
Mr M initially told Lloyds that he didnt know anything at all about what had happened and it 
wasnt him who had made the transfers. When Mr M was told that the transactions were 
made using authorisation information he had requested to his mobile phone, he then said 
hed clicked on a link he was sent which took him to Lloyds website and this led to his 
details being compromised. It was only after being told that this was not possible that Mr M 
then said he did make the transfers but that he was told to do so by someone else.
Notwithstanding the delay in Mr M providing this version of event, even allowing for Mr Ms 
age, I find it difficult to see how and why he would have believed that someone hed never 
met would trust him with such a large sum of money if there was no risk involved. 
Furthermore, given Mr Ms lack of candour about what happened from the outset and his 
inability to provide anything at all to support his latest version of events, I cant reasonably 
place much weight on what hes now saying. Indeed as Mr M has said that hes read that 
others have been tricked in this way, I cant rule out the possibility that hes merely repeating 
something that hes read about someone else here.   
In reaching my conclusion Ive thought about what Mr M has said about being the one to 
contact Lloyds and these arent the actions of someone complicit in fraud. But Mr M ignored 
a significant number of attempts to contact him to discuss the activity on the account. Mr M 
only got in contact with Lloyds after he was told that another account he held with another 
bank in Lloyds group was going to be closed and he would be left in a position where he 
didnt have an account. I think that this is likely to have been the primary motivation being his 
contact with Lloyds at this stage. So I dont think that I can take Mr Ms contact with Lloyds 
as any sort of indication of his lack of complicity with the activity that took place on his Lloyds 
account.  
Im afraid that the available evidence as well as Mr M being unable to provide anything 
contemporaneous, to corroborate what, on the face of things, appears an implausible and inconsistent version of events means that I cant reasonably accept what hes said. Instead, 
Im satisfied that Lloyds was entitled to conclude that he was complicit in his account 
receiving fraudulent funds. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Lloyds did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr Ms account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Mr M was complicit in this. As this is 
the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Lloyds to record a fraud prevention marker in the 
circumstances that it did. So Im not upholding this complaint and Im not requiring Lloyds to 
take any action in relation to the fraud marker. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr M  especially given what hes said about 
the effect the marker is having on him. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that hell appreciate why a fraud marker has been recorded against him. 
Furthermore, Mr M might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as 
he applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman