DRN-2897133
The complaint
Ms S has complained about the way Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros 
y Reaseguros, S.A (Mapfre) dealt with her claim. 
What happened
Ms S bought a travel insurance policy, underwritten by Mapfre. She went on a skiing holiday 
to France and unfortunately had an accident which caused an injury. She needed medical 
assistance and contacted Mapfre to let it know of her accident and that she needed 
treatment.
Ms S is unhappy at the delays caused by Mapfre which have led to permanent nerve 
damage. In addition, she suffered distress and inconvenience as a result of Mapfres lack of 
assistance. Ms S complained to Mapfre who offered her £200 compensation. Unhappy with 
this, Mis S brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought Mapfre should pay Ms S £6,000 compensation for the significant 
distress and inconvenience caused to her as a result of Mapfres delays and failures. In 
addition, he said Mapfre should pay Ms S friends flight costs for a flight she had cancelled 
when she stayed behind to take care of Ms S.
Mapfre disagreed with the compensation amount but agreed to pay Ms S friends flight 
costs. And so, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Ms S complaint should be upheld and largely for the same reasons 
as explained by our investigator.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Our investigators opinion sets out Ms S complaint points in detail and both sides are 
familiar with what happened. So, I wont repeat the detail here. But I will instead focus on the 
key facts and the amount of compensation which would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
timeline
26 February 2019  Ms S had an accident and was taken to a medical centre. She contacted 
Mapfre and sent a copy of a medical report from the medical centre which said Ms S needed 
urgent surgery.
Mapfre failed to arrange an ambulance for Ms S on this day. And said Ms S could have 
taken a taxi to a hospital or could have called for an ambulance herself. Ms S spent the night 
in her hotel room.
27 February 2019  Mapfre said it should have arranged the ambulance the previous night 
but failed. It promised to arrange an ambulance but failed to do so. Ms S spent another night 
in her hotel room. 
28 February 2019  Mapfre told Ms S it was unable to arrange an ambulance for her and so 
she should do this herself. Ms S friend had cancelled a flight to stay with her and arranged 
an ambulance with the help of hotel staff. When the ambulance arrived, Ms S had to be 
given oxygen. 
March 2019  Ms S had surgery, and Mapfre arranged her repatriation.
August 2019  Ms S consultant confirmed Ms S suffered from some nerve damage due to a 
bleed which was mentioned in the very first medical report which had been sent to Mapfre. 
And has confirmed that it is almost certain that this could have been avoided if she had 
received treatment sooner. 
Having considered everything, I agree that Ms S suffered extreme stress and inconvenience 
as a result of Mapfres actions or inactions. Ive outlined the key considerations here:
key considerations
Mapfre said it was unable to source an ambulance. But told Ms S it was doing this 
which left her in pain and distress whilst waiting for this to happen. I would expect this 
to happen instantly. Mapfre could have asked an agent to call the local emergency 
number if it wasnt able to do so itself.
 
Ms S she was told to call an ambulance herself 33 hours after her accident. She says 
she was shocked at them walking away after the amount of time she was made to 
wait and was in total disbelief. 
Mapfre say Ms S had an alternative which she chose not to use. Ms S says she 
needed to get Mapfres authorisation to begin with based on the policy terms and 
conditions. And so, I dont think it was unreasonable for Ms S to wait for Mapfres 
clear instructions and assistance before taking action. When Mapfre told Ms S she 
would have to arrange an ambulance herself, she did so, with the assistance of her 
friend and hotel immediately.
 
Whilst waiting for Mapfre to get back to her, Ms S said she was in excruciating pain 
and losing feeling in her limb.
Ms S says Mapfre then decided it no longer needed to get an ambulance and were 
looking to fly her home to the UK for surgery which was against the original medical 
advice. But this was incorrect and the doctor reviewing the case said she needed to 
go to hospital.
Ms S was taken into hospital, in oxygen, in an ambulance arranged for her with the 
help of her friend
.Ms S says she wouldnt want anyone else to go through the experience she had 
which caused her more trauma and nightmares than the actual accident itself.
Ms S says she was left in agony for two days and was scared that she would lose her 
leg or her life.
On her return to the UK, she has been told that the delay has resulted in permanent 
damage and has changed her life forever. This means the impact of Mapfres delays 
and actions have caused a long term effect and extreme trouble and upset and pain 
and suffering.
For all the reasons set out above, I think compensation of £6,000 as suggested by the 
investigator is fair and reasonable taking into account the long-term impact on Ms S.
Mapfre has already agreed to pay Ms S friends flight costs for the missed flight. So, I dont 
need to comment on this any further except to say that I agree these costs should also be 
payable. Had Mapfre acted sooner, Ms S friend wouldnt have needed to stay behind and 
effectively care for her in the way Mapfre should have done.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct Mapfre Asistencia, 
Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A to:
pay Ms S £6,000 compensation 
pay her friends missed flight costs 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman