DRN-4104683
The complaint
Mrs C complains that NewDay Ltd  trading as Aqua (Aqua) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Mrs C applied for a credit card from Aqua in April 2016 and it was agreed with a limit of 
£300. There were subsequent increases in the limit as shown:
Date Limit
April 2016 (new card) £300
September 2016 £950
February 2017 £2,000
June 2017 £3,500
October 2017 £4,000
The account was paid off and closed in May 2022.
Mrs C complained that Aqua didnt do sufficient checks when they agreed to give her the 
card and then the limit increases. She said there wasnt any income & expenditure analysis 
done, they didnt ask to see her bank statements. She had defaults and a CCJ on her credit 
file at the time. The CCJ was in 2014, so Aqua must have seen that. The rapid increases 
werent justified. She said she was only making minimum payments and so all she was 
doing was only paying interest rather than paying off the debt. She said all interest should be 
refunded and 8% per annum added to the refund.
Aqua said they considered a range of information when lending to customers, including 
information from credit reference agencies (CRAs), account behaviour with Aqua and the 
information on Mrs Cs application. When Mrs C applied for the card, she said she had a 
gross income of £15,000 p.a., and unsecured debt of £2,100. There was a default from 26 
months before (for £1,300) but otherwise there were no other problems with accounts in 
arrears.  Mrs C conducted her account well and so was offered increases in limits. Each 
time, she was offered the increase  she couldve opted out but didnt. Aquas checks at 
each increase included  how she had conducted her account  which was good; instances 
of exceeding the credit limit; late or missed payments; limit utilisation; and other external 
debts. And based on this information, Aqua said they did the necessary checks and lent 
responsibly.
Mrs C brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Aqua lent responsibly when issuing 
the card, and for the first three increases up to and including June 2017. But by the time of 
the last increase  to £4,000 in October 2017  Mrs C had other external debt of £12,300 
(increased from £5,400 in June 2017). So  she said that Aqua shouldve asked more 
questions for the October 2017 increase, including seeing Mrs Cs bank statements. If they 
had, they wouldve seen she had taken out a new loan of £3,000 shortly before that, with 
payments of £200 per month.
She said Aqua should refund all interest and fees applied for balances above £3,500, 
together with 8% p.a. interest; and remove any adverse information recorded on her credit 
file.
Mrs C didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint. And so it has come 
to me to do that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We have to check whether Aqua 
acted in line within the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules on creditworthiness 
assessment as set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must 
undertake a reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the 
customer not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to 
make repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender knew 
about the borrowers circumstances?
And a reasonable and proportionate check would usually need to be more thorough:
othe lower a customers income, and the higher amount to be repaid. 
othe greater the number of loans and frequency of loans.
othe longer the term of the loans
Its important to note that the checks must be proportionate to the amount being lent  so the 
higher the amount, the greater the checks must be, and the lower the amount, then fewer 
checks can be made. Also  there isnt a requirement to see bank statements, unless there 
is information which suggests that Aqua needed to a find out more information about Mrs Cs 
situation.
Issue of the card (April 2016): I looked at the information that Aqua got when they issued the 
card and thereafter. In April 2016, Mrs C put on her application that she earnt £15,000p.a. 
She was in rented accommodation. Aqua could see that she had other borrowing of £2,100 
 which was low. There was a default on her credit records  from 26 months before, for 
£1300. So that was quite a long time before her application. So, overall, Im satisfied that 
Aqua did the necessary checks to issue the card with a limit of £300.
Limit increases to £950 (September 2016); and £2,000 (February 2017) :  I looked at Aquas 
data they had at the time of these increases. Aqua could see that Mrs Cs external debts had 
risen to £5,049 by February 2017  more than double what it was a year before. There were 
ten other lenders. But on the other hand, Aqua could see she was managing those debts 
well  there were no arrears or defaults reported. And they could also see that her balances with Aqua were low compared to the limits. She used only about 25% of the limit of £950. 
And she had made all payments on time. There were no over-limit occurrences. So  I can 
see it was reasonable for Aqua to offer the increases in limits to Mrs C.
Limit increase to £3,500 (June 2017): I wanted to look at this increase  as this was a large 
increase when compared to the original limit when the card was first agreed. And - by this 
time, Mrs Cs other debts had risen to £5,865. There were still ten other lenders, and again, 
all payments had been made on time to them, and there were no defaults. And Aquas card 
was still being paid on time each month. There were no over-limit occurrences. Mrs Cs use 
of the limit had gone up to between 50% and 65% - but I think that was still acceptable from 
Aquas point of view.
I can see that Aqua wrote to Mrs C ahead of each proposed increase in limit. And she 
couldve opted out of the offer each time  but didnt.
Limit increase to £4,000 (October 2017): I agree with our investigator that by this time, Aqua 
shouldve looked more closely at Mrs Cs situation. Her other debts had increased to over 
£12,000  this was a large increase compared to four months before. And Mrs C had 11 
accounts with other lenders. But equally, Mrs C had paid Aqua on time since the previous 
increase, and her use of the previous limit was less than 40%. But  on balance, the large 
increase in other debts shouldve meant that it wouldve been reasonable for Aqua to look 
more closely at Mrs Cs finances  including looking at her bank statements at that time. If 
they had, they wouldve seen she had taken a new loan of £3,000 with payments of £200 per 
month. And Aqua couldve asked questions about the affordability of all of Mrs Cs debts. If 
they had - I think its likely that Aqua wouldnt have offered the last increase in limit to Mrs C.
Mrs C has argued that there was a CCJ (County Court Judgement) on her credit records 
dating from 2014. And that Aqua must have seen that when she applied for the card in 2016 
and when the increase in limits were offered. We asked Mrs C for any evidence she had of 
the CCJ  but unfortunately, she couldnt provide definite confirmation of the CCJ. And 
having looked at Aquas records, there wasnt a CCJ showing on their credit searches. So  I 
cant say that Aqua shouldve seen  CCJ on Mrs Cs credit records, and so couldnt take that 
into account.
We noticed on Mrs Cs credit file that there was a loan from a debt management company. 
We wanted to know more about that - because if she had entered a debt management 
agreement, that might have meant she had consolidated several large debts, which we 
wouldve expected Aqua to have taken into account. Mrs C sent to us an extract from her 
credit file. This showed the debt was for £478 and taken out in November 2015. It was 
repaid in September 2017. So  this looks like one of the debts that Aqua were aware of 
when they did their credit searches. And - it was for a relatively small amount and was being 
repaid by monthly instalments at the time that Aqua increased Mrs Cs limits. So  I dont 
think that would be a reason for Aqua not to have increased the limits.Putting things right
My decision is that Aqua shouldnt have increased Mrs Cs limit to £4,000 in October 2017  
and so the remedies I propose date from then. Aqua should re-work Mrs Cs account to 
refund interest and charges paid on Mrs Cs borrowing over £3,500 from October 2017 to 
when the account was repaid and closed. Looking at Mrs Cs account, its fair to say that 
there were only five or six months where this was the case, and so the amount of the refund 
may not be as large as Mrs C wants to see. But on the balance of evidence, Im satisfied that 
this is a fair decision in the circumstances of Mrs Cs complaint.
Our investigator said that Aqua should remove any adverse information from Mrs Cs credit 
file. Having looked at her account, as she paid on time and there were no overlimit 
situations, I doubt there was anything notified  but for good order, I am asking Aqua to 
check this.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.  NewDay Ltd  trading as Aqua must:
Refund interest and fees on borrowing over £3,500 from October 2017 to the date 
the borrowing was repaid.
Remove any adverse information notified to credit reference agencies from October 
2017 to the date the borrowing was repaid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman