DRN-4037130
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R, through their representative Quanta Law, complain that Accord Mortgages 
Limited has treated them unfairly by overcharging them on their mortgage.
What happened
In September 2006, Mr and Mrs R took out a mortgage with Accord. Their initial interest rate 
was fixed for two years at 6.83% until September 2008. In October 2008 Mr and Mrs R 
switched their mortgage to a new fixed rate at 6.79% for five years. When their fixed rate 
deal ended in September 2013, Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage reverted to Accords Standard 
Variable Rate (SVR), which was the rate that applied to the account until the time the 
complaint was made in April 2020.
Since Mr and Mrs R took out the mortgage, the SVR has varied as follows:
Date Effective Base Rate SVR Difference
03/08/2006 4.75%
31/08/2006 6.75% 2.00%
08/09/2006Fixed rate starts  
6.83%
09/11/2006 5.00%
30/11/2006 7.00% 2.00%
11/01/2007 5.25%
31/01/2007 7.25% 2.00%
10/05/2007 5.50%
31/05/2007 7.50% 2.00%
05/07/2007 5.75%
31/07/2007 7.75% 2.00%
06/12/2007 5.50%
31/12/2007 7.50% 2.00%
07/02/2008 5.25%
28/02/2008 7.25% 2.00%
10/04/2008 5.00%
30/04/2008 7.00% 2.00%
30/09/2008 Fixed rate ends
01/10/2008Fixed rate starts  
6.79%
08/10/2008 4.50%
31/10/2008 6.85% 2.35%
06/11/2008 3.00%
30/11/2008 5.99% 2.99%
04/12/2008 2.00%
31/12/2008 5.34% 3.34%
08/01/2009 1.50%
31/01/2009 5.34% 3.84%
05/02/2009 1.00%
28/02/2009 5.34% 4.34%
05/03/2009 0.50%
31/03/2009 5.34% 4.84%
30/11/2009 5.99% 5.49%
30/09/2013 Fixed rate ends 
30/11/2014 5.79% 5.29%
04/08/2016 0.25%
31/08/2016 5.54% 5.29%
31/12/2016 5.34% 5.09%
02/11/2017 0.50%
30/11/2017 4.99% 4.49%
02/08/2018 0.75%
31/08/2018 4.99% 3.74%
11/03/2020 0.25%
19/03/2020 0.10%
31/03/2020 4.49% 4.39%
On 29 April 2020, Mr and Mrs Rs representative sent a letter of complaint to Accord on 
their behalf. The letter set out that Mr and Mrs R sought to claim damages in relation to 
being overcharged interest on their outstanding mortgage balance due to the unlawful 
interest rates and any variations in Accords interest rates.
The letter set out that Mr and Mrs R consider that the mortgage offer issued on 
1 September 2006 contained unfair terms pursuant to the Unfair Terms in Consumer 
Contracts Regulations 1999 (UTCCR). More specifically Mr and Mrs Rs representatives 
argue that:
Section four of the offer letter is unfair as the term within did not explain what was
meant by the Standard Variable Rate, and Mr and Mrs R were misled into believing
that this rate would vary in accordance with the Bank of England base rate, rather
than at Accords discretion.
Mr and Mrs R do not accept that the supplementary Mortgage Loan Terms, which
defined the Standard Variable Rate were incorporated into the contract.
It is unfair to expect consumers, such as Mr and Mrs R, to pore over the small print
to understand the meaning of a key term like the interest rate.
The meaning of the Standard Variable Rate and particularly the fact that Accord
could vary it at its discretion, should have been set out in the mortgage offer. The
failure to do so, renders the term within section four of the mortgage offer unfair for
the purposes of UTCCR such that Accord is unable to rely on it.
A term included within a contract allowing a lender to vary interest rates entirely at its
own discretion without providing grounds to do so is unfair.The term lacks transparency and Mr and Mrs R do not have an effective right to
termination due to the presence of an Early Repayment Charge (ERC), as well as
other costs associated with discharging their mortgage and switching to another
lender.
Section 15 of The Supply of Goods and Services Act should be deemed to apply in
this case. This allows for the consideration of a reasonable rate being applied to
Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage balance rather than Accords SVR.
Accords actions constitute a breach of Principle 6 of the FCA Handbook whereby a
firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. And a
breach of MCOB 11.5(1)(b) which requires a firm to treat customers fairly by
assessing, before deciding to vary a regulated mortgage contract or home purchase
plan; whether the consumer will be able to repay the sums borrowed and interest.
Mr and Mrs R seek to claim the difference between the amount of interest they paid
on their mortgage and the amount they would have paid had it been subject to what
they deem to be a reasonable rate.
Accord issued its final response letter on 15 May 2020. In summary it said that the SVR is 
not a base rate tracker mortgage. The mortgage offer states the SVR is variable (in the given 
circumstances) under the mortgage terms. An ERC only applied during the fixed rate product 
period. Mr and Mrs R were entitled to re-mortgage or redeem their mortgage at any time 
when they were paying the SVR without incurring an ERC.
Mr and Mrs Rs representative referred their complaint to our service on 12 October 2020. 
Accord subsequently said that it did not consent to our service considering events that 
occurred more than six years before the complaint was made, as it thought that part of the 
complaint had been made too late. 
Our investigator issued an assessment explaining the limitations to our jurisdiction, what this
meant for Mr and Mrs R and then went on to set out his findings on the merits of the 
complaint. In summary, in relation to our jurisdiction he said:
Any complaint about the information provided to Mr and Mrs R at the point of sale 
which they say led them into believing the SVR would track the base rate had not 
been brought in time, under DISP 2.8.2(R).
The complaint was raised on 29 April 2020, so the investigator concluded that the 
complaint about all of the interest charging events that took place within six years 
prior to this, had been raised in time. Which would be from 29 April 2014 onward. So, 
he was satisfied that he could consider whether the sums charged from 29 April 2014 
onward were fair and reasonable.
He noted that under DISP 2.8.2(R) where the consumer seeks to bring a complaint 
more than six years after the event complained of, such a complaint must be brought 
within three years from the date the consumer became aware, or ought reasonably to 
have become aware, that they had cause for complaint. The investigator explained 
why he thought Mr and Mrs R ought reasonably to have been aware of their cause 
for complaint more than three years before making their complaint. So, he didnt think 
this part of the rule gave them any more time to complain.The investigator set out that when considering the fairness of the interest rate 
charged from 29 April 2014 onward, he would need to take account of previous 
variations of the interest rate in order to determine whether the rate charged during 
the period he can look at is fair. He would also need to consider whether the variation 
clause is itself an unfair term as a matter of law. He concluded both of these things 
were part of all the circumstances of the case that he is required to consider under 
the DISP rules and are relevant to whether the interest charged from 29 April 2014 
onward is fair and reasonable.
The investigator clarified that in the event he recommends any redress, he would 
only be able to award for the period that is in scope of this complaint - 29 April 2014
onward.
The investigators findings went on to conclude:
Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage contract did not commit to track the base rate, they were 
made sufficiently aware of the relevant terms and that Accord has sought to charge 
interest in accordance with those terms.
He thought the reasons listed in the terms and conditions that allow Accord to vary 
the interest rate can be perceived as broad and open to interpretation. He thought its 
possible that a court may find some of the terms allowing Accord to vary the SVR to 
be unfair, in terms of a lack of transparency of when a particular term would be 
engaged and when Accord can make changes to the SVR and by how much.
In determining whether, at the time the contract was taken out, there were likely to be
significant barriers for Mr and Mrs R dissolving the contract, the investigator noted
that Accord was only able to rely on the variation terms when there was no ERC.
So, Mr and Mrs R would not have had to pay a charge to end their contract with
Accord should they have chosen to switch to another lender. The investigator
added that he didnt think switching costs were a significant barrier to exit and instead
were costs a borrower could incur if they ever sought to switch lender.
He set out the need to consider what, if any, unfairness Mr and Mrs R experienced
because of mortgage payments based on changes to the interest rate. And the need
to consider whether Accord had exercised the terms fairly.
He found SVRs to serve a legitimate purpose in permitting lenders to provide for 
future changes and allow borrowers flexibility.
The investigator was not persuaded Accord varied the rate unfairly.
The investigator noted that while the SVR reduced between October 2008  March 
2009, the difference between the SVR and the base rate increased. He set out that 
this was a time of significant change in the wider market as a result of the financial 
crisis. This impacted on the funding costs of businesses and was reflected in 
changes to a number of lenders interest rates.
Accord provided enough information to show that their cost of funds did not reduce in 
line with the base rate.
The investigator noted that in November 2009, despite no change to the base rate, 
the SVR increased. He set out that in addition to the ongoing impact of increase to 
cost of funding during the financial crisis, Accord also experienced a deterioration in arrears levels during 2009. Accord provided information to show it incurred an 
increased cost of administering those mortgages accounts as well as overall 
increased loss provisioning.
From 2013 to 2016 the SVR reduced more than base rate to Mr and Mrs Rs benefit.
For the remainder of the term (from 2017 until the complaint was made) while the 
SVR reduced overall, it did not do so entirely in line with the base rate. The decisions 
made by Accord to vary the SVR during this period were made broadly to bring the 
SVR in line with the other brands that form part its wider parent company Yorkshire 
Building Society (YBS)  so there was a single SVR across the brands. The 
investigator noted that this was despite Accord historically having a higher SVR than 
that of YBS due to varying cost of funding and loss provisioning due to varying 
underwriting practices and credit policies. 
Overall, he didnt think there was anything to suggest that Accord has acted unfairly
or unreasonably, or that Mr and Mrs R have overpaid interest. He also considered
that the interest rate applied to Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage over the term has remained
generally in line with the SVRs of other similar lenders across the market. So, he did
not consider the rate Mr and Mrs R paid to have been an obvious outlier or 
excessive.
Mr and Mrs Rs representative responded to say it did not agree with the outcome and
asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman. In summary it said:
It had not been given an opportunity to provide our service with its full submissions 
for this complaint before an opinion was reached.
Accords mortgage terms are broad, lack transparency and open to interpretation, 
making it difficult for Mr and Mrs R to know when Accord is likely to engage the terms 
referred to in the assessment or when any further changes no longer carry the same 
justification. 
It does not consider Accords variations to be in line with most other lenders and it 
appears our investigator did not sufficiently comment on all of the reasons Accord 
had given for each variation or the evidence it had provided to support its position 
post 2009.
In response, the investigator confirmed that he would pass the case to an ombudsman for a 
final decision  inviting both parties to provide any further comments or information they 
would like the ombudsman to consider by 27 March 2023. Neither party made any further 
representations.
As the complaint could not be resolved informally and as the deadline for the parties to
respond has now passed, it is now appropriate for me to issue my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case, Im 
required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook to take into account the relevant law, regulations, and good industry practice, when reaching my 
decision. 
Ive given careful consideration to all the submissions made by both parties, but I wont 
address each and every point that has been raised. Ill focus on the matters that I consider 
most relevant to how Ive reached a fair outcome  in keeping with the informal nature of our
service.
Having done all that, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I realise this will be
disappointing for Mr and Mrs R. But I hope the reasons I have set out below will help them to
understand why I have come to this conclusion.
I have explained the position relating to Accords objection to our service considering 
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint under the DISP rules relating to time limits for bringing complaints. 
Ive also set out our investigators findings in relation to this. 
Neither Accord or Mr and Mrs Rs representative have sought to challenge the findings of the 
investigator on this point. But for completeness, I can confirm that I agree with the 
investigators findings when considering our jurisdiction. The approach the investigator took 
reflects the decision of the High Court in an application for judicial review of another 
ombudsmans decision in a similar case. As such I am satisfied:
This service cannot consider a complaint about the information provided to 
Mr and Mrs R at the point of sale which they say led them into believing the SVR 
would track the base rate, as that complaint has been made too late.
I do have the power to consider a complaint about the amount and fairness of the
interest Mr and Mrs R have been charged, but only from 29 April 2014 onwards  the
complaint about charges before that date are out of time; and
In order to consider the fairness of the interest charges that are in time, it is
necessary for me to take into account the historic changes to Accords SVR, since 
the SVR charged during the period of time that is in time is the result not only of
decisions Accord made during that period, but also the result of decisions it made
prior to it. This includes considering whether the rate charged derived from earlier
reliance on an unfair term or for reasons other than those allowed by the contract.
Thats because each time Accord charges interest, it must have a fair and lawful
basis for doing so.
Mr and Mrs Rs representative has raised many individual complaint points. However, 
I consider the overall complaint to break down into two key points:
Mr and Mrs R had a legitimate expectation that their mortgage would track the 
base rate once it reverted to the variable rate. As it did not do so, Accord has treated 
them unfairly.
Mr and Mrs R have paid an unfairly high rate of interest than compared to what they
should have paid from 29 April 2014 onwards because in varying the SVR Accord (i)
relied on an unfair term and/or (ii) did not vary the SVR for a reason allowed by the
terms and conditions.
I will deal with each point in turn.
Did Accords actions cause Mr and Mrs R to have a legitimate expectation that theirmortgage would track the Bank of England base rate?
Mr and Mrs Rs representative considers Accords actions to have given Mr and Mrs R a
legitimate expectation that their mortgage would track the base rate. As I mentioned above, 
this part of Mr and Mrs Rs complaint is out of time.
To the extent that Mr and Mrs Rs representative is suggesting that this is also a basis to
complain about the charges that are in time, I disagree with its conclusions.
The mortgage documentation is clear in that when Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage would revert to 
the SVR once their fixed interest period expired  that the SVR could go up as well as down. 
And I havent seen any evidence that persuades me that Accord was obligated, contractually 
or otherwise, to have its SVR track the base rate.
I am aware Mr and Mrs Rs representative argues that, as the mortgage general terms and
conditions were not included in the mortgage offer letter, they should not form part of the
mortgage contract. I disagree with this conclusion.
Accord was not obligated to set out all the terms and conditions governing its mortgages in
one document. And while I appreciate this means Mr and Mrs R would need to read more
than one document to understand and appreciate the terms that governed their mortgage,
given this was a substantial liability, secured on their principal asset, I think Mr and Mrs R
ought reasonably to be treated as if they had read all of the information provided.
Im also not aware of any evidence that can properly be said to show that Accord acted in a
way where it committed to keep the margin between the base rate and the SVR the same  
the fact that this margin didnt substantially change over a period of time isnt sufficient to 
indicate that Accord had agreed to give up its right as set out in the contract, and I think that 
in commercial terms this would have been an odd decision, given the extent to which funding 
costs can change. Finally, I am not aware of any principle of law that, on the facts of this 
case, would obviously commit Accord to doing so.
So, it follows that I do not uphold this part of Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
Fairness of interest charged: the interest rate variation terms
I have to consider whether from 29 April 2014 onwards, Mr and Mrs R paid an unfairly high
rate of interest. I consider a key consideration here to be whether the term allowing Accord 
to vary the SVR is the sort of term the courts would consider to be unfair as a matter of law.
The law on unfair terms is an important part of consumer protection measures and prevents
businesses from taking advantage  whether consciously or otherwise  of their customers,
who have limited bargaining power. If a variation made in reliance on an unfair term
contributed to the rate charged from 29 April 2014 onwards, then that might be relevant to
whether interest charged from April 2014 was fair.
To assess the fairness of the interest rate terms, it is helpful to first set out the relevant terms
themselves:
Section four of the mortgage offer issued to Mr and Mrs R in 2006 set out:
The interest rate charged will bea fixed rate of 6.83% until 30 September 2008. Followed 
by a variable rate which is 1.75% above the Accord Mortgages Standard Variable Rate, 
currently 6.75% until 30 September 2026, to give a current rate payable of 8.50%. Your 
mortgage interest rate will change at the same time there is a change in our Standard Variable Rate. The interest rate will not fall below 0.00%...Our standard Variable Rate is 
variable under our Mortgage Loan Terms 
Accord has not been able to provide a copy of the mortgage offer issued to Mr and Mrs R in 
2008, but it has provided a copy of the letter it sent to them when this deal was ending in 
2013. The letter says that following the end of their fixed rate deal on 30 September 2013, 
Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage would revert to Accords SVR, currently 5.99%. 
The supplementary Mortgage Loan Terms go on to state: 
7. Reasons for Variation of Mortgage Interest Rates
7.1 A mortgage loan is borrowed over a long period of time, usually 25 years and it is 
impossible to predict all the changes that will occur during that time (or any part of it) 
particularly relating to interest rates. Therefore it is a fundamental term of every loan 
that the interest rate should be variable at all time except during a fixed rate period. 
7.2 Our Standard Variable Rate and other rate of interest which is not fixed, are all 
variable rates. There are a number of reasons why we may, from time to time, need 
to vary these rates. The reasons mainly arise from the need to take account of the 
commercial environment and the markets in which we operate as well as the costs of 
running and managing our business. We may vary interest rates by increase or 
reduction for one of the following reasons, that is to take account of:
7.2.1 the costs to us of managing our business and specifically providing and administering 
our mortgage loans and investment accounts.
7.2.2 changes to laws, codes or practice and the requirements of a regulator.
7.2.3 the cost of money which we have to borrow from time to time in order to finance our 
lending.
7.2.4 base rates of clearing banks, mortgage rates of other lenders and savings or 
investment rates offered by other financial institutions.
7.2.5 decisions by courts or tribunals or rulings by an ombudsman, regulator or similar 
authority.
7.2.6 the need to realign interest rates following a merger with another organization.
7.2.7 any circumstances relating to the conduct of the Loan Account or change in the use 
or occupancy of the property.
7.2.8 the need to achieve a reasonable balance between the rates of interest on mortgage 
loans and investment accounts.
7.2.9 the need to manage our business (and its growth) prudently (which means in 
accordance with the rules, procedures and requirements of our regulator)
Accord has told us it relied on terms 7.2.1 and 7.2.3 when it made variations to its
SVR.
In my view, the law relating to unfair terms in consumer contracts is of particular relevance to 
this aspect of the complaint, specifically the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts 
Regulations 1999 (UTCCR). 
I have carefully considered the relevant law and how it applies to Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. 
In doing so, when deciding whether the variation clause was unfair, Im satisfied the key 
issues I need to consider are whether (i) the term is a core term and (ii) whether the term 
creates a significant imbalance in the parties rights and obligations to the consumers 
detriment contrary to the requirements of good faith.
This includes considering whether the terms in this agreement go further than reasonably necessary to protect Accords legitimate interests, whether the SVR variation clauses are 
sufficiently transparent, and whether there were significant barriers to Mr and Mrs R 
dissolving the contract. 
The decision around whether the term is unfair should be made in the light of what sort of 
contract is in issue and what the contract is about, as well as what the other terms say and 
all the circumstances that existed when the term was agreed. Assessing whether a term is 
unfair involves winding the clock back to the date the term was agreed, and then standing 
back to consider the term in its full context, both within the contract and in al the surrounding
circumstances.
Is the relevant term a core term?
The terms in question relate to the mechanism for amending the price of the services
provided, not the price itself. So, I am satisfied they are ancillary terms whose fairness can
be assessed under the applicable fair terms legislation.
Do the terms create a significant imbalance contrary to the requirements of good faith?
One of the considerations when determining if the terms create a significant imbalance is 
whether the terms of the agreement deprive the consumer of an advantage which they 
would enjoy under national law if the term was not there.
I am not persuaded that the interest rate variation clause applicable to Mr and Mrs Rs
mortgage contract does this. At a general level, such clauses have a legitimate purpose and
are common in financial services consumer contracts. Particularly those of long or
indeterminate duration, such as mortgage agreements. A fair variation term can benefit both
consumers and lenders. Providing flexibility and a wider choice to consumers and enabling
firms to provide competitively priced products, knowing they can vary the interest rates they
charge to reflect changes in circumstances, particularly in their own costs of funding... 1
A reversion rate also permits lenders to provide for future changes that justify increases in
the rate, and a lenders own costs of funds and things such as changing regulatory
requirements are by nature difficult to foresee. So, Im satisfied that if the agreement itself
didnt include a rate variation clause, its reasonable to assume that national law would
provide a mechanism for allowing a lender to vary the rate for legitimate reasons. And I think
the average consumer could reasonably be assumed to accept this and agree to it in
hypothetical negotiations.
In addition, when considering whether there was a significant barrier to exit, it is important to
note that there was no ERC applicable to Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage at the point it reverted to
the SVR on 1 October 2013. So, if Accord had exercised its rights as set by the variation 
term, and Mr and Mrs R were unhappy with that decision, they were free under the contract 
to transfer their mortgage to another lender should they have wished without having to pay 
this charge.
While Mr and Mrs Rs representative has said that other costs impacted on their ability to
redeem the mortgage such as switching costs, Im not persuaded these are the sort of
significant barriers that the CJEU and FCA had in mind when determining whether a
variation clause is unfair. Mr and Mrs R would incur these costs if ever they sought to switch
lender.
1 FCA Guidance (FG18/07 Paragraph 34)So, I dont think the variation terms would be considered unfair simply because at a general
level there would be a cost to a consumer from moving elsewhere.
Overall, having considered the relevant regulations and caselaw, I think its likely that a court
would conclude that the costs of funds variation term were not unfair and would not fall 
within the Schedule 2 grey list. Applying the law as it was at the time the mortgage was 
taken out, I am satisfied that overall the term does not create a significant imbalance 
between the parties contrary to the requirement of good faith. And I am not satisfied that 
there were foreseeable barriers to exit. I also think that a consumer in a hypothetical 
negotiation - understanding that over the course of an agreement as long as a mortgage, a 
lenders costs might change - would have agreed to the term.
Even if Im wrong about how a court may view the relevant terms, I think its important to be
clear that whatever the answer to this question, the central issue I need to decide is whether
there has been any unfairness to Mr and Mrs R from 29 April 2014 onwards. The fairness of 
the underlying variation clause will not of itself properly answer that question.
Has Accord exercised the terms fairly?
In answering this question, I have explained that although Im only able to consider the
fairness of interest charged to Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage since 29 April 2014, why its 
necessary for me to consider historic changes to Accords SVR.
Ive considered all the available evidence and all of the changes Accord made to the SVR 
since Mr and Mrs R took their mortgage. Having done so, I am not persuaded that anything 
Accord has done in varying the rate has led to unfairness. I have set out why below.
Accord has not been able to provide extensive information for the period before 2009. So,
it is possible that there is evidence relevant to its decision making at that time that is no
longer in existence. While this is not surprising given that the events in question took place
over 14 years ago, it is a relevant consideration, and Ive also taken into account the
difficulties of reviewing a complex decision so long after the events.
While this limits the depths to which I can assess Accords decisions to, or not to vary its
SVR prior to 2009, Accord has been able to give us extracts of information, relevant to that 
period. I have looked at that alongside what I understand about what was happening to the 
wider market at the time, and I have consulted analysis from other sources such as the Bank 
of England and the FCA.
For reasons of commercial confidentiality, I havent set out in detail the evidence Accord
has been able to provide in full or provided copies of it to Mr and Mrs R. Our rules allow me
to accept information in confidence, so that only a description of it is disclosed, where 
I consider it appropriate to do so. In this case, I do consider it appropriate to accept the
information and evidence Accord has provided in confidence, subject to the summary of it 
I have set out in this decision.
Between September 2006 (when Mr and Mrs R took out their mortgage) and 
September 2008 when their first fixed interest period ended, the difference between the base 
rate and the SVR remained at 2.00%. The changes Accord made to the SVR were soon 
after changes were made to the base rate and by the same amount. So, I dont conclude 
that the changes made to the SVR resulted in unfair treatment for Mr and Mrs R during that 
time. 
Between October 2008 and September 2013 (when Mr and Mrs Rs second fixed interest 
period ended), the changes Accord made to the SVR were soon after changes were made to the base rate. Bar one occasion in November 2009, when despite no change to the base 
rate, Accord increased the SVR. And while the SVR still reduced until this point, it didnt 
reduce by the same proportion as the reduction in the base rate. Therefore, the difference 
between the base rate and the SVR increased from 2.00% to 5.49% during this period.
Despite this increase in margin, the SVR Mr and Mrs R were paying when their mortgage
reverted in 2013 was still lower than what it was when they agreed to the mortgage in 2006
and it was not an outlier compared to rates charges across industry at that time.
Ive already set out that this was not a tracker mortgage, so Accord was not contractually
obligated to track the base rate. Nor is it the case that Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage had a cap 
preventing Accords SVR from increasing beyond a certain margin above the base rate. So, 
there was nothing in the contract that expressly prohibited Accord from setting the SVR at a 
level whereby the margin between the SVR and base rate would change. But that doesnt 
mean that Accord could set the SVR at whatever level it chose. As discussed above, the 
term enabling Accord to vary the SVR itself has to be fair (to prevent businesses taking 
advantage of customers), and Accord had to ensure that in varying the SVR it only did so for 
one of the reasons set out in the contract.
Accord has told us it primarily relied on the below term to vary the SVR during this period:
7. Reasons for Variation of Mortgage Interest Rates
We may vary interest rates by increase or reduction for one of the following reasons, that
is to take account of:
7.2.3 the cost of money which we have to borrow from time to time in order to finance our
lending.
In addition to this, and particularly in relation to the November 2009 variation, it says it also 
relied on the following term to vary the SVR at this time:
7.2.1 the costs to us of managing our business and specifically providing and administering
our mortgage loans and investment accounts.
To evidence its decisions at the time and reliance on the above terms, Accords parent 
company Yorkshire building Society (YBS) has told us that despite a reduction in the Bank of 
England base rate, its total group funding costs increased considerably between 2008 and 
2009. 
YBS has provided relevant explanations and reasoning behind the decisions made to vary 
the interest rate during this period. This is supported by evidence that shows the direct 
impact of its increased cost of funding (primarily retail based) and how this correlated with its 
decision to vary the SVR across its brands. 
Accord, within its own separate legal entity, is a non-deposit taking entity. As such it is 
predominantly reliant on wholesale funding and intra-group loans from YBS to fund its 
mortgage lending. 
The information provided largely explains YBS overall position during this period. While the 
context of increased retail cost of funding isnt directly applicable to decisions made to vary 
Accords SVR, it does understandably have a knock-on effect in relation to the amount of 
interest YBS charged on interest bearing inter-group loans to Accord.
As explained, this made-up part of Accords funding, along with wholesale market funding.   Because of this reliance on external funding as opposed to a more conventional retail 
funding structure (generally of a less costly nature), it does make it more it more challenging 
for Accord to independently demonstrate how the cost of funding the mortgages increased or 
decreased by a corresponding amount to the SVR variations.
However, considering what I know about what was happening in the wider marker at that 
time, I find it plausible that Accord also experienced higher cost of funding from the 
wholesale markets. 
At this time, the mortgage market was going through a period of significant change as a
result of the global financial crisis. This impacted the funding costs of businesses, including
Accord, and was reflected in changes to a number of lenders interest rates charged across
the market at the time. This was clear at the time and has been the subject of analysis by
both the Bank of England2 and the FCA3 since. Whilst the base rate did reduce significantly
during this period, the cost to lenders of funding their businesses changed, as did their
prudential requirements. These were made up of several factors that are not directly linked
to base rate. With this in mind, and in conjunction with the evidence Accord has been able
to provide, I am satisfied it had legitimate reasons to vary its SVR in the way that it did.
In November 2009, Accords SVR increased despite no change to the base rate at that time. 
Accord has evidenced that by the latter part of 2009 a far greater percentage of its 
customers had fallen into in arrears compared to the rest of the group. Accord explains that 
this is largely due to the varying nature of its lending book over the years  including varying 
underwriting practices and credit policies. Accord has demonstrated that in addition to the 
ongoing impact of increase to cost of funding during the financial crisis, it also experienced 
an increased cost of administering those mortgages accounts as well as overall increased 
loss provisioning. As such, when considering the information Accord has been able to 
provide to justify its decision to vary the SVR at this point, I am satisfied it had legitimate 
reasons to vary its SVR in the way that it did.
While the evidence provided by both parties is limited, I have not seen any evidence to
suggest the changes Accord made were arbitrary, excessive, or unfair. Rather, the
evidence Ive seen satisfies me that Accord acted in line with its terms and conditions to
protect its legitimate interests while balancing its obligation to treat Mr and Mrs R fairly. And 
Im further satisfied that, albeit limited, the evidence Accord has been able to provide for
this period is corroborated by evidence of wider market conditions at the time.
While I note Mr and Mrs Rs representative has sought and provided expert reports to 
demonstrate the perceived loss on cases of this nature, I am not persuaded they outweigh 
the business specific evidence (in this case provided by Accord) on the impact of the 
financial crisis on its own cost of funding. In addition, as I have said above, I have 
considered other sources such as the Bank of England that led me to a different conclusion 
from Mr and Mrs Rs representative.
Accords SVR remained the same until November 2014 when it was lowered despite no 
change in the base rate. By this point Mr and Mrs Rs fixed interest rate has ended and their 
mortgage had reverted to the SVR.
2 Quarterly Bulletin, Q4 2014, Bank of England  Bank funding costs: what are they, what 
determines them and why do they matter?
3 May 2018 Guidance Consultation GC18/2 Fairness of Variation terms in financial services 
consumer contacts under the Consumer Rights Act paragraphs 2.8 to 2.10The following changes made to the SVR until the point Mr and Mrs Rs complaint was made 
in April 2020 were soon after changes were made to the base rate. In addition to a further 
isolated reduction to the SVR in December 2016.
Despite fluctuations in the base rate, Accords SVR only reduced during this period, as did 
the margin. I do note that in March 2020, Accord did vary the SVR soon after a change to 
the base rate, but not by the same amount which led to an increase in the margin. But 
overall, when considering the reductions made to the SVR from 2009 onwards, following the 
aftermath of the global financial crisis, Accord significantly reduced its SVR by 0.85% during 
that period, more than the overall reduction in the base rate.  
Accord has said that in 2013, in response to the introduction of conduct risk rules by the 
FCA, it carried out a conduct risk review. As part of the review, YBS decided that it would 
continuously monitor and assess the approach taken to justify the SVR differentials across 
brands. From this, YBS formed a long-term strategy of moving to a more holistic approach to 
managing its mortgages and savings activities across its brands. This was to enable the 
overall business to be managed more efficiently and effectively. 
As part of the ongoing alignment of the brands, YBS carried out an annual 
justification/review of the differential between the brands' SVRs each year from 2013 through 
to 2017, when all SVRs became aligned. This was despite Accord historically having a 
higher SVR than that of YBS due to varying cost of funding and loss provisioning due to 
varying underwriting practices and credit policies. 
When considering the overarching objective of a unified SVR across the brands to save 
costs involved in managing mortgages and savings activities across the brands, I consider 
these changes were permitted under term 7.2.1 of the contract (as set out above). 
In response to our investigators assessment, Mr and Mrs Rs representative has said that 
Accord varied its SVR significantly more than most other lenders, especially post 2009, 
however these variations were only occasionally following base rate changes. Whilst I dont 
entirely disagree with this statement, Im satisfied Accord has provided a reasonable 
justification in the circumstances and in any event those variations resulted in reductions 
made to the SVR to Mr and Mrs Rs benefit, So I dont find that Accords actions were 
inherently unfair or disadvantaged Mr and Mrs R.   
Summary 
When considering all of the above, even if I were to conclude that the relevant terms were 
unfair pursuant to UTCCR, I am not persuaded that Accord operated them in an unfair 
manner when setting and varying the interest rate that applied to Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage. 
That being the case, I dont think there is any basis to say that they somehow contributed to 
Mr and Mrs R being charged an unfairly high rate of interest on their mortgage during the 
period I can consider, and Ive seen no evidence to say that the interest they were charged 
during that period was unfair for any other reason.
I have also considered the representatives point that Accord has breached Principle 6 of
the FCA Handbook and MCOB 11.5(1)(b). Having done so, and for much the same reasons
set out above, Im not persuaded it has.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint and I make no award against 
Accord Mortgages Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman