The complaint
Mr P complains that Revolut Limited (Revolut) blocked and closed his account and returned 
the funds in the account to their original sources, rather than him.
To put things right, he wants Revolut to return his money to him.
What happened
On 6 January 2020, Revolut blocked Mr Ps account, and carried out a review. After it 
completed the review, it decided to close Mr Ps account and return the funds in his account 
to their original sources, rather than sending them to Mr P. At the time, Mr Ps account 
balance was £7,254.16.
Mr P complained but Revolut maintained its position, so he brought his complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator looked at the case and decided Revolut hadnt done anything wrong by 
closing Mr Ps account, but that it hadnt treated Mr P fairly by returning his funds to source. 
She thought Revolut should have to return £7,254.16 to Mr P and pay 8% simple interest on 
the balance, as well as £200 to compensate Mr P for the trouble and upset he had 
experienced.
Revolut disagreed. It accepted there had been a short delay in carrying out its review, but it 
didnt agree it had made a mistake in returning Mr Ps funds to source. So it asked for an 
ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account closure
Just as a customer may close an account with a bank, a bank is entitled to close an account 
with a customer. But when it closes the account, it must do so in a way that complies with 
the terms and conditions of the account.
A bank doesnt always have to give reasons for its decision to close an account or advance 
notice. Having considered the information Revolut has provided, Im satisfied it acted in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of Mr Ps account when it closed his account.
I understand Mr Ps frustration at the situation, particularly given Revolut gave him no notice 
and didnt explain its decision. And I know hell be disappointed with the outcome. But, 
DRN-2107247having looked at all of the available evidence, I cant say th at Revolut did anything wrong. 
So, Im not upholding this part of Mr P s complaint.
Account block
Im satisfied Revolut acted in accordance with its legal and regulatory obligations when it 
blocked and reviewed Mr P s account. And th at it was entitled to do so under the account 
terms and conditions. So I cant reasonably say it treated Mr P unfairly by blocking his 
account.
And, having considered the evidence provided by Revolut, Im satisfied that it carried o ut the 
review promptly, fo r the most part. With that being sai d, it has accepted that it could have 
completed its review more quickly. So I will b e awarding Mr P compensation to recogni se the 
distress and i
nconvenience he experienced as a result of Revolut s delays, and its other 
actions, details of which Ive set out below.
Access to funds
Before a ban k releases funds held in a customers account, its entitled to ca rry out checks to 
ensure i
ts complying with its legal and regulatory obligations. And banks wil l follow their 
internal procedure s before they release funds.
With that said, Revolut hasnt provided a satisfactory explanation, supported by evidence, as 
to why it returned the money in Mr Ps account to the original sources, rather than releasing 
it to him. I accept there are times when its appropriate for a bank to return funds to their 
original sources. But in order to decide whether or not that is the case in this particular 
instance, I would need to see appropriate evidence to support such a decision.
While Revolut has explained its rational e to me, it hasnt been able to provide sufficient 
evidence to justify its acti ons. I understand that it had concerns abo ut the way Mr P was 
operating his account. But Ive seen nothing to suggest the peopl e who sent money to Mr Ps 
accoun
t had challenged the payments, or requested the ir money back before Revolut 
returned them. And Im not persu aded Revolut had sufficient evidence to j ustify depriving Mr 
P of the funds in his account. If it did, it hasnt shared that evidence with our Service.
Revolut has suggested Mr P can simply get the parties who received the returned funds to 
re-send them to him. Mr P says this hasnt been possible and Ive checked his statements to 
see if he received any of the money back. Ive also checked his credit report, which confirms 
the account Ive seen statements for is his only account. So, on balance, Im satisfied that Mr 
P hasnt received the monies.
Because of what Ive said above, my final decision is that Revolut must return Mr Ps money 
and pa y him interest fo r the time it deprived him of the money. Revolut completed its review 
on 1 May 202 0, so that is the date it should have returned the money to Mr P and is 
therefore the date from which Revolut must pay interest.
Revol ut must also pay Mr P £200 in compensation for the trouble and u pset he experienced 
as a result of its handling of the complaint. Mr P was deprived of a significant amou nt of 
money, which I m satisfied would have caused him trouble and upset.
My final decision
My final decision is that Revolut Limited must p ay Mr P £7,25 4.16, plus £200 for the distress 
and inconvenience it caused him. It must also pay him simple interest at the rate of 8%* on 
the £7,254.16 fro m 1 Ma y 2020 until the date of payment.*If Revolut Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to
withhold income tax from those parts of the award constituting the 8% interest, it should tell
Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Mr P should refer back to Revolut Limited if hes unsure of the approach it has taken, and 
both parties should contact HMRC if they want to know more about the tax treatment of this 
portion of the award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
Ombudsman