DRN-3700505
The complaint
Mr P complains about the service he received from Killik & Co LLP trading as Killik &
Co (Killik) in respect to his Child Trust Fund account (CTF).
Mr P is being represented on this complaint by his mother, but for ease of reference, Ill refer 
to any submissions as being made by Mr P personally.
What happened
In January 2006, a CTF account was opened for Mr P, meaning that Mr Ps mother, as the 
registered contact, was in control of choosing, buying and selling investments before he 
turned 18. A deposit for £1,450 was made to the account on opening, but this remained on 
Mr Ps account as a cash deposit.
In January 2021, Mr P queried why his deposited funds remained uninvested.  Killik 
explained this was because it had received no instructions to invest them. Unhappy with this, 
Mr P complained. Killik maintained the CTF account required his mother to make investment 
decisions on the account prior to Mr P turning of age. It further explained annual statements 
illustrating the accounts unchanged position had been sent to the address it held on file until 
2007 following which time it placed a gone away marker after mail was returned. But as a 
gesture of goodwill, it offered Mr P £500 for any stress or inconvenience caused.
Mr P thought it was fairer for Killik to pay interest on his cash deposits for the time his cash 
deposits remained uninvested, so he referred the matter to this service.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. She said she was satisfied that no instructions had been given for 
shares to be purchased with those funds. Mr P disagreed. He explained that he had given 
instructions in the application form  hed selected his risk profile as to fall within the medium 
to high risk category, so he thought Killik had failed to action his instructions. As no 
agreement could be reached, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 26 August 2022. I said:
Mr P says it was for Killik to invest his deposited funds. He says hed never been 
told he would be expected to have control and that he had no desire to have an 
account that would require for him to manage the investments. Mr P also references 
the risk profile he selected on the application form and says it was for Killik to discuss 
what investments could be made in accordance with his appetite for risk. 
Ive got very little to go on about the application process, so it isnt clear whether Mr P 
was responsible for giving an instruction on where the money should be invested 
after it was initially deposited on the opening of the account. But what I do know is 
that when Killik wrote to Mr P for the first time in 2006 where it sent a copy of his 
annual statement, it issued the letters to a wrong address. This resulted in the post 
being returned and Mr P not receiving statements in 2006 nor in 2007 showing the 
deposit sat as cash in the account. 
Ive seen the initial application form which has Mr Ps correct address so Im satisfied 
it was  Killiks error that resulted in mail not being addressed correctly and a gone 
away marker being placed on the account to prevent any further correspondence 
from being issued. And as the account was a long-term investment for a child, Im 
persuaded the account would less likely be monitored as closely if it was understood 
it wasnt to be needed until Mr P reached 18. Therefore, but for that mistake with the 
address, Im satisfied it is more likely than not Mr P would have realised in March 
2006 that his deposit sat as cash in the account and taken steps to remedy this. This 
means I think Mr P should be compensated for fact his money wasnt invested when 
it otherwise would have been. So, any redress against Killik should take into account 
any financial loss from that date.
Mr P says he was shocked to find out his money wasnt invested and that Killik had 
never explained it had been corresponding with him using the wrong address. 
Understandably this has caused him distress ad inconvenience, so I dont doubt the 
strength of feeling behind this complaint. Killik accepted that it had failed to provide 
an acceptable level of communication. As such, its offered to pay £500 for any 
distress and inconvenience it has caused. To be clear, this sum is a separate award 
to the financial loss Mr P has incurred. Taking all the circumstances into account, I 
intend saying Killiks offer to pay Mr P £500 to make up for inconvenience he 
experienced is a fair and reasonable one.
I then set how what I thought Killik needed to do to put things right. In summary, I said it 
needed to compare the performance of Mr P's investment with that of a benchmark and pay 
the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the investment. I also said Killik 
should pay Mr P £500 for distress and inconvenience it had caused.
Neither Mr P nor Killik accepted my provisional decision. Mr P said the benchmark 
suggested by me was too low a volatility and in its place the FTSE UK Private Investor 
Balanced Risk ought to be used to represent the appropriate level of risk he was willing to 
take. Killik in summary said it disagreed with the reasoning and approach in my provisional 
decision. It emphasised that the measures Id suggested it take on a discretionary account 
were legally unsound and that I had compensated Mr P for the same thing twice. It thought I 
had reached an erroneous conclusion in this circumstance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I havent found reason to depart from my provisional findings. 
I thought about the comments made by Killik. It says that I am directing it to invest money on 
a discretionary basis, on advised accounts, where it is not the manager. For clarity, my 
provisional decision made no finding on this. My provisional decision said I had very little 
information on the application process, so it wasnt clear whether Mr P was responsible for 
giving instructions after it was initially deposited. Instead, I emphasised that my conclusions 
were based on Killiks error that resulted in mail not being addressed correctly and a gone 
away marker being placed on the account to preventing further correspondence from being 
issued. I was persuaded that had it not been for this error, it was more likely than not Mr P 
would have realised in March 2006 that his deposit sat as cash in the account and taken 
steps to remedy this. As Killlik was responsible for this error, I found it ought to compensate Mr P the financial loss he experienced for the period his money wasnt invested when it 
otherwise would have been.
In response to Killiks final point that Ive awarded Mr P twice for the same thing, it may be 
helpful to explain that financial loss and distress and inconvenience awards are two separate 
considerations. I am in no doubt that Killik caused Mr P distress when he came to realise his 
money had remained uninvested since 2006. Its clear from the communication that Killik fell 
short in its communication and Killik accepts this in its final response. So, in light of 
everything Ive seen, I think the award of £500 is fair compensation here
Ive considered Mr Ps comments about the suggested compensation. When considering fair 
compensation, its difficult to be certain what type of fund Mr P would have invested in  so 
Ive used the available evidence to help me reach a finding. The application form Mr P 
completed selected a mix of low, medium and high risk - so suggests he was looking for a 
spread of risk as all three options of risk were selected.  The redress calculation Ive 
proposed here is a mix of diversified indices representing different asset classes that contain 
different risk levels. In addition, the proposed fund put forward by Mr P isnt in line with the 
information in the application form i.e. it doesnt just say medium or high. Therefore, in line 
with the attitude to risk Mr P selected, I find it to be a reasonable measure of comparison 
given the information Ive seen.
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
P as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable 
advice.
I think Mr P would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he 
would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mr P's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
Putting things right
To compensate Mr P fairly, Killik must:
Compare the performance of Mr P's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
  Killik should also pay interest as set out below.
Pay Mr P £500 for distress and inconvenience.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Cash 
DepositStill exists 
and liquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr P wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is 
close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr P's 
circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My final decision is that Killik & Co LLP trading as Killik & Co should 
pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2022.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman