DRN-2887871
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S complain Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) refused to allow 
the repayments on their mortgage to continue at the existing level, following its early partial 
repayment.
What happened
Mrs S and Mr S have a fixed rate mortgage with Halifax that originally consisted of three sub 
mortgages over different interest rates and terms. Mr S says following the full repayment of 
sub mortgage 1 in September 2020 and sub mortgage 3 in February 2021, they were left 
with sub mortgage 2 (SM2). Mr S says in October 2020 he made a lump sum repayment 
towards SM2 and a further reduction in February 2021. Mr S says Halifax told him following 
the second reduction to SM2 the monthly repayments needed to be reduced, against his 
wishes as the point of making the reduction was for him to repay his mortgage earlier and 
benefit from reduced interest costs. Mr S says it states on Halifaxs website, that the monthly 
payments wouldnt be automatically recalculated. Mr S says Halifax staff also gave 
misleading information regarding why their monthly payments had been reduced and are 
unable to provide them with information on how they have calculated these new monthly 
payments for their SM2.
Mrs S and Mr S want Halifax to continue with their existing monthly payments on SM2 
without incurring any early repayment charges. 
Halifax says they accept Mrs S and Mr S were given misleading information as to the reason 
why SM2s monthly payments were reduced and apologised, offering them a small 
compensation award which was given to charity. Halifax admit they should have reduced the 
monthly payment to Mrs S and Mr Ss SM2, following the initial lump sum reduction in 
October 2020, but their system failed to pick it up, but says Mrs S and Mr S have benefited 
from this. Halifax says they have correctly recalculated the monthly repayment following the 
second lump sum reduction in February 2021, in line with the terms of the mortgage 
agreement.
Mrs S and Mr S werent happy with Halifaxs response and referred the matter to this 
service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. She 
felt Halifax were entitled to reduce the monthly payments to Mrs S and Mr Ss SM2 as the 
overpayments made by them, whilst reducing the interest payable, cant be made to reduce 
the term of the SM2.  
Mrs S and Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can see it would be upsetting and frustrating for Mrs S and Mr S, having paid lump sums off 
their SM2, to find they couldnt continue with their contractual monthly payment (CMP) at the 
existing level, allowing them to accelerate its repayment. When looking at this complaint I will 
consider whether Halifax acted unfairly when it insisted the CMP on Mrs S and Mr Ss SM2 
must be reduced. 
Mr S has provided this service with a detailed account of the issues here, and while this has 
proved useful, I wont be commenting on every point he has made as I dont think its 
necessary in order to come to a full and impartial decision  thats not to say I havent 
considered the points he has made  I have. 
I can see from the information provided by both parties to this service, Mrs S and Mr S 
repaid part of their mortgage designated as sub mortgage 1 (SM1) in September 2020 and 
in addition, in February 2021 they fully repaid sub mortgage 3 (SM3), leaving only sub 
mortgage 2 (SM2). Its fair to say Mrs S and Mr Ss issue here surrounds the actions Halifax 
have taken following them making overpayments to SM2 in October 2020 and February 
2021. Its worth mentioning SM2 is a fixed rate mortgage and is subject to early repayment 
charges, outside the concession granted by Halifax that allows up to 10% to be reduced 
each calendar year, without penalty. 
Mrs S and Mr Ss issue centres around when they made overpayments, as they believed 
they were entitled to, they expected the CMP to remain at its existing level and not to be 
reduced, which they say otherwise defeated the object of reducing the SM2. 
I can understand the points Mrs S and Mr S make here, but its important to say there is a 
difference between allowing one-off payments to reduce interest costs and any agreement to 
reduce the contractual term of the mortgage. Halifax have accepted Mrs S and Mr S were 
given misleading information initially for the reasons why the CMP was reduced on their 
mortgage, suggesting it was as a result of the earlier repayment of SM3 in February 2021, 
which it wasnt. Halifax have apologised for that and offered a token compensation, which 
was eventually paid to a charity.  
Mrs S and Mr S provided this service with a screen shot of Halifaxs website that states you 
can make a one-off payment, but we will not automatically recalculate your monthly 
payment and argues Halifax havent kept to this. Mrs S and Mr S feel the Halifax internet 
page regarding overpayments makes clear they were entitled to leave the CMP as 
previously paid. 
While I can see what Mrs S and Mr S believe to be the case here, this note is an extract from 
what is a general overview of all Halifax mortgage products and its reasonable to say while 
Halifax may not automatically always recalculate the CMPs thats not to say they cant. After 
all, this is a fixed rate mortgage with a defined term, detailed in Mrs S and Mr S mortgage 
agreement. In the Information about your Mortgage (IAYM) booklet that accompanies 
Halifaxs mortgage offers, it states under  Regular and Lump sum overpayments  on page 
24, the following:
Will overpayments reduce my term?No. Overpayments will not reduce your mortgage term. Whenever we recalculate your 
monthly payment, we will use the reduced balance to work out the new payment over your 
existing term.
If you want to use regular overpayments to repay your mortgage sooner, but dont want to 
formally change the term of your mortgage agreement, remember:
Any recalculation of your monthly payment will include the overpayments. This means that if 
you only pay the new monthly payment, your loan will be repaid over your existing mortgage 
term.
If you would like to permanently reduce the remaining mortgage term, you will need to speak 
to a qualified Mortgage Adviser, who will discuss your current and future plans with you.
So with this in mind, while Mrs S and Mr S were entitled to make the lump sum reductions to 
SM2 as they did in October 2020 and February 2021, which reduced the balance and 
subsequent interest to be paid, it didnt mean they were entitled to reduce the term, which is 
what would have happened here, unless that was negotiated separately with Halifax- but 
that didnt happen.  
Halifax made matters more complicated when the first overpayment was made in October 
2020 by Mrs S and Mr S to SM2. At that point, they should have reduced the CMP to ensure 
the mortgage was repaid in line with the existing repayment schedule, in this case by April 
2023. Unfortunately, this wasnt picked up by Halifax, and as a result, I can understand why 
Mrs S and Mr S may have thought the repayments would remain at their existing level when 
the second overpayment was made in February 2021. 
From the information Halifax have provided, Mrs S and Mr S are now overpaying their SM2, 
at the reduced amount of the new CMP of £613.74, this is in view of the fact when the initial 
overpayment was made by them, the repayment of their mortgage wasnt rescheduled, 
although its not clear that has been fully explained to Mrs S and Mr S. These CMPs will 
result in Mrs S and Mr Ss mortgage being settled before the expiry of its term and the fixed 
interest rate. Having considered this, I am satisfied although the amount is still less than 
perhaps Mrs S and Mr S want to pay each month, Halifax are entitled to reduce the CMP in 
line with the remaining term of their mortgage. 
Mrs S and Mr S says they are unclear on how Halifax have come to the monthly CMP figure 
for their SM2 and have asked them to provide an explanation, which they say Halifax arent 
willing to divulge. While I cant tell Halifax to disclose, what they consider to be sensitive 
business information to Mrs S and Mr S, I do think there is an opportunity here for both 
parties to discuss the best way forward, to avoid any further confusion regarding the CMP. 
With this in mind, it might be helpful for Halifax to provide Mrs S and Mr S with a schedule 
detailing the monthly payments needed to meet the remaining term of SM2. This will allow 
Mrs S and Mr S to decide if the benefit of repaying their mortgage off next year, as they say 
they intend to, following the next early repayment charge (ERC) reduction, is in their interest 
to do so. I say this because by repaying back more than they should, as they are currently, it 
could mean further ERCs here. It would be in both parties interests to discuss the best 
options to avoid any charges that arent necessary. 
I agree with the investigator that Halifax could have done more to explain the reasons why 
the CMP needed to be recalculated, but I cant say Mrs S and Mr S have been financially 
disadvantaged as a result of this, nor can I tell Halifax they must allow Mrs S and Mr S to 
overpay SM2 as they wish, for the reasons I have already given.  While Mrs S and Mr S will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of 
Halifax.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman