DRN-3091835
The complaint
Mr G complains that Secure Trust Bank Plc, trading as Moneyway, irresponsibly granted him 
a loan he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In August 2015, Mr G acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
Moneyway. Mr G was required to make 60 monthly repayments of £225.76, with a final 
payment of £330.76 and an optional final payment of £10 if wanted to own the car. The total 
repayable under the agreement was £13,876.36. The agreement was voluntarily terminated 
in 2019.
Mr G says that Moneyway didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneyway dont agree. Theyve 
explained that they asked for wage slips and reviewed Mr Gs bank statements and his credit 
file before approving the loan and that the loan appeared affordable.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Moneyway hadnt 
acted unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr G didnt agree. He said the business hadnt considered cost of living expenses and rent 
alongside the high interest rates he was paying on credit cards and a loan. He said that for 
the last four years he had been living of loans and borrowing from friends.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Moneyway will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the finance, I think Moneyway gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Mr G about his ability to repay. I say this because it looked at his bank 
statements to see what his expenses were, and it asked for wage slips to confirm his 
income. 
However, just because I think it carried out proportionate checks, it doesnt automatically 
mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about what the evidence and 
information showed. 
Ive reviewed the information and evidence Moneyway gathered. Having done so Im 
satisfied that the checks that were completed showed that the agreement was likely to be 
affordable to Mr G. I say that because credit payments were being managed well and there 
was sufficient disposable income for Mr G to be able to afford the agreement. His credit 
cards were well within their credit limits and his current account was being managed well. 
There were no significant recent defaults or County Court Judgements that would have given 
cause for concern. So, I dont think Moneyway acted unfairly when approving the finance 
application.
I understand that Mr G has explained hes had significant financial issues over the last four 
years but Im required to decide if Moneyway were reasonable when they made their 
decision to provide the credit in 2015 and, as Ive explained, I think there was evidence at 
that time that this loan was affordable for Mr G.
I can see that Mr G was also unhappy that Moneyway didnt approve his voluntary 
termination request earlier than they did. I can see that Moneyway were unhappy with the 
signature Mr G provided and I cant say they were therefore unreasonable not to accept a 
voluntary termination of the account until sufficient information had been provided to confirm 
the identity of the debtor. I dont therefore think Moneyway have done anything wrong and 
Im not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman