DRN-4050689
The complaint
Mr W complains that Paragon Bank Plc reported missed payments on his credit file.
What happened
In December 2017 Mr W and his son entered into a hire purchase agreement with a finance 
provider (R). The account was purchased by Paragon Bank in September 2018.
In or around 2021 Mr W discovered that there were arrears under the agreement and that 
missed payments had been reported on his credit file.
Mr W complained to Paragon Bank. He said hed never agreed to be a party to the hire 
purchase agreement and had only agreed to be a guarantor. He said the agreement was for 
a car for his son and he was unaware that his son had missed payments. Mr W said he 
never received any letters about missed payments. He asked Paragon Bank to remove the 
default from his credit file.
In response Paragon Bank said it wasnt upholding the complaint. It said the agreement was 
taken out jointly by Mr W and his son and that they were jointly responsible for ensuring that 
payments were made in line with the agreement. Paragon Bank said it had reviewed the 
documentation it had sent over the duration of the loan, and it could see that it had sent 
letters about the missed payments.
Mr W wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said that this service couldnt consider the 
complaint about whether Mr W intended to act as a guarantor because this took place before 
the date when Paragon Bank acquired the account. The investigator said that Mr W should 
raise a complaint about this issue with R directly and request a final response letter.
In relation to the information reported by Paragon Bank to the credit reference agencies, the 
investigator said that Paragon Bank hadnt done anything wrong because payments had 
been missed and these had been correctly reported.
Mr W didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the hire purchase agreement. This is a joint agreement in the names of Mr W 
and his son. I appreciate that Mr W has raised an issue about his intention to act as a 
guarantor only but as Ive already said, this is something which Mr W will need to raise with 
R, because it was R who incepted the agreement before Paragon Bank acquired the 
account.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the hire purchase agreement is a joint agreement 
in the names of Mr W and his son.
I can see from the payment history on the account that payments were missed, and arrears 
accrued. Mr W says he wasnt aware that his son had missed payments. Because Mr W is a 
joint party to the agreement, hes jointly responsible for payments which are due under the 
account. So, the fact that he wasnt aware that his son had missed payments doesnt mean 
he isnt responsible for these.
Ive reviewed the correspondence sent by Paragon Bank and I can see that several letters 
were sent about the missed payments. Mr W says that the letters were sent to his sons 
address. He doesnt think its fair that the arrears built up for over 10 months before he was 
contacted by Paragon Bank. Paragon Bank has explained that it issued letters to the 
address which was listed as the correspondence address for the account. I understand that 
this was Mr Ws sons address. Paragon Bank says that when letters were returned marked 
not known at this address in June 2020 it undertook a search for the registered keepers 
address and sent letters to that address.
I understand that Mr W isnt happy that he wasnt contacted sooner about the missed 
payments. The terms and conditions of the hire purchase agreement say that all parties to 
the agreement are under an obligation to keep address details updated. So I dont think 
Paragon Bank acted unfairly by sending letters to the correspondence address listed on the 
account. And I think it took reasonable steps to ascertain the new address once it became 
clear that letters sent to the correspondence address listed on the account werent reaching 
the intended recipient. 
In conclusion, Im unable to say that Paragon Bank has done anything wrong. Mr W is a joint 
party to the agreement and payments were missed under the agreement. Paragon Bank is 
under an obligation to report missed payments to the credit reference agencies.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 May 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman