DRN-2342479
The complaint
Mr D says Gain Credit LLC, trading as Drafty, didnt administer his account properly. It 
was very difficult for him to make loan repayments and Drafty hasnt acknowledged two 
repayments that he made. This resulted in his account being suspended and sent to a 
debt collection agency. This is adversely affecting his credit rating.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. Mr D thought the complaint wasnt 
properly resolved after our adjudicators opinion. So the complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. A copy of 
the background to the complaint and my provisional findings are below in italics and form 
part of this final decision. 
This complaint is about one running credit account Drafty provided to Mr D on
6 December 2019. This was an arrangement where Mr D could withdraw up to an agreed credit limit. 
He would need to repay a minimum of 2% of the outstanding balance each month plus any accrued 
interest or charges, or £10. Mr D made some withdrawals from the account, and he was making 
regular repayments to it.
In March 2020 Mr D says he received a new bank card (as his current one had expired) and he tried 
to update this onto Draftys online system to ensure the minimum repayments were made. But, he 
was unable to do this.
Mr D says he contacted Drafty who were also unable to update its system with the new card so it 
advised him to pay by bank transfer. And from what I can see Drafty set up a payment holiday on Mr 
Ds account while this situation was rectified.
Mr D says he made two payments, one of £70 on 26 March 2020 and one of £80 on
31 March 2020. He has supplied a copy of his bank statements that show these payments were made 
to Drafty.
Mr D continued to correspond with Drafty about these payments. But I can see that Drafty sent Mr D a 
notice of default and transferred his account to a third-party collection agency very shortly after this. 
Mr Ds account was terminated on 8 May 2020. Its not entirely clear why Drafty did this, given that Mr 
D was trying to keep his account up to date.
 
And its also not entirely clear to me what happened here with the payments Mr D made in March 
2020. I can see that in May 2020 Drafty acknowledged that the payments above had been made in 
email correspondence with Mr D. But the statements provided dont show any payments made at all  
although the account balance is reducing.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ds complaint. He thought it was clear that Mr D had made payments to his 
account. And so Drafty should credit his account properly with these and remove any adverse 
information from his credit file.
I understand Drafty has taken the debt back from the third party collection agency and has said it will 
remove any adverse information from Mr Ds credit file about this matter. Mr D says there is still some 
information appearing on his credit file about the missed payments.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all of the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Applying these to this complaint 
Im intending to uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Looking at the correspondence it seems clear to me that Mr D had added his card to Draftys online 
system to ensure that the minimum repayments were made. And it seems reasonably established that 
when Mr Ds card expired, he called to update this. But Drafty was unable to add the updated card to 
its system and said that he should pay by bank transfer. As a starting point Mr D should have been 
able to add the new card to Draftys system.
Mr D has provided correspondence from Drafty that shows it did receive the two payments I detailed 
above in March 2020. But its unclear if Drafty credited them to Mr Ds account. Or took into account 
that Mr D was trying to make repayments, but was having difficulty doing this because Drafty couldnt 
update his card details.
So I agree that Drafty shouldve done more to help here. And I think its reasonable to say that Mr D 
wouldve made the minimum repayments into his account if Drafty had acted correctly. And so there 
would be no adverse information on this credit file. I think Drafty has largely accepted this. But Im 
intending to issue a final decision saying that Mr D must ensure Mr Ds account reflects this situation 
Mr D would be in if Drafty had acted correctly. That is the account didnt fall into arrears.
Its also clear that this has caused Mr D some trouble and upset. I can see he has spent a lot of time 
to put this right and it has been very stressful and frustrating for him. So, Im intending to award 
compensation of £250 for this.
Drafty, and Mr D, received my provisional decision. Mr D agreed with what I said and Drafty 
didnt respond. So Im now issuing my final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Drafty and Mr D didnt raise any new points after receiving my provisional decision. So Ive 
reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons.
Ive outlined below what Drafty needs to do to put things right for Mr D. 
Putting things right
Pay Mr D £250 compensation
Ensure all the payments Mr D has made are properly credited to his account
Remove any adverse repayment information on his credit report about this account
If Mr D wants his card to be added to his account to facilitate automatic 
minimum payments Drafty should ensure this is done (if it hasnt been done 
already)My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Gain Credit LLC, trading as Drafty should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman