DRN-2145321
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs T complain that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has turned down a claim 
they made on their travel insurance policy after they cut their holiday short.
What happened
Mr R and Mrs T were on holiday abroad on a multi-leg trip. Theyd planned to fly from France 
on 23 February 2020 to Italy, where they had additional stops planned. They were due to fly 
back to the UK on 27 February 2020.
But Mr R and Mrs T were worried about flying to Italy because of concerns about Covid-19. 
So they called Admiral to check whether theyd be covered if they cut short their trip. Admiral 
told them that the costs of their cancelled and re-booked travel would be covered and that 
theyd need to make a claim once they got back to the UK. 
So Mr R and Mrs T cut short their trip and booked a new flight back to the UK. They made a 
claim for the costs of their unused flights; a train journey and the costs of the new flights.
Admiral turned down the claim. It said it didnt cover cancellation or curtailment claims where 
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) hadnt advised against travel. The FCO hadnt 
advised against travel to the area of Italy Mr R and Mrs T had been planning to travel to. And 
those areas hadnt been locked-down at the point theyd flown home. It said the policy 
specifically excluded claims arising from a policyholder not wanting to travel. But it accepted 
itd wrongly told Mr R and Mrs T that their claim would be covered. So it paid them £75 
compensation to recognise its mistake.
Mr R and Mrs T werent happy with Admirals decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr R and Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld. Hed looked at 
the FCO guidance relating to Italy on the day Mr R and Mrs T had chosen to fly home. He 
noted it hadnt advised against all, or all but essential travel to Italy on 23 February 2020. 
And while 10 small areas in Lombardy were in quarantine, there were no restrictions in the 
areas Mr R and Mrs T had been planning to visit. Italy hadnt expanded its quarantine in the 
northern regions until 8 March 2020 and placed the country in national lockdown until 9 
March 2020. So the investigator didnt think the claim was covered by the policy terms.
He acknowledged Admiral had wrongly led Mr R and Mrs T to believe their claim would be 
covered. But he considered what he thought Mr R and Mrs T would most likely have done if 
theyd been told their costs wouldnt be reimbursed. And he felt it was most likely they still 
wouldve wanted to return to the UK early and wouldve incurred costs in doing so. This 
meant he didnt think Admiral needed to pay Mr R and Mrs Ts claim. He felt the 
compensation itd offered was fair and reasonable.
Mr R and Mrs T disagreed. They said if theyd known their costs werent covered, theyd 
have looked into cheaper options to return home early. They wouldnt have booked the next 
available flight. They felt £75 was a very low amount of compensation, given Admirals error.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Admiral has treated Mr R and Mrs T fairly. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And they 
mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered the terms of Mr R and 
Mrs Ts policy, the circumstances and the information they were given in deciding whether 
Admiral acted fairly.
Was it fair for Admiral to turn down the claim?
The cancelling or cutting short your trip section of the policy includes specific things the 
policy doesnt cover. One of these says:
We will not pay any claim:
Resulting from you not wanting to travel or not enjoying your trip.
Mr R and Mrs T were due to be in Italy between 23 and 27 February. Admiral explained in its 
final response to Mr R and Mrs Ts complaint that itd turned down their claim because the 
FCO hadnt advised against travel to the places Mr R and Mrs T were planning to travel to. 
Ive looked carefully at the timeline of events and I can see that the FCO didnt advise 
against all but essential travel to Italy until 10 March 2020 which is around two weeks after 
Mr R and Mrs T were due to return. And the FCO didnt advise against travel to the places 
Mr R and Mrs T planned to visit either at the time Mr R and Mrs T were due to travel there, 
or at any point during their planned trip. 
While some towns in northern Italy were placed in quarantine on 21 February 2020, these 
didnt include any of the major tourist cities or places Mr R and Mrs T had planned to travel 
to. And Italy didnt expand its restrictions into its northern provinces (which included the 
places Mr R and Mrs T were booked to travel to) until 8 March 2020. It didnt impose a 
national lockdown until 9 March 2020. On 23 February 2020, the major tourist cities and 
places Mr R and Mrs T were due to visit were still open. There werent restrictions on tourist 
attractions, shops or restaurants etc. 
I also note that the policy terms didnt provide cover for cutting a trip short due to a change in 
FCO guidance. But, in any event, the FCO hadnt advised against all but essential travel to 
Italy at the point Mr R and Mrs T decided to fly home or advised against travel to the places 
they planned to visit. And as there werent significant restrictions on the places they were 
planning to travel to, I dont think I can fairly tell Admiral to pay their claim.
Taking all of the above into account, while I can understand why Mr R and Mrs T were 
concerned about the risk of Covid-19 and why they wanted to return home, not wanting to 
continue with a trip simply isnt covered by the terms of their policy. And I dont think it would 
be fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to cover the claim in the circumstances of this case 
for the reasons Ive outlined above. So I think it was fair for Admiral to turn down their claim.
Did Mr R and Mrs T lose out because of Admirals misinformation?Both parties accept that Admiral wrongly led Mr R and Mrs T to believe that theyd be 
covered for their costs if they returned home early. And that it did so before Mr R and Mrs T 
had arranged their new flights. So its clear Admiral made a mistake and I can entirely 
understand why Mr R and Mrs T wouldve been upset and surprised when they learned that 
their costs wouldnt be covered.
But as our investigator explained, I need to decide whether its most likely that Mr R and Mrs 
T have lost out as a result of Admirals misinformation. So I need to think about whether 
theyd likely have done anything differently and if they incurred any costs as a result of the 
misinformation that they wouldnt otherwise have done.
Ive listened to the calls between Admiral and Mr R and Mrs T. It seems clear that Mr R and 
Mrs T wanted to return to the UK. So even if theyd known their costs werent covered, I think 
theyd still have cut short their trip. 
Mr R and Mrs T seem to accept this. They say theyd have come back early but wouldve 
looked for a cheaper way to get home. This leads me to think that theyd always have lost 
out on the cost of the flights and train tickets they didnt use.  And it isnt clear that they 
couldve arranged a return home more cheaply than they did. I say that because even if 
theyd organised a cheaper flight the following day, or had travelled by train, Mr R and Mr T 
would still have likely needed to pay for an extra nights accommodation in France, together 
with meals etc. Theyd also still have needed to pay for the new transport costs to get back 
to the UK.
This means that overall, Im not persuaded Mr R and Mrs T have shown they lost out as a 
result of Admirals mistake and I dont think Admiral needs to pay their claim costs on this 
basis. I do think they suffered a loss of expectation though and that Admirals error led them 
to suffer some trouble and upset. This means I think its fair and appropriate for Admiral to 
pay some compensation. In the circumstances, I think £75 feels fair and reasonable to 
recognise Admirals mistake and the impact it had on Mr R and Mrs T. So Im not telling it to 
pay anything more
.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman