DRN-3056149
The complaint
Mr D complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited unfairly cancelled his car 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D bought an online car insurance policy through Hastings in March 2021. The policy was 
due to start the following month.
On 21 April 2021, Hastings wrote to Mr D requesting more information from him and his wife 
(a named driver on the policy). Mr D provided most of this information but didnt include his 
wifes driving licence details.
Hastings wrote to Mr D again on 10 May 2021. The letter said Mr D needed to confirm some 
details urgently. It said if he didnt provide this information by 17 May, Hastings may have 
to change or cancel your policy. Hastings said it tried to call Mr D the same day but the 
connection was poor. It didnt try to call him again.
Mr D says he didnt receive the 10 May letter so didnt send Hastings the missing 
information. As a result, Hastings cancelled his policy on 18 May 2021. It charged him a £45 
cancellation fee.
Mr D said this was unfair. He also told us this meant he had to take public transport while the 
matter was being disputed. He bought a new policy with Hastings in July 2021.
Hastings accepted that it shouldnt have cancelled Mr Ds policy but should instead have 
removed the named driver. It apologised, refunded the cancellation fee, and offered Mr D 
£30. 
Mr D didnt accept this. His new policy was nearly £100 more expensive than the cancelled 
policy. He wants Hastings to match the original premium.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She thought Hastings hadnt followed its policy 
cancellation terms. She also thought its decision to cancel the policy was unfair. She 
recommended that Hastings pay Mr D an additional £145 for the inconvenience it caused 
him.
Hastings didnt agree, so Mr Ds complaint was referred to me for my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two issues here: the cancellation of the original policy; and the higher premium for 
Mr Ds new policy.
Policy cancellation
Pages 39-40 of Mr Ds policy booklet describe when Hastings can cancel the policy. This 
includes where: You dont send us or your Insurer information or documentation that your 
Insurer reasonably requires to process your Policy. That means Hastings can cancel the 
policy  giving seven days notice  if Mr D failed to provide information when asked.
However, I think Hastings decision to cancel the policy because it hadnt received 
information about a named driver was unreasonable. Instead, it could have explained to Mr 
D that his wife wasnt covered by the policy until he provided this. Im satisfied that if Mr D 
had known this hed have provided this information. I dont think its efforts to contact him 
before cancelling the policy were good enough, especially not calling Mr D back after losing 
connection on the first call.
That means I think Hastings decision to cancel Mr Ds policy was unfair.
I also note that when Hastings cancelled the original policy it retained £101.13 as total cost 
for time on cover. This was 26.2% of Mr Ds premium for just over one months cover. That 
means Hastings decision to cancel the policy cost Mr D about £651. I dont think its fair for 
Hastings unreasonable cancellation to leave Mr D out of pocket.
Difference in premium
Hastings told us there are differences between Mr Ds two policies. Specifically: class of use, 
voluntary excess, named drivers occupation, residency date month for both drivers, annual 
mileage, vehicle value.  
Ive compared the two policies:
I dont see any difference in class of use. Both policies offer comprehensive cover for 
social, domestic and pleasure use.
The voluntary excess (£250) is higher, and annual mileage (3,000 miles) is lower on 
the new policy (zero voluntary excess and 5,000 miles). Taken in isolation, these 
differences would typically lower the premium.
The differences in named driver occupation and residency dates are negligible.
The value of the car is £500 lower on the new policy.
Overall, I dont agree that the differences in cover are so great as to warrant an almost £100 
higher premium.
I think Hastings should pay Mr D £250 to reflect his financial loss (the retained premium and 
higher premium for the new policy), plus the inconvenience this matter caused him. Hastings 
has already paid Mr D £30, so it should pay him an additional £220.
My final decision
1 Based on a rough calculation of five weeks cover as (5/52) x £386.26 = £37.14My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require Hastings Insurance Services 
Limited to:
Pay Mr D an additional £220 to reflect the financial loss and inconvenience this 
matter caused him.
Remove any record of the policy cancellation from internal and external databases 
and ask Mr Ds insurer to do the same.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman