DRN-1984131
The complaint
Mrs R complains (on behalf of herself and the estate of Mr R) that Nationwide Building 
Society (Nationwide) mis-sold her and Mr R, a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out a loan with Nationwide in 2002. They were sold the PPI in connection 
with this loan at the same time. 
Although the loan was in joint names, the PPI only covered Mrs R. It would have provided a 
monthly benefit for up to 12 months per claim if Mrs R lost her job and it would have 
provided a monthly benefit for up to the remaining term of the loan if Mrs R was off work 
sick.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld. Mrs R didnt agree with the 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint. I appreciate Mrs R will be 
disappointed with this outcome but I will now go on to explain why Ive reached this decision.
First of all Ive checked whether Mrs R was eligible under the policy. Based on Mrs Rs age, 
employment and residence at the time of the sale, Im satisfied Mrs R would have been 
eligible.
Nationwide had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs R that the PPI was optional and needed their 
consent before it could be applied to the account. Mrs R says PPI was sold during a 
telephone conversation and they werent given a choice about PPI. She says they were told 
they had to have it to get the loan (despite them having sufficient existing repayment 
provisions) because of Mr Rs age. Nationwide say that PPI was sold during a meeting and it 
was made clear to Mr and Mrs R that the PPI was optional.
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale. So Ive thought about what Mrs R and 
Nationwide have told us and looked to the documents available to help me decide what is 
more likely to have happened during the sale.
First of all Ive thought about whether its more likely that the PPI was sold during a phone 
call or during a meeting. To this end, although Nationwide initially told us that PPI was sold 
on the phone, they have since clarified this and told us that PPI was sold during branch 
meeting. They have provided information which would support what they say. So I think its 
more likely that PPI was sold during a branch meeting.
Nationwide have explained their sales process and provided a copy of the credit agreement 
from the time of the sale. This shows that PPI was described as optional and the cost of 
the PPI was set out separately from the cost of the loan. They say that PPI would only have 
appeared on the credit agreement if Mr and Mrs R had already chosen to take it out during 
their meeting. If they later changed their mind they could still have refused it when it 
appeared on the credit agreement. I note that Mr and Mrs R signed the agreement with the 
optional PPI still on the agreement.
So while I appreciate what Mrs R has told us, based on the information and evidence 
available to me, I think its more likely that PPI was presented as optional and that it was 
only applied to the account because Mr and Mrs R chose to take it out. 
Nationwide say they didnt advise Mr and Mrs R to take PPI and I havent seen any evidence 
to suggest otherwise. This means Nationwide didnt have to take steps to check the PPI was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs R. So for example, they didnt have to take into account Mr and Mrs 
Rs existing repayment provisions or consider whether the policy was affordable for Mr and 
Mrs R. 
However, Nationwide did have to provide Mr and Mrs R with clear information so that they 
could make an informed decision about whether or not to take PPI. In particular, they should 
have drawn Mr and Mrs Rs attention to the costs, benefits and main exclusions/restrictions 
in the policy. 
I can see from the credit agreement that the costs of the policy were clearly set out and so 
Mr and Mrs R would have been able to decide for themselves whether or not the policy was 
affordable for them. 
However, its possible Nationwide didnt give Mr and Mrs R all of the other information as 
they shouldve. But this in itself doesnt mean the PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and 
consider whether better information wouldve put Mr and Mrs R off taking the policy. And I 
dont think it wouldve. I say this because:
- The PPI would have paid out in addition to Mrs Rs employee sick pay and would 
have done so potentially for a much longer period of time. It would also have paid out 
in addition to any redundancy pay Mrs R may have been entitled to. 
- Mrs R didnt appear to have been affected by the main exclusions or restrictive terms 
in the policy which wouldve made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim. 
For example, terms relating to pre-existing medical conditions.
- Mr and Mrs R couldve cancelled the PPI policy at any time without losing out 
financially if they no longer needed or wanted it.
So taking everything into consideration, I dont think Nationwide mis-sold Mr and Mrs R this 
PPI policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R, on behalf of herself and the estate of Mr R, to accept or reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman