DRN-4207443
The complaint
Mr L is complaining about MotoNovo Finance Limiteds (MotoNovo) decision to lend to him  
he says the lending was unaffordable.
What happened
In May 2017, Mr L took out a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo to finance the 
purchase of a car. He paid a deposit of £500 and borrowed £5,800 over a 60-month term, 
with monthly repayments of £141.38, upfront admin fees totalling £199, and further admin 
fees at the end of the agreement, totalling £149. The agreement also included an option to 
purchase fee of £10. Mr L says that at the time his credit score was very poor and he already 
had many defaults. So he thinks MotoNovo shouldnt have lent to him. 
Mr L says he struggled to make payments and had to take a payday loan in order to do so. 
He says MotoNovo became very aggressive chasing the debt. And he had to miss 
repayments to other creditors so he could pay MotoNovo.
Mr L complained to MotoNovo, but they didnt uphold his complaint. They said their systems 
showed Mr L was a self-employed photographer, was married and a homeowner. They said 
the regulations at the time didnt require them to check customers wages  instead they 
relied on the information supplied, along with information from credit reference agencies 
(CRAs) to make a lending decision. MotoNovo said Mr Ls credit score was high enough to 
meet their lending criteria, and that hed signed a declaration to confirm the agreement was 
affordable as part of the process. 
MotoNovos response to Mr Ls complaint included a brief assessment of affordability. In the 
absence of other information they assumed Mr L would have been earning £25,000 a year 
as a photographer and taking home around £1,700 each month. They calculated the amount 
he was paying against financial commitments on his credit file as £762.83, and said that 
after the monthly repayments for the car finance, this would have left Mr L with disposable 
income of roughly £795 per month. They said this should have been more than enough to 
cover other costs of living such as food, travel, insurance etc. On that basis they concluded 
the agreement was affordable for Mr L.
Mr L wasnt happy with MotoNovos response so he brought his complaint to our service. He 
said his earnings were around £8,000 a year rather than the £25,000 MotoNovo were 
assuming and that made it completely unaffordable. He said his credit file would have shown 
overdrafts of over £8,000, defaults on credit cards and loans and a default on a second 
charge on his home for over £40,000. So he didnt understand how hed met MotoNovos 
lending criteria.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint  saying he didnt think 
MotoNovo had carried out proportionate checks. He said if MotoNovo had carried out 
proportionate checks they should have concluded it wasnt responsible to lend to Mr L. So 
he concluded that MotoNovo should refund to Mr L any payments in excess of £6,300 (the 
cash price of the car), together with interest at 8%. 
Mr L accepted our investigators view. But MotoNovo werent happy. They asked to see bank 
statements and asked that we look at other evidence in relation to Mr Ls income. Because 
MotoNovo didnt agree our investigator had reached a fair outcome in the absence of further 
evidence they asked for a decision  and its come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold Mr Ls complaint for broadly the same reasons as our 
investigator. Ill explain below.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as CONC 
what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In summary, a 
firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the agreement without 
having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other obligations, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did MotoNovo carry out proportionate checks?
It seems the only check carried out by MotoNovo before lending to Mr L was to check his 
credit score met their lending criteria. MotoNovo have said Mr L signed to confirm the 
agreement was affordable for him  but Im not satisfied that goes any way towards meeting 
the requirements of CONC at the time.
MotoNovo have referred to the fact that the regulations changed in 2018 and that this 
lending decision was made before that change. But in 2017, when MotoNovo decided to 
lend to Mr L, CONC required a firm to carry out an assessment of the potential for the 
repayments to adversely impact the customers financial situation and to consider enough 
information to enable it to make a reasonable assessment (CONC 5.2.2R). When saying the 
assessment should be proportionate, CONC 5.2.3G said this needed to take into account 
factors like the customers credit history and existing financial commitments.
Mr Ls credit file showed three credit card accounts in default with significant outstanding 
balances, as well as a mortgage, loan and other credit cards on which his payments were up 
to date. Although the defaults had taken place in 2013 and 2014, nearly three years before 
the agreement was signed, this was an indicator Mr L had previously been in financial 
difficulties. In addition, MotoNovo estimated Mr Ls financial commitments as £765 per 
month before taking into account the new agreement. This is a significant amount. Taking 
these two factors together, I cant say it was reasonable or proportionate for MotoNovo to 
make a lending decision without at least gaining an understanding of the amount of Mr Ls 
income.
What would MotoNovo have found?
A proportionate check would have involved MotoNovo finding out more about Mr Ls income 
and expenditure. 
Mr Ls told us his income at the time was around £8,000 per year. And hes sent us his 
self-assessment tax returns which confirm this was the case. This suggests his monthly 
income was around £670. With existing credit commitments of £765, it seems that Mr Ls 
expenditure exceeded his income, before taking into consideration any essential living costs, 
or the proposed new loan agreement.  We asked Mr L for his bank statements for February to April 2017 but he wasnt able to 
provide them  he said the account was closed and he couldnt get them from the bank. We 
asked the bank for the statements but they havent provided them. Mr L told us the account 
became non-operational in October 2020 and was transferred to the banks debt operations 
and then to a debt management company. Hes provided a letter from the debt management 
company dated January 2021 which shows the balance he owed the bank was over £8,700. 
Im aware MotoNovo have questioned us upholding Mr Ls complaint without the bank 
statements. Ive carefully considered this and I think its more likely than not that Mr L didnt 
have significant other income at the time. Instead it seems he was obtaining credit wherever 
he could and living off that. 
Taking all of this together, Im satisfied MotoNovo didnt make a fair lending decision. If 
theyd checked his income it would have been clear to them that Mr L wouldnt be able to 
sustainably make repayments under the agreement. And it follows that they shouldnt have 
lent to him.
Putting things right
Its not possible to put Mr L back in exactly the position hed have been in if it wasnt for 
MotoNovos unfair lending decision. Mr L has had use of the car, so its fair he pays for that 
usage. Im satisfied its fair he pays the full cash price of the car and keeps the car as hes 
now had it for longer than the intended term of the agreement. However, as I dont think 
MotoNovo should have approved the hire purchase agreement, its not fair for them to keep 
the interest and charges. MotoNovo should therefore refund all the interest and charges 
applied to the agreement, treating everything Mr L paid in excess of the original cash price 
as an overpayment. MotoNovo should then add 8% simple interest per year from the date of 
each overpayment to the date of settlement.
MotoNovo should also remove any adverse information they recorded on Mr As credit file in 
relation to this agreement.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding this complaint. MotoNovo Finance Limited must:
(If they havent done so already) end the agreement with nothing further to pay, 
transferring ownership of the vehicle to Mr L;
Refund Mr Ls deposit, adding 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
Refund any payments Mr L made in excess of £6,300, adding simple interest at 8% 
per year from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement; and
Remove any adverse information recorded in Mr Ls credit file in relation to this 
agreement.
If MotoNovo Finance Limited consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of 
my award they should provide Mr L a certificate showing how much theyve taken off so that 
Mr L can reclaim that amount, assuming he is eligible to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman