DRN-3116112
The complaint
Mr O complained his claim was unfairly declined under his home insurance policy with 
Zurich Insurance plc (Zurich). Mr O is a leaseholder at the property.
What happened
Mr O identified a damp issue at his flat and he contacted Zurich to make a claim under his 
policy. A surveyor on behalf of the freeholder visited his property to review the damage in 
December 2020. Mr O said his flat and a neighbouring property had been affected by shrubs 
which had entered the brickwork, causing dampness and water inside his property.
Expert contractors were commissioned by the different parties to report on the cause of the 
damp in Mr Os home. After reviewing these reports, Zurich decided to decline the claim. It 
said there have been several companies appointed and the cause of damage has not been 
confirmed as a one-off insurable event. Your policy covers you for damage caused by 
sudden and unexpected events such as fire, escape of water, and storm. It does not, 
however, provide cover for damage caused by plants, condensation, or ventilation. As such, 
I can confirm that we are unable to provide further assistance on this occasion.
However, Zurich did recognise its standards of service were lower than they shouldve been 
as it didnt meet Mr Os expectations, so it paid Mr O £150 compensation.
Mr O was unhappy that Zurich had another contractor assess his property after hed 
commissioned his own expert to produce a report at a cost of £500 to him. Mr O said the 
repairs to his home are now completed which he said cost him £8,000. Hes asked that 
these costs are refunded as he thinks it should be covered by his policy.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She said she didnt see any evidence 
to support the damage claimed for was caused by a one-off insured event that was covered 
by the policy. She thought it was reasonable for Zurich to suggest to Mr O that he could 
commission his own expert report if he felt it would support his case in proving a cause of 
damage that was covered by the policy. She thought the offer of compensation was fair for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by the delay to the claim. Mr O disagreed, so the 
complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Within his complaint, Mr O mentioned issues he had with other parties. As I can only 
consider complaints raised against financial organisations, my decision can only consider 
whether Zurich has acted in a fair and reasonable way.
I have looked at the process Zurich has followed in validating the claim. When Mr O made 
his claim, it had its contractor assess the damage. Zurich also said its considered the 
evidence provided independently by two other contractors, one of these was commissioned 
by Mr O. I can also see Zurich sent out a second contractor to assess the damage. I can 
understand Mr O was frustrated it did this having commissioned his own contractor, but I 
dont think this is unreasonable. It seems to me that Zurich has tried to gather as much 
evidence as it can so it can make an informed decision on the claim. Therefore, I think it has 
followed a reasonable process.
I have looked at why Zurich decided to decline the claim. Zurich said none of the contractors 
who looked at the damp confirmed that damage was a result of a one-off insured event. 
Zurich said Mr Os policy covers him for damage caused by sudden and unexpected events 
such as fire, escape of water, and storm. It does not, however, provide cover for damage 
caused by damp, plants, condensation or ventilation. As such, we are unable to provide 
further assistance on this occasion and the claim was repudiated.
Zurich added Mr O did advise that as the weather got better so did the damp within his 
home and this is an indicator for rising damp/ventilation/condensation issues. It is the 
insureds responsibility to provide evidence of an insured event however, we have not 
received this information to date.
I have reviewed all the reports / responses provided by the contractors who visited Mr Os 
property. In summary, the reports point to damp, plants, condensation or ventilation as the 
cause of the damage to Mr Os property. As Zurich has provided the conclusion that was 
written in the expert reports, I dont think it has been unfair in its conclusions. None of the 
causes stated in the expert reports would be considered as insured perils in the policy. So, I 
think it has been reasonable in declining the claim.
I havent seen any evidence that Mr O has put forward an argument or evidence that the 
damage was caused by an insured peril. If he had, Im persuaded that Zurich wouldve 
considered this fairly. Zurich said if we receive evidence that the damage has been caused 
by a leak and not as stated in the various surveyor reports, we would of course be happy to 
consider the claim further but based on the information provided by all parties, we do not 
believe a leak is the cause of the damage. I think this is a reasonable position for Zurich to 
take, as the evidence doesnt show an insured event has occurred, however, if Mr O 
provides any new evidence an insured event has occurred, it would only be fair for Zurich to 
be given the opportunity to consider this. 
Zurich has paid Mr O £150 in compensation as it didnt think it met Mr Os expectations 
when dealing with the claim. Having reviewed whats happened, I think this payment is fair. I 
have seen there have been some delays in concluding the claim. However, I think some of 
the delays were down to other parties in supporting the resolution of the damp issue, such 
as clearing away the vegetation / disputing who was responsible. Naturally, having several 
contractors review the damage would also have delayed matters  but as two of these 
reports werent commissioned by Zurich, I cant hold it accountable. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Zurich Insurance plc to do 
anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman