DRN-3152944
The complaint
Mr S complains that U Drive Cover Ltd unfairly charged him a cancellation fee and was slow 
to refund his deposit for a motor insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2021, Mr S looked for a motor insurance policy via an online comparison site. 
He found a quote he was happy with and paid U Drive, an insurance intermediary, £360 
deposit towards the premium. 
When U Drive carried out some checks it said it found anomalies in the information Mr S 
had provided. This meant the quoted price wasnt available and it tried to find Mr S an 
alternative policy. The one it found was over £2,000 more expensive than the previous 
policy. 
Mr S said he found a cheaper deal, so he asked U Drive to cancel the new policy and refund 
his deposit. U Drive agreed to refund the deposit but charged Mr S a £75 cancellation fee. It 
told him:
He hadnt disclosed claims in August 2019 and February 2020, and the date of the 
claim hed disclosed in July 2019 was wrong. 
This meant U Drive couldnt get the policy it originally quoted, so it referred back to its 
panel of insurers to find an alternative. 
Mr S cancelled after he asked U Drive to arrange a policy for him so U Drive charged 
a cancellation fee, in line with its business terms. 
It refunded his deposit within 30 days, again in line with its business terms.
Mr S brought his complaint to us. Hes unhappy that U Drive wouldnt refund the cancellation 
fee and that it took too long to refund his deposit. After we got involved, U Drive agreed to 
refund the cancellation fee.
Our investigator was satisfied that U Drives decision to refund the cancellation fee was fair. 
She found that it refunded Mr Ss deposit within 20 days and thought this was reasonable.
Mr S disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two issues here: the cancellation fee and the deposit. Ive considered both below.
The cancellation fee
U Drives Business terms say: There will be a £75.00 cancellation charge if you ask us to 
arrange a policy for you and then change your mind before it starts." 
It told Mr S this covers some of the cost involved in firstly setting up the policy and 
subsequently cancelling. As soon as a policy is taken out we have IT and aggregator to pay 
so the charge cover some of but not all of these costs.
I understand why Mr S didnt want to take up the policy through U Drive. He was initially 
quoted an annual premium of just over £1,700 but the cheapest policy U Drive found would 
have cost him more than £3,700. This appears to have been because Mr S failed to disclose 
key information in his application. I know Mr S disagrees with this but its clear the additional 
checks it carried out meant the original policy was no longer available.
However, its clear from U Drives evidence to us that the initial policy was never set up. 
While I dont doubt that U Drive carried out some work on Mr Ss behalf in carrying out the 
validation checks, I dont see that there was much that needed to be unwound or that U 
Drive would have incurred any third party costs in this case. 
In the circumstances, Im not persuaded that it was fair for U Drive to enforce this charge. Im 
pleased it eventually agreed to refund this.
The deposit
U Drives business terms say a refund can take up to 30 working days. The 30-day period 
recognises that part of the refund process is outside U Drives control. For example, once its 
paid the insurer its reliant on the insurer refunding this before it can refund the customer. 
And thats broadly what U Drive told Mr S: We must firstly contact the Insurers to take out a 
policy and then cancel it, then wait for the funds to be returned to us, so unfortunately this 
does take some time.
Mr S asked for his deposit to be refunded on 15 February 2021. U Drive refunded him 18 
days later (14 working days), on 5 March 2021. Im satisfied that it did this within the 30 days 
allowed by its business terms, so I dont uphold this part of Mr Ss complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint about the cancellation fee. As U Drive Cover 
Ltd has refunded this, I wont be asking it to do any more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.  
Simon Begley
Ombudsman