DRN-3883578
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with how West Bay Insurance Plc dealt with a claim he made for a repair to 
his laptop under a warranty policy.
West Bay are the underwriters of this policy i.e., the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns 
the actions of the agent. As West Bay have accepted they are accountable for the actions of 
the agent, in my decision, any reference to West Bay includes the actions of the agent.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It has been acknowledged there were issues with online claims correctly recording on 
the business system. This would have caused Mr R frustration as he did not receive 
the expected follow up regarding his claim.
Mr R had to make contact with the business via other means to ensure his claim 
moved forward.  While West Bay was able to get the claim back on track in a timely 
manner this doesnt negate the frustration Mr R would have been caused.
The repair was not completed correctly as the damage to the USB port was 
overlooked. While Mr R purchased a new laptop and didnt need to proceed with a 
further repair, this again doesnt negate the fact the service he received here was 
poor. 
West Bay offered compensation equivalent to the £31.90 Mr R would have needed to 
pay in outstanding premiums. However, I dont think this is sufficient to reflect the 
trouble and upset the service failings had here. I think a payment of £75 
compensation is fair and reasonable.
For these reasons I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
Im unclear if West Bay has already made the compensation payment of £31.90 to Mr R. 
However, it should make sure he receives a total payment of £75. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Rs complaint against West Bay Insurance Plc. I direct it to pay Mr R a total 
compensation amount of £75. If it has already made a part payment to Mr R, it only needs to 
pay the outstanding amount.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman