DRN-2815876
The complaint
 Mr H complains about the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
applied at the end of his hire purchase agreement.
 
What happened
 I set out the background to this complaint in an earlier provisional decision. For clarity I 
repeat it here.
On 12 November 2015, Mr H entered into a hire purchase agreement with MBFS for a term 
of 48 months. The permitted annual mileage was 13,000.
On 25 October 2019 and end of contract appraisal was arranged by the Mercedes 
dealership. Mr H had already acknowledged damaged to the rear left-hand side of the car 
and damage to the alloy wheels. Mr H explained he had already obtained quotes for the 
repair work but wanted Mercedes to assess the damage so he could compare costs.
Mr H says a full inspection and appraisal was carried out and the dealership confirmed the 
total negative equity on the car was £1,100 and this included all the damage and excess 
mileage. He says this amount was confirmed a number of times and he signed the appraisal 
accordingly. He discussed all the options with the dealership including paying a balloon 
payment, taking out a new agreement and returning the car.
After considering his options Mr H decided to return the car. He returned it to the dealership 
on 12 November 2019. Mr H says a further appraisal was then carried out and he agreed the 
same damages as noted previously and signed the appraisal form.
Around four weeks later Mr H received an invoice for £5,495.49, after a further inspection 
had been carried out by British Car Auctions (BCA). Alarmed at receiving an invoice five 
times the amount he thought he had agreed he complained to MBFS.
In its final response dated January 2020, MBFS upheld his complaint in part. It said it had 
compared the first inspection and collection report with the subsequent BCA inspection 
report. It agreed there were damages on the BCA inspection report that were not present on 
the first inspection by the dealership. It was unable to determine how or when these 
additional damages were sustained and so it reduced Mr Hs invoice by an amount of 
£1,327.24.
About the £1,100 quote Mr H said he received from the dealership. MBFS said any negative 
equity quote by the dealership regarding a possible part-exchange or deal to obtain a new 
contract was between the customer and the dealership. When Mr H chose not to take out a 
new contract but return the car he would have to adhere to the contractual terms and Vehicle 
Return Standards (VRS). This means the costs he discussed with dealership could be 
different.
Mr H says he was never informed the amount for damages could change or that the agreed 
amount was only valid if he signed a new contract and so he brought his complaint to this 
service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr H. He didnt uphold his complaint. In his view MBFS 
had compared the two inspection reports and identified anomalies which had then removed 
from the final invoice. He found this to be fair and reasonable. He understood Mr H didnt 
dispute some of the damages but felt the original quote of £1,100 should be honoured. The 
investigator didnt agree. He said that he hadnt seen any evidence of an invoice for £1,100 
and although he understood Mr H was under the impression, he had made an agreement 
with the dealership and for that reason hadnt carried out the repairs himself before returning 
the car. Once he had done so the hire purchase agreement gave MBFS the right to charge 
him for those damages. On that basis, he couldnt agree MBFS had done anything wrong 
and so he didnt ask it to do anything further.
Mr H disagreed. He maintains if the dealership had said the damage costs would escalate 
beyond that of its quote for £1,100, he would have had the car repaired. He feels he was 
denied the opportunity to do so because he was misled by the dealership. He asked for an 
ombudsman review. 
In my provisional findings I reached a different view to that of our investigator.
I explained the finance agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As 
such, this service can consider complaints relating to it. 
Mr H returned his car to the dealership on 12 November 2019. He photographed the vehicle 
from all angles before it was returned. He says the dealership carried out an inspection and 
an appraisal. It said the negative equity, the damage charges and excess mileage, would be 
£1,100. Mr H provided the photographs t this service and I considered them carefully.
I said I wasnt present when the dealership had the conversation regarding the negative 
equity costs with Mr H. I dont doubt his testimony when he says he had acquired repair 
costs and was waiting to see the estimate for repairs from the dealership. But equally, I said 
I can understand that the estimate for repairs may have been discounted if Mr H chose to 
take out a new contract with the dealership. But I said I wouldnt have thought the dealership 
would have been quoting a figure of just over a £1,000 if the damages at that inspection 
were thought to be in the region of £5,000. I can also see why receiving an invoice of five 
times the anticipated amount would have been very alarming for Mr H.
In looking at Mr Hs photographic evidence, I could see visible damage to the left-hand rear 
door and quarter panel. Some scratches and at least two dents. But on the photographic 
evidence supplied by BCA when car was next inspected, on 3 December 2019, some three 
weeks later, the damage appears to be significantly worse in the same area. There are more 
scratches evident and additional dark grey markings on the left-hand door and quarter panel, 
which was not present on the photographs Mr H provided from 12 November.
Im persuaded that the photographic evidence from Mr H, although showing damage, which 
Mr H hasnt disputed, doesnt show excessive damage, such that it would need replacing. It 
seems MBFS cant account for how the damages shown on the BCA photographs occurred 
either.
Ive looked at Mercedes damage charging matrix. It defines excessive damage, such as a 
part needing a full replacement as damage too severe to be repaired. The photographic 
evidence from Mr H, in my view, doesnt appear to be excessive whereas the later 
inspections from BCA would appear to show excessive damage. Im further persuaded that had the damage to the left-hand door and quarter panel been so severe as to need a full 
replacement, the dealership would have brought that to Mr Hs attention at its inspection and 
appraisal. 
So, I said I dont agree its fair and reasonable for MBFS to charge Mr H to replace the left-
hand door and quarter panel. Looking at the charging matrix, I can see the charge to repair 
and repaint dents in the bodywork is £260 and to repair and repaint scratches £210 and so I 
think the replacement charges should be changed to repair and repaint charges. There is no 
dispute about the alloy wheels or the excess mileage charges and so those charges remain.
In my view the following excess mileage and chargeable damages should be:
Excess mileage charges £460.92
Plus, VAT £ 92.18
Total£553.10
Wheel left hand front polished alloy damage £ 115.00
Wheel left hand rear polished alloy damage £   85.00
Wheel right hand front polished alloy damage £   85.00
Wheel right hand rear polished alloy damage £   85.00
Dented quarter panel repair and repaint £ 260.00
Left hand rear door dent repair and repaint £ 260.00
Left hand rear door scratches £ 210.00
Left hand rear door scratches flat and polish £    25.00
Total damages cost£1125.00
Total excess mileage and damage costs£1678.10
I also said I could see this matter has caused Mr H a great deal of trouble and upset and I 
intend to make an award in this respect.
For the reasons I said I intend to uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited to:
Issue a new invoice for excess mileage and damage charges as detailed above
Pay Mr H £150 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
I asked both parties the opportunity to make any further submissions they may wish me to 
consider before making my final decision.
Mr H responded and accepted and accepted my provisional findings.
MBFS did not. It said the photographic evidence provided was not of sufficient quality as to 
detect the detail of the damage. It felt the inspection report provided accurate images and 
details of the damage caused and it asked me to reconsider the evidence.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I thank both parties for their submissions. 
I have considered all the information afresh. Having done so, Ive not been persuaded to 
reach a different conclusion to that of my earlier provisional decision. Ill explain why. 
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider having been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I appreciate MBFS has queried the photographic evidence provided by Mr H. It feels the 
quality of the images and the distance from which the photographs were taken do not show 
the true extent of the damage. So, its important to say that there isnt a dispute here that 
some damages fell outside fair wear and tear and are payable. But I have taken the 
photographic evidence along with two BCA reports and the dealerships quote of £1,100. I 
accept that the dealership quote may well have been influenced by Mr H possibly taking out 
a new contract, but I dont agree if the damage was so significant as to warrant over £5,000 
of costs that the dealership wouldnt have drawn his attention to this.
 
I have also looked carefully at the BCA inspection reports and damages detailed within them 
and there are some significant anomalies.
There are two BCA inspection reports. The first dated 03 December 2019 and it referenced 
damages totalling £5177.39. The second dated 15 January 2020, it references damages for 
£1,318.35. The damages detailed on both reports are the same, what differs is the charge 
for the repair costs.
I dont intend to detail all the costs, but an example would be the first inspection (December 
2019) details the Left-Hand Quarter Panel (dented) needed to be replaced at a cost of 
£2,300. The second inspection report has the same recorded damage, i.e. Left-Hand 
Quarter Panel (dented) but says it only needs to be repaired at a cost of £195.
Im not entirely sure how the later BCA inspection report can cost the damage at a lower cost 
than the first, but there is clearly an issue with how two different inspection reports viewed 
the cost of repair to the damage that fell outside of fair wear and tear.
Im persuaded if the higher costs were necessary the dealership would have brought this to 
Mr Hs attention and the photographic images would evidence extensive damage to that 
effect. On balance I find it more likely that the photographic evidence I have seen shows repairable 
damage and when taken alongside the dealership discussion and the two BCA reports that 
reference different costs, Im persuaded Mr H should pay the lower of the two costs.
It follows that I remain of the view that MBFS should provide a new invoice to Mr H as 
follows:
Excess mileage charges £460.92
Plus, VAT £ 92.18
Total£553.10
Wheel left hand front polished alloy damage £ 115.00
Wheel left hand rear polished alloy damage £   85.00
Wheel right hand front polished alloy damage £   85.00
Wheel right hand rear polished alloy damage £   85.00
Dented quarter panel repair and repaint £ 260.00
Left hand rear door dent repair and repaint £ 260.00
Left hand rear door scratches £ 210.00
Left hand rear door scratches flat and polish £    25.00
Total damages cost£1125.00
Total excess mileage and damage costs£1678.10
  
My final decision
 For the reasons I have given I direct Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited to:
Issue a new invoice to Mr H for £1678.10
Pay £150 to Mr H for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman