DRN-4341447
The complaint
Mr S complains about the deduction for use that Black Horse Limited, trading as Land Rover 
Financial Services (LRFS), charged him when it took back a faulty vehicle he had rejected.
What happened
In March 2021 Mr S acquired a vehicle under a personal contract purchase agreement with 
LRFS. The vehicle turned out not to be of satisfactory quality, and Mr S exercised his 
statutory right to reject it. In February 2023 LRFS accepted that he was entitled to reject the 
vehicle, and agreed to refund his deposit and monthly payments, less a deduction for use 
which was calculated based on a mileage of 20,000 miles. But when the vehicle was 
returned, it turned out that the mileage was almost 24,000 miles, so LRFS recalculated the 
deduction, increasing it by over £800. Mr S brought this complaint to our service. He said 
that LRFS should have honoured its original offer.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He thought that it had been unfair of LRFS to charge 
Mr S for using a vehicle which he said was unfit for purpose. He added as an aside (and 
not as the reason for his decision) that LRFS had charged Mr S a deduction for use of 45p a 
mile, when his agreement said that the charge would only be 14p a mile. But he said that did 
not affect the outcome, as he thought that LRFS should not have charged Mr S anything 
after 20,000 miles.
LRFS did not accept that opinion. It argued that Mr S had not accepted its offer right away 
but instead had carried on driving the vehicle, and so he had thereby increased its mileage. 
It pointed out that its offer letter had warned him that the deduction would change if the 
mileage changed. It suggested that Mr Ss figure of 20,000 miles had probably been wrong 
in the first place, as it was unlikely that he had really driven another 4,000 miles in the short 
time since the offer was made. It said the charge of 14p a mile does not apply when a 
vehicle is rejected; this is only the charge when a vehicle is returned at the end of the hire 
period. LRFS asked for an ombudsman to review this case.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am minded to depart from my colleagues findings, and to endorse LRFSs 
recalculated offer. I will explain why.
My starting point is that Parliament has decided that when goods are rejected because they 
do not confirm to the contract for hire or sale, it is fair for the trader to make a deduction from 
any sums refunded to reflect the use the consumer had of the goods while he had them. 
Section 24(8) of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 says:
If the consumer exercises the final right to reject, any refund to the consumer may 
be reduced by a deduction for use, to take account of the use the consumer has had 
of the goods in the period since they were delivered
The Financial Ombudsman Services usual approach in cases such as this is generally to 
find that traders are entitled to rely on this provision. We can however depart from what the 
law says if we think it is fair and reasonable to do so, provided that we give reasons.
In this case, as Ive said, our investigator thought it was fair to hold LRFS to its original offer, 
which was based on 20,000 miles, and not to charge Mr S for any use beyond that. His 
reason was that the car was not fit for purpose between the time Mr S said he wanted to 
reject the car and when he returned it. The investigator decided that the value of the car was 
likely to be affected by its faulty condition much more than by its mileage, so it wasnt fair for 
LRFS to charge him for the increased mileage during this period. However, I disagree, 
mainly because section 24(8) only applies specifically where goods are being rejected 
precisely because they are unfit for purpose or of unsatisfactory condition. Therefore my 
colleagues reasoning would apply in every case where section 24(8) applies, and not just in 
Mr Ss case. I think that departing from what the law says on this subject should require a 
more specific reason than that.
That is my main reason for deciding that it was not unfair of LRFS to make a deduction for 
use from the refunded payments. But I also think that the distance driven during the relevant 
period is not insignificant. During this time, Mr S had continued to drive the car, since he did 
not have another car and he needed to go on an important business trip. Assuming that the 
original mileage figure of 20,000 was correct, this means Mr S drove the car for another 
3,809 miles during this time. I think that LRFS was entitled to adjust its offer to reflect the 
updated mileage, and it had said it would do so in its offer letter.
I agree with LRFS that the rate of 14p per mile is not intended for the scenario of a car being 
rejected during the hire period, but only relates to when the contractual hire period comes to 
its end.
Taking all of this into account, I am satisfied that LRFS has not treated Mr S unfairly.
There is one other issue. In his complaint form, Mr S told us that he was also promised a 
further refund of £494.51 but that he didnt get it. It is not clear from the evidence I have seen 
what this sum relates to, but I have seen an email from the dealer to Mr S, dated 12 
September 2022, which says that it has paid £484 into his account, and in Mr Ss 
subsequent emails to the dealer he did not say that he had not received it. That sum was not 
deducted from LRFSs refunds (the offer letter sets out how the offer was calculated, and 
this sum was not part of the dealers £1,289 gesture of good will which was set off there). So 
it looks as though he has received the money he was expecting to get.
My provisional decision is that I do not intend to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr S was extremely dissatisfied with my decision. He said it was factually wrong, irrelevant, 
and convoluted. He did not elaborate on which parts were irrelevant or wrong. He said he 
assumed I must be so frightened of LRFS that I did not wish to go against them.
LRFS accepted my provisional decision and had nothing to add.
My findingsI would like to assure Mr S that I reached my provisional findings based solely on the merits 
of this case as I saw them, and for no other reason. He may (or may not) be reassured by 
the fact that a search of our public database of decisions on our website shows that I have 
previously upheld four cases against Black Horse Limited, most recently in May this year.1
Since Mr S said that what I wrote was irrelevant, I have checked his complaint form again to 
remind myself of what he was complaining about. I am satisfied that the essence of his 
complaint was about not receiving the difference between what LRFS refunded him and how 
much he had expected to be refunded. He had expected to be refunded £10,901.26, which 
he told us consisted of £10,406.75, plus an additional service refund of £494.51. On a 
further review of the evidence, I can see that the latter refund was for a service which was 
carried out in January 2023; it therefore cannot be the £484 which the dealer refunded to 
him in September 2022. I apologise for overlooking this earlier.
I have therefore looked again at LRFSs offer letter dated 6 February 2023. It says LRFS will 
pay Mr S £10,406.75, close his account, and update his credit file. It gives a breakdown of 
how the figure of £10,406.75 was arrived at: a refund of his deposit and monthly payments, 
minus a deduction for use charged at 45p a mile (based on 20,000 miles), plus interest, 
minus income tax on interest, plus £300 for inconvenience. It doesnt say LRFS would pay 
him anything else.
The £494.51 service refund was not mentioned in LRFSs offer. I have still considered 
whether I should tell LRFS to refund it anyway. But I dont think that would be fair. The usual 
approach when defective goods are rejected is to put the parties back in the financial 
position they would have been in if the goods had not been sold. In that case, Mr S would no 
doubt have bought some other vehicle, and he would have had to pay for that to be serviced 
instead. So its not really an expense he would not have incurred but for the faults with the 
vehicle. Im therefore satisfied that LRFS resolved his complaint fairly.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
1 https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/decisions-case-studies/ombudsman-
decisions/search?Keyword=%22richard+wood%22&BusinessName=%22black+horse%22&Business
=%22black+horse%22&IsUpheld%5B1%5D=1&Sort=relevance 