DRN-4063843
The complaint
Mr H on behalf of a company of which he is a Director (E) complains about the way in 
which Lloyds Bank PLC handled a request to increase the credit limit on a business credit 
card.
What happened
Mr H contacted Lloyds in April 2021 and requested to increase the credit limit on Es credit 
card. He contacted Lloyds a second time about this in September 2021.
Lloyds advised Mr H that in order to increase the credit limit it would need the account 
mandate to be updated. Lloyds asked Mr H to complete a mandate variation form and sent 
him an email with a link to the form.
There were some issues with the online form. Mr H spoke to Lloyds in December 2021 and a 
manual mandate form was sent to him, which he completed and returned to Lloyds in 
February 2022.
Lloyds said it couldnt accept the mandate because Mr Hs signature didnt match its records. 
Its asked Mr H to attend a branch with identification. Mr H did this but was told his ID couldnt 
be accepted because his debit card wasnt working and that he should wait for a 
replacement card to be issued. When the replacement card arrived H attended another 
branch, who took a photo of his passport and loaded this onto the system. Lloyds uploaded 
the ID to an incorrect reference, so the mandate wasnt reviewed. Mr H contacted Lloyds in 
June 2022 to see what was happening. Lloyds apologised for the error and said that once 
the ID and mandate had been reviewed it would contact Mr H to complete his request to 
increase the credit limit.
Mr H didnt hear anything, so he contacted Lloyds in August 2022. Lloyds apologised for the 
delay and said a manager would call Mr H about the credit limit increase. A manager called 
Mr H in September 2022 and advised him that because of the length of time which had 
passed since the application to increase the credit limit had been made, he would need to go 
through the application again.
Mr H wasnt happy with the way things had been handled and complained to this service.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said that Lloyds had acknowledged that it had made 
errors, which included the failure to respond to the initial complaint within the timescale 
provided, issues with the online mandate form, incorrect advice that Mr Hs ID couldnt be 
accepted because his debit card wasnt working and uploading the ID to an incorrect 
reference.
In my provisional decision I said that Lloyds had been responsible for causing significant 
delays in the process, particularly the delay between March 2022 when Mr H provided his ID 
and September 2022 when the manager called him. I said the delays had resulted in a 
situation where over 12 months had passed since Mr H first made his request to increase 
the credit limit and that the delays meant that Mr H had been caused further inconvenience 
because the application had to be started again. I said that the compensation offered to date 
by Lloyds wasnt enough and that it should pay a further £250.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wished to make 
before I reached a final decision.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision. Mr H said that he wanted a letter of apology 
from the bank and confirmation that the credit limit increase has been approved.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have accepted my provisional decision, so I see no reason to reach a different 
conclusion to that which I have already reached.
I appreciate that this has been a frustrating process for Mr H. Im unable to require the bank 
to approve the credit limit increase because this is a commercial decision that only the bank 
is able to make.
Putting things right
To put things right Lloyds Bank PLC must pay further compensation of £250.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC must take the steps Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 May 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman