DRN-4531551
The complaint
Ms T complains that Lendable Ltd irresponsibly agreed a loan for her.
What happened
Lendable agreed a loan of £5,000 for Ms T in January 2022. The total amount owed was
£8,735 including a loan fee of £420. This was to be repaid at £146 a month over 60 months
(all figures rounded). I understand that Ms T made her first two payments to the loan only.
Ms T said that the loan was unaffordable as she was spending more than she earned at the
time and was reliant on credit. She said Lendable would have seen this had it asked for
more information from her before approving the loan.
Lendable didnt uphold Ms Ts complaint. It said it reviewed her credit file when she applied
and verified her income using industry-standard income verification tools. Its checks
revealed no adverse information on her credit file and she met the affordability criteria for the
loan. It didnt uphold Ms Ts complaint and she referred it to us.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld.
They found that Lendable would have continued with its offer even if it had looked into
Ms Ts circumstances further before entering into the agreement because it seemed the loan
would be affordable for her.
Ms T didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for the complaint to come to an
ombudsman to decide. It came to me and I issued a provisional decision on 30 November 
2023 explaining why I thought Ms Ts complaint should succeed. I allowed time for any 
comments or new information from either party. 
Ms T agreed with my provisional conclusions and Lendable said it didnt have any further 
comment or information to provide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again and, having no new information to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional conclusions. Ill set out my reasons again for upholding 
Ms Ts complaint in this final decision.
As before, Ive had regard to the regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending (set 
out in its consumer credit handbook  CONC) which lenders, such as Lendable, need to 
abide by.  Lendable will be aware of these, and our approach to this type of lending is set out 
on our website, so I wont refer to the regulations in detail here but will summarise them.
Before entering into the credit agreement, Lendable needed to check that Ms T could afford
to meet her repayments out of her usual means for the term of the loan, without having to
borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse consequences.
The checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit (the amount borrowed, for
example) and take into consideration Ms Ts circumstances. Lendable needed to bear in
mind that certain factors might point towards a more rigorous assessment and others
towards a less rigorous one when deciding what type of creditworthiness assessment it
should carry out. Ultimately, Lendable needed to treat Ms T fairly and take full account of her
interests when making its lending decision.
Ms Ts application form records that she was self-employed with an income of £46,000 or
£2,810 a month net. Lendable used a credit reference agency tool which checked the
amount being deposited into Ms Ts bank account over several months for consistency. The
check returned a figure of £1,804 a month with high confidence and Lendable used this
figure in its assessment. Lendable said it didnt ask Ms T for any supporting documentation
such as bank statements or payslips because the figure had been consistent over several
months.
Lendable also said that Ms Ts credit file showed that she was managing her active accounts
well. She held a mortgage, an unsecured loan and six credit cards with balances within their
respective credit limits. Lendable felt Ms Ts accounts were in good standing at the time and
she had not accrued any visible defaults or arrears across any of her accounts in the 36 
months prior to her application.
Lendable provided the information it relied on and Ive reviewed this. While there wasnt any
adverse information shown on Ms Ts credit report, she had almost £18,000 of unsecured
debt in addition to her mortgage. This comprised a large loan with monthly repayments of
£325 and several credit cards. Lendable said that, with this new loan, Ms T would need to
spend around 44% of her income repaying her debts, allowing 56% for living and non-
discretionary expenses. It concluded that the loan would be affordable for her.
As Lendable noted, agreeing this loan for Ms T would commit her to paying a significant
proportion of her (estimated) monthly income on debt for potentially another five years.
In addition, Lendable knew Ms T was self-employed and so would likely have expenses such
as tax and business costs to pay which I dont think it took into account in its assessment.
Altogether, I think Lendable should have carried out a more rigorous check before offering
Ms T a loan so that it could reasonably assess whether or not she had the means to meet
her repayments for term of the loan without difficulty.
Ms T provided her bank statements from the time which show personal and business
transactions. She also provided invoices charged to her business and her tax return for 2021
to 2022. To be clear, Im not suggesting this is the information that Lendable should have
gathered but it is the information I have available and I think its reasonable to rely on this to
understand Ms Ts means.
Ms Ts tax return shows that her gross income from her business in that year amounted to
£20,155 or less than £1,700 a month on average. Her existing financial commitments and
basic living costs as shown on her bank statements came to about £1,000 a month. I havent
cross-checked every business payment from Ms Ts account with her invoices and I
understand that not all of her costs were paid from her bank account, but even a summary
analysis of the statements shows that her business costs (excluding tax) averaged about
£850 a month prior to the lending. 
It seems to me that Ms T was spending more than she earned at the time and I think its 
likely Lendable would have learnt this through a proportionate check and declined her 
application. Ive concluded that Lendable was irresponsible to lend to Ms T on this occasion 
and so I am upholding her complaint. Putting things right
Ive concluded that Lendable was irresponsible to have agreed this loan for Ms T. As Ms T 
had the use of the money she borrowed I think its fair that she repays this, but she shouldnt 
have to pay any interest, fees or premiums associated with the loan or have her credit file 
adversely impacted.
To put things right for Ms T, Lendable should now:
Cap the amount she needs to repay at the capital amount she borrowed, this being 
£5,000;
Consider all payments shes made as payments towards this capital amount;
oIf Ms T has repaid more than the capital she borrowed (which I dont think is 
the case) then Lendable should refund these overpayments to her along with 
8% simple interest per annum*;
oIf Ms T hasnt yet repaid the capital then Lendable should treat her fairly and 
sympathetically which may mean coming to an agreed repayment plan with 
her;
Remove any adverse information about this loan from Ms Ts credit file, once settled.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Lendable to take off tax from this interest. Lendable must give Ms T a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am upholding Ms Ts complaint about Lendable Ltd and it 
should now put things right for her as Ive set out. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2024.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman