DRN-4039223
The complaint
A limited company that I will refer to as L complains about the issues it experienced when 
opening a business banking account with Lloyds Bank PLC. Mr A, a director of L, brings this 
complaint on the companys behalf. 
What happened
The following is intended only as a brief summary of events. In 2022, L applied for a 
business banking account and online banking facility with Lloyds. It appears that following 
this application, two accounts were initially opened. 
The first account was opened in July 2022, then closed in October 2022. Lloyds has said it 
sent L a debit card for this first account, which appears to have been opened in error, and 
then cancelled this. No transactions appear to have taken place on this account. 
Whilst the second account was opened in August 2022, the online banking facility was then 
suspended in error on at least one occasion. Mr A then had to apply for this to be set up in 
October 2022. But as his signature did not match the one Lloyds held on file, this application 
was rejected. Mr A was advised to provide an amended form. 
At this point, Mr A complained on behalf of L. He said that not having the online banking 
facility had lost L a significant amount of money, as it was not able to trade appropriately. 
Mr A was using his personal account to mitigate Ls losses, but he indicated this had caused 
reputational damage  as a new business L was losing clients who did not trust a business 
operating via a personal account. Mr A also said that he had limited the amount of business 
L was carrying out, in order to avoid tax penalties. 
Lloyds agreed that it had not provided L with an appropriate level of service. It apologised 
and offered L £400 for the significant impact the delay in opening the account and 
suspension of online facilities had on L and its relationships with its clients. Lloyds also 
offered to pay for an accountant to balance the books between Mr As personal account and 
Ls business account, to avoid Mr A paying any additional taxes. 
Mr A was not happy with this, and brought Ls complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. Mr A did not consider the £400 compensation to adequately reflect the impact on L. 
He also explained that the situation had caused him to suffer personally. 
However, our Investigator did not recommend Ls complaint be upheld. She thought that 
Lloyds offer was fair and reasonable, and that L had not been able to evidence any financial 
losses that it suffered as a consequence of the problems it had experienced.
Mr A remained unsatisfied, and Ls complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding this complaint, largely for the same reasons as our 
Investigator.
It isnt clear what caused of the majority of the issues L experienced. Lloyds has accepted 
that it is at fault though (other than for the non-matching signatures). So, effectively, this 
complaint is limited to considering whether its offer to put things right is appropriate. 
The first thing I should make clear is that I am only able to consider the impact on the 
complainant. In this case, the complainant is L. I appreciate Mr A has said he has suffered 
distress and anxiety, but he is not the complainant in this case. L is a separate legal entity 
and, as a limited company, is unable to suffer distress or anxiety. 
It is though clear that L would have been inconvenienced by the various issues that 
occurred. Not only did it have to communicate with Lloyds to resolve them, it also had to 
manage its finances in a different way. 
I also appreciate Mr As comments about the loss of customers L may have experienced. 
But L has not been able to actually demonstrate this loss. It is possible that potential 
customers were put off by the fact payments would need to be made to a personal bank 
account. But without anything to substantiate this, I am unable to fairly and reasonably ask 
Lloyds to cover this unquantified potential loss. 
I appreciate Mr A and L will not be satisfied with this outcome. But I consider an award of 
£400, and the offer to pay for an accountant, to be appropriate in the circumstances of this 
complaint. So, I cant fairly and reasonably ask Lloyds to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that the offer by Lloyds Bank PLC is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman