DRN-3206943
The complaint
Mr L complains that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr L was given two loans by Loans 2 Go. He first borrowed £750 in August 2018 and agreed 
to repay the loan in 18 monthly instalments. Around seven months later Mr L refinanced his 
first loan and took some additional borrowing. So, in March 2019, he borrowed £1,000 that 
he again agreed to repay in 18 monthly instalments. Mr L has faced problems repaying his 
loan and a balance remained outstanding when he made his complaint.
Mr Ls complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought the results of 
Loans 2 Gos checks should have led the lender to conclude that Mr L was facing serious 
problems managing his money. So he didnt think either loan should have been agreed and 
he asked Loans 2 Go to put things right for Mr L.
Loans 2 Go didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr L accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Ls complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time Loans 2 Go gave these loans to Mr L required it to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay 
what he owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr L. In 
practice this meant that Loans 2 Go had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt 
cause Mr L undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for 
Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider 
the impact of any repayments on Mr L. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to before agreeing 
to lend to Mr L.
Loans 2 Go gathered some information from Mr L before it agreed each loan. It asked him 
for details of his income, and his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file to assess 
how much he was repaying to other creditors and how he had managed credit in the past.
Mr L was entering into a significant commitment with Loans 2 Go at the time of each loan. 
He would need to make monthly repayments for a period of 18 months. So I think it was right 
that Loans 2 Go wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information 
about Mr Ls financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks 
Ive described above were sufficient to achieve that aim  I think that Loans 2 Gos checks 
were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. And 
that is what I think should have happened in this case.  
The credit check at the time of the first loan showed that Mr L was making extensive use of 
other credit facilities. He had at least ten other active accounts with a combined balance of 
over £9,000. Many of those accounts were credit or store card accounts that were 
approaching their agreed limits. And the results showed that Mr L was in arrears on at least 
two of his loans.
As Loans 2 Go will be aware, consumers that have faced problems managing their money in 
the past, are more likely to face similar problems in the future. But Mr Ls problems werent 
simply in the past  he appeared to be facing very real problems at the time he asked for the 
loan. So I think that Loans 2 Go should have concluded that it would be unlikely he could 
sustainably take on any additional debt  since he was clearly finding it difficult to service the 
debt he already held  and so it shouldnt have given the loan to him.
Mr L faced problems making his repayments on the first loan. He made the first three 
repayments as planned. But he then failed to make any repayments for the next two months. 
After making two further repayments, Mr L asked Loans 2 Go to refinance his loan  taking 
some additional borrowing, but extending his repayment term by an additional 18 months. 
And the monthly repayment he would need to make had increased by over 30%. I cannot 
see any reasonable grounds for Loans 2 Go to conclude that any problems Mr L had previously faced were now behind him, and that he would not only be able to meet the 
repayments he had agreed on the first loan, but to increase the level of his repayments by 
taking additional borrowing.
And the results of the credit check clearly showed that Mr Ls finances hadnt improved. He 
now had at least 11 other credit accounts with a number of accounts either being in arrears, 
arrangements to pay, or in excess of their agreed credit limit. 
So I dont think it was reasonable for Loans 2 Go to give either loan to Mr L. It follows that 
I think his complaint should be upheld, and that Loans 2 Go needs to put things right.
Putting things right
I dont think Loans 2 Go should have agreed to lend to Mr L in August 2018, or March 2019. 
So Loans 2 Go should;
refund all the interest and charges Mr L paid on the first loan 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on the second loan and treat all the 
payments Mr L made towards this loan as payments towards the capital
if reworking Mr Ls loan 2 account as Ive directed results in Mr L effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement. 
If reworking Mr Ls loan 2 account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
Loans 2 Go can use the total refund for the first loan (after the deduction of tax) to 
offset this. And if there is still an outstanding capital balance then I remind 
Loans 2 Go that it should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an 
affordable repayment arrangement with Mr L.
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ls credit file in relation to both 
loans
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to put 
things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman