DRN-2046546
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with Nationwide Building Societys decision to not refund transactions he 
says he didnt make or authorise. He says he didnt receive his replacement card or PIN. 
Hes also unhappy with its decision to close his account.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief summary here - focussing more on the reasons for my decision. 
Mr A opened a new account with Nationwide into which he made two large deposits  
totalling £4,000. He reported his debit card as lost shortly after. Mr A was told to expect a 
replacement card to arrive within five working days. According to the banks records, a 
replacement card was sent to Mr As address. Four days later it received a call confirming 
the card had been received and a request for a PIN reminder was made  which it also sent 
to the same address. Around twelve calendar days later Mr A contacted Nationwide to report 
that he hadnt received his card, but in the meantime, transactions totalling £5,573.73 had 
been made from his account, using his replacement card and PIN, across a three-day period 
taking his account into its arranged overdraft.
Mr A says he didnt make or authorise the transactions. He asked for a refund. 
Nationwide reviewed Mr As claim. It concluded that he had been responsible for the activity 
on the account. It declined his request for a refund  holding him liable for the disputed 
transactions and the debt created. It also decided to close Mr As account following the fraud 
claim. It gave him 60 days notice of the closure. 
Mr A referred the matter to this service, but our investigator agreed with Nationwides 
conclusions. She thought it was more likely than not that Mr A had made or authorised the 
transactions. She concluded Nationwides decision to hold Mr A responsible for the spending 
on his account and its actions in terms of closing the account were fair and reasonable. Mr A 
didnt accept her conclusions and asked that the case be reviewed again by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive reached materially the same outcome as the investigator did, and for 
broadly similar reasons.
My role is to consider the evidence presented by both parties and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. When considering 
whats fair and reasonable Ive taken account of all the relevant information provided to me 
by both parties to the complaint and the relevant law and regulations, guidance, codes of 
practice and good industry practice. 
Id like to assure Mr A Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. The purpose of my decision is to set out my 
conclusions and reasons for reaching them. Im afraid I wont be answering every question in 
detail which Mr A has raised in his submissions. My findings focus on what I consider to be 
the central issues. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it 
on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I 
think is the right outcome.
Mr A has also mentioned in his submissions that it has not been proven by Nationwide that 
the activity was not fraud. Nor has it shown that he made or consented to the disputed 
transaction. Its worth noting that we are an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an 
alternative to the courts. We dont consider fraud complaints in the same way as a criminal 
court might. It is not my role to prove what exactly happened. Where theres a dispute about 
what happened  as is the case here, and the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, we reach our conclusions on the basis of what we consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
The investigator wrote a detailed view that set out in full the facts, the transactions, the 
relevant regulations and the evidence. Both Mr A and Nationwide have read the 
investigators view, so I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of my 
decision.
The regulation that is relevant when considering Mr As complaint in relation to the disputed 
transactions is the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs 2017). In short, Nationwide 
is generally required to refund any unauthorised transactions. Mr A says he didnt make the 
disputed transactions and they are unauthorised. So, my primary concern now is to come to 
a view about whether or not I think Mr A authorised the transactions and whether 
Nationwides conclusion that he did was reasonable. If Im satisfied that Mr A did, then I 
wouldnt ask Nationwide to refund him.
Looking at all the facts of this case, I cant know for certain exactly whats happened. I wasnt 
present at the time the disputed transactions took place or when the preceding and ensuing 
events occurred. So, in situations like this, as Ive explained above, I need to decide a case 
on what I think is more likely than not to have happened. To help me decide this Ive looked 
at the evidence of the payments, as well as what both Mr A and Nationwide have told us.
Mr As genuine card and PIN were used to make the disputed transactions  neither party 
has disputed this. However, Im not persuaded that, as suggested by Mr A, an unknown 
third party managed to intercept both his card and PIN and used these without his 
knowledge or consent. I also dont think its unreasonable for Nationwide to conclude that 
Mr A authorised the transactions he disputes. I say this because; 
- The card and PIN were sent in unmarked envelopes  separately. They were sent to 
Mr A at his home address registered on the account. Mr A has explained that he lives 
with family members and that his house has its own secure letter-box. - I appreciate Mr A thinks his card and PIN could have been intercepted at any point 
during their transit from the bank to his home address. But Im not persuaded, and I 
think its less likely, that an unknown third party randomly managed to intercept 
Mr As debit card, somehow found out he had been told by Nationwide to call back on 
receipt of the debit card to order a PIN, was also then able to successfully order, 
pass security and intercept the PIN. I therefore find that it more likely that the card 
and PIN were delivered to Mr A at his home address.
- Mr A left it almost two weeks before contacting Nationwide despite being told when 
he reported the card lost, that it would arrive within five working days. And even then, 
he only contacted Nationwide because hed received an email from them. I find it 
unusual that Mr A didnt make further inquiries at this time and wasnt more 
observant about the time that had passed. More so because he has informed both 
Nationwide and this service that hed recently been a victim of fraud  specifically 
postal interception by an unknown third party. I wouldve expected Mr A to have 
contacted Nationwide when his card didnt arrive within the five working days. 
Whilst Mr A believes he has been the victim of fraud at the hands of an unknown third party. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think it most unlikely that someone unknown to Mr A was able to 
intercept his card, successfully request and intercept on a separate occasion a PIN 
reminder. I note Mr A does not see that anyone living at home or close to him would have 
done so but he has more recently questioned the possibility. However, I also think it unlikely 
too that someone known to him  such as a family member  would have been able to do so 
without his knowledge or involvement.
Mr A has questioned the reliability of the evidence and doesnt think Nationwide has 
investigated the fraud diligently. He says he was initially advised by a member of 
Nationwide, the reason his claim was declined was because hed been sent text messages 
to his mobile. He says he was later told Nationwide hadnt sent any text messages and his 
claim had been rejected on the basis of the pattern of spending/account activity and 
Nationwides belief that it was him who called to order a new PIN and unblock the card when 
its system had identified the activity on the account as suspicious. 
He wants to know if Nationwide had checked CCTV, provided this service with a copy of the 
identification taken in branch and used voice recognition software as he doesnt think its 
enough for Nationwide to rely on just staff thinking the caller sounds like him or notes on the 
system to say his identification was checked. This doesnt conclusively prove it was him who 
visited the branch or made the calls to Nationwide. 
Mr A is adamant that this was not him. Ive carefully thought about everything Mr A has said 
but Im not persuaded this is the case. I agree with Nationwide and think its more likely than 
not that it was Mr A who spoke to Nationwide. I say this because; 
- Nationwides security verification was successfully passed on several occasions. 
- Of course, I accept its possible, as Mr A has pointed out that someone couldve 
obtained all his personal details from companies house. This potentially couldve 
made it easier for someone other than Mr A to pass Nationwides security checks 
over the phone. But when Mr A reported his card as lost on 18 January 2020, he also 
made a request for a PIN reminder. He was told this wouldnt be possible and he 
would need to call back to order a PIN once the replacement card is received. - On 22 January 2020 a call was made to Nationwide requesting a PIN reminder. The 
caller told Nationwide when he reported his card as lost, he was told to call back after 
receiving it to order a reminder PIN. Im afraid I dont think someone unknown to Mr A 
couldve obtained this information in the way Mr A describes. 
- Further, Nationwide also asked high-risk security questions  which I dont think 
someone unknown wouldve been able to easily pass. It carried out this additional 
layer of security to protect itself and Mr A. I appreciate Mr A is upset Nationwide has 
not shared what these questions were and he would like to know specifically what 
they are but I think its reasonable for Nationwide to withhold the details of what these 
checks are as, in the wrong hands, these details could assist fraudsters looking to 
know how to get around its systems. 
- And having listened to several calls that Mr A agrees he did make to Nationwide 
coupled with the content of the disputed calls I do think its more likely it was Mr A 
who spoke to Nationwide, not some unknown third party. 
I note in his submissions; Mr A says had Nationwide obtained CCTV footage, it wouldve 
shown he didnt carry out the disputed transactions. Firstly, CCTV evidence is not available, 
and it would be wrong to make any assumptions about what it might or might not have 
shown. But given my current thinking, even if this were available, I dont think it wouldve 
made a difference to the outcome of this complaint. 
I say this because, of course, its quite possible that CCTV might have identified that 
someone other than Mr A made the disputed transactions. But what it wouldnt prove is 
whether this was done without Mr As knowledge and permission. And the issue I need to 
decide isnt who physically carried out the disputed transactions, but rather were these 
authorised. It is also for these reasons Ive not ascribed too much weight to the difference in 
signatures on the withdrawal slip. Mr A didnt have to make the transactions personally in 
order to be held liable for them under the relevant rules. He can still be held responsible for 
them if he authorised the use of his debit card and looking at all of the evidence in this 
particular case, I dont think I could be as sure as I would need to be to say that Mr A wasnt 
involved. 
Similarly, Ive taken on board what Mr A has told us about being at work when the disputed 
transactions took place, but again this doesnt mean that Mr A wasnt aware of the spending 
nor does it eradicate the possible he provided his card, PIN and security details to someone.
Mr A says Nationwide have not taken into consideration that hes been the victim of fraud 
recently; his post had been intercepted by an unknown third party and other banks have 
accepted his claim. He cant understand why Nationwide have not taken this on board. 
Whilst I can see why Mr A might feel this way, Im afraid each claim is decided on its own 
facts. So, even if another bank has refunded money to Mr A and/or accepted his claim, it 
doesnt automatically entitle him to a refund from Nationwide nor does this alone change the 
outcome reached by Nationwide or the one that I have reached of this complaint.
And while Im aware of Mr As concerns about the extent and scope of Nationwides 
investigation, its not my role to tell it how to investigate fraud cases. On the evidence Ive 
seen, Im satisfied the conclusion it reached wasnt unreasonable. Account closure 
Nationwide is entitled to end its banking relationship with Mr A by closing the account he 
holds with it; just the same as Mr A can choose to end his relationship with Nationwide. But it 
must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and conditions of the account. I can see 
Nationwide followed those in giving Mr A 60 days notice. I appreciate Mr A is unhappy with 
this decision but theres little for me to comment on here. Given Nationwide wasnt happy 
with the conduct of the account it decided to withdraw all facilities and its done so fairly and 
reasonably.
Taking all the above into consideration I think that Mr A probably knows very much more 
about the use of his debit card than he has told this service or Nationwide. Im persuaded 
that its more likely than not, that either Mr A carried out the activity himself or shared his 
card and security information to allow someone to else to carry out the disputed 
transactions. So it follows that I dont think Nationwide acted unreasonably or unfairly in 
holding Mr A liable for the disputed transactions and taking the decision to close his account. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman