DRN-2868846
The complaint
Mr C has complained about how Soteria Insurance Limited dealt with updating the outcome 
of his previous claim under his motor policy causing his premium to rise.
  
What happened
In March 2018, Mr C was involved in accident, where the other driver refused to accept that 
he caused it. The matter went to court in May 2019 and this other driver was found to be 
responsible for the accident. Soteria then received reimbursements of all of its costs 
meaning this claim on Mr Cs record should then be classed as a non-fault claim.
Mr C bought his motor insurance through a broker and renewed his policy with this broker in 
September 2018. But when he renewed it again in September 2019, Mr C saw that his 
premium has significantly increased on both occasions. 
Mr C asked for a refund of what he deduced were over charged premiums given the 
outcome of the court case. Soteria never responded, so he brought his complaint to us.  
The investigator was of the view that Soteria should recalculate the premiums and refund Mr 
C any excess due to the claim. He also thought it should pay Mr C £50 compensation. 
Soteria didnt respond so Mr Cs complaint has been passed to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
Its normal practice in a case where the issue of who was at fault for an accident is still 
unresolved for the claim to be classed as open and indeed fault on a consumers 
insurance record like what happened to Mr C here. However, once it is settled and as it is 
here in Mr Cs favour by virtue of the court judgement, then the premium paid since the 
accident should be reviewed with any extra charged because of the open claim then 
refunded. 
Its clear from Soterias file that although the court case was concluded in May 2019, Mr Cs 
insurance record wasnt amended until October 2019, so after his renewal date in 
September 2019. Soteria hasnt explained why it delayed in updating Mr Cs insurance 
record, but it has accepted it affected his premium amount in 2019.
Soteria also thought there should not have been any significant increase in the premiums 
charged to Mr C between 2017 and 2019. However, there was at least a 30% increase and 
Soteria has provided no information to explain this. Its clear Mr Cs No Claims Bonus wasnt 
affected either, as it was protected. Therefore, I consider its very probable that the extent of 
the increase was solely due to the claim, since nothing else changed with Mr Cs 
circumstances as far as I am aware.
 
So as all of Soterias costs and outlay were recovered on the conclusion of the court case 
concerning the accident in which Mr C was involved, theres no reason for Mr Cs premiums 
to have increased so much over this time period.  So, whilst Soteria has corrected his 
insurance record from October 2019, it doesnt appear it has recalculated his premium 
subsequently, which I consider to be unreasonable. 
Therefore, I consider that Soteria should now recalculate Mr Cs premium from the renewal 
in 2019 and ensure he is refunded the significant increase he suffered which appears to be 
solely to due to this incident. It should also add interest of 8% simple per year from the date 
Mr C paid the increase premium to the date of its refund. 
Given Soterias lack of engagement over Mr Cs complaint initially and the inconvenience of 
him having to pay an unreasonably increased premium I also agree with the investigators 
view that Soteria should pay Mr C £50 compensation in addition. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Soteria Insurance Limited to do the following:
Recalculate Mr Cs premium it charged him from 2019 given the significant 30% 
increase which appears to be due to incident in March 2018 and refund the 
overcharged amount to Mr C.
Interest of 8% simple per year should be added from the date Mr C paid the premium 
to the date of its refund. If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate 
documentation should be provided to Mr C for HMRC purposes. 
Pay Mr C the sum of £50 compensation.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman