DRN-4185983
The complaint
Mrs Ns complaint is about a joint buy-to-let mortgage she is a party to with Barclays Bank 
UK Plc. She is unhappy that despite there being a marital dispute marker on the mortgage 
account, Barclays attached a new interest rate product to the account without her consent. In 
addition, she believes Barclays altered the email address and telephone number it held for 
her during the application process. Shes said the matter has caused her significant stress 
and financial loss.
Mrs N wants a criminal investigation launched into the actions of the joint mortgage holder in 
light of the identity and mortgage fraud he committed. In addition, she wants the email and 
address he provided to Barclays for her to be removed from its records. Furthermore, she 
would like to be sent copies of all the correspondence sent in relation to the application, 
including that sent to her at the fraudulent email account. 
What happened
In June 2022 a new interest rate product was added to the joint mortgage Mrs N holds. The 
change was arranged by the other borrower and Mrs N has confirmed she was not aware of 
what was happening until after the application had been accepted and the change 
completed. She raised concerns with Barclays in July 2022 and it accepted the signature on 
the application form was not Mrs Ns. 
Barclays ultimately upheld Mrs Ns complaint, as the signature on the forms was clearly not 
hers, and there had been a marital dispute marker on the account. As such, the joint party to 
the mortgage should not have been allowed to change any details on the account and 
Barclays should not have processed the change without verifying Mrs Ns signature. It was 
confirmed the new interest rate product could be removed from the mortgage if that was 
what Mrs N wanted. In addition, it was explained that a fraud awareness marker could be 
placed on the account, which would ensure that any contact made was verified. However, if 
Mrs N wanted the fraud reported elsewhere, she would need to contact Action Fraud and the 
police herself  it was not something Barclays did. Barclays offered Mrs N £350 to 
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience she had been caused. In relation to 
obtaining documentation relating to the application, Mrs N was told she would need to make 
a Subject Access Request and was told how to do so.
Mrs N was not happy with Barclays response and referred her complaint to us. When she 
did so, we explained that as the joint accountholder was not a party to the complaint, we 
would only be able to consider the impact of the mistake Barclays had made on Mrs N. In 
addition, we could not consider whether or not Barclays had taken action in relation to the 
joint accountholder. 
The Investigator went on to consider the merits of the complaint. He confirmed Barclays had 
either taken, or offered to take, action to place Mrs N in the position she would have been 
had the product application not been allowed to proceed. This was both in relation to the 
mortgage and Mrs Ns contact details. However, given the background to the situation, the 
Investigator considered Barclays should increase the compensation payment to £500.
Barclays accepted the Investigators view of the complaint. Mrs N didnt. She said that she 
didnt think the outcome was representational of the impact the mistake had, or the long-term 
implications of Barclays continued failures. She reiterated the events and errors on the part 
of Barclays that had led to the complaint being made. In addition, she said that she expected 
compensation in the sum of £5,000 for the emotional turmoil, and long-term emotional and 
physiological impact the mistakes had on her. Mrs N also confirmed that she was receiving 
therapy to deal with the anxiety Barclays had caused her. She asked that the complaint be 
passed to an Ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would initially comment on one of Mrs Ns recent questions. She has asked for information 
about how the Barclays employees who were involved with the mistakes happening had 
been dealt with and what procedures Barclays has put in place. Just as Mrs N is entitled to 
her privacy, so are Barclays employees, as is the joint accountholder. As such, it would be 
inappropriate for Barclays to release information to Mrs N about what it had done in relation 
to the employees or any investigation of, or action taken, in relation to the joint 
accountholder. 
In addition, Mrs N wants to know what procedures Barclays has taken to ensure such 
situations cant occur in the future. This service deals with individual complaints about the 
service customers have received from their financial services providers. We do not have the 
power to tell a firm how to run its business  that is the remit of the Regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority. As such, this issue is not something we can comment on or 
become involved in. 
Mrs N has said she wants a criminal investigation into the other accountholder to be 
instigated. As Barclays has said, in order for a criminal investigation to be undertaken, Mrs N 
would need to report the matter to Action Fraud and the police, as they are the bodies that 
would complete any investigation that is appropriate. 
Barclays has accepted that due to the marital dispute marker the rate change application 
should not have proceeded. As such, I dont need to determine if a mistake has happened, 
rather all I need to consider is what reasonably needs to be done to remedy the situation. 
Barclays has already confirmed that it will remove the interest rate product if Mrs N wants it 
to. That offer remedies the material error, in that it gives Mrs N the option to be placed back 
in the financial position she would have been in, but for the mistake. As such, I will now 
consider the amount of compensation Barclays reasonably should pay Mrs N for the upset 
its error caused her.
Mrs N has explained how this situation has impacted her and believes the compensation of 
£500 the Investigator recommended is inadequate and should be £5,000. When considering 
how much a business should pay a consumer as compensation we look at the upset and 
inconvenience caused by that business and the event being complained about. Mrs N has 
provided some additional information about the background to the situation between the joint 
borrower and herself, and the effect that had already had on her. It is clear that the error by 
Barclays would have added further upset and stress to the existing situation. However, as I 
have said, I can only ask Barclays to compensate her for the effect of the mistake it made, 
and I am satisfied the £500 our Investigator recommended is appropriate in the 
circumstances.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement Barclays Bank 
(UK) PLC should pay Mrs N £500 compensation for the additional upset and the 
inconvenience it caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs N to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman