DRN-2568642
The complaint
Miss K complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) failed to 
transfer her pension savings to a new provider in a timely manner. 
What happened
Miss K held pension savings with HLAM. In November 2019 the new provider informed 
HLAM of Miss Ks wish to transfer her pension savings and provided the required transfer 
instruction signed by Miss K. The new provider told HLAM that, at that stage, it wasnt 
making a request for the transfer to actually be made.
Around two weeks later HLAM started to process the transfer request, sending a 
confirmation to Miss K and a valuation of her pension savings to the new provider. The letter 
that was sent to Miss K informed her that normally transfers of stock to a new provider take 
up to eight weeks, although it noted the timescales could be longer given that HLAM was 
reliant on actions by the new provider and the managers of any funds that were held.
Two weeks later HLAM sent further paperwork to Miss K which she returned around a week 
later. HLAM says that at that time it also checked Miss Ks transfer request was in order. 
HLAM didnt hear anything further from the new provider for some time. HLAM sent an 
updated valuation to the new provider at the start of February 2020. On 2 March 2020 the 
new provider confirmed to HLAM that the transfer should proceed.
The majority of Miss Ks pension investments were transferred by HLAM around a week 
later. And two further stocks were transferred to the new provider in mid-April. That 
completed the transfer of all Miss Ks pension investments that could be held by the new 
provider. But one investment remained that couldnt be transferred. So HLAM sold that 
holding on 24 April and transferred the proceeds from the sale, plus a small additional cash 
balance, to the new provider the following day.
When Miss K complained to HLAM about the time the transfer had taken it pointed out that 
the majority of the delays had been outside of its control. But it accepted that it had some 
responsibility for the delay so sent her a cheque for £250 as an apology. Miss K didnt think 
that compensation was sufficient and brought her complaint to this Service.
Miss Ks complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. Whilst our investigator 
agreed that the transfer had taken longer than HLAM had originally estimated, she thought 
that most of the delay wasnt caused by HLAM. She thought that the payment HLAM had 
made of £250 was fair compensation for its contribution to the delay. So she didnt think 
HLAM needed to do anything further.
Miss K didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Miss K and by HLAM. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Firstly I think it important to note that the transfer that Miss K instructed, and that HLAM 
implemented, was largely in-specie. That means that Miss Ks pension savings were 
transferred to the new provider intact without being liquidated to cash first. I think that is 
important for two reasons. By making a transfer in that way, the risk of any financial losses 
due to delays were significantly reduced. Miss K wasnt out of the market during the transfer 
process. But making a transfer in this way was more complex  and was likely to take more 
time. HLAM was reliant on both the new scheme being ready, and able, to receive the stock 
transfers, and on the fund managers to complete the necessary re-registration.
I deliberately set out in some detail, earlier in this decision, the key events that took place 
during the transfer process. It is true that the transfer took over five months to complete  
that was significantly longer than the eight week estimate that HLAM provided at the start. 
But looking at the various steps that were taken, it seems to me that the majority of the delay 
wasnt due to problems with HLAMs processes. It generally moved onto the next step of the 
process within a week or two of receiving the information that it needed.
In saying this I am not diminishing the frustration that Miss K undoubtedly felt. She wasnt 
privy to the background discussions between HLAM and her new provider. So she would 
have needed to chase both parties on a regular basis to understand why the transfer was 
taking so much longer than the estimate shed been given. That does lead me to conclude 
that HLAM might have been a little more proactive in ensuring that Miss K was kept up to 
date with the reasons for the delay, and given revised completion estimates at appropriate 
times.
But as I said earlier, much of the delay was outside of HLAMs control. So when considering 
the trouble and upset the delays caused to Miss K, I think that HLAMs responsibility was 
somewhat limited. So I think the payment that HLAM has already paid to Miss K of £250 is a 
fair reflection of the compensation that would be reasonable in those circumstances.
So overall I dont think HLAM was responsible for any significant delays in the transfer of 
Miss Ks pension savings to a new provider. And in terms of the responsibility it should bear, 
I think the compensation it paid to Miss K was fair and reasonable. I havent seen anything to 
make me think that Miss K suffered any direct investment losses as a result of the time it 
took for her pension savings to be moved to the new provider.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman