DRN-2942636
The complaint
Mr G complains that a settlement figure, provided by Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc, to 
terminate a financial agreement for a car was inaccurate and so unfair.
This complaint is brought on Mr Gs behalf by a third party but, for ease of reference, I 
shall refer only to Mr G.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr G entered into a 24-month business finance agreement with 
Hitachi for a new car. The car was for personal use. At the end of the 24 months Mr G 
could exercise, if he wished, his option to purchase the car.
Due to personal reasons Mr G was unable to take out a credit agreement that required 
interest to be paid on the amount borrowed. The broker says they negotiated with Mr G 
for him to pay both a deposit amount of £5,000 and a subsidy of £15,000 which was 
retained by the supplying dealer in order to arrange an interest free credit agreement with 
Hitachi.
Hitachi says it was this subsidy payment of £15,000 that meant it paid the supplying 
dealer a lower amount for the car. It then provided an interest free credit agreement by 
increasing the actual amount of credit provided for the car by the £15,000. Both the broker 
and Hitachi say that Mr G understood the nature of the agreement.
Mr G signed the credit agreement that set out the cost of the car as £164,995 and a 
deposit amount of £5,000. The agreement stated that the amount of credit borrowed by 
Mr G was £159,995. The agreement also included the amount of each of the 24 monthly 
instalments, and the optional purchase price in month 25. The amount owing for the car 
and the deposit paid differed from the figures provided by the supplying dealer that stated 
it had received
£20,000 deposit and there was £144,995 to pay.
In March 2020, Mr G contacted Hitachi and requested a early settlement figure, as he 
wished to now purchase the car. When the settlement figure arrived Mr G was 
concerned that, although it provided for the £5,000 hed paid as a deposit, the 
additional £15,000 wasnt included. He complained to Hitachi about its calculation.
Hitachi didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. It said the subsidy payment was made to the 
supplying dealer and did not form part of its agreement with Mr G. When calculating 
the settlement figure Hitachi had taken into consideration the monthly instalments Mr 
G had made under the agreement plus his deposit of £5,000 and, from that amount, 
made a deduction for its usual charges. It said the settlement figure was correct.
Mr G was unhappy with the response from Hitachi and complained to this service. Our 
investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. She said that where a 
credit agreement was silent as to how a subsidy payment made in these circumstances 
was to be treated, it should be considered as an upfront payment of the interest that would 
be attached to the agreement. This meant that where an agreement was to be settled 
early it would be unfair for Mr G not to reimbursed part of that £15,000, as there would 
have been an interest rebate had the agreement contained an interest element and was 
ended before its maturity date.
Hitachi agreed with the view of our investigator and said that, if Mr G still wished to settle 
the agreement for the car, it would provide him with a regulated settlement quote for the 
remaining amount of the agreement, including the £15,000 payment. It also agreed to pay 
Mr G £200 compensation as a gesture of goodwill for the distress and inconvenience 
caused for its handling of his early settlement request.
Mr G requested another early settlement figure from Hitachi who provided him with the 
figure of £111,347 in December 2020. This figure was valid for 28 days. Hitachi explained 
that, in calculating this figure, it had taken the £15,000 as a day one rental, which treated it 
as though it was all the interest paid up front for the agreement, and then applied the 
formula as set out in The Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004.
Mr G disagreed with the settlement figure, saying Hitachi had agreed to include the 
£15,000 into the amount paid by him and so treat it as a deposit. He said that, after taking 
into account the monthly instalments hed paid together with the £20,000, then he owed 
£100,995 to purchase the car.
Our investigator said that, although the agreement was silent as to what the £15,000 
payment represented, she didnt think it was fair for the full amount to be refunded. The 
agreement had been drawn up showing 0% interest, as Hitachi had been trying to 
accommodate the needs of Mr G. She said she thought a pro-rata reimbursement would 
be fair though she thought, in the circumstances, the formula that had been applied by 
Hitachi didnt work here.
Our investigator also said she didnt think it was fair that the pro-rata refund, applied from 
December 2020, when Mr G had tried to settle the agreement in April 2020. He hadnt 
paid the amount provided by Hitachi as the settlement figure had been wrong, and this 
error was due to Hitachi not having properly drawn up an agreement that dealt with the 
£15,000 subsidy payment. It was unfair that more of the £15,000 was now retained by 
Hitachi.
Hitachi explained how it had made its calculation and said that, under the formula set out 
in the regulations, it was required to add 56 days interest which it had done but had 
lowered the capital figure by £15,000. It said that this added interest payment would be 
higher if the calculation was backdated to April 2020, as the capital balance would be 
higher because it would include a refund on any monthly repayments now made by Mr 
G. It didnt agree with the view of our investigator.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint was passed to me. I issued a 
provisional decision along the following lines.
Firstly, I thought I needed to decide what the purpose of the £15,000 payment was and 
whether Mr G had understood this when hed paid that sum. Looking at what Mr G had 
said, he appeared to be treating it as a straight deposit paid towards a car, and that the 
credit agreement was 0% interest. Hitachi said this payment had been arranged between 
Mr G and the broker and, although the whole £20,000 paid by Mr G went to the 
dealership only £5,000 had been treated as a deposit, and the remaining £15,000 had 
been treated as a subsidy to allow Hitachi to actually pay less for the car. Having paid 
less, Hitachi had then added the £15,000 into the amount of credit provided by for the 
car, allowing it to then provide a 0% interest agreement. So, in effect the £15,000 had covered the interest that would have been charged under the agreement.
While I appreciated Hitachis aim had been to provide a credit agreement that was in an 
acceptable format for Mr G, I thought it had been very unhelpful for both parties that this 
credit agreement hadnt reflected the reality of the situation, nor had it made any provision 
for this scenario of an early settlement.
I had seen that the £15,000 had been referred to as a deposit by the supplying dealer, 
though the broker said Mr G had understood it was a subsidy and not a deposit. Id seen 
a message between Mr G and the broker which did suggest there had been some 
discussion between him and the broker about the £15,000.
So, while I appreciated the exact nature of the £15,000 payment may not have been fully 
understood by Mr G, I thought it was more likely than not that he had understood it 
wasnt a straight forward deposit payment. Mr G didnt appear to have queried the figures 
on the credit agreement when hehad  signed it, despite them being different to the 
supplying dealers receipt. In particular the size of the deposit and the amount of credit 
being offered to buy the car had been noticeably different.
And so, I thought it was fair that the £15,000 was treated as an advance payment to cover 
the interest portion of the agreement. This meant that when Mr G requested an early 
settlement figure, he should have been provided with a reimbursement of a portion of that 
money to reflect that the agreement was ending early, and the full amount of the interest 
paid upfront would no longer apply.
Id seen that Hitachi had used the formula set out in The Consumer Credit (Early 
Settlement) Regulations 2004. These regulations apply when a credit agreement is 
covered by the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and set the procedure that a credit provider 
must follow to calculate an early settlement of a credit agreement. It is a complex 
calculation and a computer is used to work out the settlement figure. The regulations 
require lenders to work out the total interest payable as if the loan had remained 
outstanding for the remainder of  the term. That amount is then reduced by giving  an 
interest  rebate  to reflect  that the loan is being repaid early. But the regulations also 
allow lenders to defer the date of the calculation, in this case by a sum equivalent to 56-
days' interest when the loan is for more than  a year. From what Hitachi had said, it had 
applied this 56-days interest to the settlement it had calculated for Mr G.
Using the calculation set out in the regulations here was additionally complicated. By 
using it where it didnt strictly apply, as this was technically a 0% interest agreement, 
adding in an extra 56 days interest, and failing to take into account when Mr G had 
attempted to settle meant that more of the £15,000 had been retained. I didnt think the 
settlement amount was as transparent as it should have been n these particular 
circumstances. The purpose of the regulations was for there to a be consistent 
approach to the calculation of early settlements.
I thought it would be fairer to take a far more simplistic approach. Mr G had paid £15,000 
for a 24- month contract. I thought it would be easier to divide the £15,000 by 24 giving a 
monthly figure of £625 as being the interest element for each month of the agreement.
Id seen that Mr G had originally wished to settle his agreement in April 2020, by which 
time he had paid 6 monthly instalments under the agreement. So, in regard to the upfront 
interest payment he had used six months leaving 18 of 24 instalments (or ) of the 
£15,000 unused. And I thought this amount should be reimbursed to him which equaled 
£11,250. I thought it was fair for Hitachi to deduct that amount from the outstanding 
balance under the agreement.Due to Hitachis handling of this agreement I didnt think it would be fair for it to add a 
further amount of interest to that balance as it had done using the formula provided by 
the above regulations.
I also thought it was fair to take April 2020 as the end date of the agreement, because I 
didnt think Mr G was to blame for the muddle that had occurred as to the correct 
settlement figure. I thought Mr G was entitled to query the figure he had been provided 
with by Hitachi.
I understood that Hitachi had paid Mr G the £200 compensation and I thought that 
amount was fair and reasonable in these circumstances as it reflected the unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr G in dealing with this credit agreement.
So, for the reasons given, I intended to partially uphold Mr Gs complaint. I asked Hitachi 
to refund to Mr Gs account the amount of £11,250 to represent the portion of the £15,000 
paid as advance interest, that would have been due to be reimbursed had there been an 
early settlement of the account in April 2020 as hed requested.
In calculating the settlement figure that applied now, Hitachi would have to take account 
all of the monthly payments made by Mr G and deduct those, as well as the £11,250.
Mr G didnt ask me to reconsider any part of my provisional decision and Hitachi has 
agreed with my view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although neither party asked me to reconsider my provisional decision, I have reviewed the 
evidence and the conclusions I reached. I havent changed my view, and I still think the 
fairest way to treat the £15,000 paid by Mr G towards the vehicle is as I have set out above
Putting things right
When providing Mr G with a settlement figure for the car, Im asking Hitachi Capital (UK) 
Plc to reimburse Mr Gs account the amount of £11,250 to represent the portion of the 
£15,000 paid as advance interest, that would have been due to be reimbursed had there 
been an early settlement of the account in April 2020 as requested by Mr G. And to also 
take account of all the monthly payments he has now made under the agreement.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im partially upholding Mr Gs complaint. Im asking Hitachi 
Capital (UK) when providing Mr G with a settlement figure for the car to reimburse his 
account with the amount of £11,250 to represent the portion of the £15,000 paid as 
advance interest, that would have been due to be reimbursed had there been an early 
settlement of the account in April 2020 as requested by Mr G. And to also take account 
of all the monthly payments he has now made under the agreement.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman