DRN-3257923
The complaint
Mrs E has complained that AmTrust Europe Limited (AmTrust) has not covered a shortfall 
in legal expenses under her motor legal protection policy.
What happened
Mrs E and her family were involved in a traumatic incident in August 2018. Mrs Es car 
caught fire whilst her children were strapped into the back seat. Her husband was able to get 
the children out of the car before it was engulfed in flames.
Mrs E held a motor legal protection (MLP) policy with AmTrust at the relevant time, as well 
her motor insurance policy with a separate underwriter. Mrs E decided to pursue a claim 
against the cars manufacturers who accepted that an air conditioning fault, which led to a 
recall of vehicles, had caused the fire. 
The manufacturers finally settled Mrs Es claim in September 2019 after Mrs E had 
instructed a solicitor. She was unable to recover all her legal expenses from the 
manufacturers. Mrs E therefore went back to AmTrust to request assistance under her motor 
legal protection (MLP) policy, however it declined assistance.
Mrs E complained to this service. Our investigator didnt think that AmTrust had acted in an 
unfair or unreasonable manner. He said that Mrs E or her solicitor needed to have provided 
information and obtained agreement from AmTrust regarding any legal steps she was taking. 
This needed to be provided when the claim was ongoing, rather than after the event. 
Mrs E remains unhappy with the outcome of her complaint and its been referred to me to 
make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The central issue here is whether cover for the outstanding legal expenses, in the sum of 
just over £5,000, has been declined fairly and reasonably by AmTrust in line with the terms 
and conditions of Mrs Es MLP policy.
The traumatic events of August 2018 and on-going difficulties Mrs E encountered in 
recovering her losses have undoubtedly caused Mrs E distress and great inconvenience.
Having looked at all documents, listened to telephone calls and considered the terms and 
conditions of Mrs Es MLP policy however, I cant say that AmTrust has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in applying those terms and conditions. Ill explain the reasons for this.
The starting point is the policy wording. In this instance, the relevant policy terms and 
conditions are very detailed and the relevant extracts are reproduced below for the 
avoidance of doubt: -
The Motor Legal Protection will provide:
- a service (including legal assistance and representation if necessary) to recover any
uninsured losses arising from the accident; and
- cover against the legal costs incurred in pursuing any claim for recovery of such losses
(including any claim for death or personal injury) to the extent that these costs are not
fully recovered from the other party or their insurers; 
It refers to significant features of the policy as follows: -
Following an accident in your insured vehicle we will pursue any uninsured losses and
any legal costs incurred by you in claiming against the third party at fault. We may
agree to appoint solicitors to do this on your behalf
- We will not cover legal costs where you have taken action without getting our agreement 
first or where you cause delay or fail to assist us.
- We can choose someone to legally represent you, called an authorised representative. 
This person may negotiate and settle the claim on your behalf.
- We will not cover legal costs where there are not reasonable prospects of success
greater than or equal to 51%...
Further detailed provisions of what is not covered in the policy include the following: -
6. Any legal costs prior to the issue of legal proceedings other than those of the authorised 
representative we chose to appoint for you
8. The legal costs of the appointed representative which are recoverable from a court,
tribunal or other party.
20. Claims where...You cause delay or fail to respond to requests for assistance from us
Claims procedure and conditions of your policy
1. You must: - 
d. Send all letters, notices and communications regarding any claim made to us...
e. Obtain our consent in writing to pay legal costs for which consent will not be given
unless you can satisfy us that:
i. There are prospects of your claim for the recovery of damages being successful
f. Tell us at once of all offers to settle the claim. Any response must be approved in writing
by us.
g. If requested, instruct the authorised representative to have legal costs taxed by the
Court or certified by the appropriate Law Society as appropriate.
i. Fully cooperate with us and the authorised representative keeping all parties fully advised 
of all developments and giving instructions we reasonably require to the authorised 
representative
2. We can...
d. Appoint an authorised representative to negotiate and settle the claim on your behalf.
If you wish to appoint your own solicitor you will only be able to do so when proceedings
need to be issued. To do this you need to make your request in writing. We need to
be satisfied that they can handle the claim and they need to agree to our standard
non-panel solicitors terms
e. Appoint an authorised representative in your name and on your behalf. You may not
change the authorised representative without our consent.
Legal costs are defined as follows: -
All reasonable and necessary costs incurred by the authorised representative with our prior
agreementHaving considered these detailed provisions I can see that, in principle, the MLP policy could 
have covered Mrs E for her uninsured losses, to include her legal costs. It contained detailed 
conditions however which needed to be fulfilled in order to support a claim for legal costs. 
This included the need for the policyholder to obtain agreement in advance to appoint a 
solicitor, a requirement to provide detailed information and to keep AmTrust informed 
throughout. It also included a requirement to allow AmTrust to assess whether there were 
reasonable prospects of proposed legal action succeeding.
AmTrust said that it had received a telephone call from Mrs Es representative at the end of 
November 2018 and that it provided advice on what she needed to do next. It said that it 
followed this up with a letter in early December 2018. The letter asked Mrs E to supply 
details such as a chronology, confirmation of the amount being claimed, expert evidence and 
copies of correspondence. It said that it didnt receive a response to this letter, or any follow-
up from Mrs Es solicitor as to a claim under the MLP policy. It said that the next activity 
recorded on file was a complaint from Mrs E at the end of 2019.
Mrs Es representative didnt consider it right that a company could take an insurance 
premium for providing legal cover expenses of up to £100,000 and then, in the event of a 
valid claim, renege on its obligations. He said that Mrs E had made it clear in a letter in 
October 2018 that she would be pursuing the manufacturers but might revert to her insurers 
if she didnt receive full recompense from the manufacturers.
He said that Mrs E had provided the details requested by AmTrust in its letter of early 
December 2018, however said he couldnt retrieve this information from the relevant e-mail 
account. The next day, he said that a letter was sent by the underwriter for the motor 
insurance policy stating that its liability had ceased. Mrs E considered that she then had no 
other option but to pursue the manufacturers for her losses in the circumstances.
Ive looked carefully at all the information provided by both Mrs E and AmTrust. Ive listened 
to the telephone call at the end of November 2018 and the letter from AmTrust in early 
December 2018. I note that AmTrusts representative initially indicated in the telephone call 
that there was a possibility that the claim might be covered. The representative advised that 
Mrs E shouldnt meet with her solicitor or incur any costs until cover was confirmed and that 
it was unlikely that any pre-incurred costs would be covered. Mrs Es representative 
confirmed that certain legal costs had already been incurred. The representative also 
explained that AmTrust was a separate entity to the motor insurance policy underwriter and 
that AmTrust didnt have access to its records
Ive seen no evidence that the detailed information requested by AmTrust in its e-mail in 
December 2018 was sent by Mrs E and her representatives or that there were any follow up 
calls or letters from or on behalf of Mrs E. 
I appreciate that its not easy to digest detailed terms and conditions of a policy of this 
nature, especially in stressful circumstances, however Im satisfied that Mrs E was placed on 
notice that there were requirements to be adhered to in order to benefit from MLP cover with 
AmTrust. She was also placed on notice that it was a separate entity from the motor 
insurance policy underwriter. I appreciate that the inter-relationship between AmTrust and 
the underwriter of the motor insurance policy may have caused confusion. AmTrust could 
have followed up the call and letter with a reminder to ensure that Mrs E had understood her 
obligations under the policy, however I dont think that this would have changed the course 
of legal action which Mrs E had already embarked upon. On balance therefore, I dont 
consider that AmTrust has acted unfairly or unreasonably in applying the terms and 
conditions of its policy. I can see that this was a difficult and stressful time for Mrs E, especially in the light of the 
initial traumatic incident in August 2018 and I note that she had the support of 
representatives and a solicitor. I consider however that the telephone call with AmTrust at 
the end of November 2018 was clear and helpful and, together with the letter sent in early 
December 2018, set out the next steps which Mrs E would need to take to proceed with a 
claim. These steps were not taken. Therefore, when Mrs E tried to re-establish her MLP 
policy claim in 2019, AmTrust had not had the opportunity to agree to the type of work 
conducted by, or indeed the identity of, the firm of solicitors acting for Mrs E. Also, it had not 
had the opportunity to assess whether it represented reasonable expenditure. Insurers are 
not reasonably expected to cover legal costs of which it has no knowledge or opportunity for 
input. 
In conclusion, I cant say that AmTrust has acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner in its 
communications with Mrs E or in declining to cover the shortfall in her legal expenses. I have 
great sympathy however for Mrs Es predicament, caused by a traumatic event and 
subsequent claim against the cars manufacturers. I do hope that this final decision can in 
some way help to draw a line under these long-running and stressful events.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont intend to uphold Mrs Es complaint and I dont require 
AmTrust Europe Limited to do any more in response to her complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman