DRN-4120235
The complaint
Mr L complains that Santander UK Plc have unfairly registered a default with the credit 
reference agencies (CRAs).
What happened
Mr L had a bank account with Santander which was overdrawn, but he found out that they 
had passed his account to a debt management company (DMC) and registered a default 
with the CRAs. He says he was unaware Santander had sent him letters as he was 
travelling at the time, and they didnt attempt to communicate with him via other methods, 
and as such he believes they breached their terms and conditions. Mr L made a complaint to 
Santander. 
Santander did not uphold Mr Ls complaint. They said his account had become dormant due 
to no account movements. They said they issued him letters to confirm this and asked him to 
credit the account or facilities may start being restricted on the account.. As they didnt 
receive a response from Mr L they removed the facilities from the account including his 
arranged overdraft which left him in arrears. Santander said they issued numerous letters to 
advise him about the arrears and to contact them to set up an arrangement to clear these. 
As they had no response from Mr L they applied a default, as per their process. Mr L brought 
his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ls complaint. She said Santander wrote to Mr L twice in 
August 2021, asking him to pay into his account to avoid his arranged overdraft being 
removed, but no payments were made so they removed the overdraft facility in October 
2021, which their terms and conditions explain they may do this. As Mr L was in an 
unarranged overdraft, Santander asked him to make a payment to clear this in October, 
November and December 2021, and they explained they may report a default to the CRAs 
and pass Mr Ls account to a DMC if he didnt take action, but no payment was made so 
they defaulted his account in January 2022 and passed the account to a DMC in February 
2022. She said while Mr L said he didnt get Santanders letters as he was abroad, 
Santander followed their collections process in sending the required letters by post. 
Mr L asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he went into great detail about his health, he said he had always received 
important notifications from Santander by text message (and sent us a screenshot of texts 
from Santander) and he detailed his personal circumstances (including his background), 
showing that he had the money to pay off the overdraft at the time, but he wasnt aware of 
the collections position of the account until it was passed to a DMC, and he immediately 
repaid the debt when he knew about it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. While Mr L 
has told us a lot of information about his health and background as part of this complaint, I 
wont be going into detail about this in my decision to help protect his identity, but I can 
assure him I have read everything hes sent to us.
Santanders terms and condition show that Overdrafts are repayable on demand. Subject to 
the Consumer Credit Act, if we do decide to remove or reduce your overdraft limit we will 
normally give you 30 days personal notification of our intention. Santander wrote to Mr L on 
2 August and 24 August 2021 to inform him that his regular credits into the account had 
stopped and the amount of his arranged overdraft limit is partially based on how much he 
paid into his account each month. They said to make sure this isnt removed in the future he 
needed to start making regular credits to his account. But Mr Ls account activity showed his 
last credit into the account was in April 2021, and no further credits were made after the 
letters Santander sent him.
Santander then wrote to Mr L on 23 October 2021. This letter showed his arranged overdraft 
was now £0, and he was in an unarranged overdraft. The letter showed how he could make 
a payment to clear the overdraft, but if he couldnt pay, then to contact them. They followed 
this letter with another letter dated 11 November 2021, which mentioned they may need to 
pass his account to a DMC and inform the CRAs that he defaulted on his account if they 
didnt pay his arrears or contact them. A similar letter was sent on 2 December 2021 and 13 
December 2021.
But as Santander hadnt heard from Mr L and his arrears werent cleared, they issued him a 
default notice dated 24 December 2021. This told Mr L he had 14 days to pay the overdue 
amount. But since Mr L didnt make a payment within the required timeframe, Santander 
registered a default with the CRAs.
Ive considered what Mr L has said about Santander not trying to contact him via alternative 
methods. But Santander are required by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority to 
send certain documents via post, regardless of what preferred communication method a 
customer may have. So here, Santander sent Mr L several letters about the position of his 
account and then a default notice to him. And it would be Mr Ls responsibility to ensure that 
Santander have up to date information for him. Santander would not be required to send 
these types of communication by email or text message. So I cant say that they have done 
anything wrong by not trying to contact Mr L via alternative methods. 
Ive considered what Mr L has said about Santander sending him texts before. The texts 
Santander have previously sent him are related to their alerts service. Santander have told 
us there are three alerts set up on his account. These are alerts that Santander would send 
him when either a high value debit occurs on his account, when his account balance falls 
below a certain amount and when his account balance was close to his overdraft limit. But 
here, Mr Ls balance didnt change from prior to the collections process beginning to the time 
the default had registered. Even the removal of the arranged overdraft didnt change his 
balance as Mr L owed Santander £1,898.46 when he was in an arranged overdraft, and the 
same amount when he was in an unarranged overdraft. So Santander wouldnt have sent Mr 
L an alert regarding the collections process as sending a letter here would be their normal 
process.
Im satisfied that Mr L was abroad at the time and thats why he didnt receive the letters. But 
in order for me to ask Santander to remove the default, Id need to be satisfied they made an 
error in registering the default. But Santander have not made an error here as they did not 
receive a payment or contact from Mr L in line with the letters they sent. So Im unable to ask 
Santander to remove the default.Im aware that Mr L has made the payment as soon as he was aware of the status of the 
account. So Mr L may wish to consider registering a notice of correction with the CRAs to 
explain what happened here. This is a short explanatory note that he can add to an entry on 
his credit file, to explain the background to that entry. So anyone who searches his credit 
report, would see the notice of correction and take the notice into account if they viewed his 
credit file. Prospective lenders will each consider a notice like this differently and it isn't a 
guarantee that they will put the underlying payment information to one side. But given how 
strongly Mr L feels here - it is an option that is open to him. He would need to contact the 
CRAs to do this. But as Santander are obliged to report the default to the CRAs, it follows I 
dont require Santander to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman