DRN-2573045
The complaint
Ms G is unhappy that esure Insurance Limited (esure) provided her with incorrect 
information about her car insurance policy.
What happened
Ms G has a car insurance policy underwritten by esure.
In October 2020, she contacted esure to amend information relating to the no claims 
discount on her policy. 
The number of years no claims was increasing due to a previous accident being declared 
as non-fault. Having updated this information, the call handler told Ms G shed receive a 
refund of £96.46. 
Ms G says she made a separate call to arrange for the policy to renew on 29 October 2020. 
She says she wasnt able to do this at the time of the initial call.
Ms G didnt receive the refund she was expecting and complained to esure. She says she 
was promised a call back but didnt receive one. 
Instead esure sent their final response and explained the call handler had given incorrect 
information. The premium on her renewal had reduced by £96.46 but this wasnt due as a 
cash refund, it had been taken off the renewal price. They apologised and paid £50 
compensation.
They also explained theyd refunded £56.04 to Ms G because shed over-paid on previous 
premiums given what the no claims discount should have been at the relevant time.
Ms G remained unhappy so referred her concerns to this service. Our investigator was 
satisfied esure had refunded the right amount of money and felt the £50 compensation for 
giving incorrect information was fair and reasonable. 
Ms G disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think esure need to do anything more. I know this will be 
disappointing for Ms G but Ive explained my reasoning below.
I dont think theres any dispute here that, after the previous accident was declared non-fault, 
Ms G was entitled to a £56.04 refund on her previous premiums and a renewal price - in 
October 2020 - £96.46 cheaper than shed have been quoted had the accident remained on 
her record as a fault claim.
Thats exactly what esure eventually gave her. So, shes now had everything she should 
have had in terms of refunds and/or reduced premiums. If there was any mistake about his, 
esure have now rectified it.
Its also clear that esure have admitted misleading Ms G in the original phone call when they 
referred to a £96.46 refund. Thats not disputed either. And esure have compensated Ms G 
with £50 for her inconvenience and disappointed expectations.
Im satisfied £50 is fair and reasonable compensation in this case, bearing in mind that esure 
have also put Ms G back in the position she should have been in before the confusion arose 
 i.e. theyve provided her with a refund on previous premiums (albeit smaller than she was 
expecting after the misleading telephone conversation) and theyve reduced her renewal 
price.
Ms G has said she may have looked elsewhere for insurance after October 2020 if shed 
known the true picture, as she had found cheaper quotes. 
However, when the policy renewed, Ms G had a 14 day cooling off period to cancel it if she 
wished to. And she was aware she wasnt going to receive the £96.46 as a cash refund 
before that period ended.
In any case, there is no logic in the suggestion that if Ms G had known the truth earlier, she 
would have shopped around for her insurance. The truth is that her premium is £96.46 
cheaper than before  knowing that was going to be the case earlier would, if anything, 
make her less likely to seek a cheaper alternative.
Ms G has also said she didnt cancel because she was waiting for her refund. But esure 
would still have been liable to refund Ms G for previous years even if she hadnt renewed her 
policy with them. 
Ms G was expecting a call back when she first raised her concerns with esure but said she 
didnt receive one. In their response esure explained theyd tried to call Ms G at the 
beginning of November 2020 but the call was unsuccessful. 
I havent seen any evidence to definitively prove esure made that call. But theyve provided a 
degree of detail from their records about who called and when. So, I think on balance its 
more likely than not that they did try to make the call.
In summary, whilst esure did provide incorrect information, theyve apologised and explained 
where the reduction has in fact been applied and theyve refunded monies due for the 
previous years policies. They paid £50 compensation for their error which I think this is fair 
and reasonable considering the overall impact on Ms G.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman