DRN-2733659
The complaint
Mr L complains about the ongoing service charge he has paid on his stocks and shares ISA. 
He complains he wasnt told about this charge by Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) 
at the point of sale. Mr L also says Nationwide didnt explain to him that the service was 
optional.
 
Mr L also complains that when he met with a Nationwide financial adviser in 2016  and 
explained he was unhappy with paying the charge, the adviser failed to inform him that he 
was able to cancel the service.
In addition, Mr L says that when he complained to Nationwide in 2020, instead of cancelling 
the service it referred him to his Financial Planning Manager (FPM)  and he feels this was an 
attempt by Nationwide to delay him cancelling the ongoing service charge.
What happened
In 2013  Mr L met with a financial planning manager and he was recommended a stocks and 
shares ISA together with a transfer from an existing cash ISA. 
Mr L paid an initial advice charge to Nationwide and he has also since paid an ongoing 
service charge which was regularly deducted from the cash account linked to his ISA. 
Nationwide sent Mr L a customer report in 2014 and then annually as a part of its ongoing 
service. 
Mr L met with a financial adviser from Nationwide in around 2016 on an unrelated matter. He 
explains he told the adviser he was unhappy with the ongoing service charge. 
Mr L complained about the charge to Nationwide in 2020. He said he had been paying 
charges for years for a service that he didnt require, as he hadnt had any advice or needed 
any guidance. 
Nationwide didnt uphold his complaint and said it considered the charges associated with 
his ISA had been fully explained by the Financial Planning Manager at the time Mr L took out 
the investment. It referred to the financial planning report provided to Mr L and the tariff of 
charges also provided.  Nationwide also said Mr L had been provided with updates about 
charges in 2015 and 2016. 
Nationwide said Mr L had been provided with the service as set out in the financial planning 
report. And it said if Mr L had been unsatisfied with that service, he could have taken action 
and cancelled it.   It also said he should contact his FPM if he wanted to cancel the service 
and withdraw his investments. 
Mr L cancelled the ongoing service with the provider directly. 
Mr L disagreed with Nationwides response and referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator considered Mr Ls complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
considered that Nationwide had explained the charges to Mr L at the point of sale. The 
investigator said Mr L was provided with a suitability letter after the meeting which explained 
the ongoing service and referred Mr L to the customer agreement and tariff of charges, 
which were also provided and gave further information.
The investigator said those documents clearly explained the fees and charges applicable to 
Mr Ls investment and he said Mr L had signed the customer agreement, confirming he had 
been made aware of the ongoing service and any associated costs.
The investigator also noted that Nationwide had sent Mr L annual reports as part of the 
ongoing service and those reports made it clear the service was optional. He understood   
Mr L had explained he didnt want to read those reports, but the investigator thought it was 
reasonable to expect Mr L to have opened and read them.
The investigator considered Nationwide had made it clear that the ongoing service was 
optional to Mr L on several occasions over the years. He noted Mr Ls point that when he 
raised the ongoing service with a Nationwide adviser, they hadnt informed him the service 
could be cancelled. But the investigator didnt consider a Nationwide adviser would be fully 
aware of the services provided by a financial planning manager.    
Overall, the investigator didnt think Nationwide should have to refund the ongoing service 
charge to Mr L in the circumstances. 
Mr L disagreed. He said the adviser was a Nationwide employee and should have informed 
him that he could cancel the service. Instead he said the advisor replied, when he raised the 
issue by saying, in effect, ' but you get a service in return for the charge.'
Mr L also referred to a newspaper article that said numerous people had been caught 
unaware by ongoing advisor charges and had complained about them. So, he said, in effect, 
this demonstrated that these charges werent made clear to consumers. 
Mr L said the key issue was why, when he complained about the ongoing service charges, 
the adviser didnt inform him that they could be cancelled. And, if the adviser didnt know 
this, why did he not look into it?
Mr L accepted he signed an agreement that referred to the ongoing service charge, when he 
took out the ISA in 2013. But he said nothing was said to him about the charge at that time 
and Mr L pointed out it wasnt easy to read and take everything in that he had signed.
Mr L said he accepted he received the annual reports, but he never read them as he had no 
interest in them.
The investigator considered the points raised but said they didnt change his view. He said 
unfortunately there wasnt anything recorded to show what had been discussed at the 
meeting. 
The investigator also said he wouldn't expect a member of staff to know the ongoing service 
could be cancelled because it was a service sold by FPMs. He said, from the information 
provided by Mr L,  it appeared he had spoken to a member of staff who wasn't an FPM. So, 
he wouldnt expect that member of staff to be obliged to tell Mr L the service could be 
cancelled.
He also noted that Mr L could've asked for the service to be cancelled.
The investigator said he took into account all the documents provided to Mr L which he 
considered clearly said the service was optional. He said it was reasonable to expect 
someone to read important documents like reports about their investment. The investigator said that as the service was clearly described as optional, this suggested it could be 
cancelled at any time.
The investigator also said if Mr L wasnt happy with the information provided by a member of 
staff then he could've escalated his concerns at the time. 
The investigator noted the service Mr L had paid for had always been available to him 
although he didn't use or benefit from all of the options available.
Mr L referred to the meeting in 2016. He reiterated that hed brought up the issue of the 
ongoing service charge. He said an ISA is a popular product and the adviser should have 
known that the charge could be cancelled. 
Mr L said, in effect, that the investigator was placing a higher requirement on him and  his 
knowledge of the product than on the Nationwide adviser. 
As no agreement could be reached Mr Ls complaint was referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L met with a Nationwide Financial Planning Manager (FPM) in 2013. After that meeting a 
financial planning report was prepared. I think that document was significant as it 
represented  a summary of the recommendations made and the reasons for those 
recommendations. 
Mr L was recommended a stocks and shares ISA and there was an initial fee for that advice. 
In addition, there was an optional ongoing service provided in relation to his investment 
which is the subject of Mr Ls complaint. 
An explanation of what that service consisted of was set out in the financial planning report 
under the title ongoing service. It said it included: 
24/7 access to an online customer portal.
 Complete access to a Senior Financial Consultant through choice of communication, e.g. 
face-to face, phone or email when you want it without the pressure of an hourly fee.
 We will provide relevant updates on news that may impact your plans and options to 
protect your money or optimise potential returns in volatile times. You will of course have 
access to your Senior Financial Consultant should you wish to discuss this.
 We will monitor your financial plans and provide you with a yearly review of them. We will 
also provide you with a full report on your funds on an annual basis providing context on 
performance. You will be able to review this with your Senior Financial Consultant if you wish 
to.
The report also explained that:You can find more information on this service and the charges associated with it in your 
Nationwide Customer Agreement together with the Tariff of Charges I have provided you 
with.
The Tariff of Charges had a section on the ongoing service charge which began:
Ongoing Service Charge
What benefits will I receive under Ongoing Service?
If you choose to receive our optional Ongoing Service you will receive the following benefits 
and services:
So, I think it was made clear that the service was optional.
Mr L also signed the customer agreement referred to in the financial planning report, in 
which he confirmed:
I/we have had the ongoing service and charges related to it explained to me.
In addition, Mr L was sent annual investment reports and they included a section entitled 
what is ongoing service? It then said If you choose to receive our optional Ongoing 
Service It also explained how to cancel the service by either contacting the provider 
directly, or contacting his FPM, or online by completing the relevant form.    
So, I think it is clear on balance that Mr L was provided with information which made it clear 
the charge was optional. I am also satisfied that there was some discussion about the 
charges as Mr L signed the agreement to confirm that was the case. 
I appreciate Mr L wasnt interested in the contents of the annual reports, so he didnt read 
them. But they are relevant because Nationwide reminded him in each report that the 
service was optional and explained how to cancel it. 
Meeting with Nationwide adviser in 2016 
Mr L has referred to a meeting with a Nationwide adviser that took place in 2016. The 
difficulty here is this meeting took place several years ago and there is very little information 
available in respect of the conversation Mr L had with an adviser. Mr L has confirmed he 
doesnt have any written confirmation. 
When Mr L made his complaint in 2020, he referred to the meeting as a discussion he had  
2-3 years ago, he has more recently said it occurred in 2016 but he has been unable to give 
a more exact date. So, we dont have a very specific time frame or date for Nationwide to 
check its records. Nationwide has said it has no record of the meeting. And I have to assess 
whether or not Nationwide has acted correctly against that background. 
What was the purpose of the 2016 meeting?
Mr L has explained that he wanted to see if he could obtain a savings account with a better 
rate of interest. He believes Nationwide wanted to go through his financial position and make 
recommendations as to what he might do.
Mr L has said his recollection is that during the meeting he referred to the ongoing service 
charge and said that he didnt like it, as he felt he was paying for nothing. He says he was 
told that he was getting a benefit from it and that concluded the discussion of the matter. So, while I agree that the adviser could have directed him to his FPM, it appears that the 
discussion about the ongoing advice charge was brief. I think that may well have led to the 
adviser not appreciating that this was an important issue for Mr L.
If the purpose of the meeting had been to discuss the charges on Mr Ls ISA investment, 
then I think this would have changed matters. Firstly, I think it likely that a meeting of that 
kind would have been set up with Mr Ls FPM. And secondly, if instead it had been set up 
with a general adviser, I  would have expected that adviser to have gone away and sought 
that information, or at least pointed Mr L in the right direction.    
But, as this was raised as a side issue during a discussion about something else, I dont 
think it would have been the advisers primary focus. 
Mr L says the adviser should have been aware that the charge was optional. He points out 
that a stocks and shares ISA is a fairly common product. I take on board his point, but I note 
Nationwide had specific personnel who dealt with those types of investments because they 
are more specialised. In addition, charges vary on different investment products with some 
being optional and others being integral. So, I dont think on balance that it was 
unreasonable that the Nationwide employee Mr L spoke to wasnt aware the ongoing service 
was optional.
Information provided
While I agree it would have been more beneficial for Mr L if the adviser had sought further 
information and informed him that the charge was optional, and could be cancelled, I also 
have to consider what information Nationwide did provide to Mr L. I have to take into account 
that in the same year  2016 - he was provided  with an annual review report which stated 
clearly that the charge was optional and how to cancel it. Mr L also received review reports 
in the following years. 
So, while the adviser couldve been more knowledgeable, or gone further to direct Mr L to 
the answer, I consider Nationwide provided this information in other ways. I also dont think it 
was too onerous to expect Mr L to read the reports  especially if he wanted to find out 
further information about how the charges operated on his investment.
I dont think that is putting a higher expectation on Mr L than on the adviser he met in 2016 
because this was his investment  which he had been given specific information about, both 
when he took it out and throughout the time that he held the investment. Whereas the 
adviser was dealing with numerous different products and was not a financial planning 
manager, who wouldve had more specialised knowledge. The adviser also didnt have 
advance notice of this issue because the meeting was set up for a different purpose. 
In addition, if Mr L was really unhappy with paying this charge, he could have taken this 
further and made a complaint. I appreciate he says that he wasnt aware he could cancel the 
service. But I think it likely that if Mr L had taken matters further and made a complaint, he 
would have been informed that it could be cancelled.    Did Mr L receive a service?
Mr L says he didnt receive any benefit from the ongoing service. However, I consider he 
received the annual review reports and access to a financial planning manager. He had the 
option to contact the FPM if he wished to and even though he didnt make use of that option, 
it was available to him. I note the service also provided access to an online portal and 
regular updates on any issues that might impact his investment. So, I consider on balance 
Nationwide provided the service as described in the financial planning report.   
I also note that Mr L has referred to a newspaper article which looked at this type of charge 
and said that a large number of consumers had paid the charge without realising. I take into 
account the points made by Mr L on this issue, but we arent the regulator. So, we dont look 
at a specific type of service and conclude it was a charge that generally wasnt made clear to 
consumers. Instead, we look at the circumstances of the individual complaint and consider 
whether the business has acted incorrectly or unfairly in the circumstances.    
Information provided by Nationwide in response to Mr Ls complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Nationwide directed him to his FLM when it responded to his complaint 
rather than informing him how to cancel the service. I dont think that was an attempt by 
Nationwide to delay Mr L cancelling the service. I think it referred Mr L to his FLM because 
he indicated he might withdraw his investment and this could have financial consequences 
for Mr L, particularly as it was held in an ISA.  I note Nationwide also provided Mr L with 
contact details for the provider and Mr L contacted the provider directly and cancelled the 
service. 
Summary 
Overall, I consider Mr L was informed about the ongoing service and the way it worked when 
he took out the investment and then regularly via the annual review reports. I appreciate that 
Mr L doesnt feel he has received any benefit because he didnt open the reports or contact 
his FPM. But as Nationwide has provided the service and informed Mr L of how to cancel it if 
he no longer needed it, then I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask Nationwide to 
refund the fees he has paid.
I appreciate that Mr L will be disappointed with my decision, but I have to consider whether 
Nationwide has done anything wrong here or acted unfairly and I dont consider it has, for 
the reasons outlined.     
My final decision
My final decision is Mr Ls complaint against Nationwide Building Society is not upheld for 
the reasons outlined. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman