DRN-2898828
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy Santander UK Plc hasnt refunded her the money she lost after falling 
victim to a scam.   
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 21 May 2021. The background and 
circumstances of the case and the reasons why I was minded to partially uphold it were set 
out in that decision. I have reproduced the provisional decision in italics below:
On 4 November 2019, Mrs W received a social media message. It appeared to be from an
old friend, but it was really a fraudster. The fraudster had created an account and was using
Mrs Ws friends name and photograph to impersonate her.
On Tuesday 3 December 2019, Mrs W replied and shared an update of her personal news.
The fraudster replied later that day and went on to ask Mrs W if she had heard of a
Powerball Jackpot lottery. I have provided an extract of the conversation as it unfolded
below:
Fraudster: Am fine doing pretty good, Oh cool I believe all is well Im doing well and it is nice
to hear from you, I have been trying to get through to you lately.
I dont know if youve heard about the Facebook Powerball Jackpot Lottery?
Mrs W: No, whats that? Are you a winner? xx
Fraudster: Oh! I thought youve heard about it because the promotion is going on and it was
made to some Facebook user [sic] in order to benefit from them [sic] so it is a randomly
picked of [sic] profiles on Facebook.
I did won [sic] $100,000 cash prize and while I was giving my signature on the winners list,
I saw your name as a winner too. So I thought I would see if you have gotten yours?
Mrs W: I just had a look around and couldnt find anything. I havent joined, so thats odd.
What does it cost? Were just setting off for a meal out.
Fraudster: I was told by a friend in New Zealand that one [sic] $500,000 also any [sic] many
has benefited from this FB promo you have nothing to worry about.
I guess we are so lucky to appear on the winners list am so excited. I was so shocked when
FedEx came to deliver the money to my house the money was in a parcel and they gave me
some documents and I signed for it
I think you need to contact the Agent to get your cash prize claim from them, should I send
you their contact? [sic]
Mrs W: Yes please. xx
Mrs W received a link to the agents page. The fraudster told Mrs W not to tell anyone about
it. Later that evening, Mrs W replied to the fraudster and confirmed shed contacted the
agent. She said:
Done. Only just home. Is there no subscription? It seems a bit weird. Dont worry, I wont
speak to anyone. xx
The fraudster replied. They said: I was so scared at first too when I saw my name on the
list, I didnt believe it, I was shocked but when I tried it and I won...I was very happy when
I got the money delivered to meSo you have nothing to worry about am sure you wont
regret this, its [sic] once in a life time opportunity
The fraudster contacted Mrs W again the next day to see if she had contacted the agent and
wished her good luck. Mrs W responded to say that she had and that she would keep in
touch.
On 4 December 2019, the agent sent Mrs W a link to check to see if she was a winner.
Mrs W was told that shed won $100,000 but she would need to pay $3950.50 to the account
details provided by the administration department to get the details needed to claim the
prize. The agent said the cash would then be delivered to Mrs Ws door step within 24 hours.
Mrs W has said that she thought the administration fees were reasonable for a lottery based
abroad.
Mrs W asked how much she needed to pay in sterling. The agent replied to say Mrs W
should pay £3950.50 to get £100,000 because the cash prize will be shipped in the currency
of the winners country. Mrs W made an online banking transfer of £3950.50 to the bank
account details the agent had provided. She confirmed her address but asked to receive the
prize money by bank transfer instead. The agent initially agreed and took Mrs Ws bank
details.
On 5 December 2019 the agent contacted Mrs W to say that it wasnt possible for the
winning prize to be electronically transferred out of the USA. Mrs W was told that a parcel
containing the cash would be shipped to her but she would have to pay a customs payment.
On 6 December 2019 Mrs W was required to make a payment of £8,000 which she was told
was to pay tax due so that the package could be released from America.
At 14:41 she gave an update to the fraudster posing as her friend:
Mrs W: Another holdup. £8000 American tax to pay. Scary but they say theyll refund it. xx
At 14:54, Mrs W logged into her online banking and made the payment.
At 17:54 the fraudster replied: Yes they will refund it because they also refund mine when
IRS intercepted my cash prize and I paid for it to get it released.
At 19:50, Mrs W said Thanks, that makes me feel better. xx
Later that evening, the fraudster replied with a thumbs up symbol.Mrs W sent the fraudster an update on Sunday 8 December 2019 to say the money was
supposed to be arriving in the UK the next afternoon. The fraudster didnt reply.
First thing on Monday morning, the agent contacted Mrs W and said that the package was
now with Australian customs and that she needed to pay clearance and insurance fees for
the package to be passed to the courier. The agent explained that Mrs W needed to pay
£4,050 in total and then the package would be released to the courier for same day delivery.
The agent said the money would be refunded to Mrs W once she had received the cash
prize and that 15% interest would be paid to her on the £4,050 three days later.
Mrs W followed the agents instructions and made an international payment and sent £4,050
to a bank based in South Africa. Mrs W also sent a message to the fraudster: Final release
payment gone to South Africa! Eek, this had better work !! The fraudster did not reply.
Mrs W wasnt sure if the money had been sent. She checked it with Santander and then told
the agent to expect the funds to arrive on Tuesday. She told the agent Thursday would be
the best time for the package to arrive.
Mrs W told someone at her social club about the win. They suggested there might be tax
implications for Mrs W following the win, so she decided to ring her old accountant to discuss
it further. The scam came to light on Tuesday 10 December 2019 when her accountant
expressed concern.
Mrs W explains that she phoned Santander straight away but was told to wait a further two
days before reporting the scam in case a package containing cash arrived. Mrs W contacted
the Police and the scam was ultimately reported to the bank the following day. Santander
then tried to recover the funds Mrs W had sent, but none remained.
Mrs W thought Santander could be liable for reimbursing her losses and raised a claim. She
explained to the bank that she thought she was paying legitimate fees due such as tax and
customs charges. She pointed out that she had no prior experience of claiming overseas
lottery wins but assumed that as her friend lives abroad, there must be a winner in each
country. Mrs W said that she did not discuss the win with her family as she wanted to
surprise them with the money and then help them financially. She points out that she thought
messaging on the social media website was safe and secure and that she did not know it
was possible for accounts to be hacked. Santander turned down Mrs Ws claim and said it
was not responsible for her loss.
Mrs W was unhappy with the banks decision and raised a complaint. Santander issued its
final response on 10 February 2020. It did not uphold Mrs Ws complaint. It felt it had taken
measures to protect her and that it had provided her with understandable warnings regarding
scams. It went on to offer Mrs W £50 compensation to recognise it had provided poor
service to her when she first reported the scam.
As Mrs W was unhappy with Santanders response, she referred her complaint to this
service. One of our investigators considered the matter and recommended it should be
upheld in full. He noted that Santander is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM or the CRM Code) and so considered its
obligations under it.
He suggested that Santander had not been able to establish that Mrs W had ignored an
effective warning or that shed made payments without a reasonable basis for belief. He also
thought that Santander should have done more to step in and had missed opportunities
which would have prevented the scam. He concluded Santander should reimburse all of the
funds Mrs W sent, along with interest at the rate of 8% simple on each payment from the
date it was made to the date of settlement.Santander disagreed. It felt Mrs W had a part to play by taking care to pay attention to the
warnings provided by the bank and suggested that she did not have a reasonable basis for
believing the situation was genuine. It highlighted what it considered to be an implausible
situation overall, such as Mrs W potentially expecting to receive £100,000 in notes in a
parcel and Mrs W having won a significant lottery prize despite not having formally entered
or selected any numbers at any point.
It pointed out there was no explanation why Mrs W had willingly paid tax charges to different
people and not directly to government agencies. It pointed out that when the bank had
researched the Facebook Powerball Jackpot Lottery online the first result that came up was
about a scam, so it was unclear what checks Mrs W had made. It also pointed out that it
wasnt unusual for Mrs W to make larger payments to a new payee and pointed to a
transaction shed made for over £11,000 at the end of November 2019.
Mrs W has seen the banks response. She explains she was reassured by the person she
believed to be one of her friends and did not know it was possible for friends to be
impersonated on social media.
Mrs W added she was not suspicious about the lottery. She confirmed that she had looked
on the internet for Powerball Lottery and discovered it was a real lottery that runs in the
United States of America. She didnt think there was a requirement to buy a ticket as winners
were chosen from social media account holders at random.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been referred to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im intending to conclude
that the fair and reasonable outcome in all of the circumstances is to partially uphold this
complaint. I think Santander ought to have done more than it did to protect Mrs W from the
possibility of financial harm from fraud. But I also think Mrs W should have done more to
protect herself too. So I think both parties should bear some responsibility towards her loss.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
But I am also mindful that when Mrs W made these payments, Santander should fairly and
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And in
some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional steps,
or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make
a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from
fraud.
Santander is also a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement
Model CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of
APP scams like this unless the consumer did not meet their requisite level of care.However, the CRM Code doesnt apply to every type of payment a customer can make.
It only applies to push payments between GBP denominated UK domiciled accounts.
In Mrs Ws case, the first two transfers she made can be considered under the CRM Code
because the money was sent in sterling to another UK based account. The third transfer she
made was an international payment, so falls outside of the ambit of the CRM Code.
This means that in my consideration of the application of the CRM Code to Mrs Ws case,
I am only looking at whether Santander ought to have reimbursed some or all of the first two
payments she made under the Code.
But when thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, in addition to considering
whether Santander should have reimbursed some of Mrs Ws loss under the provisions of
the CRM Code, Ive also considered whether it should have done more overall to protect
Mrs W from the possibility of financial harm from fraud  and it is here that I have considered
the loss Mrs W has incurred from all three payments that she made.
The CRM Code
Theres no dispute here that Mrs W has been the victim of a cruel scam. She was
manipulated and tricked into believing she was exchanging messages with her friend which
resulted in her making payments to fraudsters under false pretences. But this isnt enough,
in and of itself, for Mrs W to receive a refund of the two payments that she made that are
covered by the CRM Code. The Code places a level of care on Mrs W too.
Santander can choose not to reimburse Mrs W if it can establish that she failed to meet her
requisite level of care under one of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code.
The exceptions outlined in the CRM Code say that a bank may choose not to reimburse a
customer if it can establish that*:
The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by 
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate
The customer has been grossly negligent
*The two further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case.
From what I have seen so far in this case, I am currently persuaded one of the listed
exceptions to reimbursement under the provisions of the CRM Code is relevant in the
circumstances of this case. I dont think Mrs W had a reasonable basis for believing that the
payee was the person she was expecting to pay, the payments were for genuine goods or
services and the person or business she transacted with was legitimate and so I dont think
Mrs W met her requisite level of care. Ill explain why.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of the
customer and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Santander has raised about
the legitimacy of the transactions Mrs W was making are enough to support its position that
she failed to meet her requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the first two payments
she made. I dont think she had a reasonable basis for believing the payments were for
genuine goods or services and the person she was transacting with was legitimate.
From everything thats been said and provided, I think Mrs W ought to have had significant
concerns about the legitimacy of the situation. I say this for the following reasons:
The value of the prize Mrs W thought she had won changed significantly. Initially
Mrs W thought she had won $100,000. She was then told it would be £100,000 in the
currency of her country. But using indicative exchange rate information from that
time, £100,000 was worth around £23,000 more than $100,000. It does not seem
feasible that the value of a prize would increase by more than £23,000 which is a
significant amount of money in and of itself. I dont think it was reasonable for Mrs W
to accept the fraudsters explanation that the prize money is paid in the currency
used by the winner on face value.
The copies of the messages between Mrs W and the fraudsters show that at times
Mrs W was apprehensive. She initially thought the idea of the win seemed a bit
weird and she thought it was odd that shed won something she had not
proactively joined. Though I accept the fraudster was impersonating one of Mrs Ws
friends, I dont think it was reasonable for Mrs W to be reassured by what the agent
or the fraudster posing as her friend told her. Mrs W has explained that she believed
she was taking independent advice from a trusted friend who had also been
successful in the same lottery. But the likelihood of two friends both separately
winning a significant amount of money in a lottery where the winners are selected
from social media users seems remote and ought to have caused Mrs W to have
undertaken some further checks ahead of making the payments to satisfy herself of
the legitimacy of the situation.
It does not seem plausible that a legitimate lottery would courier large amounts of
cash internationally. Over the course of the scam, the fraudsters referred to the
United States of America, Australia and South Africa. The situation as it was
described to Mrs W sounds overtly odd.
I accept what Mrs W has said about expecting there to be administration connected
to an overseas lottery win. But I think Mrs W ought to have questioned what was
happening more carefully. The reasons for requiring Mrs W to make payments also
became less believable as the scam went on. I dont think it was reasonable for
Mrs W to think that she would get a refund of money paid in relation to tax, or that
she would receive interest of 15% on the refunded amount. I think she ought
reasonably to have been suspicious of the overall situation.
Santander has also said Mrs W did not pay enough attention to the warnings it gave her
before she made each online payment. It considers she failed to take appropriate actions in
response to warnings it gave her at the material time.
I accept that Mrs W was shown warnings before she made each payment, but I am mindful
that the warnings had no association with the scam she fell victim to. I accept firms cant
provide warnings about every possible scam type, but ultimately as the warnings werent
relevant to the scam Mrs W fell victim to, I dont think the warnings would have had a
material effect in preventing the scam that took place.
In any event, from what I have seen, I think Mrs W fell below her requisite level of care under
the Code by making payments one and two without a reasonable basis for believing they
were in relation to a legitimate lottery.Should Santander have done more to try and prevent the scam and protect Mrs W?
I have thought about whether Santander met the standards required of it under the CRM
Code, and Ive also thought about whether Santander did enough, outside of the CRM Code,
to protect Mrs W from financial harm from fraud.
While lottery scams arent uncommon, as I have said, I accept firms cannot provide online
warnings about every possible scam scenario. Nevertheless, I think outside of the CRM
Code, Santander ought to have done more to try and protect Mrs W from financial harm. 
Mrs W does not dispute that she willingly made all three payments herself using her online
banking. This means that as a starting point, she authorised them and Santander had an
obligation to follow her instructions. But as Ive explained, there are some situations in which
it should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfers,
especially since as a matter of good practice Santander should have been on the lookout for
unusual and out of character transactions.
Having reviewed Mrs Ws account activity leading up to the scam, I do think the first payment
Mrs W made stood out for her. Santander has said that making a payment of £3950.50 to a
new payee wasnt unusual for Mrs W to do. It points out that she made a payment of around
£11,000 just over a week earlier to a new payee. But that payment is to a well-known UK
wide car dealership so I dont think it would be a leap in the individual circumstances of this
case to say that payment was in relation to one off, specific purchase. Its clear from looking
at Mrs Ws account statements for the rest of 2019 that making larger payments is
something that she rarely did. Most of her regular spending is smaller payments of a few
hundred pounds. So I think setting up a new payee and wanting to send them almost £4,000
was out of character for her. I think it is a sufficient indicator that Mrs W may have been at
risk of financial harm and I think Santander ought to have made further enquiries about the
purpose of the payment before processing it to ensure that it was a payment Mrs W really
wanted to, or ought to, make. I dont think Mrs W entering a one time passcode into her
online banking to confirm her involvement in the mechanics of making the payment is
enough of an intervention in this case.
If Santander had contacted Mrs W to discuss the payment she was planning on making,
I think it would have made a significant difference to how events unfolded. I dont think it
would have taken much questioning or probing to uncover the scam. Ive seen the messages
Mrs W exchanged with the agent and initially Mrs W is not given any kind of cover story.
Whilst I cant know for sure exactly what would have been said if the conversation had
happened, I think it is more likely than not that Mrs W would have ultimately told the bank
that she was paying an administration fee in order to claim a lottery prize.
I would have expected Santander, with its superior knowledge and experience of what this
type of scam looks and feels like, to have told Mrs W that what she was describing did not
seem genuine and strongly advised her against making the payment. The bank should have
known very quickly that it was implausible for Mrs W to have won money in these
circumstances.
Had Santander intervened, I think its more likely than not that its intervention would have
prevented the payment from being made. Its more likely than not that the scam would have
been uncovered at that point and prevented from developing any further  as a result I dont
think Mrs W would have then gone on to make payments two or three either.As I think Santander are at fault for allowing an out of character payment to be made without
undertaking any checks, it might suggest that Santander should also be responsible for all of
Mrs Ws losses that flow from that. But I cant ignore Mrs Ws actions and in this case
I believe her actions or omissions have also contributed to her overall loss too.
During a recent court case in the Supreme Court, it was held that a bank could and
should have intervened to protect their (commercial) customer from fraudulent
activity that ought reasonably to have triggered concerns (Singularis Holdings Ltd v
Daiwa Capital Markets Europe Ltd [2019] UKSC 50). And Im mindful that in that
case, the court made a reduction in the damages awarded as a result of the
customers contributory negligence.
Contributory negligence involves a lack of care that goes significantly beyond what we would
expect from a reasonable person. And on the facts of this case, I think Mrs Ws actions by
making the payments she did in the circumstances she did were concerning. Ive not seen
anything that makes me think Mrs W was inherently vulnerable or had personal
circumstances that made her more susceptible to this kind of scam. Its clear that Mrs W
repeatedly had misgivings about the situation, and I dont think the reassurances that she
received were sufficient for her to safely conclude that shed won a substantial amount of
money in a foreign lottery draw.
In short, Santander should have intervened and if it had done so, its more likely than not
that it would have prevented the scam from going any further and Mrs W wouldnt have lost
any money. But Mrs W reasonably ought to have taken steps to protect her own interests
too. In failing to do so, I think she should bear equal responsibility for the loss shes incurred.
Santanders delay after the scam was discovered
Ive also thought about whether Santander did what it should have done once Mrs W
reported she had been the victim of a scam.
Both sides already accept that Mrs W alerted Santander as soon as she could but the staff
member she spoke to did not pick up on the significance of what Mrs W had said or the
seriousness of the wider situation. The suggestion from Santanders staff member that
Mrs W should wait to see if a parcel containing cash arrived before logging a scam claim is
disappointing and I am pleased to see that developmental feedback has been provided.
By giving Mrs W incorrect advice, Santander missed an opportunity to act sooner to try and
recover the money shed lost. But I also need to consider whether it made any difference to
the position Mrs W found herself in. I can see that Santander did raise claims with the
businesses that received the money Mrs W sent. But sadly both institutions responded to
say the funds had already been debited from the receiving accounts. The money had
already moved on when Mrs W first contacted Santander on 10 December. It is not unusual
for fraudsters to move money on very quickly. As such, Im persuaded there was no lost
opportunity for Santander to have recovered any of the money Mrs W had sent.
Santander recognised the service it provided to Mrs W should have been better. But I am
mindful that much of the distress and inconvenience Mrs W felt at that time was as a direct
consequence of the actions of the fraudsters.
So I think the £50 compensation Santander has already offered for its delay in recording the
scam claim is fair compensation in the circumstances.Overall
In this case, I am currently minded to think that fair compensation would be for Santander to
refund 50% of the amount Mrs W lost  which is £8,000.25.
Mrs W hasnt had this money to use, so I think it is fair for Santander to pay interest on the
money to recognise this. But Mrs Ws money was in a current account that offers interest on
balances up to £20,000 and her account typically had a high balance. So, I think its more
likely than not Mrs Ws money would have remained in this account had she not fallen victim
to the scam. With this in mind, I think it would be more appropriate for Santander to pay
simple interest at the applicable underlying account interest rate from the date she made the
first payment to the date of settlement, less any tax lawfully deductible.
Santander should also pay the £50 compensation it has previously offered if it has not
already done so.
Responses to my provisional decision 
In my provisional decision I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or 
arguments that they wanted me to consider.
Mrs W provided a detailed response and wanted to ensure that she had not been 
misrepresented. She was concerned that I had cited a commercial court case, and that I did 
not consider her to be vulnerable to falling victim to this particular scam. She provided details 
of previous experiences where she had been caused detriment as a result of taking 
situations and friendships at face value. She suggested that I did not know much about her 
and that I had formed an erroneous perception of her. 
She went through the provisional decision and provided comments to elaborate. In 
summary, she said the Australian customs message was clearly sent in error and she 
confirmed the tracking link informed her the parcel was in transit between New York and 
Heathrow.
She explained that she considered the £50 compensation Santander had offered to be 
derisory and pointed out that the banks failure to help her had caused significant distress. 
She highlighted the bank had twice missed opportunities to notify the receiving bank that 
there had been a problem, causing the certain loss of £4,000. 
She explained that she had absolutely no reason to even think the situation could be false 
because one of her oldest friends had sent her a message in the normal manner. She 
explained that she believed that a close friend from another country had done this 
successfully, which gave her confidence. 
Mrs W felt the fraudsters had chosen her because she was inherently vulnerable to this type 
of scam. She said that she did not know it was possible to impersonate friends on private 
messaging apps. She added that she trusts her friends completely and absolutely believed 
she was speaking to her friend. 
Santander responded to say it did not fully accept my position and findings against the bank. 
It said it is a significant challenge for the bank to determine if a payment is legitimate or not, 
especially a first payment. It pointed out that the first payment Mrs W made to the fraudster 
did not display many characteristics that give rise for concern. It pointed out that Mrs W was 
logged into her online banking and that she had provided all of the necessary security 
credentials to make a payment. It also highlighted that shed got a large available balance 
remaining even after the payment was made. It pointed out the danger of making a decision with the benefit of hindsight and suggested 
there were no good grounds to suspect Mrs Ws payment requests. It said it was subjective 
for me to say that the scam would have been uncovered if the bank had intervened. 
It pointed out that the fraudster told Mrs W not to tell anyone about the win and she may not 
have given the bank any details if she had been asked. 
It concluded by saying it would agree to my proposal to resolve the case even though it does 
not fully accept the position as it did not want to prolong this matter unnecessarily for its 
customer. Mrs W said she was unable to take a view on whether to accept the banks offer 
or not until I had reviewed her reply. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that this complaint should be partially upheld. 
I have summarised Mrs Ws response to my provisional decision above in much less detail 
than she gave. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. 
I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be 
able to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
I have noted Santanders concerns to my provisional decision. Santander does not dispute 
that as a matter of good industry practice, it should be looking out for transactions that look 
suspicious and may be an indication of fraudulent activity or money laundering. 
In this particular case, it suggests there were no good grounds to suspect the first payment 
that Mrs W made could have indicated that she was at risk of financial harm and that it is 
subjective to say that an intervention to find out more about it would have uncovered a 
developing scam. But Santander had recognised a potential APP scam risk by providing a 
warning as part of its online payment process. 
I still think Mrs W was making a payment that was unusual and out of character for her when 
looking at the way her account generally ran. Santander has highlighted Mrs W made a large 
payment a week earlier, but as I highlighted in my provisional decision, this is very clearly for 
a specific purpose and can easily be distinguished from the much smaller payments she 
typically makes and the first payment that she sent to the fraudster. I think its fair to say that 
a payment of £3,950 isnt a regular occurrence for most people and, crucially, it wasnt for 
Mrs W either. Whilst I accept the banks point that there are hallmarks here which could 
suggest the payment was legitimate, there were also some factors which warranted further 
investigation. Mrs W was making a larger than usual payment to a new payee. The fact that 
she made a large payment the week before could have given Mrs Ws first payment to the 
fraudster the appearance of legitimacy, or it could just as feasibly be the development of a 
pattern of changing behaviour on the account which warrants further exploration to ensure 
Mrs W is not at risk of financial harm.
Santander has suggested any intervention may not have made a difference as Mrs W had 
been told not to tell anyone about her win. But when making my decision, I have to base my 
findings on the balance of probability  that is, what I think is more likely to have happened, 
taking into account what I know from the information that is available to me. On balance, 
I am persuaded that interaction with the bank about the purpose of the payments would have 
been enough to stop Mrs W from making the first payment and probably would have 
uncovered the scam. I say this because the fraudster did not give Mrs W a specific cover story so she would have 
been required to think of something plausible and compelling on the spot to be able to satisfy 
even the most straightforward of enquiries. I am also mindful that Mrs W did tell other people 
about the win, including her friend at her social club and her old accountant, so I am not 
persuaded by the banks position that she would not have disclosed any details about it if 
asked. I consider it more likely than not that if Santander had asked Mrs W what the 
payment was for, she would have explained the situation to the bank too. Santander, with its 
superior knowledge of what scams like this one look and feel like, would have been able to 
identify that the payment Mrs W wanted to make was exposing her to the risk of financial 
harm. 
But, as I explained in my provisional decision, I also have to keep in mind the contribution 
Mrs W and her actions played in causing the loss. Mrs W has highlighted that the CRM code 
exists to provide refunds to customers that have lost out as a result of a push payment 
scam. But the CRM Code doesnt automatically give all consumers that have fallen victim to 
a scam a full refund. If a consumer has not met a reasonable level of care when making a 
payment, reimbursement can be denied. In addition to this, Im mindful that not all of the 
payments Mrs W made are covered by the Code. When thinking about a fair and reasonable 
resolution to this complaint, Im not only considering the CRM Code. I also have to bear in 
mind whether Santander could or should have done more to protect Mrs W, whilst taking into 
account whether Mrs W should have taken steps to protect her own interests too. 
Ive thought very carefully about everything Mrs W has said. But I am still minded to think it is 
fair and reasonable for her to take equal responsibility for the loss shes incurred. Mrs W has 
explained why she considers her actions to have been unwitting, and Ive considered that 
she did genuinely believe that she was doing something that would secure a better financial 
future for her family. But I am not persuaded that it was reasonable for Mrs W to have had 
no concerns about the circumstances as they were described to her. I consider the situation 
to be so unlikely that Mrs W ought to have had significant concerns about the legitimacy of 
the lottery and the likelihood of winning such a substantial amount of money in this way. 
I cant overlook that it was not reasonable for Mrs W to have been reassured by what the 
agent or the fraudster posing as her friend told her. Her readiness to accept the situation 
when there were such obvious indicators that something was amiss means that she fell 
below the level of care expected of her. I am not persuaded that Mrs W was less able to 
protect herself from falling victim to this particular scam, or that she did not understand the 
consequences of proceeding to make each payment.  
Mrs W questioned why I cited a commercial court case and felt that it was not right for me to 
compare her situation to that of an enterprise. I am not suggesting that Mrs W should display 
the same level of nous and sophistication as a commercial enterprise in her dealings. 
I included reference to the court case as it is a recent authority on the relevant law from the 
Supreme Court, the final court of appeal in the United Kingdom. The courts have allowed a 
reduction in compensation where the fault of both the claimant and the defendant have 
contributed to the loss. So, taking all of the circumstances into account, there will be some 
situations where it is fair and reasonable for me to reduce the compensation I award.
Mrs W is disappointed with the level of compensation Santander has offered for the way it 
handled the matter. She has pointed out that Santander missed the opportunity to intervene 
and highlights that it should have done more, particularly when she went into branch to 
check on the status of the international payment and when she contacted the bank after 
learning of the scam. Whilst I agree that Santanders handling of the situation could have 
been better, I am not persuaded that Mrs W has lost out as a result. From the details 
Santander has provided of its contact with the receiving bank, the money Mrs W sent was 
moved on very quickly, so Im not persuaded Santanders inaction caused Mrs W to lose 
funds that would have otherwise been recovered. I remain satisfied that Santanders offer to pay £50 compensation was a fair gesture in the 
individual circumstances of this complaint.
Taking everything into account, whilst I am very sorry to disappoint Mrs W, I see no reason 
to depart from the conclusions I indicated in my provisional decision.        
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I have decided to uphold this 
complaint against Santander UK Plc and I consider fair compensation is 50% of the amount 
Mrs W lost.
To put things right, Santander should now:
Pay Mrs W £8,000.25 plus
Simple interest on the above sum at the underlying account interest rate from the 
date/s of the loss to the date of the refund, less any tax lawfully deductible. 
Santander should provide Mrs W with a tax-deduction certificate upon request. 
Santander should also pay the £50 compensation it has previously offered if it has 
not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman