The complaint
Mr T complains that the vehicle he acquired through a conditional sale agreement financed 
by PSA Finance (UK) Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants the cost of repairs to 
the gearbox to be covered.
What happened
Mr T tells us that he acquired the vehicle in June 2019 from a dealer Ill refer to as E. He 
reports that the vehicle experienced gearbox problems in September 2019. In particular, he 
says it wouldnt change easily into third gear. He states that E wouldnt pay for repairs as the 
vehicle had exceeded the 3,000 miles limit on the warranty.
PSA told us that E had advised it that after the vehicle had been supplied to Mr T, it (E) 
hadnt seen the vehicle again. It said that E had stated that there was no fault at the point of 
supply. But that it had offered as a gesture of goodwill to provide the labour free of charge to 
Mr T.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the vehicle 
was of satisfactory quality when supplied as it lacked durability. He said PSA should pay the 
costs of the gearbox repair. And he felt that Mr T should be refunded two monthly payments 
to reflect the loss of enjoyment and receive £150 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
PSA accepted our investigators view but only in part. It said it thought that Mr T should 
make an equitable contribution towards repair costs as hed done far more than the 3,000 
miles covered by the used car warranty.  As its not been possible to resolve this complaint 
an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr T has experienced problems with this vehicle. Unfortunately with older, 
used vehicles its more likely that things will go wrong. And thats whats happened here.
Since the start of this complaint theres been substantial progress made towards a 
resolution. And the only outstanding issue now appears to be whether Mr T should be 
required to make a contribution towards the cost of repairs.
DRN-1706666Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Mr Ts conditional sale agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. PSA supplied the vehicle so its responsible for 
complaints about the quality of the vehicle.
Whilst I dont apply the law - directly - I do take it into account. Relevant legislation here 
includes the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). Briefly summarised this says that in order to 
conform to contract goods must be of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory 
quality is defined as being what a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory. This 
takes into account issues which include - but are not limited to - price; relevant 
circumstances such as age and previous use; and durability.
Mr Ts vehicle was around five years old and had covered over 67,000 miles when supplied 
to him. The cash price was just over £12,500.
Ive seen the vehicle was diagnosed with a gearbox fault, on 11 September 2019, by G. 
This is a different branch of E to that which supplied the vehicle. This appears to account for 
Es suggestion that it hadnt seen the vehicle since supply. The invoice notes a grinding 
noise when trying to enter third gear. And recommends a strip and removal of gearbox.
Where goods fail to conform to contract within the first six months of supply, the CRA 
presumes - unless its shown otherwise - that they didnt conform to contract on the date of 
supply. 
PSA is suggesting Mr T ought to be required to make a contribution towards the estimated 
costs of repairs - which is likely to be in the region of £3,000. PSA bases this on the mileage 
which had been covered by Mr T when the fault was first diagnosed. The odometer reading 
was 73,008 which is more than 5,000 miles since supply. And it exceeds the 3,000 used car 
warranty limit.
Used vehicles are often supplied with warranties. No doubt this is to offer the consumer an 
added sense of confidence. But this doesnt affect any rights a consumer may have under 
the CRA.  In other words, a warranty may serve to increase any CRA rights but it doesnt 
limit them. So my decision isnt based on whether the vehicle had exceeded its warranty 
limits. Its based on whether the vehicle was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
I don't think a reasonable person would expect a vehicle costing this much with only around 
5,000 additional miles covered in the three months since supply to require a replacement 
gearbox. So it's more probable than not that the vehicle wasn't of satisfactory quality when 
supplied.
As this now appears to be conceded by PSA  I cant see why it would be fair and reasonable 
to require Mr T to pay towards the repairs. I agree with our investigators view that the 
vehicle was insufficiently durable. And that PSA should cover the whole cost to repair the 
vehicle.Putting things right
PSA now needs to:
1. Arrange for the vehicle to be repaired so that it conforms to contract. And at no
cost to Mr T;
2. Refund two monthly payments in recognition of the loss of enjoyment caused by
not being able to use the vehicle's gears correctly;
3. Refund £60.00 cost of inspection with 8% simple interest from date payment to
date of settlement;
4. Pay Mr T £150.00 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is I'm upholding this complaint.
I now require PSA Finance (UK) Limited to take the action that I set out in the preceding 
paragraph.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman