DRN-3980747
The complaint
Mr H complains about Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finances (BPF) response to concerns he expressed about a retailers (R) application of 
policies in relation to one of its products, for which BPF provides credit.
Mr H considers that Rs policies place him at a disadvantage because they dont take into 
account his disability. He holds BPF jointly responsible for this.
What happened
One of my colleagues set out the background to this complaint in his preliminary assessment 
sent to both parties. In summary:
Mr H was a member of Rs scheme under which he could apply to upgrade his phone 
on a regular basis. He was due for an upgrade and, having previously had problems 
with Rs requirement that he (or a representative) come into its store to do this, 
contacted R and BPF ahead of schedule to discuss how he could avoid this difficulty
BPF told Mr H it didnt deal directly with the scheme. It passed Mr Hs enquiry to R, 
who told him the upgrade scheme required an in-store valuation of his current phone
Mr H felt this was different from what hed previously been told, amounted to a 
breach of contract by R and BPF, and that this was unfair discrimination against him
R and BPF made adjustments to enable Mr H to upgrade as he had before, but 
required him to accept this as a one-off exceptional arrangement and that it wouldnt 
be available in future. Mr H felt this was also unfair
BPFs position is that it has no control over, or responsibility for, the upgrade scheme 
requirement that customers attend the store. It has accepted it could have done more 
to help Mr H, and paid him £100 in recognition of this
Mr H remains unhappy. He wants BPF and R to ensure he and similarly affected 
customers dont experience this problem whenever they want to upgrade. Mr H is 
also dissatisfied that he cant get a clear answer as to who is responsible for the 
policy.
In our preliminary assessment we reached the following conclusions:
BPF and R are separate companies. Neither appears to be acting as agent of the 
other, and they carry out different roles. BPF is the chosen provider of finance for the 
upgrade scheme, and R operates the upgrade scheme
The available evidence supports BPFs stated position that R sets the requirement to 
attend the store to upgrade
We have no ability to direct a change in Rs policy by means of a complaint about 
BPF. R arranged the finance on behalf of Mr H, but his cause for complaint wasnt in 
relation to credit broking activity
The fair and reasonable way for Mr Hs policy concerns to be addressed would be for 
him to deal with them directly with R
BPF had made adjustments to its own processes to enable Mr H to enter into and to 
continue with the finance aspects of the upgrade scheme. It had passed his enquiries 
to a suitable person at R who was best placed to deal with adjustments on that side 
of the arrangements. And BPF had apologised and compensated Mr H for distress 
and inconvenience its actions had caused him. We thought BPFs actions overall 
were fair in respect of its responsibilities
Responses to our preliminary assessment
BPF had nothing to add to its previous submissions. But Mr H made further comments and 
observations. For reasons of brevity I havent included all of them in detail here, but I have 
read all that he has submitted.
Mr H didnt think wed investigated the complaint properly to establish the true nature of the 
relationship between BPF and R. The lines were blurred. For example, we hadnt 
interviewed him or staff from R, who have told him they are powerless to do anything without 
BPFs agreement, particularly due to BPFs requirement for a wet signature on its credit 
agreement.
Mr Hs response included that he has never said he isnt complaining about credit broking, 
and that if this was what R was engaged in when it unfairly and unreasonably discriminated 
against him, then he is complaining about that activity. However, he continued to hold BPF 
and R jointly responsible for the discrimination he experienced, which he considers our role 
to acknowledge and condemn. He expressed concerns that our findings did nothing to 
prevent him or other disabled persons from having similar difficulties in accessing financial 
services.
The complaint has been passed to me for review and determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept Mr H has strong feelings about several aspects of his complaint. He has clear ideas 
about how businesses should operate, and indeed about how we should go about 
investigating his complaint. In light of certain of his comments, it might be helpful if I explain 
a little more about our service and the basis on which we operate.
Were a public body set up by Act of Parliament, with statutory powers to resolve complaints 
on a fair and reasonable basis. While we have an inquisitorial remit, were able to resolve 
most of the complaints brought to us by getting both parties to provide their side of the story 
and by reference to papers and relevant documents, as well as relevant law, regulations and 
standards of good practice. We weigh up the facts of whats happened and  where 
appropriate  express an opinion on how we think matters are best resolved. We dont 
routinely interview complainants or respondents, but may make further enquiries of either if 
we think it would assist our understanding of events.
I hope Mr H will appreciate that it is for us, rather than for a party to a complaint, to decide 
the level of investigation and how we go about carrying out the function for which we were 
set up.
Having carefully considered all thats been said in this case, Im satisfied theres sufficient 
persuasive evidence on file to conclude that BPF does not have control over R in respect of 
the latters upgrade scheme. The terms of the upgrade scheme are clear enough about that, but for the avoidance of doubt I also accept BPFs evidence on this point.
I acknowledge that Rs staff have told Mr H that BPF exercises control over the way its credit 
agreement must be completed. But that isnt an aspect thats in dispute. BPF has all along 
had the ability to make adjustments to the need for a wet signature and indeed made those 
adjustments for Mr H to enable him to enter into the agreements when he sought to do so.
Im further satisfied that the requirement to attend a store is one set by R. The upgrade 
scheme requires that R or an appointed third party acting for it are the only parties that can 
accept and agree a trade-in of an existing phone. Thats consistent with what R told Mr H 
when BPF passed his enquiry to it. I see no reason to conclude that R said this because it 
was under an instruction from BPF to do so.
I now turn to the question of arranging the finance. In its dealings with Mr H, R performs two 
roles. Its a retailer operating the upgrade scheme. And its a credit broker, bringing about 
the credit agreement between Mr H and BPF that funds the upgrade scheme. Im not 
persuaded by Mr Hs more recent arguments that his complaint is about credit broking 
activity. His cause for complaint is about the requirement to make in-person visits to Rs 
stores to get a phone upgrade, rather than the way in which R introduces him to BPF.
In certain circumstances relevant provisions of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 suggest the 
negotiations taking place prior to Mr Hs entry into the credit agreement are treated as being 
made by R for itself and as BPFs agent. But in light of the way in which control of the 
requirement to attend the store sits with R, Im not persuaded it would be fair for me to hold 
BPF responsible for what is clearly a policy decision made by R.
And in any event, the absence of BPFs control over R means that I cant fairly require or 
direct BPF to take action to change Rs policy, either widely or directly in relation to its 
dealings with Mr H. But that isnt because I dont agree hes experienced the difficulties hes 
described, or that Im failing to condemn unfair discrimination.
I understand Mr Hs motivation for bringing the complaint. Hes undoubtedly frustrated at the 
requirements of the upgrade scheme and I can appreciate why he wants to effect a change 
both for him and other future customers in his situation. Nothing Ive said here is intended to 
undermine his argument, his strength of feeling, or his ability to achieve that.
Rather, I dont consider that the appropriate mechanism for doing this is through our service. 
As weve previously explained, weve no power to require a change to Rs policy, and this 
certainly cant be achieved by making a direction to BPF. If Mr H considers that policy 
unfairly discriminates against him and breaches his rights (or those of others with a 
disability) then the appropriate way to address this is by taking the matter up with R, not with 
BPF. Mr H may wish to obtain legal advice as to how he might go about that.
Having regard for what I consider to be BPFs responsibilities towards Mr H, I share the 
opinion set out by my colleague in our preliminary assessment. That is that the apology and 
£100 compensation BPF has already paid Mr H represent a fair way for BPF to have 
addressed his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out here and in our preliminary assessment, my final decision is that I 
dont require Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance to 
take any further action to resolve Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman