DRN-2193522
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Santander UK Plc will not refund the money she lost after falling victim 
to a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a brief 
summary here. Mrs N made three transfers totalling £1,230 to a third-party account. The 
order in which the transfers were made is as follows - on 26 November 2018 Mrs N went into 
a branch and made an initial transfer of £1,000 by chip and pin. This was immediately 
followed by a further transfer of £30 to the same recipient. A final transfer was made in 
branch to the recipient on 1 December 2018 for £200.   
Mrs N told us her family had got in touch with her to ask for help so that they could take her 
sick relative to hospital. Following this, Mrs N made the payments to the third party on the 
belief he was going to pass the money onto her family to help pay for a sick relatives care. 
Mrs N told Santander she didnt know the third party personally, however, he said he was 
from an agency and could pass the funds onto Mrs Ns family who were in Nigeria. Mrs N 
also told Santander a family member had informed her of the third party. 
Mrs N told us that when she spoke with the third party after shed made the payments, he 
said there had been some problems with the account and that it had been frozen. Mrs N said 
the third party didnt send the money to her family and, so she contacted our service.  We 
raised a complaint on Mrs Ns behalf with Santander on 20 January 2020. On 21 January 
2020, Santander raised the claim and contacted the receiving bank the same day. On 
7 February 2020, the receiving bank informed Santander that no funds remained.
Santander declined to refund the money Mrs N had lost. It said there had been no banking 
error and the transactions were authorised by Mrs N. It adds the transfers she made in 
branch were below the limit for a formal scam conversation to take place and, due to the 
time thats since passed, its not been possible to obtain a branch statement. Santander, in 
its response letter, also addressed Mrs Ns comments that she attended a branch and 
contacted it about the scam but was told there was nothing it could do to assist. Santander 
said in the absence of a date the contact was completed its been unable to investigate this 
issue. Unhappy with this, Mrs N continued her complaint with our service.
 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think the payments were 
unusual or out of character for Mrs Ns account and so she didnt think that Santander ought 
reasonably to have intervened before processing the payments. She commented Mrs N 
regularly accessed her account in branch and had a sufficient balance after the payments 
were made. Given what Santander has said about its limits, she didnt think it would be fair 
to expect Santander to have gone outside of its process to discuss the transfers as they 
werent suspicious. Our investigator added that had Santander asked questions she thought 
it was unlikely it would have unveiled a potential scam  on the basis that the payments were 
made to a third party recommended by a family member. She also thought Santander had 
attempted to recover the funds once it had been put on notice, but that no funds remained. 
Mrs N disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. In her response:
 
She disagreed with the investigators thoughts around the family recommendation.
Shes told us she went into branch before making the payments and asked if the 
bank was real as she had not heard of the banks name before. Mrs N says the 
branch told her it was a real bank which gave her assurance - she then went on to 
make the payments. 
Shes also reiterated that when this happened, she remembers going into a branch 
and was told there was nothing it could do and that she should contact the fraud 
department.
As Mrs N disagreed the case has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mrs N, and I can understand entirely why she feels 
so strongly that her money should be returned to her. But having thought very carefully 
about Santanders actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the payments to 
leave her account. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what 
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
- the law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the funds of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare duty); and
- regulated firms like Santander are also required to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers (Principle 6); and
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken 
proactive steps to:
- identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable 
circumstances, including those at risk of financial exploitation (something recognised 
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances);
- look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 Protecting Customers 
from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which 
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
- in relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
It is accepted that Mrs N authorised the three payments totalling £1,230. Because of this, 
Santander had an obligation to follow her instructions. But there are some situations in which 
it should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfers - 
as Ive explained. I consider that as a matter of good practice Santander shouldve been on 
the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
Ive first thought about whether the payments Mrs N made were out of character and 
unusual. Having reviewed Mrs Ns account movements, from October 2017 up to the scam 
payments, I dont think the payments were so unusual or suspicious in comparison to 
Mrs Ns normal account activity that it ought to have alerted Santander that she may have 
been at risk of financial harm. I say this because, in the year prior to the scam payment I can 
see there were two high value withdrawals in branch  one for £2,000 and another for 
£1,000 from the account. I can also see Mrs N, in the month prior to the scam payments, 
made a £1,000 transfer out of the account. There are also several debits from the account 
for over £200. So, I cant say that the scam payments of £1,000, £30 and £200 were 
sufficiently unusual for me to fairly and reasonably say that Santander ought to have been 
concerned that Mrs Ns account was at risk of fraud. Further I can see Mrs Ns account didnt 
go into a negative balance after the payments were made or leave the account with a 
balance that wasnt typical for how the account was usually run.
From the information provided, I have noted that it also appears Mrs N made a faster 
payment of £400 to the same recipient on 23 November 2018 (prior to the reported 
payments above) which has not been disputed. Ive thought about this and for 
completeness, had this payment been disputed by Mrs N, Im satisfied this wouldnt change 
my findings for the reasons Ive already explained above. 
Santander say the payment amounts made by Mrs N were under its limits, so a formal scam 
conversation would not have taken place. Ive thought carefully about this. It doesnt 
automatically follow that because a payment is under a banks limit it shouldnt intervene. For 
reasons Ive explained, banks ought to be on the look out for unusual transactions. But in the 
circumstances of this complaint, given what Ive already said, I dont think the payments 
were suspicious enough, in relation to how Mrs N typically ran her account, that I can fairly 
or reasonably say that it ought to have prompted Santander to make enquiries about the 
payments before processing them.  
But even if I consider that a conversation ought to have taken place when the initial payment 
of £1,000 was made, Im not persuaded this would have made a difference in this case. This 
is because had Santander asked questions, it could have asked Mrs N, amongst others; who 
she was sending the funds to and what the funds were being sent for. Had it done so Im 
satisfied Mrs N would have been open and honest in her responses - as she hadnt been 
coached by the third party about what to say, as is often the case with scams. Im persuaded 
Mrs N would have gone on to explain that she was transferring the funds to a third party on 
the understanding they would pass the money onto her family to help pay for a sick relatives 
care. She would have added shed been put in touch with the third party through a family member. With this in mind, I think the answers Mrs N is likely to have given would have 
seemed plausible, I dont think the answers are more likely than not to have demonstrated 
the usual hallmarks of a scam or given Santander a cause to believe the payments were not 
genuine or that Mrs N may have been at risk of financial harm.
I do acknowledge Mrs N has since told us her sister was also defrauded and, Im sorry to 
hear this, but at the time the payments were made, given the likely answers I think Mrs N 
would have given I dont think it would have been obvious to Santander that she was at risk 
of a scam.  
Mrs N has said she asked a staff member in branch about the beneficiary bank as shed not 
heard of it before. She says she was told it was a real bank and this gave her assurance 
ahead of her sending the payments. Ive thought about this, but Im satisfied Mrs Ns enquiry 
about the beneficiary bank wouldnt have raised suspicions to the branch staff that she might 
have been at risk of a scam. This is because the beneficiary bank was a genuine bank. 
Ive then gone on to think about whether Santander did what it shouldve done once Mrs N 
reported to it that shed been the victim of a scam. In order for me to be able to fairly ask 
Santander to refund the money to Mrs N, Id need to be satisfied Santander should have 
acted sooner in trying to recover the money. And if I dont think it acted soon enough, I need 
to decide whether it made any difference.
Mrs N has referred to attending a branch and telephone contact with Santander about the 
matter but was told it could not help her. From the information provided by both parties there 
isnt any evidence which shows any earlier contact about the scam prior to 21 January 2020 
 when Mrs N got in touch with our service and we contacted Santander on her behalf. While 
it is possible Mrs N did contact Santander prior to January 2020, Ive seen no evidence to 
show this. Mrs N in her testimony indicates she had further communication with the third 
party after shed made the payments. She told us when first contacting our service that when 
she spoke with the third party after shed sent the money that he said hed had problems and 
mentioned the account being frozen. So, based on what Ive seen, it suggests its more likely 
than not that Mrs N contacted Santander sometime after the payments had been made.  
On becoming aware of the scam Santander contacted the receiving bank the same day to 
see if any funds remained. However, the receiving bank informed Santander on 7 February 
2020 that no funds remained. Having contacted the receiving bank, Ive been provided with 
information that shows the payments Mrs N made on 26 November 2018 and 1 December 
2018 to the third party left the recipient account the same day the respective payments were 
made and received. Given what Ive said above, I think it is more likely than not the first 
contact Mrs N had with Santander would have been after 1 December 2018. So it follows 
that I dont think Santander could have recovered the funds after the last payment had been 
made, as the funds had left the receiving bank by the time I think Mrs N had contacted them. 
I am sorry Mrs N has lost out, and I appreciate this is a lot of money for her to have lost. I 
also understand this whole experience has been very frustrating and upsetting for her. But in 
the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say Santander should refund her with the money 
she lost as part of the scam. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ns complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman