DRN-3255334
The complaint
Mr C complained that AvantCredit of UK, LLC lent to him irresponsibly and provided him 
with unaffordable lending.
What happened
AvantCredit provided a loan to Mr C as follows:
Date 
takenLoan 
amountTerm Typical 
monthly 
repaymentTotal amount 
repayableDate repaid
June 2015 £1,000 48 months £51.10 £2452.89. outstanding
Mr C said that he was repeatedly taking out loans and borrowing more and more from 
different lenders to repay other loans. 
Mr C also raised another complaint issue and our adjudicator explained why she didnt think 
we could follow that up. As Mr C seems to have accepted what our adjudicator said about 
this, I dont think I need to say any more about it and in this decision Im concentrating on 
Mr Cs irresponsible lending complaint.
Our adjudicator who looked into the complaint didnt think AvantCredit should have provided 
Mr C with the loan as its own checks showed that he had multiple payday loans outstanding 
and his credit spending was such a significant proportion of his monthly income that the 
repayments were unlikely to be sustainably affordable for him. Our adjudicator set out the 
steps she said AvantCredit should take to put things right. 
AvantCredit didnt respond to our adjudicators assessment so as the complaint hasnt been 
resolved informally, it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. Having done so, I am upholding 
Mr Cs complaint for broadly the same reasons as our adjudicator. Ill explain my reasons. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation. 
And even if a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there 
was any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the 
lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a 
borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in 
this context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
I have reviewed the information AvantCredit gathered when it agreed to provide this loan. 
It did some background checks and verified that Mr Cs minimum income was 
approximately £1,100 monthly. 
It recorded information about what Mr C had said he was spending each month on all his 
outgoings and noted down a total monthly expenditure figure of around £200.
AvantCredit also carried out its own credit checks which it has sent me  so I can see the 
same information that I think AvantCredit could have seen when it made its affordability 
calculations.
Like our adjudicator, I think AvantCredit should have been concerned to see that when 
Mr C applied for this loan the credit checks AvantCredit obtained showed that he had 7 
active payday loans which cost him more than £1,000 a month. 
I think that this amount was such a significant proportion of his take home pay (almost all 
of his net income), it was a clear indication that Mr C was unlikely to be able to maintain 
such a high level of debt sustainably. 
I think AvantCredit ought reasonably to have been aware that taking further, costly lending 
was likely to be detrimental to Mr C. 
I've taken into account that the loan purpose was recorded as debt consolidation  in other 
words, to pay off other debt. But AvantCredit hasnt shown it knew which lending was to be 
repaid and its loan was paid into Mr Cs bank account, so AvantCredit didnt have any 
control over whether any of the other credit was paid off. So, AvantCredit couldnt have been 
sure it wasnt putting him in a worse position by increasing his overall debts.
And even if Mr C had used this loan to repay some existing debt, I dont think AvantCredit 
had sufficient reason to think this wouldve improved his overall position sufficiently to 
achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in his financial situation  given his 
outstanding indebtedness overall. I think the scale of his debt overall compared to the much 
smaller value of the loan, and the extent of his evident reliance on taking out expensive 
credit, would suggest that he would remain in serious financial trouble regardless. Based on all the information AvantCredit had gathered, I dont think it was reasonably able to 
say that the loan was likely to be sustainably affordable for Mr C. So I think AvantCredit 
shouldnt have provided the loan for this reason.
And I think thats borne out by the fact that Mr C ran into payment problems on this loan  
which I think was reasonably foreseeable for the reasons I've explained above.  
So, I am upholding Mr Cs complaint that he should not have been given the loan. 
Putting things right
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that AvantCredit should pay any additional redress. Mr C 
hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think AvantCredit 
acted unfairly towards Mr C in any other way. So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr C to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid extra for lending that should not 
have been provided to him. In line with this Services approach, Mr C shouldnt repay more 
than the capital amount he borrowed.
If AvantCredit sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. Otherwise, AvantCredit should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve 
the results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr C received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Mr C made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr C having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement).
If there is a shortfall in repayments which leaves a capital amount outstanding, 
then AvantCredit should try and arrange an affordable payment plan with Mr C 
bearing in mind its obligation to treat Mr C sympathetically and fairly if he still 
needs further time to pay.
Whilst its fair that Mr Cs credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, its 
unfair that he should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded about 
a loan that was unfairly provided. So AvantCredit should remove any negative 
information recorded on Mr Cs credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
should give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct AvantCredit of UK, LLC to take the steps I've set out 
above to put things right for Mr C.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 Susan Webb
Ombudsman