DRN-3320296
The complaint
Miss D complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) avoided (treated it as 
if it never existed) her motor insurance policy and refused to pay her claim after her car was 
stolen.
What happened
Miss D had a motor insurance policy with Admiral for several years covering her car. When 
her car was stolen in October 2021 Miss D contacted Admiral to make a claim. 
Admiral said that Miss D hadnt told them about a driving ban shed received in February 
2019, so it declined her claim and avoided her policy. Admiral say that it wouldnt have 
covered Miss D if theyve have known about her ban. It said that the ban was dated 18 
February 2019, which was two days before Miss Ds policy renewed, so she must have 
known about it and didnt tell Admiral about it.
Miss D says she simply made an error in 2019 and then just allowed her policy to renew for 
the following two years.
Admiral said Miss D didnt take reasonable care to keep her policy updated and her policy 
had renewed twice before Miss D made her claim. It said that because it regarded Miss Ds 
actions as being a deliberate qualifying misrepresentation under the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) it could turn down her claim, avoid the 
policy and keep the premiums shed paid.
Miss D was unhappy so she complained. Admiral again told Miss D that it thought it had 
taken the correct action. It referred to several parts of the policy wording, such as:
General Conditions
2. Please tell us immediately if:
any driver on your policy has been disqualified from driving or their Driving Licence 
status changes
Admiral confirmed that the type of ban Miss D had received (a TT99) would have resulted in 
it terminating the policy straight away if she had told Admiral. Admiral also say Miss D should 
have told it about the driving offences she had previously received points for, as a TT99 is a 
ban for totting up and it had no record that Miss D had ever told it about her previous 
driving offences. 
Miss D remained unhappy with Admirals decision and brought her complaint to this service. 
She asked for a refund on her insurance premiums for the avoided policies of 2019, 2020 
and 2021.
Our investigator looked into Miss Ds complaint and didnt uphold it. She said she agreed 
that Miss D had deliberately not told Admiral about her ban when it happened, or at renewal 
shortly after, and hadnt told Admiral about it when her policy had renewed twice more. She 
agreed with Admiral that Miss D made a qualifying misrepresentation and under the rules in 
CIDRA Admiral was entitled to take the actions it did
Miss D didnt agree with the investigators view. She asked for the complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not going to uphold it and Ill explain why.
Im satisfied that the relevant law in this case is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This law requires consumers to take reasonable care 
not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). 
The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless.
Admiral said Miss D had failed to keep it updated when she received a driving ban, and 
didnt tell it about the ban at renewal for the following two years. Miss Ds driving ban was 
dated 18 February 2019 and her policy renewed two days later on 20 February 2019. Its 
clear to me that she would have been aware of her ban at the time her policy renewed, but 
she didnt tell Admiral about it. 
Miss Ds policy renewed twice more and I can see from her renewal documents that none of 
them include any details of her motoring convictions, whether the TT99 or the previous 
offences that resulted in the ban. It seems to me that Miss D misrepresented her situation in 
2019, 2020 and 2021.
I can see from Admirals policy wording there are several sections that deal with keeping the 
insurance company up to date with changes. I think Admiral make it clear about a 
customers responsibilities with keeping it up to date and terms and conditions like these are 
common in the insurance industry.
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation.
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts the claim.Admiral has provided evidence from its underwriting guide which shows that if Miss D had 
not made this misrepresentation about her offence it wouldnt have offered cover at all. This 
means I am satisfied Miss Ds misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA.
So, Im satisfied Admiral was entitled to avoid Miss Ds policy in accordance with CIDRA. 
And, as this means that  in effect  her policy never existed, Admiral does not have to deal 
with her claim for the theft of her car. 
As CIDRA reflects our long established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
allowing Admiral to rely on it to avoid Miss Ds policy produces the fair and reasonable 
outcome in this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman