DRN-1230750
 
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs L complain that YBS Limited mis-sold them a regular premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 1999 Mr and Mrs L took out a PPI policy with their mortgage. The policy covered both Mr 
and Mrs L for unemployment only and would have provided a monthly benefit of £400. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ls case. I have also taken account of the 
law and good industry practice at the time the PPI policy was sold. 
The main questions I need to consider are:
If YBS gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ls needs?
Did YBS give Mr and Mrs L the information they needed to decide whether to take 
out the policy?
If there were shortcomings in the way YBS sold the policy, I need to consider whether Mr 
and Mrs L are worse off as a result; that is, whether they would have done something 
different  such as not taking out the policy  if there had been no shortcomings.
The PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs L during a meeting with a member of staff from YBS, who 
was arranging a mortgage for them. Mr and Mrs L say they thought they had to have the PPI 
and also that they didnt need it because they both had generous employment benefits. They 
also say the PPI wasnt properly explained to them. YBS says none of its records show that 
the PPI was anything other than optional, and they provided enough information for Mr and 
Mrs L to make an informed choice about whether to buy the PPI. YBS has also pointed out 
that the PPI was free for the first six months, and it reminded Mr and Mrs L when payments 
would begin, at which point they could have cancelled the PPI if they thought it unsuitable. 
I cant know for certain what was discussed between Mr and Mrs L and YBS when they were 
discussing the mortgage and PPI. I accept there is a possibility YBS said it was a good idea 
to take out PPI in order to protect the mortgage repayments, but I dont consider that to be 
incorrect. The records from the meeting, which include a separate application for the PPI, 
show that Mr and Mrs L only bought cover for unemployment, although there were other 
more comprehensive options available. That suggests they must have had enough information to decide what level of cover they thought suited them. So it does seem that Mr 
and Mrs L were making choices about the insurance they wanted. I cant see anything on the 
paperwork that suggests that Mr and Mrs L had to have the PPI. 
Overall, I think YBS made Mr and Mrs L aware that the PPI was optional and they chose to 
take it. 
YBS says it didn't recommend the policy, so it was only required to give Mr and Mrs L 
enough information so they could fairly decide for themselves if they wanted the PPI. Mr and 
Mrs Y might have thought it was recommended, but even if it had been, I'm satisfied the 
policy was suitable given Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances, because:
Both Mr and Mrs L were eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the PPI 
terms and conditions.
The policy was split in order to cover both Mr and Mrs L. That seems to suggest they 
were making choices about what to buy. 
Both Mr and Mrs L say they would have received some work related benefits if either 
of them couldnt work due to illness or accident. But the policy didnt cover them in 
these circumstances, so I dont think affects my decision. Having the policy in place 
would mean Mr and Mrs L could use any redundancy payment to pay for other 
expenses. So I think Mr and Mrs L would have had some use for the policy despite 
their existing arrangements.
Mr and Mrs L werent affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main 
benefits, such as those affecting self employed people. As they could have benefited 
from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs L needed better advice 
or information about the policys exclusions and limitations. 
I dont know exactly when Mr and Mrs L were told the cost of the policy  it may have 
been in the meeting. But even if Mr and Mrs L didnt know the exact amount of the 
premium when they bought the policy I think they might have known approximately 
what it was. Ultimately, I think Mr and Mrs L were aware they had to pay something 
for the policy and Ive seen nothing to suggest it was unaffordable or that the benefit 
was insufficient to meet their total monthly mortgage repayments.
Its possible that some of the information the bank gave Mr and Mrs L about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it should have been. But they chose to take out the policy and so appear to have 
wanted this type of cover. I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs L would have made a different 
decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think they would still have taken 
out the policy.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2020.
Susan Peters
Ombudsman