DRN-3368941
The complaint
In summary, Mr K has complained about the advice he received from Chantler Kent 
Investments (CKI) in 2012, when it advised him to transfer some of his pensions into a 
self- invested personal pension (SIPP). Mr K thinks that as a result of poor initial advice 
and not having received ongoing investment advice, he has suffered significant 
investment losses. This is due to the majority of the proceeds of transfer and ongoing 
contributions remaining in cash.
What happened
In 2012 Mr K received pension and investment advice from CKI. CKIs recommendation 
report said that the proceeds from Mr Ks pensions would be held on deposit until an 
investment strategy had been agreed. It also recorded that he would receive one face to 
face review a year, and that his portfolio would be rebalanced as required.
After the SIPP was set up, there were several communications between Mr K and CKI 
over a number of years, about investing the proceeds of the transfers. And in October 
2012, CKI provided Mr K with details of investment recommendations, which were 
described as the K portfolio. In 2013 part of the cash held in Mr Ks SIPP was 
invested by CKI.
At the beginning of January 2020, Mr K wrote to CKI. He explained his requests for 
meetings and information hadnt been replied to over an extended period. He felt he had 
no choice but to terminate his client relationship with CKI. He asked for a return of the 
fees he had paid, as he didnt think his investments had been suitably managed.
In February 2020 CKI wrote to Mr K. It said it couldnt justify the fees it received and offered 
a full refund of the fees it had received. Mr K wasnt satisfied with the response provided by 
CKI. So, he referred the complaint to our service to look into.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ks concerns. He explained why he couldnt 
investigate the initial advice. And he also explained, why he didnt think he could say CKI 
had done anything wrong in not investing all of the cash held in his SIPP.
Mr K didnt agree with the investigators view of his complaint. In summary he explained 
how he thought CKI had failed in its legal obligations to him. And he didnt think his losses 
should be limited from January 2014. He also said his complaint was broader than the 
SIPP, as he received no advice in respect of his equity ISAs. And he said fees should be 
refunded in respect of these. He also said he should be compensated for his losses, due to 
the cash in his SIPP not having been invested. He also agreed that he had an adventurous 
attitude to risk, and that CKI had tried to time the markets. 
The case was passed to me to review. I wrote to Mr K and CKI in September 2021. 
I explained why I thought we couldnt consider Mr Ks concerns about the initial advice 
provided to him, and why I thought the complaint he had made to CKI and this service was 
only in respect of the SIPP, not the ISAs. But I also explained why I thought we could 
consider his concerns regarding the annual reviews.
In response, Mr K said he accepted what I had said with regard to only considering his 
concerns from January 2014. But he didnt accept that the High Court would be subject to 
similar limitations. And he reserved his rights in that regard. He thought I should consider 
documents from 2012 and that any award should cover all fees including the ISAs, as no 
advice was received in respect of them. He also made submissions in relation to the merits 
of his complaint. CKI said it had no further points that it wanted to add. 
As Mr K accepted my findings in relation to jurisdiction and CKI had no further submissions 
to make, I issued a final jurisdiction decision. I explained that I remained of the view that the 
complaint had been correctly summarised as being about the SIPP. I decided that Mr Ks 
concerns about the suitability of advice provided and the lack of investment reviews before 
January 2014 couldnt be looked at as they had been made too late. But I said I could 
consider his concerns from January 2014. 
In February 2022 I issued a provisional decision in relation Mr Ks complaint. I explained why 
I intended to uphold Mr Ks complaint in part. 
In response, Mr K said in summary:
He was disappointed that I was only minded to uphold his complaint in part.
He wanted definitive calculations of what the compensation would be and 14 days to 
comment on the figures.
He explained why he thought the investment date should be 2 January 2014. 
He didnt agree with the inconvenience payment I had suggested and thought a sum 
of £2,000 was more appropriate.
He asked for his legal fees be paid in full. 
He asked that the compensation include a payment for interest. 
He said he wasnt able to make a personal contribution into his SIPP due to a lack of 
earned income. 
He didnt agree with the tax deduction that I suggested, to allow for future income tax 
in relation to any cash compensation payment in respect of pension losses and 
asked that I reconsider the figure I had suggested.
He asked that the losses in respect of the lack of investment of the cash in his ISAs 
be included in the calculation of compensation.
In response, CKI said in summary:
It described a relevant event which it said confirmed Mr Ks intention not to further 
invest into the portfolio recommended after the 21/06/2013. It submitted this was Mr 
Ks recorded decision to hold cash to buy a commercial property. It said this 
suggested Mr K was directing the investment.
It referred to new evidence from its file in relation to the original transfer and advice 
on shares. It said this showed Mr K was active in deciding what shares to cash or 
transfer, which indicated a self-select client behaviour.
It also referred to Mr and Mrs K declining to accept its offer of settlement following 
their complaint in January 2020. It said this showed their intention to direct the 
investments which would negatively impact the current value of their pension. 
It also queried the impact of Mr Ks own investments on the redress methodology I 
had proposed, and that step 4 involved looking at the current value.I wrote to Mr K on 4 March 2022 in reply to what he had said in response to my provisional 
decision. In summary I said:
Based on the information I had, I wasnt persuaded to reduce the tax deduction that I 
suggested, to allow for future income tax in relation to any cash compensation 
payment in respect of pension losses.
I said I was prepared to reconsider this if Mr K provided any evidence in relation to 
this issue.
I explained why any compensation would be limited to £160,000. 
I explained why I wouldnt be able to provide the detailed calculations he had asked 
for.
I also explained why I didnt think it was appropriate to make any award in relation to 
legal costs.
I also said I would address any lost investment growth resulting from a deduction of 
fees within the redress methodology and that interest would be appropriate if any 
compensation wasnt paid within 28 days of the decision being accepted. 
I also said that in relation to the ISAs, I hadnt seen anything which led me to change 
what I had said in my jurisdiction decision. 
And in relation to the investment date, I hadnt changed my opinion on that for the 
reasons I had set out in my provisional decision. 
I also explained why I thought the distress and inconvenience award I had proposed, 
remained an appropriate figure. 
Mr K wrote to me again replying to the points I had made in my e-mail of 4 March 2022. In 
summary:
He was disappointed I wasnt prepared to take the claim back to 2014. He couldnt 
understand why it should not go back to the earliest possible time, as he seemed to 
think I had accepted that the consideration of a property only came up as a 
consequence of the lack of intended investment.
He thanked me for the diligence with which I had considered his complaint.
He provided details of how he and Mrs K would achieve their income in retirement. 
And he explained drawing on capital in retirement would be more tax efficient rather 
than drawing on his SIPP to a level that incurred 40% tax. 
He said that at retirement he wouldnt have any mortgages, so he wouldnt be 
drawing income to pay mortgage interest or repayments. 
His and Mrs Ks income over the next 10 years would cover their expenditure so they 
would approach age 65 with significant cash or liquid funds. 
Irrespective of the fact that they would have sufficient funds from elsewhere to avoid 
using the SIPP, they would not need to spend £2,000 a week with no mortgage 
outgoings. 
As they got older, they would use capital to supplement their income. It made no 
sense to draw a SIPP that could pass to their children free of IHT. 
Office for National Statistics (ONS) life expectancy data was provided in support of 
his arguments.
He wasnt confident that CKI would provide accurate or transparent calculations.
He felt he was forced to take legal advice as a result of what he believed was an 
inconsistent conclusion by the investigator. 
He asked if he could make a complaint to CKI or the ombudsman regarding the ISAs. 
I considered what Mr K had said. Our investigator wrote to Mr K on my behalf. In summary:I had said that the lack of reviews after 2014 could be considered. I hadnt accepted 
the consideration of a property only came up as a consequence of the lack of 
intended investment. I had nothing further to add regarding that point.
I had reviewed the information provided regarding his assets and income. In light of 
the further detail provided, I was now persuaded that a 20% tax deduction would be 
more appropriate in respect of any compensation paid to Mr and Mrs K, rather than 
the 30% deduction (in respect of Mr K) I had set out in my provisional decisions to 
them.
I had also considered Mr Ks request for lost investment growth to be taken into 
account in relation to the fees that were deducted by CKI, from the monies invested 
in the SIPPs. 
Having reflected on what Mr K had said, he said I didnt now think it was appropriate 
for a refund of fees to be paid. This was because I didnt think it fair or reasonable for 
him and Mrs K to have the benefit of redress which compensated them both on the 
basis of what should have happened if they had received the advice they ought to 
have been given. And to also compensate them for the cost of that advice.
Regarding the costs in respect of the legal advice he have obtained, he said my 
opinion on this hadnt changed, for the reasons I had already given.  
Mr K provided further submissions in response to the investigators e-mail had. In summary:
He didnt think there was any evidence anywhere that the original intention was 
anything other than to invest in an equity portfolio. Diversification away from other 
assets had been discussed with CKI. He attached a chain of information including 
notes of his. 
He argued that there was no mention of direct property investment back in 2012. And 
he referred to correspondence that he had with CKI.
He had purchased other properties that could have been acquired wholly or partially 
in his SIPP in 2012 and 2013. He said these purchases evidenced he had no 
intention of using his SIPP for a property purchase until the inaction of CKI in a rising 
stock market.
He asked that I reconsider the start date in light of the information he had provided. 
He didnt deny he considered property investment in 2014, but mistakes by CKI 
occurred before 2014. He thought the calculation date should reflect this and the 
original intention. 
He was grateful that I had reconsidered the tax rate applied to his SIPP. He said he 
would definitely take the 25% tax free lump sum (TFLS). And he asked that I 
reinstate the tax deduction I had set out in my methodology to reflect the benefit of 
the TFLS. He said he would take this before age 75. 
In relation to the refund of CKIs fees, he accepted and understood the rationale for 
the three-year period in which compensation for losses was being suggested. But he 
argued that the funds would have received earned dividends which would have 
covered part of the fees. And he asked for a refund of an appropriate proportion of 
fees for the periods outside of the three years. 
He asked that I clarify the calculation dates within my decision to take into account if 
any fell on a weekend.
I considered what Mr K had said. An investigator and wrote again to CKI on my behalf and 
attached a copy of Mr Ks e-mail to me. 
In summary I explained that having considered what Mr K had said, I was satisfied 
that Mr K had the means to draw income and assets in an inheritance tax (IHT) 
efficient way. And I went on to explain why I now thought a notional deduction of 15% 
should be made from any compensation payment made directly to Mr K and Mrs K.
I also said If the calculation dates, I set out in this redress methodology fell on a 
weekend or on a bank holiday, the calculation should use any unit values/prices on the following business day.
No response was received from CKI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the opinion that Mr Ks complaint should be upheld in part. Ive 
set out my reasoning below. 
Mr K and CKI have made a number of arguments in relation to this complaint  and in 
response to my provisional decision. In reaching my decision, I havent commented on every 
point of concern Mr K and CKI have raised. I dont intend to offend them by doing so or 
mean any disrespect in taking this approach. Instead Ive focussed on the key issues I think I 
need to consider in deciding whether or not CKI has done anything wrong regarding the 
concerns Mr K has raised  and what and how, CKI needs to do to put things right. 
Although I cant consider Mr Ks concerns about the suitability of the initial advice and the 
impact of a lack of any reviews prior to January 2014, I can consider his concerns about the 
lack of reviews after that date. And Ill also consider the lack of ongoing investment advice. 
In the first instance Ive thought about what the agreement was to provide reviews between 
Mr K and CKI. When Mr Ks pensions were transferred in 2012, the suitability letter set out 
the basis for recommending the transfer of Mr Ks existing pensions into a SIPP. As Ive 
explained above, I wont be looking at the suitability of that advice. 
In relation to ongoing charges, the letter explained that the ongoing fee would be 0.5% a 
year of the portfolio value. The suitability letter also addressed Mr Ks risk profile. And in 
respect of this it recorded:
We have discussed the concept of risk and the relationship between volatility of capital and 
income and the potential for investment returns over the long term. We have discussed your 
attitude to risk, which we agreed can generally be described as adventurous. 
The detailed recommendation section also recorded that Mr K wanted to have the 
opportunity to invest in a wide range of assets and make his own investment decisions. 
The letter also set out the services CKI would provide on an ongoing basis. It said in 
relation to the services that would be provided:
Chantler Kent Services
As part of our ongoing service to you we undertake to provide you with the following;
One face to face review per year
Rebalancing of your portfolio as required
Communication by e-mail to ensure you are kept fully informed of the proposed 
changes to your portfolio.
To allow you the facility to view your Wrap account online.
To receive ongoing investment advice utilising sophisticated IT technology.So, Im satisfied the agreement Mr K had with CKI included the provision of annual reviews 
and ongoing investment advice. Im also satisfied from the correspondence Ive seen from 
CKI, that it now accepts its contact with Mr K was sporadic. 
I need to decide in light of the lack of ongoing reviews, what steps (if any) Mr K would have 
taken in respect of his pension after January 2014, if CKI had provided the face to face 
reviews it accepts that it should have. In assessing this, I think its important I consider what 
happened before that point. I say this because I think what happened prior to 2014 is 
indicative of what Mr K might have done after 2014 if reviews had taken place.
Prior to January 2014, I can see from the information Ive been provided with by CKI and 
Mr K, that there were several e-mail exchanges between the parties about when the 
proceeds of the transfers should be invested. The suitability letter explained that the 
proceeds of transfer would remain in cash until an investment strategy had been agreed. In 
October 2012 CKI provided Mr K with investment recommendations, which were described 
as the K. portfolio. 
In April 2013, Mr K made a lump sum contribution of £64,000 into his SIPP. And in June 
2013 there was an exchange of e-mails between CKI and Mr K regarding the investment of 
the cash. CKIs e-mail to Mr K of 20 June 2013 says;
..I think it would be worthwhile to now begin the strategy of drip feeding monies into the 
market. And it went on to say: 
The way ahead is unclear. However, I do feel that with recent setbacks, now is an 
appropriate time to begin. 
Mr K in response saidI have been watching the markets keenly as you might have 
guessed and agree its probably time to commit!
CKI then suggested Mr K commit (invest) 25 / 30% of the cash held within the SIPP, with a 
view to reviewing this in 4/5 weeks time. Mr K agreed in principle to that suggestion and 
CKI replied that it would proceed on that basis. And on 22 June 2013, £84,000 was 
invested in 7 different funds. And the funds were similar to those set out in the K. 
portfolio which CKI had provided details of the previous October.
There are four significant points that stand out to me from the above. Firstly, that CKI was 
providing Mr K with investment advice in relation to the cash held in his SIPP. Secondly 
when Mr K was provided with a specific recommendation to invest, he accepted that 
recommendation and acted on it. 
And thirdly, the investments made appear to have been in line with the adventurous 
attitude to risk (ATR) Mr K had been assessed as having by CKI. I say this because the 
investments were made into equity funds with a geographical spread ranging from the Far 
East to Europe and the UK. They also encompassed specialist funds. And I think at that 
time, these funds could have been considered to be potentially more volatile than other 
types of equity-based investments.  
Finally, the correspondence suggests that the investments would be reviewed within a 
short period of time. This would seem logical, because after having made that initial 
investment of £84,000, there remained approximately £225,000 remaining in the SIPP to 
be invested. 
In November 2013, Mr K contacted CKI about the possibility of purchasing a commercial 
property within his SIPP. The property appears to be one that he was developing with other family members. The anticipated cost was around £225,000. There was a further e-mail 
exchange regarding this in May 2014. And there was additional correspondence regarding 
the potential commercial property investment, and about using a different SIPP provider, in 
September 2014. That purchase never went through. But I think this correspondence 
between Mr K and CKI, is indicative of an interest on Mr Ks part in investing in commercial 
property.
In its communications with Mr K, CKI has argued that he was what it described as a 
self -select client, who wanted to make his own investment decisions. And it also claimed 
that the lack of investment was due to his concerns about equity markets, and his desire to 
invest in commercial property. Ill deal with these issues in turn. 
In respect of Mr K being a self-select client, Im not persuaded the evidence supports that. I 
say this because if that was the case, I would have expected CKIs own analysis of Mr Ks 
circumstances and objectives to have identified that. I accept that the suitability report 
records that Mr K wanted the opportunity to invest in a wide range of assets and to make 
his own investment decisions. But it also indicates that he was expecting CKI to advise him 
about the investment of his pension monies. For example, CKIs e-mail to Mr K of 18 July 
2012 summarises various action points following a meeting. It says:
Mrs K to complete the paperwork for Transact, this will include the pension transfer docs 
for ..I will then provide specific recommendations for an investment strategy both for the 
pension.funds.
It concludes by saying:
I will now proceed to prepare my full report for the protection plans. I will also put forward 
an investment strategy for the incoming pension monies.
And the recommendation report it prepared in 2012 indicates Mr K was looking to produce 
a balanced investment portfolio. As Ive already summarised above, the suitability letter 
explicitly says that Mr K would receive ongoing investment advice. And it also said that his 
pension funds would be held on deposit within the SIPP until Mr K and CKI had agreed an 
investment strategy. 
Although the proceeds of transfer were held in cash, the letter concluded that a meeting 
would be arranged in the November to review Mr Ks portfolio and arrange pension and ISA 
contributions.  And the fact that a portfolio of suggested funds to invest in was sent to Mr K 
in October 2012, also persuades me that CKI accepted it was providing Mr K with 
investment advice. 
In addition, the keyfacts document provided by CKI, doesnt support its argument that Mr K 
was a self-select client. I say this because in relation to investment business the document 
sets out a number of different options regarding the services it provided. The first which is 
ticked says:
We will advise and make recommendations for you after we have assessed your needs.
The second option sets out that no advice or recommendation would be received. The third 
offers basic advice in relation to a limited range of stakeholder products. So, Im persuaded 
CKIs own keyfacts document records that it intended to advise and make 
recommendations to Mr K. And if the advice was to have been limited in any way, I would 
have expected that to have been recorded by CKI. In addition, the investment by CKI of £84,000 in funds it selected in June 2013, isnt 
suggestive to me of Mr K being an individual who wanted to exclusively make his own 
investment decisions. And I believe the correspondence that Ive summarised above 
supports that. 
In the years following the setting up of the SIPP, Mr K did make some investments of his 
own choice. But I dont agree the available evidence when looked at holistically, supports 
CKIs contention that Mr K was a self-select client. I think the evidence indicates that he 
was looking for investment advice from CKI but was also prepared to consider other 
investments that he felt were appropriate for him. 
In relation to Mr Ks concerns about equity markets and his desire to invest in commercial 
property, I dont think the situation is as straightforward as CKI has suggested. The e-mail 
exchanges between Mr K and CKI do indicate discussions took place about the timing of 
the reinvestment of the proceeds of transfer. 
For example, in August 2012 there was a discussion about the timing of any reinvestment. 
Mr K in his e-mail of 2 August 2012, does make a suggestion as to the timing of any 
reinvestment and asks for CKIs views on his proposal.  And in its e-mail response the 
same day, CKI expresses the view that: 
the markets have ticked up recently, in a period of low volume trading. I am of the view 
that there is more downside risk. I do not see that being out of the market, in the short term 
will be harmful.
In September 2012 Mr K asks for a call to catch up where they were and to discuss what to 
do regarding the investments. CKI said in response that it would contact Mr K to discuss 
investment options. And on 13 December 2012, CKI expresses surprise that markets have 
ticked up the way they have.  And it went on to say:
On the question of timing, it may be an idea to drip some into the market. I was thinking of 
no more than 25%, at this time. We can watch how the market looks in January and make 
a further decision at that time.
I think this correspondence paints a picture where Mr K is questioning when the investments 
should be made. But I also think the correspondence also indicates that CKI had concerns 
about market timing. And its advice appears to be a combination of wait and see how 
markets would perform, and to make investments over a period of time.  And in June 2013 
that strategy began to be implemented. I think from the evidence Ive seen; the timing of any 
investments was more of an issue for CKI than Mr K.
Mr K appears to have had considerable experience of investing in property through his 
profession. And its not surprising therefore that he also considered property investments 
with which he was familiar for his SIPP, particularly given that the majority of his pension 
money hadnt been invested. 
CKI has argued the evidence suggests Mr K wanted to invest in commercial property in his 
SIPP. I agree that a SIPP is potentially an appropriate vehicle for investors who want to 
invest in commercial property within their pensions. And as Ive said above, in November 
2013, Mr K contacted CKI about the possibility of purchasing a commercial property within 
his SIPP. 
Mr K has consistently said that part of his reasoning for doing this was as a reaction to a 
lack of investment by CKI, rather than an intended course of action on his part to invest in 
the SIPP. I accept that could be a reason why Mr K expressed an interest in investing one of his properties into his SIPP. But Im not persuaded by the available evidence that this 
was necessarily the case. Mr K has commented that Im not certain on this point. I dont 
need to be certain, that isnt the test I need to apply. I need to consider the evidence and 
make my findings on a balance of probabilities basis.
Ive reached this conclusion because the recorded expression of interest in property 
investment came a few months after the initial tranche of investment back in June 2013. 
Ive not seen any evidence of correspondence from Mr K or from CKI for that matter in 
2013, about further investing in the portfolio of funds. I accept that this was going to be 
reviewed. But, if Mr K had originally been wanting to continue investment into the 
recommended portfolio at that point in time, I would have expected to see some evidence 
to that effect. 
The next correspondence on this issue is an e-mail from Mr K dated 6 May 2014. He asks 
for an update about the transfer of the property originally discussed in November 2013, into 
his SIPP. There was a further chaser on 22 May 2014 and another one in June 2014. In 
September 2014 information about investing in commercial property via another SIPP 
provider was sent to Mr K by CKI. Mr K has said it became apparent that the management 
required within the SIPP structure wasnt going to work for the transfer of the property that 
was being proposed. So that option wasnt taken forward. Its not clear to me when Mr K 
reached that conclusion. 
Ive thought very carefully about the correspondence and what Mr K has said about why he 
considered investing commercial property into his SIPP. And I acknowledge he has said 
that he was seeking diversification of investment within his SIPP, given the property 
portfolio he already had.  
But, given the evidence available to me that Ive summarised, I cant safely conclude that in 
2014 he wasnt actively considering investing in commercial property within his SIPP. And 
in his response to me of 17 March 2022, he doesnt deny considering a property 
investment in 2014. 
And Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me that this was necessarily as a result of 
his remaining cash in the SIPP not having been invested by CKI. So, it seems to me, that 
even if further investments had been recommended along the lines of the K. portfolio in 
2014, I cant safely say that its more likely than not Mr K would have acted on any such 
recommendation at that time in relation to his SIPP; given the interest in commercial 
property that he appears to have had around that time. 
The next record of any contact from CKI with Mr K was 27 August 2015, when CKI e-
mailed Mr K to suggest a review. In response Mr K says:
Your email is opportune as I have been thinking quite a bit about my pension recently, not 
surprisingly!
A date was subsequently agreed by Mr K and CKI for the 17th of September. Mr K set out 
in his response confirming the date and time, the issues he wanted to discuss. He said:
To give you an update . I am just letting the shop in . that I had thought might be 
transferred into my pension, but for the time being I need to leave it in the investment 
partnership, so I think I am generally keener on going back to a diversification strategy 
(away from property) in my pension 
Please can you update on the following:
-Value (obviously)-
-.. 
-Strategy for investment  . me
-Fee levels  Transact?
In response CKI said:
.Now that you have decided that you are not seeking a property purchase within the 
SIPP, we can look at investment options.
I think this exchange of correspondence is significant for several reasons. Firstly, I believe 
it indicates CKIs acknowledgement that a review was due. Secondly it reinforces what I 
have said above that Mr K had been considering investing in commercial property. Thirdly, 
Im also satisfied it records that at this point in time, Mr K had decided against investing in 
commercial property. Fourthly I think it clearly shows that Mr K was now looking towards a 
strategy of diversification away from property within his SIPP. And finally, it records that 
CKIs agreement that investment options would be considered at the review meeting. 
The next correspondence that Ive seen, is an e-mail from Mr K to CKI on 22 September 
2015. Mr K writes to CKI and asks:
I am scared to ask but seeing the markets tumbling today I wonder if you have placed my 
pension yet?
CKIs response was:
.As yet Ive done nothing. The particularly dovish tones that came out from the FED, led 
me to believe that the extreme volatility in markets would worsenand it has. Will be in 
touch shortly.
This e-mail indicates to me that following on from the review meeting on 17 September 
2015, there had been an agreement to invest Mr Ks pension funds. Mr Ks enquiry although 
indicating a nervousness that the funds had been invested given investment volatility that 
day, also indicates he was expecting the monies in his pension to have been invested. 
Im also a little surprised at the response from CKI. It clearly indicates to me that it hadnt 
taken any action to invest the monies held in the SIPP, when the e-mail exchanges suggest 
there had been an agreement and intention to do so, following on from the review meeting. It 
seems to me from CKIs e-mail of 22 September 2015, that it was attempting to time the 
market regarding investing the remainder of the money in the SIPP.  
Mr Ks SIPP was a long-term investment. In September 2015 he was 44 years of age. The 
majority of the funds had been held in cash in the SIPP since its inception in 2012. Given 
this and the adventurous risk rating CKI appears to have assessed Mr K as having (which Mr 
K and CKI dont appear to dispute), there doesnt seem to have been any logic to me, in 
holding off any longer in investing the pension monies held in cash within the SIPP. 
Mr K was clearly keen at this point in time, to implement a strategy of investment 
diversification away from commercial property investment, with the monies held in the SIPP. 
Mr K had over 20 years to state retirement age, and over 10 years until he could access his 
pension. And as concerned as CKI may have been with market timing, given the context Ive 
summarised above, I also think there was a risk of not investing monies which were intended 
to be a long-term investment. The consequences of not investing could have led to the 
pension money not benefitting from investment growth, which would reduce the amount of 
capital available to generate income at the point of retirement. And by remaining in cash without the potential to benefit from investment growth, the pension also ran the risk of losing 
value in real terms through the effects of inflation.
Ive noted that in June 2013, the agreed percentage of funds were invested within a couple 
of days of Mr K confirming his agreement to invest. And given that there appears to have 
been a similar agreement to invest in September 2015, I dont understand why Mr Ks 
pension money wasnt similarly invested in a timely fashion. I can only surmise from the 
information I have, that this was due to CKI not having acted promptly in implementing the 
agreed investment strategy, or as a result of subsequent concerns it had in respect of the 
timing of investing the cash held in the SIPP.
CKI has argued Mr K was in essence nervous about the timing of any investment. It seems 
to me from the analysis that Ive summarised above, that the evidence suggests CKI was the 
party concerned about the timing of when to invest. I acknowledge Mr Ks e-mail to CKI of 22 
September 2015 suggests he was nervous about the potential consequences of having 
invested given the market volatility hes referred to. But Im satisfied that if CKI had acted 
promptly on the apparent agreement to invest, then Mr Ks funds would have already been 
invested when he sent that e-mail. And by 21 September 2015 at the latest.
Even if there hadnt been the agreement to invest (which I think the e-mails suggest there 
was), Ive considered what appropriate advice should have been given at the review 
meeting. I do think that by the time the review meeting took place, the e-mail exchanges 
Ive set out above, demonstrate that Mr K wanted to discuss investing the pension monies. 
And against the backdrop of the cash in his SIPP not having been invested for a number of 
years, due in part to him considering a commercial property investment in 2014, I think an 
appropriate investment strategy should have been discussed and recommended at that 
meeting. Ive also thought about what CKI told Mr K in 2012, when it said; 
I do not see that being out of the market, in the short term will be harmful. 
I think taking into account this statement by CKI in 2012, serious consideration should have 
been given by it as to whether the monies held in the SIPP in cash, not having been invested 
for nearly three years, was detrimental to Mr K. And this should have been of particular 
concern given the context Ive set out above. And as Ive said, I think the evidence suggests 
it was CKI that was more concerned about investment timing than Mr K.
I also think its significant that when an investment recommendation was made to Mr K in 
2013, he accepted it. And I think his agreement to invest in 2013, strongly suggests to me 
that that if an investment recommendation had been made to him in September 2015, he 
would have acted on any similar recommendation to invest. 
I say this because there doesnt appear to be any dispute that Mr K had an adventurous 
ATR. Hes accepted such a categorisation in his response to the investigators view, and CKI 
dont appear to disagree with its own categorisation of his ATR. I accept its possible Mr K 
might have been advised to invest in a different range of funds. But the difficulty I have is 
that there is no record of what investment recommendations were discussed and agreed at 
the review meeting.
There are different approaches I could use to direct how CKI should calculate any 
compensation that might be due to Mr K. And one of those could involve using an 
investment benchmark as a comparator with the value of his pension. But I dont think that 
would be appropriate in this particular case. This is because as Ive set out above, Mr K had 
made some investments within the SIPP in 2013 as a result of CKIs advice. He is recorded 
as wanting to diversify away from property in his pension. And I dont think its unreasonable 
for me to conclude based on Mr Ks acceptance of the previous investment recommendation, that he would more likely than not have invested the remaining cash in the 
same funds as the investment made in 2013 was made into. 
In coming to this conclusion, Ive also taken into account what Mr K told us about how he 
has calculated his losses. In the loss analysis hes provided in support of his complaint, Mr K 
has carried out his own calculation based on the funds suggested in the K. portfolio in 
2012. As he has used the funds originally recommended in 2012 to calculate his investment 
losses, I believe this supports my conclusion that Mr K would have accepted a similar 
recommendation if one had been made to him in September 2015. And as Ive set out above 
the investment made in 2013 used a portfolio of funds which were very similar to the funds 
set out in the K. portfolio. It also provided a broad range of funds in line with the 
adventurous ATR that Mr K accepts he has. Ive thought carefully about what Mr K and CKI 
have said. But for the reasons Ive set out above, I remain of the opinion that the investment 
date should be 21 September 2015.
After the review meeting in September 2015, Mr K made a further contribution into his 
pension in April 2016. This remained in cash within the SIPP.  Given what Ive said above, I 
think this contribution should also have been invested as well. Its more difficult to decide 
when that contribution would have been invested. But I think with such a substantial 
contribution having been made, this would have been another opportunity for a review to 
have taken place with Mr K. And I think if a review had been arranged, its more likely than 
not that this could have taken place, and the monies invested within a month of Mr K having 
made the contribution. 
I accept that a different time frame could be argued. But I think taking into account the 
necessity for CKI and Mr K to coordinate diaries, the time frame Ive suggested is not 
unreasonable or unrealistic. So, given that the contribution was made on or about 4 April 
2016, I think the funds would have been invested no later than the end of April 2016. And for 
the same reasons Ive expressed above, I think the monies would have been invested in the 
same funds as the 2013 tranche of money.
CKI in its response to my provisional decision, referred to an external compliance report that 
recorded Mr K was holding cash to in his SIPP to purchase a property. As Ive explained, I 
do think Mr K had an interest in commercial property in 2014.
Ive also thought about what CKI said in relation to the offer of settlement it made to Mr K. 
Ive explained when and why I think he would have invested the remaining cash in his SIPP. 
And Mr Ks response to the offer made to settle the complaint was at a point much later in 
time and involving different circumstances. 
So, what Mr K may have said in relation to an offer of settlement in respect of the complaint, 
isnt in my opinion directly relevant to the lack of advice he and Mrs K received from CKI, 
and what they were likely to have done if they had received the advice they had paid for. 
And given their concerns about the service and advice provided by CKI, its not surprising 
they chose to move their investments at that point in time.
In its response to Mr Ks complaint, CKI offered to refund the fees it charged Mr K. In my 
provisional decision I said that I thought that was an appropriate offer for it to have made. As 
Ive summarised above, Mr K in response to my provisional decision, asked for any 
investment losses to also be paid in respect of the money deducted from the fund in respect 
of CKIs charges.
Mr Ks arguments have caused me to reflect on the offer made by CKI. It offered to repay the 
fees that had been deducted from the SIPP because no investment advice had been 
provided. And it made no offer or proposal in relation to investment losses. My aim is to put Mr K back in the position he would have been in as far as is practicably 
possible, (within the time period Ive has outlined that losses should be considered for), if the 
advisory function that CKI should had offered him, had taken place. 
Having reflected on what Mr K said, I dont now think it is appropriate for a refund of fees to 
be paid. I say this because on reflection, it doesnt seem fair or reasonable to me, for Mr K to 
have the benefit of redress which compensates him on the basis of what should have 
happened if he had received the advice he ought to have been given. And to also at the 
same time, compensate him for the cost of that advice. That would in essence provide a 
double benefit to him. This is because it would put him in a position he would have been in if 
he had received appropriate advice, but also reimburse him for the cost of that advice.
Mr K has said in response to this that he understands the rationale for my change of opinion 
in relation to the three-year period for which Ive explained why investment losses should be 
calculated. But hes argued that earned dividends would have covered part of the fees. And 
he thinks that CKI provided negligent strategic advice outside of the three-year period. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ks arguments. The agreement Mr K had with CKI allowed it to 
deduct its fees from the monies held in the SIPP. It didnt specify that this should be paid 
from dividend income produced by any investments. I acknowledge what Mr K has said 
about what happened after the SIPP was set up.  But Ive already explained in my 
jurisdiction decision, that I cant look at Mr Ks concerns prior to January 2014.
Ive also thought about the actions of Mr K in relation to the reviews and the investment of 
the cash in his SIPP. Although I think for the reasons Ive set out, CKI should have carried 
out regular reviews of Mr Ks pension and invested the money held in his SIPP, I do think Mr 
K also has some responsibility for his funds not being invested. Ill explain why.
The next recorded contact between CKI and Mr K was in March 2018. Mr K wrote to CKI and 
said he was surprised that having made a large pension contribution in April 2016, he hadnt 
had any contact in the nearly two years since. He asked if CKI had any thoughts on his 
pension position. In September 2018 Mr K contacts CKI again to say that he had received no 
contact from it. He was told he would be contacted. But he received no further contact from 
CKI until he complained to it in 2020. 
It seems to me that after the meeting in September 2015, there was very little if any contact 
from CKI with Mr K. And promises of contact and reviews werent kept. Against this 
background, its difficult to understand why Mr K didnt take any alternative steps to facilitate 
advice and the investment of his pension monies. I understand that Mr K was paying for 
reviews and ongoing advice which he not unreasonably expected to receive. But I think there 
had to be a time when he realised, he wasnt getting the service he was paying for, and for 
him to have considered seeking alternative financial advice. 
I think to some extent an explanation has been provided by Mr K. Hes told us in various 
conversations with our investigators that he had: 
buried his head in the sand and didnt want to engage too much. He also said that he had: 
denied it all for years he had found it all too stressful.
And in subsequent conversations with another of our investigators, Mr K explained he had 
found the situation with his pension; very stressful and had genuinely tried to bury it.
He also said that he had; spent 8 years waiting for a stock market crash.
I do understand that Mr K has found the concerns he had about his pensions to be very 
stressful and difficult to address. But what he has told our investigators also indicates to me 
that he has recognised that there had been a specific problem with the lack of investment of his pension money for several years. And that the lack of investment was as a result of CKI 
not having invested the cash held within his SIPP, as he had expected it to do. And 
notwithstanding what Mr K told our investigators, I still think he would have acted on any 
investment recommendations for the reasons Ive set out above. 
All of this leads me to conclude that Mr K was aware of the lack of service and advice from 
CKI. I dont think it was unreasonable of him not to have taken any steps to have done 
anything about this in the short to medium term. He had a reasonable expectation that CKI 
would be in contact and provide him with the investment reviews and advice he was 
expecting. But I think when he didnt receive a response to his enquiry to CKI in September 
2018, this should have prompted him to seek investment advice elsewhere. 
I say this as I believe it should have been apparent to Mr K at that point, that CKI wasnt 
engaging him with him or providing him with the advice he needed and wanted. But Mr K 
didnt take any reasonable steps to mitigate his position resulting from the poor service and 
lack of advice. And for the reasons Ive explained I think he should have taken steps to seek 
advice and mitigate his position by the end of September 2018. 
Mr K has also made a number of submissions regarding the notional reduction I specified 
should be made, if any compensation payment couldnt be paid into the SIPP. He has said a 
compensation payment for investment losses cant be paid into his SIPP as he hasnt had 
any earned income since 2016. He has argued that due to the other sources of income he 
has been living off, he wont need to access his SIPP to provide income in retirement. As a 
result, he doesnt think that a 30% deduction from any compensation payment should be 
made. 
Ive considered the information provided by Mr K and CKI. CKIs fact find from the time of the 
original advice in 2012, records that Mr and Mrs K had substantial assets outside of their 
pensions. Mr K has now provided further detail about his current assets and income. These 
indicate that his assets and income are similar to those recorded in 2012 by CKI. So, I think 
this is corroborative of what Mr K has told us about his finances. 
It seems to me that Mr K hasnt had any earned income since 2016 and has been living off 
the assets and income that hes provided details of. As he is able to live off those resources 
and has provided details of them, Im now persuaded that he isnt likely to have to draw 
down on his SIPP in order to generate income.
As a result, Im also persuaded his SIPP would be left to his beneficiaries as part of his 
inheritance tax planning. And it was on this basis that I believed that a deduction of 20% to 
allow for any beneficiaries expected marginal rate of income tax was more appropriate. I 
wrote to CKI and Mr K explaining this.
Mr K in response said he would take the tax-free cash before age 75. Ive reconsidered the 
arguments and evidence in relation to this point. I am now persuaded from what Mr K has 
said, that maximising any inheritance tax (IHT) saving is important to him. And the assets 
and income streams he and Mrs K appear to have, does suggest that he and Mrs K have the 
means to draw on income and assets in an IHT efficient way. 
There is a risk that Mr and Mrs K might not live for 7 years after taking any tax-free cash. 
That would mean the tax-free cash could be subject to IHT. But taking into account what Mr 
K has said about the reasoning and timing of taking any tax-free cash, it seems to me that 
its equally possible and plausible, that such an exercise might be successful. And I can see 
the logic in why Mr and Mrs K might want to do take the tax-free cash, to help their children 
at some point in the future when they are older. In my experience that isnt an unusual thing 
for parents who have substantial assets such as Mr and Mrs K have, to do with their tax-free 
cash. As Mr K himself acknowledges, the beneficiaries in relation to the SIPPs will have to pay tax 
at their marginal rate of income tax. That cant be known at the moment given. But given that 
the likely beneficiaries will be Mr and Mrs Ks children, I think its appropriate to assume a 
20% tax rate on any income that might be taken from the SIPP, to reflect the beneficiaries 
likely marginal rate of income tax. 
Mr K has confirmed that he hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from the SIPP. As he isnt yet 
55 (the earliest current age that he could draw benefits from the SIPP), that makes sense to 
me. 
I set out in the redress methodology in my provisional decision, that if any compensation 
payment couldnt be paid into the SIPP, it should be paid directly to Mr K as a lump sum 
after making a notional reduction to allow for future income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid.
As Mr K hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from his SIPP, 25% of the loss would be tax-free 
and 75% would have been taxed according to the likely income tax rate on any income 
drawn. As Ive explained, Im satisfied this would more likely than not be drawn down by the 
beneficiaries of Mr Ks estate and that this is likely to be at a marginal rate of tax of 20%. So, 
making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this, rather than 
the 20% I previously indicated. 
Mr K has also argued that he should be entitled to recover legal costs that he has incurred. 
And he thinks the answer provided by the investigator left him with no option but to do so. I 
can consider making an award in respect of legal costs. But I think the starting point is that 
the ombudsman service is an informal service and free to use for complainants. We dont 
expect complainants to articulate or present their cases in the same way as might be 
directed by court rules. And we will carry out an investigation into a complaint that we 
consider necessary.
Complainants can of course take legal advice if they choose to. But by doing so, that doesnt 
mean that they will automatically be awarded those costs if their complaint is upheld. Taking 
into account the facts and circumstances of Mr Ks complaint, Im not persuaded that he 
needed to take legal advice in order to present his and Mrs Ks cases to our service. The 
facts and issues in their cases are not complicated in my opinion. 
The financial ombudsman service has a two-stage complaint handling process. The case 
has been reviewed afresh by me and I have considered all of the information and arguments 
made by Mr K and CKI afresh. And I dont think it is appropriate for me to make any award in 
respect of Mr Ks legal costs, as Im not persuaded given the issues to be decided; that he 
needed legal representation to present his complaint to our service.
Mr K doesnt agree with the amount of compensation I said should be paid in respect of the 
distress and inconvenience he incurred as a result of CKIs actions. And he thought the figure 
I had indicated should be similar to that put forward by the investigator.
In respect of the award for distress and inconvenience, I am not bound by the findings of our 
investigator. My role is to review the case afresh and reach my own conclusions. And having 
done so I have reached a different conclusion to that of the investigator. 
I upheld the substantive part of Mr Ks complaint in part when the investigator didnt. And I 
directed that CKI should pay him compensation for any financial losses that might be 
calculated. Ive also explained that I think some of the delays and losses are because of Mr 
K not taking steps to mitigate his position. So, based on everything Ive seen, I remain satisfied that £500 is an appropriate amount of compensation to reflect the impact of the 
distress and inconvenience Mr K has incurred. 
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr K back into the position he would likely 
have been in, had it not been for CKIs error. CKI should calculate any compensation that 
may be due using the methodology Ive set out below. 
1) I think the money held in Mr Ks SIPP, should have been invested in the same funds 
that the initial tranche of money was invested in, back in 2013 (the 2013 portfolio). 
2) Any loss Mr K has suffered should be determined by obtaining the notional value of 
the SIPP, on the basis that the remaining proceeds of transfer not invested in 2013, 
had been invested in the same funds as the 2013 portfolio. For the purposes of 
calculating the notional value of those monies, the investment date should be 
assumed to be 21 September 2015. The end of the investment period should be 30 
September 2018.
3) Mr K made a further pension contribution in April 2016. A notional value for this 
contribution should also be calculated on the basis that it was also invested in the 
same funds as the 2013 portfolio. For the purposes of calculating the notional value 
for those monies, the investment date should be assumed to be 30 April 2016. The 
end of the notional investment for these monies period should be 30 September 2018.
4) The value of Mr Ks SIPP as at 30 September 2018 should then be subtracted from 
the notional values calculated in steps 2 and 3. If the answer is negative, theres a 
gain and no redress is payable.
5) If Mr K has suffered an investment loss, the compensation amount should if possible 
be paid into Mr Ks SIPP. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
6) If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance 
implications, it should be paid directly to Mr K as a lump sum after making a notional 
reduction to allow for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
7) Mr K hasnt yet taken any benefits from his plan, and for the reasons explained above, 
it is unlikely that he will need to. If his beneficiaries inherit the SIPP after age 75, they 
will need to pay tax on any monies drawn down at their marginal rate of income tax  
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
8) For the reasons Ive set out, Im satisfied that the lack of reviews and ongoing 
investment advice has caused Mr K significant distress and inconvenience. And Im 
satisfied that this has had a considerable impact on him over a number of years. CKI 
should also pay Mr K £500 for the distress and inconvenience this has caused him.
9) If the calculation/investment dates, I have set out in this redress methodology fall on a 
weekend or on a bank holiday, the calculation should use any unit values/prices on 
the following business day.
10) Pay interest at the rate of 8% simple per year from final decision to settlement (if not 
settled within 28 days of Chantler Kent Investments receiving Mr Ks acceptance)
11) Provide Mr K with a detailed breakdown of the calculation it carries out to determine 
whether he has suffered any losses.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend that 
Chantler Kent Investments pays the balance.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated as set out above. My final decision is that Chantler Kent Investments 
should pay the amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £160,000 
(including distress or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest on that amount 
as set out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds
£160,000, I recommend Chantler Kent Investments pays Mr K the balance plus any interest 
on the balance as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman