DRN-3393853
The complaint
Miss H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt refunded transactions on her account which 
she says were carried out by a fraudster.
What happened
Miss W has identified three payments out of her account that she says she didnt make or 
otherwise authorise. 
All three payments were made using her card details and were for the purchase of 
cryptocurrency through an online service. The date, time, and amount of each transaction is 
set out below: 
Miss H reported the transactions to Lloyds when she discovered them. She had two 
important conversations with the bank: one on 18 May 2021 and another on 26 May 2021. 
The bank has provided recordings of these calls and the following is discussed: 
Miss H told Lloyds on 18 May 2021:
shed lost her card, but nothing else;
shed been putting money into her current account and it was then being taken;
she remembered last having the card on 16 May 2021;
she had a record of her PIN written down with the card;
it was only the three payments (set out in the table above) that were in dispute;
no one had been able to access her online banking;
no one in her household had access to her bank card or phone.
Miss H told Lloyds on 26 May 2021:
that her bag had been misplaced and that shed told the bank this before;
her online banking details were kept in the handbag;
she didnt know how she got her handbag back, but the card was missing;
her mobile had been misplaced throughout the day but she found it on 18 May 2021;
her mobile wasnt password protected or locked in any way;
she remembered having her card on 16 May 2021 and noticed it missing on 
Date Time Amount
17/05/2021 18:13 £518.90
17/05/2021 20:50 £664.33
18/05/2021 11:27 £872.7118 May 2021;
shed visited a friend of a friend and had misplaced her bag, getting it back the next 
day but with no bank card.
Lloyds considered whether it ought to refund the disputed transactions on the basis that 
Miss H was saying they were unauthorised. It declined to do so. It said it could see her 
mobile phone had been used in making some of the payments and that the IP address 
recorded matched the one shed used for months previously. It also said that there were 
transactions made using the physical card on 17 May 2021 that hadnt been disputed, which 
suggested Miss H had her card, contrary to her version of events about it being lost.
Miss H wasnt happy with Lloyds response and brought her complaint to our service. She 
gave us some additional background information including that she was living in temporary 
accommodation and was out of home due to water damage at the time of the transactions. 
She also explained a medical condition which affected her memory, meaning she needed to 
keep a record of her security information. 
Miss H discussed the circumstances with one of our investigators and further explained that 
the friend of a friend shed visited lived in the same building as her (where she normally 
lived, not the temporary accommodation) and so the internet connection and IP address 
would have been the same as itd been in the past. She also said she was at the property for 
two to three days for a party. 
Our investigator considered what had happened and didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. He said the evidence didnt suggest that an unknown fraudster had made the 
disputed transactions without Miss Hs knowledge or consent. 
He noted that the card and mobile banking facility appeared to be openly available to 
whoever had possession of them, with the PIN and security information being known. But 
whoever carried out the spending didnt make full use of available funds; there was much 
more money available in Miss Hs accounts. He said that didnt suggest an opportunistic 
fraudster was spending from Miss Hs accounts. 
The investigator could see there were several payments across Miss Hs current and 
savings account that werent in dispute. That included card payments and transfers between 
her accounts. The lack of explanation for how these payments were carried out, and the lack 
of dispute from Miss H, didnt suggest that a fraudster had access to Miss Hs accounts.
He also noted that, even if Miss H hadnt made the transactions herself, shed likely still be 
liable for them. That was because shed kept all of her security information together with her 
card and phone. So shed most probably have been grossly negligent in failing to protect her 
accounts, even with her personal circumstances in mind.
Miss H disagreed with the investigators findings and so the case has been passed to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im reaching the same outcome as our investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I dont 
find that Lloyds should refund Miss H the transactions shes disputed. Ill explain why.
Miss H is responsible for any transactions out of her account that she has authorised. Thats 
set out in the terms and conditions of her account as well as the Payment Service 
Regulations 2017. If Miss H made the payments herself, or allowed someone else to make 
them on her behalf, then she is responsible for them.With that in mind Ive considered all of the available evidence and information to decide 
whether I think, on balance, its more likely than not Miss H authorised the payments or 
whether an unknown third party carried them out without her knowing. Having done so, Im 
persuaded its more likely than not Miss H authorised the payments herself or allowed 
someone else to make them. 
I find that Miss Hs version of events is somewhat implausible. One of my reasons for saying 
as much is that its changed over time. When Miss H first reported the transactions to the 
bank she only said that shed lost her card. There was no mention of her phone being lost, or 
her bag being misplaced. She didnt talk about being at a friend of a friends house, or have 
any idea of what might have happened. As time went on, with further conversations with the 
bank and our service, more details have been added in. It might be that Miss H simply didnt 
think of the need to mention these details from the outset. But given she was disputing the 
loss of over £2,000 from her account, it seems strange to me she wouldnt have explained 
as much as she could about what had happened from the outset. Instead the details are 
revealed as reasons for the money not being refunded are explained.
It might be that Miss H simply didnt fully appreciate the situation or what had happened, 
though I dont consider that likely. But Ive not exclusively relied on the changing version of 
events in reaching my findings. There is other strong evidence that suggests Miss H either 
authorised the payments herself or allowed someone else to do so. 
Miss H has been asked several times to confirm exactly what transactions she didnt 
authorise between 16 and 18 May 2021. Shes highlighted those listed in the earlier table 
each time and no others. I spoke with Miss H before issuing this decision to give her a final 
opportunity to check her accounts and let me know about any payments she didnt make 
herself, explaining the importance of looking at all of the activity (including card payments 
and transfers between her own accounts). Shes again confirmed its only the three card 
payments for cryptocurrency. But that means she was authorising payments out of her 
accounts when she says she didnt have her card and phone.
There were purchases made with the physical card on 17 May 2021. There were also 
multiple transfers between Miss Hs savings account and current account before, during, and 
after the disputed payments using Miss Hs online banking. Indeed, the disputed payments 
could only be made because money had been moved from the savings account to fund 
them. Miss H did tell the bank in the call of 18 May 2021 that shed been topping up her 
account and the money was then being spent. 
Miss H has said the PIN for her card was written down, and that there was a record of her 
online banking information in her handbag. So there is the possibility that someone else 
could have made these transactions, if theyd gotten hold of Miss Hs handbag. But Miss H 
has confirmed she authorised all of those payments, putting an opportunistic fraudster out of 
the picture. 
This is important for two main reasons. First, Miss H says she didnt have her card or phone 
and says they were in the possession of a fraudster. But she must have had both her card 
and her phone in order to make the transactions that arent in dispute. In turn that means 
that someone else couldnt have had access to the card or phone to make the transactions 
that have been disputed.
Second, it means Miss H was using and checking her accounts whilst the disputed 
transactions were being made. Despite that she didnt report anything to the bank or try to 
stop what was happening.
Miss H has said shes lost over £2,000 because a fraudster had unrestricted access to her 
card and phone without her knowing. But the spending doesnt suggest thats what 
happened. Theres no denying that £2,000 is a significant sum to lose, but it is the case that 
far more was available to whoever was carrying out the transactions. Miss H had several 
thousand pounds more available across her accounts. If a fraudster had full access they would have seen as much and would have been able to take more money from Miss Hs 
account. I cant see any reasonable explanation for why such a person wouldnt have either 
purchased more cryptocurrency in the same manner as the transactions in dispute, or to 
have transferred money away to a different account, or to have used the card and PIN they 
were in possession of to withdraw cash or make purchases in stores.
Im not persuaded by the explanation Miss H has given about the matching IP address 
across genuine and disputed transactions. By her account she says she was connecting to 
the internet at her home because the flat she was visiting was in the same building. Whilst 
that isnt impossible it doesnt seem very likely. That same IP address is used before and 
after the disputed transactions, including on 20 May 2021 at 00:21am. Thatd mean Miss H 
was still connecting to her own home Wi-Fi in a completely separate flat at some unusual 
times. It would also mean she was still paying for Wi-Fi at a property she wasnt living at, 
having been out of home for a couple of months. It would also seem to be highly coincidental 
that she was connecting to Wi-Fi at a friend of a friends house  and so the suggestion 
being Miss H didnt really know this person  who happened to live in the same building. Im 
not saying this isnt possible, but it doesnt present a more likely than not scenario, especially 
when combined with the other facts and findings for this case.
Im also not persuaded that Miss H completely lost track of her handbag  which contained 
her phone, cards, security information, and presumably keys to her accommodation  for a 
period of two days without realising anything was missing. It doesnt sound plausible and it 
also goes against Miss Hs own early version of events. 
With all of the above in mind I find, on balance, its more likely than not Miss H either made 
the disputed transactions herself or allowed someone else to make them. That being the 
case its fair and reasonable for Lloyds to have held her responsible for them.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman