DRN-4044144
Complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC wont reimburse them after they fell victim 
to an investment scam.
Background
In May 2021, Mr C was researching potential investment opportunities. He ended up on the 
website of what appeared to be a credible investment management company. He filled out 
an enquiry form and was later called by a representative of the company who asked whether 
he would be interested in speaking to one of their brokers.
He agreed and spoke to an individual who claimed to have a great deal of investment 
management experience but was looking to build up a practice built around private clients. 
Mr C was invited to put his money into an account and this individual would identify specific 
investment opportunities. He was told that he would own any underlying asset that was 
purchased on his behalf  so, for example, if an investment was made into shares in a 
limited company, Mr C would own those shares.
Unfortunately, Mr C wasnt communicating with a legitimate investment adviser at all, but a 
scammer. Over a period of four months, he made five international payments from their joint 
Lloyds account, in total transferring just over £150,000 into the control of the scammers.
Each investment purported to be a bespoke share purchase based on a specific piece of 
market intelligence identified by the broker. The first payment was for £3,666.02. He was told 
that this was for a stake in a well-known brand that was issuing shares to the public for the 
first time. This investment appeared to have performed well and this persuaded Mr C to 
make much larger investments in the months that followed.
It was only when Mr C attempted to withdraw some of the proceeds of his investment that he
realised he must have fallen victim to a scam. He notified the police and Lloyds. Lloyds was
able to recover around £28,000 from the receiving account for the fifth (and final) payment
Mr C had made. It agreed to refund 50% of the third and fourth payments he made in
connection with the scam and the remainder of the fifth payment.
It didnt agree to refund the rest of Mr and Mrs Cs losses. It said it didnt think Mr C had
done adequate checks to ensure that he was dealing with a legitimate company. It thought
he shouldve carried out more research before making the transfers. In summary, Lloyds
thought it was fair to consider Mr and Mrs C partially responsible for their losses.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with that and so referred their complaint to this service. It was
looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it for broadly the same reasons as Lloyds
when it responded to the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the Investigators opinion
and so the complaint has been passed to me.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 24 February 2023. I wrote:
Its common ground here that Mr C authorised the payments. He was tricked by the
fraudsters into making the payments in the belief that he was participating in a 
genuine investment opportunity. I accept that these were authorised payments even 
though Mr C was the victim of a fraud. And although he didnt intend the money to go 
to fraudsters, he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I 
consider Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts, and any payments made or received, to 
counter various risks, including money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk (among other things). This 
is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams, which 
banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or 
in some cases declined to make the payment altogether.
Broadly speaking, Lloyds was expected to be on the lookout for payments that were 
unusual or out of character and displayed indicators that there was an enhanced risk 
of fraud. Ive looked at the statements on the account for the 12 months prior to the 
beginning of the scam. The first payment was relatively small and so I wouldnt have 
expected Lloyds to have acted at that point. However, by the time Mr C authorised 
the second payment, it shouldve recognised that the risk of fraud was greater than 
normal. The payment was for over £10,000 and international. It was significantly 
larger than most of the payments from this account.
I can see from the statements that Mr C had recently made large payments to a car
dealership that were on the same scale as the scam payment. That may have served 
to make the scam payment stand out less. However, Mr and Mrs C didnt frequently 
make payments of that size and it was a coincidence that that payment was close in 
time to the scam payments. In addition, the car dealership payment was to a UK 
bank account whereas the scam payments were international.
The only previous international payment was the first one made in connection with 
the scam the month before. In the round, I think the combination of these two factors 
meant that Lloyds should reasonably have identified this payment as an indicator that 
Mr and Mrs C were potentially at risk of financial harm.
As such, Im persuaded that Lloyds shouldnt have processed this payment without 
first speaking to Mr C to check hed taken reasonable steps to protect himself from 
the risk of fraud or scams. This was quite a sophisticated deception designed to 
imitate the activity of a genuine investment manager. It wouldnt have been quite as 
straightforward for an employee of the bank to confidently identify it as a scam.
However, some basic steps couldve been recommended to Mr C that wouldve 
enabled him to protect himself. For example, he could have been asked whether hed checked the website of the Financial Conduct Authority to see if this business was 
authorised. Since it wasnt authorised to provide advice or investment services in the 
UK, a Lloyds employee couldve advised him that it was likely he wasnt dealing with 
a legitimate company. Given the sums involved, I find it highly unlikely that Mr C 
wouldve gone ahead with these payments if the risk had been explained to him. At 
the least, I think hed likely have been prompted to carry out further enquiries and, as 
a consequence, wouldnt have proceeded with this or future payments.
Ive also considered whether Mr C can be considered partially responsible for his 
losses here. In doing so, Ive considered what the law says about contributory 
negligence but also borne in mind the fact that I must reach a decision based on 
what I consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Taking all of this into 
account, Im satisfied that Mr C was not contributorily negligent here and was simply 
the unwitting and blameless victim of a sophisticated scam.
Ive come to that conclusion for several reasons. First, the contact he received from 
the scammer wasnt unsolicited. It appears to have been in response to Mr C 
completing a form on a website. The scammers website isnt online anymore. 
However, Ive seen a screenshot of the home page and it looked to have been built 
with a plausible corporate aesthetic. Certainly, the mere presentation of the website 
wouldnt have been enough to put Mr C on notice that this might not be a legitimate 
firm.
Mr C wasnt promised an unrealistic return. It was clear from the way things were 
explained to him that any return on his investment would be dependent on the 
performance of the share price of the companies he believed he was investing in. In 
addition to this, Mr C was persuaded that he was dealing with a legitimate firm by a 
whole array of fake customer verification processes and formal documentation. For 
example, he was directed to the Hong Kong register of public limited companies 
which suggested this company had been trading for around ten years. The email 
communications between Mr C and the scammers and the formal documentation that 
he was sent to accompany individual share purchases didnt contain clear red flags.
Lloyds has suggested that Mr C shouldnt have invested without first checking the 
FCA website. However, I think its important to acknowledge the significant 
asymmetry of knowledge there is between the parties here. Mr C explains he didnt 
know that this would have been a useful check to complete, and I dont find this 
implausible or careless. I dont think knowledge of the FCAs role in maintaining the 
register of all authorised persons or how to find it on its website can fairly be 
assumed of all consumers  but I find it reasonable to expect Lloyds to know, and to 
have directed Mr C to check it.
Furthermore, since there was no warning on the FCA website indicating that this 
company was a scam, hed have needed to understand the significance of not finding 
the company on the register. He had been told by the scammers that he was dealing 
with a company incorporated in Hong Kong, so it is conceivable he may have 
assumed that it was subject to a different regulatory regime. An employee of the 
bank couldve made the difference here by explaining to Mr C that, if the company 
wasnt listed on the FCA register, it couldnt lawfully offer investment advice to people 
in the UK and that the fact it was doing so should be regarded as a major warning 
sign. Overall, Im satisfied there was no contributory negligence on Mr Cs part and 
that he was simply the unwitting and blameless victim of a manipulative fraudster.
I said that I was likely to direct Lloyds to refund payments made from the second payment 
onwards. I also said any applicable interest should be calculated in the following way:Mr C has told us that he wouldve still invested his money and that he was looking for
something that would deliver a better return than mainstream savings products would 
offer him. In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim 
should be to put Mr C as close to the position he would likely be in if he had found an 
investment product suitable to his needs, rather than falling victim to the scam. It is 
not possible to say precisely what he would have done with the money, but I am 
satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr C's 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
To calculate whether any additional interest is payable, Lloyds should calculate what 
the value of the refunded payments would be today if theyd been invested in line 
with the following two benchmarks:
For half the funds, it should calculate what the value wouldve been by looking 
at the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index.
For the other half of the funds, it should work out the value by looking at the 
average rate for fixed-rate bonds. Lloyds should use the monthly average rate 
for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of England. The rate 
for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the funds on an annually compounded basis.
I have chosen this method of calculating interest because:
Mr C wanted some capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for 
someone who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his 
capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index is a mix of 
diversified indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities 
and government bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was 
prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Lloyds disagreed with my provisional decision. It said
A warning was published on the website on the South African financial regulator 
three months before Mr and Mrs C made their investment. If theyd looked up the 
company online, theyd have found this information.
The price at which they buying shares was too good to be true. If theyd looked up 
the share prices online of the companies in question, theyd have realised that they 
were acquiring shares at significantly below market value.
Mr C shouldve carried out more research before agreeing to invest. He might not 
have been aware of the role of the FCA, but if hed searched for advice on protecting 
himself when looking to invest, hed have found multiple resources advising that he 
check its website and what to look for.
Given the value of the investment Mr C was making, he shouldve sought advice from 
an independent financial advisor.
The emails that were sent by the scammers to Mr and Mrs C dont look like they were 
sent by a legitimate investment company. For example, they dont have the usual text 
in the footer that one would expect.There were no online reviews of this investment company on third party review 
platforms. This lack of information was a red flag.
Lloyds also queried the basis of the interest calculation Id recommended. It wanted to know 
why I was proposing linking the calculation to the perform of UK indices, given that Mr C 
believed he was buying shares in US listed companies with the apparent assistance of a 
broker based in Hong Kong.
Ive considered its response carefully, but Im not persuaded to depart from the findings I set 
out in my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
Broadly summarised, Lloyds challenge to my provisional decision is that Mr C shouldve 
carried out more detailed research before agreeing to go ahead with the investment. Ive 
considered the specific examples its highlighted. But Ive also kept in mind that there was a 
meaningful imbalance in the knowledge of the parties here. Id expect an employee of the 
bank to have a greater knowledge of the risk of investment scams and to advise Mr C on the 
steps he could take to protect himself.
Lloyds has referred to the warning published by the South African regulator and suggested 
that, if Mr C had carried out further online research, hed have found this. Its difficult to know 
if thats true. A search for the scam company on Google currently produces nearly 30,000 
results.  At the time of writing, it is highly ranked as a result on the most popular search 
engines when searching for the name of the scam company. However, those rankings are 
dynamic and continuously changing. I cant know for certain how prominent it would have 
been back in May 2021.  
I accept that, if Mr C had carried out more thorough research about the valuations of the 
firms he believed he was investing in, its possible hed realised that something was amiss. 
But once he believed that he was dealing with a legitimate investment firm, it wouldnt have 
been unreasonable for him to trust their advice. After all, that was the reason he wanted to 
invest his money in this way  to take advantage of the expertise of a third-party.
Lloyds has also argued that Mr C shouldve carried out more research before deciding to 
proceed with the investment. Specifically, it argues that he shouldve looked up advice on 
how to protect himself from a scam. However, as Ive already concluded that there wasnt 
anything that ought to have put Mr C on notice that the company he was dealing with might 
not be legitimate, I wouldnt have expected him to carry out detailed research on that point. 
Lloyds has argued that, given the large value Mr C was investing, he shouldve sought 
independent financial advice. The difficulty I have with this argument is that, from Mr Cs 
perspective, he was seeking independent financial advice. He had a significant sum of 
money that he wanted to invest and had detailed discussions with someone he believed 
would invest that money on his behalf. 
Finally, Ive also considered the fact that the emails from the scammers didnt have a typical 
disclaimer in the footer and that the investment company didnt have any reviews (positive or 
negative) on third-party review sites. On balance, Im not persuaded that these things alone 
ought to have been a clear indicator to Mr C that he was at risk of fraud. 
Ive also thought again about the question of how to calculate how much interest (if any) 
should be applied to any award paid to Mr and Mrs C. As I explained in my provisional 
decision, the aim of the calculation should be to put Mr and Mrs C in the position they would 
have been in if theyd found an investment product suitable for their needs. Mr C had funds 
to invest and was researching potential investment opportunities. If he hadnt fallen victim to 
this scam, I think its likely he wouldve invested it in some way that was consistent with his risk appetite. He told us that he was willing to take a small amount with his capital at the time 
and so I think the approach outlined in my provisional decision is a fair way of calculating 
this.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint. If Mr and Mrs C accept my 
decision, Lloyds Bank PLC needs to:
Refund the money Mr and Mrs C lost to the scam from the second payment onwards.
Calculate whether any additional interest should be awarded by following the 
guidance set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2023
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman