DRN-1520233
 
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) have rejected a claim he made to them 
under section 75 of the Consumer credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr Y made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Im not persuaded Lloyds have been unreasonable here as I dont think they were provided 
with enough evidence to suggest there had been a breach of contract. 
The merchant had supplied an invoice for the work which detailed what had been done and, 
whilst Mr Y disputed the quality of that work, I am not persuaded he was able to provide 
information to demonstrate the merchant had not done what had been asked. 
It was unfortunate that the car was sold before an inspection could be arranged but I dont 
think it would be fair to blame Lloyds for the lack of evidence of poor workmanship and I can 
see that they did compensate Mr Y for the delays.
Ive considered the photographs provided by Mr Y from a magazine, but I dont find these 
persuasive as they dont show the inadequate work that he is asking Lloyds to provide a 
refund for.
So, I think Lloyds have been reasonable when rejecting Mr Ys claim as they had insufficient 
evidence there had been a breach of contract.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman