DRN-3988532
The complaint
Mr W complains Santander UK Plc is stopping him get into his account and isnt helping him 
meaning hes been unable to open an ISA.
What happened
Mr W has an account with Santander and has done so for a number of years. Hes 
complained to us about a number of issues  its clear hes not happy with the service he 
receives from Santander.
Mr W says he doesnt own a computer or a phone. He uses public phones when he wants to 
make a call and uses his local library too. Santander says he visits his local branch on a 
weekly basis.
Mr W says he was given an appointment to speak to a member of staff at a Santander 
branch as he wanted to open an ISA. He says that the appointment was a waste of time 
because the member of staff told him that theyd only be able to talk to him about cash ISAs 
 he wanted to open a stocks and shares ISA. He says the member of staff told him that only 
a financial management planner could speak to him about stocks and shares ISAs and that 
theyd checked if one could speak to him next time he came into branch. He says the 
member of staff told him theyd leave a message on his account about this the next time he 
came into branch but there was no such message when he did so. He says he was told hed 
have to go onto Santanders online investment hub to find out more. 
Mr W says he went to his local library on two occasions in order to log into his account and 
apply for a stocks and shares ISA. He did so on 22 March 2022 and 12 April 2022. He says 
he used the codes hed used to log into his account in January 2021, but they didnt work.
Mr W complained to Santander about the problems he was having saying that it had caused 
him distress and it was costing him money. Santander investigated Mr Ws complaint and 
said that the branch in question couldnt help with stocks and shares ISAs and that hed 
been correctly told to look online at Santanders investment hub. Santander said that Mr W 
would need a one-time passcode to log into his account and that these would normally be 
sent to a mobile phone. Santander said, however, that it could also now send one-time 
passcodes to email, although that this comes with disadvantages. Mr W was unhappy with 
Santanders response so one of our adjudicators looked into his complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt think Santander had acted unfairly and so didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr W was unhappy with our adjudicators recommendations and asked for an ombudsman 
to look into his complaint. So, thats what Ive done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has told us that he doesnt own a computer or a phone. And hes also told us that 
Santander arent allowed to discriminate against him for not having a mobile phone. I agree 
with Mr W, and I can understand why Mr W has said that Santander are discriminating 
against him. Thats because hes told us that Santander, amongst other things, sends one-
time passcodes to their customers mobile phones so that they can access their accounts 
online or make certain online payments. I am, however, also satisfied that Santanders 
processes have changed over time, and that it now offers the option of sending one-time 
passcodes to their customers email addresses. I can see that Santander said that sending 
one-time passcodes comes with disadvantages. Its unclear to me why Santander said this, 
and if it was offering Mr W an alternative way of authenticating himself, I cant see it was a 
particularly helpful thing to do. Not least because it looks like the one-time passcode to email 
is an option that would work for Mr W.
Mr W has said that he used codes he used to get into his account in January 2021 to try 
and get into his account in March and April 2022 and wasnt able to do so. Its unclear what 
codes Mr W is referring to  its possible that hes referring to his customer number etc. But 
its probably more helpful for me to explain what he needs to do now to get into his account 
rather than trying to infer what codes hes referring to. Ill explain why.
Santander, like many other businesses, has had to make changes to the way its customer 
log onto online banking and make online payments as well as do online shopping in order to 
implement strong customer authentication. In Santanders case, that means its customers 
now need a one-time passcode before theyre able to log into their online banking, set up a 
new payee in online banking or make certain online payments using their card. That one-
time passcode is valid for only a very short period of time. So, if Mr W had received a one-
time passcode in January 2021, it would no longer be valid, and even if he was able to log 
into his account in January 2021 using codes its likely that the process has since changed. 
In other words, Mr W would have had difficulties getting into his account in March and April 
2022 if he hadnt been set up for one-time passcodes. Weve passed on Santanders 
explanation on how to set up one-time passcodes to Mr W so that he can organise this if he 
wants to do so.
I think its unfortunate that Santander didnt know Mr W wanted to talk about opening a stock 
and shares ISA when it made an appointment for him. I have, however, seen nothing to 
suggest Mr W told Santander what type of ISA he wanted to open before the appointment 
was made. So, I dont think its fair to say Santander made a mistake here. Mr W, in any 
event, appears to visit his local branch every week, so I dont think he made the visit just for 
that reason. In the circumstances, I dont think I can say this caused Mr W significant 
inconvenience  he hadnt arranged a one-off appointment specifically for this purpose. Santander has told us that the reason why a message wasnt added to Mr Ws account is 
because it doesnt have a financial management planner who covers the specific branch he 
was going to visit. I can understand what Santander is trying to say here, but I think its 
missed the point here. If it didnt have anyone who was able to come to the branch to speak 
to Mr W about stocks and shares ISAs, it would have been better to let him know rather than 
leaving him no messages and making him think hed been forgotten.
Given what Ive said, I agree with our adjudicator that Santander didnt act unfairly in this 
particular case. So, Im not going to ask Santander to do more than it has already done so. 
Hopefully Mr W, given what he now knows, will be able to manage his account online going 
forwards should he wish to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman