DRN-3718223
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited declined a claim she made 
under her travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs W purchased a single trip travel insurance policy, to cover her for various pre and post 
departure risks, with Mrs W due to travel on holiday on 4 June 2022.
Unfortunately, on 3 June 2022, Mrs Ws travelling companion tested positive for Covid-19. 
And so, Mrs W has explained that her travelling companion wasnt able to travel. And 
therefore, she wasnt either. Mrs W therefore made a claim under her travel insurance policy 
 with her claiming for 50% of the trip cost  as this was what she had paid towards the trip.
Admiral considered Mrs Ws claim and declined it. Admiral said the policy didnt provide 
cover for the circumstances Mrs W found herself in. It said that for a claim related to the 
Coronavirus to be covered, Mrs Ws cancellation claim would need to be because she had 
either:
Tested positive for Coronavirus in the 14 days preceding the trip
Been denied boarding due to having symptoms of Coronavirus
Or a close relative had been hospitalised or died as a result of contracting 
Coronavirus, in the 14 days preceding the trip.
Admiral said none of the above had happened, and therefore the claim wasnt something the 
policy provided cover for. Given this, it didnt settle Mrs Ws claim.
Mrs W considered this to be unfair. In summary, Mrs W noted she had taken the responsible 
decision not to travel abroad, given the situation. She noted that her travelling companion 
had tested positive for Covid 19, and she could potentially have symptoms of the virus. So, 
they would have been denied boarding by the airline provider.
Mrs W also said that it was unreasonable for Admiral to expect her to travel on the trip alone 
 especially given she could test positive for Coronavirus when she was away.
Admiral maintained its decision to decline Mrs Ws claim. So, Mrs W referred her complaint 
to this service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Our 
investigator said the terms and conditions of Mrs Ws policy were clear that it didnt provide 
cover for the situation Mrs W was in. And so, she wouldnt be asking Admiral to do anything 
differently here.
Mrs W disagreed. She reiterated that the policy provided cover for being denied boarding. 
And she provided an online chat transcript, which she said evidenced that she would have 
been denied boarding. 
Our investigator explained that she hadnt seen any evidence within the files that Mrs W had 
symptoms of Coronavirus and seen no confirmation that the airline would have denied 
boarding to her specifically. 
As Mrs W disagreed, this complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I appreciate this will be 
disappointing for Mrs W  its clear she feels strongly about the matter. But Ive explained 
why below.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought about whether Admiral 
acted in line with these requirements, when it declined to settle Mrs Ws claim.
Ive reviewed Mrs Ws policy documentation  to see what cover she was provided with 
under the policy. And, as is usual with insurance policies of this nature, I can see that the 
policy doesnt provide cover for every eventuality. Instead, it provides cover for a list of 
insured events. For a claim to be covered, the loss needs to have occurred because of one 
of those insured events. If the loss isnt due to one of those things listed, it isnt covered, 
and the policy wont respond.
Mrs Ws policy does have a section for the cancellation and curtailment of a trip (section 1). 
But this section doesnt provide cover, if the claim is related to Coronavirus. Which, in this 
instance, the claim is. So, Im satisfied this section of Mrs Ws policy doesnt apply.
Instead, Mrs Ws policy included cover for claims related to Coronavirus, in Section 3. 
Section three explains it will provide cover for irrecoverable costs because of the need to 
cancel or cut short a trip if:
Mrs W was diagnosed with Covid-19 within the 14 days prior to the trip departure
A close relative is hospitalised or dies due to contracting Covid-19 within 14 days of 
the trip departure date
Mrs W was denied boarding due to symptoms of Covid-19 (and this was confirmed 
as the reason Mrs W was denied boarding)
Mrs W was unable to continue with a pre-booked excursion as she was ordered to 
self-isolate, due to contracting Covid-19.
Given the above, Im aware that for Mrs Ws claim to be covered, one of the above four 
reasons for cancelling the trip would need to apply. Ive thought about whether Admiral has 
acted fairly in noting none of these reasons apply to Mrs Ws case. And Im satisfied it has 
acted fairly here.
Mrs W wasnt diagnosed with Coronavirus herself. She wasnt ordered to self-isolate after 
getting Covid-19. And no close relative was hospitalised or passed away due to contracting 
Covid-19. So, these events dont apply. The reason Mrs Ws trip was cancelled, was because a travelling companion caught Covid-19. Though unfortunate, this isnt one of the 
above four reasons the policy provides cover for. So, I think Admiral did act fairly, and in line 
with the policy terms, by noting Mrs Ws loss wasnt covered under the policy.
Mrs W has noted that her policy does provide cover if she was denied boarding by the 
airline, for having Coronavirus symptoms. And I can see this is the case. So, Ive needed to 
consider whether Admiral has acted fairly by not covering the claim under this insured event.
Ive thought carefully about this. And Im satisfied Admiral has acted reasonably here too. 
From the correspondence Ive reviewed, there is nothing to say Mrs W had the symptoms of 
Coronavirus. In emails to Admiral, Mrs W refers to potentially having symptoms  and 
concerns for potentially testing positive for coronavirus whilst on the trip. But there isnt any 
firm evidence Mrs W actually had any of the symptoms of the illness  over and above a 
concern that she may have caught it. And so, this part of the policy wouldnt respond to the 
claim. 
In addition to this, Ive reviewed the online chat transcripts Mrs W has provided. These being 
from after Mrs W was due to travel. I appreciate that Mrs W has said about not being able to 
speak to the airline on the date of departure, given how busy they were. But the transcripts 
provided dont specifically confirm Mrs W alone would have been denied boarding. There is 
no specific confirmation from the airline provider, as required by the policy, to confirm Mrs W 
herself was denied boarding by the airline, in her circumstances. Just evidence that her 
travelling companion would have been  given they were positive for Coronavirus. 
I do understand Mrs W may not have wanted to travel alone. And considered she was doing 
the responsible thing by also not travelling abroad. But the policy only provides cover in 
particular circumstances. And Im satisfied Admiral has acted correctly in noting that Mrs W 
doesnt fall under any of those circumstances. And so is not covered. Given this, I dont find 
it has acted unfairly or unreasonably, in declining Mrs Ws claim. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman