DRN-4158550
The complaint
Mr D complains about The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited trading as 
Scottish Provident, referred to as Scottish Provident or the business. 
In short, he says that Scottish Provident failed to identify his late wifes (Mrs Ds) vulnerability 
and capacity to make informed decisions  regarding their joint Whole of Life (WOL) policy  
following a policy review in 2018. As a consequence, the sum assured was reduced and he 
received a smaller pay out than he was expecting, following the sad death of Mrs D.  
Mr D is being assisted by his son, referred to as his (and Mrs Ds) son or his 
representative. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D had a joint, first life, reviewable WOL policy, taken out in September 1998. 
The policy was first reviewed after 10 years in 2008. Thereafter, it was reviewed every five 
years  initially in 2013 and then in 2018  the latter review is the subject of this complaint. 
Mr Ds representative says that Scottish Provident shouldve checked to see if Mrs D had 
mental capacity following the review in 2018, before accepting her instructions.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint but doesnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Its the policyholders responsibility to notify Scottish Provident of any personal 
issues. There were no such issues flagged up in this instance. 
At each review, in response to the information provided  containing the options 
available  it would be a matter for the policyholder to choose a suitable option given 
their circumstances and inform Scottish Provident. It would then make the necessary 
changes in line with the instructions. 
The evidence shows that following the 2018 review Mrs D selected the option to 
maintain the premium of £175.80, for a reduced level of cover in the sum £22,424. 
She returned the signed and dated instructions making clear what she wanted.  
A call recording dated 7 August 2018 shows that Mrs D called Scottish Provident 
following receipt of the review letter, to discuss the options available to her. Following 
some discussion, she said that shed call back after speaking to her son. 
There was nothing to suggest that Mrs D didnt understand what was happening, she 
also didnt raise any health concerns.  
About a month later, on 6 September 2018, Mrs D called Scottish Provident again 
regarding her options. She decided to keep her premium the same and reduce the 
level of cover. The adviser explained that from 22 September 2018 the sum assured 
would be reduced to £22,424. Mrs D confirmed that shed already sent the form back 
with the relevant option selected. 
Theres nothing within the calls which suggests that Mrs D didnt know what she was 
doing, or that a family member had to be present because she couldnt understand 
what was going on. 
Scottish Provident simply responded to the instructions from Mrs D as the 
policyholder and carried out her wishes in good faith. 
In the circumstances he cant say that Scottish Provident did anything wrong. 
Mr D disagreed with the investigators view. In short, his son made the following points:
The suggestion that Mrs D had an obligation to highlight her vulnerabilities is 
misguided. She wouldnt have been aware that she required special considerations. 
The industry regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA)  requires the 
company to identify that a customer might be vulnerable not the other way round. 
It was noted that Mrs D wished to discuss the policy with her son, this wasnt followed 
up and he wasnt made aware of the policy until she passed away. 
The fact that she didnt speak to her son is evidence of her not being mentally 
capable of consenting to the alteration of the policy. 
Scottish Provident shouldve picked up on Mrs Ds vulnerability during their dealings 
with her, and not the other way round, for the following reasons:
oShe wanted to speak to her son which demonstrates a lack of confidence in 
her own decision-making abilities. 
oIllness caused delay in sending the forms back.  
oConfusion by referring to the investment as a pension several times before 
being corrected by the adviser. There were no steps taken to ensure that she 
knew the difference. 
oExpressed concerns about affordability of the policy and the fact that she 
couldnt afford any other option suggests financial hardship. She was a 
pensioner, so age related issues werent considered on either call.   
According to the FCA guidance, Scottish Provident shouldve been able to identify 
signs of vulnerability but didnt. 
Theres lack of expertise to comment on the letter from doctor. The letter shows that 
there are some issues, and further care was required which Scottish Provident didnt 
act upon.  
Scottish Provident has consequently failed to take any action to adjust the product, 
and therefore have failed to consider her circumstances. 
The investigator having considered the additional issues, wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary he said that he appreciated Mrs D was going through financial difficulties, 
but Scottish Provident gave her options as to what she could do. Hes still unable to say that 
Scottish Provident did anything wrong by acting on her instructions.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr D (and his son) say, I cant 
safely say that Scottish Provident behaved unreasonably by not questioning Mrs Ds 
instructions  and her mental capacity/vulnerability  before accepting her instructions.   
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Ds strength of feeling about this matter. The representative has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. 
However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central 
issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr D and Scottish Provident, and reach what I 
think is an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, 
based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
I dont uphold this complaint, in brief, for the following reasons. 
Despite what Mr Ds representative says, in the circumstances, and on balance, Im 
not persuaded Scottish Provident has done anything wrong by not questioning Mrs 
Ds mental capacity/vulnerability before accepting her instructions following the 2018 
review. 
Financial businesses arent generally obliged to make these sorts of enquires as 
standard, unless there is a reason to, and there was nothing on file to suggest that it 
should with Mrs D. 
On balance I dont think Scottish Provident had any reason to question Mrs Ds 
instructions, so on balance I dont think it has done anything wrong by not doing so. 
Despite what Mr Ds representative says about Mrs Ds mental state, illness and/or 
purported confusion, Scottish Provident wasnt made aware of any relevant issues 
that would cause concerns.  
Ive seen no evidence that persuades me that Mrs D was incapable of making her 
own decisions in response to the review in 2018. 
I agree with the investigator that its ordinarily the policy holders responsibility to 
make Scottish Provident aware of any such issues. Im mindful that Mrs D acted on 
her own volition and there was no suggestion that she was incapable of making her 
own decisions. 
Despite what the representative says, its arguable that Mrs D suggesting that shed 
speak to her son and then get back to Scottish Provident suggests she was 
conscious of the need to make the right decision for her (and Mr D) and that she 
might need time. Whether or not she did speak to her son I dont think ought 
reasonably to have been a concern for Scottish Provident, because it was a matter 
for her whether or not she sought advice or consulted someone else. 
I note Mrs D called Scottish Provident herself, on 6 September 2018, to talk about 
her options, she was adamant that she didnt want to pay higher premiums. This 
again didnt raise any red flags or suggest that she had any issues deciding a 
suitable option for herself. 
Even if during a conversation with Scottish Provident Mrs D referred to the 
investment as a pension a few times, this isnt evidence that the business shouldve 
been concerned.  
I note the call operative also confirmed when the changes would take effect and 
there was no objection or surprise from Mrs D. Based on this, Im persuaded that she 
was keen to maintain her premiums (and consequently reduce the level of cover)  in 
other words she had no interest in increasing her premiums  because she couldnt 
afford to pay more to maintain her level of cover which isnt uncommon with a policy 
thats been maintained for over 20 odd years and the lives assured are much older. 
According to the business the policy was chosen on a Maximum cover basis, which 
was designed to provide the highest level of cover for the lowest premium. Unlike a standard cover basis  which is more expensive from the outset  the premiums are 
likely to be higher in longer run for the same level of cover.
In other words, Mrs Ds decision to reduce the level of cover doesnt mean that she 
was financially vulnerable, such that Scottish Provident shouldve given her some 
special consideration and in not doing so its done something wrong. Thats not how 
these policies work, and it was always an option available to her. 
Based on what Scottish Provident says, it seems that Mr D and Mrs D werent in a 
position to take out the policy that cost more. I note what their son says about their 
financial position  especially in relation to credit card debts and so on  this may 
explain why Mrs D chose option B, which was due to be next reviewed in November 
2023. 
I note that in neither call was Scottish Provident made aware that Mrs D was unwell 
in any way, either by Mrs D herself or a concerned third-party. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr Ds son says, Im 
unable to safely say that Scottish Provident had reason to think Mrs D didnt know 
what was going on, or that she was incapable of making her own decisions. 
Despite what Mr Ds son says, Ive seen nothing to suggest that an (appropriate) 
adult shouldve been present, or that Scottish Provident did anything wrong by 
discussing the case with Mrs D without an adult present. 
I agree with the investigator that Scottish Provident carried out the instructions from 
Mrs D (as its policyholder) and did so in good faith in the absence of any evidence 
that it should have questioned her instructions or not proceed unless an adult was 
present.  
Im mindful of Mr Ds sons comments regarding the medical letter from Mr Ds doctor 
and the medication she was on. I note the doctor says: All of these listed 
medications can affect cognitive function especially in elderly, causing drowsiness, 
memory impairment and confusion.  but she doesnt say that Mrs D wasnt of sound 
mind and/or that she was incapable of making up her own mind when it came to her 
finances. Despite what Mr Ds representative says, I dont need expert medical 
evidence in order to reach this conclusion. 
I appreciate that Mr D will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as 
the investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate his frustration, I cant safely say that Scottish Provident behaved unreasonably. 
In other words, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, I cant uphold this 
complaint and give him what he wants.
My final decision
For the reason set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman