DRN-4169818
The complaint
Mr V complains American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) failed to pay him the 
bonus points on his newly opened charge card account. 
What happened
Mr V says he opened an Amex platinum business card account (PBC) and at the time of 
opening the account he was informed by a member of Amex staff he would be entitled to 
receive up to 100,000 welcome bonus points, subject to him spending £10,000 in the first 
three months. Mr V says he met those conditions but didnt receive any bonus points as 
promised and on querying this with Amex he was told he wasnt eligible as he was an 
existing account holder. 
Mr V also says following this Amex then agreed to give him double points on his spending 
for the next six months, which it has since reneged on. 
Mr V wants Amex to pay him the 100,000 points he was due and a further 100,000 points for 
the inconvenience this has caused him. 
Amex says it has no record of telling Mr V he was entitled to the bonus points he refers to 
and the application for the PBC clearly states that existing preferred reward card holders are 
not eligible for this offer. Amex says it cannot establish it has made any errors and didnt 
uphold Mr Vs complaint. 
Mr V wasnt happy with Amexs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and partly upheld the complaint. The 
investigator says he wasnt able to listen to the phone call Mr V refers to back in April 2022 
but based on the evidence he had seen he didnt feel Mr V was eligible for the welcome 
bonus points. The investigator felt the terms and conditions of the offer were made clear at 
the time of the application and were also available on Amexs website. 
The investigator did feel Amex confused Mr V about potentially what it could offer going 
forward for the next six months and felt it should pay Mr V £100 for the trouble and upset this 
caused. 
Mr V didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will also be partially upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have 
come to my decision.
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr V to learn he wasnt entitled to the 
welcome bonus points for the new PBC account hed opened with Amex, when he 
understood that he was, following a telephone conversation with Amex staff. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Amex acted reasonably when it informed Mr 
V he wasnt eligible for the welcome bonus points for his PBC. 
The first thing to say here is this service hasnt been provided with a call recording of the 
telephone conversation Mr V says he held with Amex in April 2022, at the time he applied for 
the PBC, as Amex have no record of the call on its files. So, with that in mind in order to 
come to a full and impartial decision here, I can only rely on the evidence both sides have 
provided this service. 
Its worth saying having looked at the terms and conditions of the PBC when Mr V applied, it 
does make clear that existing card members are not eligible for the welcome bonus points. 
While I understand Mr V says he was told he was eligible when he phoned, as I cant be 
certain what either party may or may not have said, I can only say in all probability and on 
balance, its unlikely a member of Amex staff would have informed Mr V, knowing all the 
facts of his application, that as an existing card member he would be eligible. Thats not to 
say thats what Mr V believed he was told; its simply I have no way of confirming that.
Mr V has also made the point when he rang to complain about this issue with Amex in early 
January 2023, an agent suggested that he could benefit from double points for the next six 
months. I have listened to that call where Mr V says he would think about the offer, but I 
cant see he did that until a week later, by which time Amex says the new offer wasnt now 
available to him. 
Its fair to say businesses like Amex may make initial offers to resolve complaints but these 
arent open ended and its not the role of this service to scrutinise Amexs complaints 
process or to tell Amex how it should deal with complaints more widely. 
So here, I agree with the investigators view that Amex acted fairly when it informed Mr V he 
wasnt entitled to the welcome bonus points for the reasons I have already stated. Having 
said that, I am satisfied its reasonable here for Amex to pay Mr V £100 for the confusion it 
caused when discussing his options going forward on the PBC in terms of what bonus points 
it would be prepared to offer. 
I understand Amex have now cancelled Mr Vs accounts with them, so its important that Mr 
V now discusses this matter directly with Amex to avoid any further issues going forward. 
While Mr V will be disappointed with my decision, I feel this is a fair outcome here.
Putting things right
I instruct American Express Services Europe Limited to pay Mr V £100 for the trouble and 
upset caused.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct American Express Services Europe Limited to pay Mr V £100 for the trouble and 
upset caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman