DRN-3548682
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained about their home insurer Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited. They feel it, amongst other things, has delayed settlement of their claim for water 
damage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ds home suffered a water leak in March 2019. There were some delays in the 
early stages of the claim and Mr and Mrs D were unhappy that Lloyds didnt offer them 
alternative accommodation. When Mr and Mrs D complained, my ombudsman colleague 
issued a decision on their complaint which covered the period up until August 2019. 
The claim continued though and in June 2020 Lloyds said it would settle for the building 
repairs in cash. Even issuing a final response in this respect. However, it revised that 
decision in August 2020, agreeing to re-appoint contractors to finish the work. But Lloyds 
then revised that decision and reverted to offering cash. A settlement offer was made in 
January 2021. Lloyds said it was up to it to decide how to settle the claim and the settlement 
offer of £5,063.52 was based on its cost to repair. It said though that if Mr and Mrs D sent it 
estimates for repair it would consider those. Its final response on this point was issued on 
15 February 2021, and following that, Mrs D sent it an estimate. 
Mrs Ds estimate was for £10,150. When Mr and Mrs D complained to us, our investigator 
forwarded the estimate to Lloyds. It said it would offer £6,250 in settlement  but as it hadnt 
seen the estimate before the final response was issued, it wouldnt allow us to look at the 
value of the offer as part of this complaint. It sent Mr and Mrs D a cheque for £6,250.
Mr and Mrs D reported that various items were damaged during the leak and Lloyds took 
some items away for assessment. It felt most of the items claimed for, including the 
fridge-freezer, werent damaged by the leak. But some of these items were accidentally 
disposed of. Lloyds did make some payment to Mr and Mrs D for some items, but overall 
they remained unhappy.
It was noted by Mr and Mrs D that Lloyds had previously indicated it would reimburse their 
food costs for a period during which they had been unable to cook. They provided receipts. 
Lloyds said it had some concerns about the receipts but would pay for them anyway  but 
not until this service had issued a decision on this aspect.
Mr and Mrs D were also unhappy about the length of time everything had gone on for. They 
explained they hadnt been able to do repairs and this was affecting their life and health. 
They said meetings had been arranged twice by Lloyds where its representative hadnt 
attended. Mr and Mrs D said contact from Lloyds had been poor and this had added to their 
upset.
Our investigator felt Lloyds should make various payments to Mr and Mrs D, including the 
amount for food costs. She also felt it had delayed in assessing a damaged mobile phone. 
So she felt it should pay £100 for upset caused by this. But she didnt recommend that 
Lloyds pay anything for other reportedly damaged items.
Mr and Mrs D maintained that their items were damaged in the leak. Their complaint was 
passed to me for an ombudsmans consideration. 
I felt it should be upheld. But my views differed to those of our investigator. So I issued a 
provisional decision to explain my thoughts to both parties. My findings were:
settlement
Im not going to look at the value of the settlement. As Lloyds has said, the estimate was 
only sent to it after a final response had been issued in February 2021 (following its first 
revised cash settlement offer being made in January 2021). Lloyds has since settled the 
claim based on that estimate, having made what it seems to feel are reasonable adjustments 
to its total. If Mr and Mrs D have concerns about that value, theyll have to address those 
with Lloyds in the first instance.
But I am going to look at what happened during a specific period in the run up to the 
January 2021 offer being made. That period is August 2020 until January 2021.
Prior to August 2020, Lloyds had been looking to settle the claim in cash. And it issued a 
final response in this respect in June 2020. Mr and Mrs D didnt complain to us within six 
months of that response letter. So I cant review what happened before then, or whether that 
decision by Lloyds, at that time, was fair and reasonable. But in August 2020 Lloyds agreed 
to revert to completing the work at Mr and Mrs Ds home. So its position as set out in the 
June 2020 final response had changed. Which means I can then look at what happened in 
respect of its revised claim position.
Lloyds made the decision to complete work in late August 2021, and it was a few weeks 
before a site visit could be arranged. I dont think thats wholly unreasonable. But following 
the visit the contractors refused to be further involved with repairs and it was late 
January 2021 before a revised cash settlement offer was made. I think that was too long. 
That offer should have been made, I think, by the end of October 2020 at the latest. Ill take 
that into account when considering compensation below.
fridge-freezer
I know Mr and Mrs D feel this was working fine before the leak, but not so well after. But Ive 
seen that Lloyds did a safety check on all kitchen appliances and assessed the problem with 
the fridge-freezer. Lloyds concluded that it hadnt been damaged by the leak. I understand 
the issue with it is that the freezer is over-iced and the fridge is getting iced up too. These 
arent problems Id associate with water damage. And, just because the fridge-freezer was in 
the area under where the water came through the ceiling, doesnt mean it was most likely 
damaged by the water. Without persuasive expert evidence showing this problem was 
caused by the leak, I cant reasonably say Lloyds was wrong for declining liability for this 
item. 
cooker, hob and microwave
Mr and Mrs D feel these were damaged during the leak. But Lloyds agent checked them 
and said they werent suffering water damage. Thats not to say they are working perfectly  
but rather that the issues they have havent been caused by the leak. For example, Lloyds 
agent explained the hob is off-set from the area where water came through the ceiling, and 
whilst some burners arent working, some are. The agent felt that was to do with spark plugs 
for those burners. The items were all also safety tested and passed. I cant reasonably 
ignore this evidence. Nor could I reasonably have expected Lloyds to, in favour of accepting Mr and Mrs Ds position that these items are damaged and need replacing due to the leak. 
I think its decline of liability was fair and reasonable.
ipad and printer
Lloyds paid Mr and Mrs D £629.53 to replace an ipad and £133.41 for the printer, less the 
policy excess of £500. Seemingly Lloyds accidentally disposed of the ipad and accepted the 
printer was damaged beyond repair by the leak. I think its payment in these respects was 
reasonable. 
laptop
Lloyds said this wasnt damaged by the leak  in fact its report shows it was working, albeit 
that the battery needed replacing. But it disposed of it accidentally. It said though that its 
salvage value was only around £100, so it would pay £200 as a goodwill gesture for it being 
disposed of. 
Im not sure why the laptop has been dealt with differently by Lloyds to the ipad. But, in any 
event, I dont think Lloyds offer of paying £200 for the laptop based on its salvage value is 
reasonable. Prior to Lloyds taking the item for assessment Mr and Mrs D had a laptop which 
worked, and due to Lloyds disposing of the item, they now do not have a laptop at all. It 
stands to reason that Lloyds should replace or pay to replace the item with the same or a 
reasonably equivalent model.
iphone
My colleague issued a decision previously which looked at the claim activity which occurred 
until August 2019. So I cant look at what happened before that. But, in August 2019, 
assessment of the iphone was still outstanding. It wasnt collected for assessment by Lloyds 
until December 2020. 
In January 2021, Lloyds declined the claim for the phone. Seemingly a mistake of some sort 
had occurred as the wrong phone was sent to Lloyds by Mr and Mrs D, and that phone 
hadnt been damaged in the leak. So I think Lloyds decision to not repair or replace the 
phone was reasonable. If Mr and Mrs D still have the phone which they initially reported as 
damaged and want Lloyds to assess it, they should get in touch with Lloyds.
But even though Lloyds knew in January 2021 it wasnt settling for the phone, it didnt return 
the phone to Mr and Mrs D at that time. And I think it should have done. It seems it wasnt 
returned due to an internal breakdown in communication. Lloyds finally returned the phone 
to Mr and Mrs D on 2 October 2021. 
So Lloyds delayed collecting the phone between August 2019 and December 2020, and 
then unreasonably held on to it between February 2021 and October 2021. I dont doubt 
these delays caused frustration and upset for Mr and Mrs D. Ill take that into account when 
considering compensation. 
food
Lloyds has accepted that it was difficult for Mr and Mrs D to cook for a time when the leak 
first occurred, and said it would reimburse their food receipts submitted via our investigator. 
I understand that the dates on the receipts are wrong  pre-dating the leak  but that this has 
been verified as an administrative error by the food business. And I note that Lloyds is 
prepared to accept that explanation and reimburse the costs. I think thats reasonable. The 
receipts total £55.75, so Ill award that sum to Mr and Mrs D. But, on this occasion, Im not going to award interest. Lloyds hasnt offered to pay interest and for me to award it, Id have 
to be satisfied it unreasonably delayed considering the issue, and Im not. Mr and Mrs D 
knew Lloyds, in the event of costs being incurred, would want to see receipts evidencing 
their outlay. But they told our investigator that they hadnt sent the receipts to Lloyds 
because Lloyds hadnt specifically requested they do so. In the circumstances, I dont think it 
would be fair to award interest.  
compensation
I think aspects of this claim have been unreasonably delayed at times; namely the first 
revised settlement offer and the collection and return of the iphone. I dont think though that 
avoiding these delays would have resolved the claim any sooner. I think it would have 
continued to be disputed. Im also mindful, regarding the repair settlement, that, later on, 
once Lloyds had considered Mr and Mrs Ds estimate and made its further revised 
settlement offer, they were reluctant to accept it. They felt it would cause Lloyds to decline 
the rest of their complaint. So I cant be sure, if Lloyds had made that further revised offer 
earlier (because its initially revised offer had been made when it should have been in 
October 2020), that Mr and Mrs D would have taken it and progressed the building repairs. 
So Im not minded to award them compensation for the upset theyve been caused because 
the claim and repairs have remained outstanding. But I will make an award in respect the of 
the frustration I accept they were caused because of the delays. And I think a fair sum for 
that is £200. 
That is in addition to the £25 Lloyds paid to Mr and Mrs D because its agent missed an 
appointment. I know Mr and Mrs D say he missed two appointments. But I havent seen that 
he was meant to attend on another occasion between June 2020 and February 2021.
I know Mr and Mrs D say the agent communicated poorly with them. And Ive seen that the 
agent has explained to Lloyds that he cant always answer calls but that he did respond to 
communication from them in a timely manner. I think it can be frustrating sometimes for a 
policyholder who wants to move a claim on but cant speak to the agent in charge of their 
claim. However, I accept that direct contact isnt always possible, and I havent seen here 
that Lloyds ignored their contact. 
Mrs D has reported that another agent of Lloyds was rude to her family whilst she wasnt 
there, and that when she said she was on her way home, that agent wouldnt wait for her 
return. Lloyds however say the agent was there to assess appliances and didnt need to 
speak to Mrs D and the agent says he wasnt rude. Whilst I understand Mrs Ds perception 
of the incident, I cant reasonably say the agent should have waited to speak to her. And 
without any independent witnesses to the interaction that occurred before Mrs D got home, 
I cant know whether the agent acted inappropriately. 
Mrs D said she also thinks she is being treated differently on account of her ethnicity. Lloyds 
has said this is not the case. I havent seen anything that makes me think Lloyds has 
discriminated against Mrs D.
Overall, as explained above, I think Lloyds did fail Mr and Mrs D at times. Im satisfied that 
£200 compensation is fairly and reasonably due. 
Lloyds said it agreed with my decision. Mrs D explained that she still had concerns. In 
summary she said:
She hasnt spent the settlement Lloyds paid her yet as she wants it to do the repairs.The family needs to be re-housed whilst work is undertaken and Lloyds said it would 
think about that but only if she provided it with medical evidence which she would have 
to pay for.
No-one checked the fridge-freezer, cooker and microwave, its obvious to her these were 
damaged by the water and there are photos which show them covered in water. She 
feels we should ask to see these.
She hasnt been reimbursed for her costs evidenced by the food receipts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mrs D wants Lloyds to do the work. But Lloyds is entitled to settle the claim in cash.
My colleague, in his previous decision, considered the alternative accommodation situation 
and said it was reasonable for Lloyds to ask for evidence of the familys medical conditions 
in order for it to consider further whether it should pay for alternative accommodation. He 
clarified in that decision that Lloyds had agreed to reimburse the cost of obtaining the 
medical evidence if the evidence persuaded it to offer settlement to Mr and Mrs D for 
alternative accommodation. I cant change, or add to, my colleagues findings.
Ive seen evidence which shows Lloyds checked the appliances. I know our investigator 
asked Lloyds for photos from the time of the loss, which I understand Mrs D believes will 
show the items covered in water, but these werent provided. But seeing photos of items 
covered in water wouldnt satisfy me that the items were damaged by the water. Electrical 
items can come into contact with water and dry out with no ill effects. And AXA has 
determined that the problems that exist with Mrs Ds appliances are not the result of water 
damage. Im not persuaded AXA should pay to repair or replace the fridge-freezer, cooker, 
hob or microwave.  
Whilst Lloyds agreed to reimburse Mrs Ds food costs, that was agreed to during the course 
of our complaint. Now I am issuing a final decision our complaint process is at an end. If 
Mr and Mrs D accept my final decision, within the response period given, Lloyds will be 
bound to comply with it, including paying Mr and Mrs D the money for the food costs. 
Putting things right
I require Lloyds to:
Replace, or pay Mr and Mrs D so they can replace, the laptop with the same or a 
reasonably equivalent model. 
Pay them £55.75 as reimbursement of food costs.
Pay them £200 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to provide the 
redress set out above at putting things right. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman