DRN-3480148
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy with the decision by Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd (BBI) to decline a 
claim she made on her pet insurance policy.
BBI are the underwriters of this policy. For the purposes of my decision, any references to 
their actions include those of BBIs associated and appointed agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Ms R and BBI. I wont repeat in any 
great detail what is already known to both parties. In my decision Ill mainly focus on giving 
the reasons for reaching the outcome I have.
Ms R took out a pet insurance policy for her dog in September 2019. On 17 August 2021 
Ms R contacted a vet as her dog was lame. Ms R said she removed a thorn or splinter from 
her dogs paw, but the lameness and limping continued shortly afterwards. On 20 and 26 
August 2021 Ms R took her pet to the vet. On 6 September 2021 the vet decided to 
amputate a digit from the dogs paw.
Ms R made a claim on her policy, but it was declined and she raised a complaint with BBI.
BBI looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. Ms R then referred her complaint to our 
Service for an independent review. Our investigator recommended that the complaint be 
upheld. 
BBI didnt agree so the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
When considering this complaint, I need to decide if BBI have fairly considered the claim  
inline with the policy terms before then choosing to decline it. Ill also need to decide if 
theyve treated Ms R fairly and reasonably overall.
Ive noted that BBI provided two reasons to Ms R for declining her claim. In summary they 
were 1- the treatment required here resulted from a pre-existing medical condition (PEMC) 
and 2- the treatment was elective or preventative rather than necessary. However, in an 
email to our Service dated 5 April 2022 theyve stated: 
We do not seek to rely on policy exclusion 8 which is on page 11 of the policy terms. 
The exclusion concerns elective procedures. Please ignore any reference to this 
exclusion on the complaint response.
Therefore, in my decision Ive only considered the claim being declined because of the 
PEMC term.
The claim decline
BBI have said that the treatment being claimed for here falls under the policy PEMC 
exclusion. 
In their final response letter theyve referred to a hard mass recorded in vets notes from 3 
January 2019  prior to the policy starting. I acknowledge that the digit that required removal 
was on the same paw as the previously noted mass.
Its unfortunate, but understandable that the digit that was removed wasnt examined after 
removal. This would have allowed the vet to show, with supporting evidence whether or not 
the removal was linked to the previous noted mass.
Therefore, when coming to my decision Ive had to rely on the available evidence. The 
available evidence here that Im most persuaded by is from the vet. The vets evidence is 
expert evidence here and they treated the dog. In the vets email to BBI dated 4 January 
2022, they state: 
.support my opinion that the toe amputated on 06/09/21 was not of a condition 
related to the swelling on the same foot noted on 03/01/19.
Aside from the vets opinion, it seems that little or no weight has been attached by BBI to the 
incident with the thorn / splinter requiring removal by Ms R and the possibility that this led to 
the later amputation.
Neither Ms R, our Service or BBI are animal experts. The vets opinion is persuasive and 
having reviewed all of the other evidence - such as photos of the affected area, Im of the 
opinion that BBI havent treated Ms R fairly, reasonably or inline with the policy terms when 
declining this claim for the reasons theyve given. 
Ill set out my direction to put things right below.
How the claim was handled 
Ms R was also unhappy with how the claim was handled. I accept some of the delays (from 
Ms Rs perspective) have been caused by the back and forth nature of this claim and further 
evidence being requested and provided. But Ive not seen anything to conclude - on balance, 
that the delays here were deliberate or unacceptable to the extent that compensation is 
warranted for this reason. 
However, BBIs actions in their overall handling of this claim will have caused trouble and 
upset, as well as avoidable annoyance and uncertainty to Ms R. In particular, there was 
strong supporting evidence from the vet whod treated Ms Rs dog from 4 January 2022 
(prior to the reconsideration of the claim) which BBI didnt place the appropriate weight on or 
change their position. I also find that BBI have changed the reasons for declining the claim at 
different points during the claim (which theyre entitled to do), but they havent been as clear 
as they couldve been with Ms R about why they were declining the claim or why they 
disregarded the key supporting evidence from the vet. I find the £100 recommended by our investigator to be fair, reasonable and proportionate to 
the impact of BBIs actions on Ms R when handling her claim.
Putting things right
I direct Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd (BBI) to:
Reconsider this claim and settle it inline with the remaining policy terms;
Add 8% simple interest to any settlement amount from the date the claim was initially 
declined until the date any claim settlement is paid; and
Pay Ms R £100 for any trouble and upset caused by how this claim has been 
handled.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Ms Rs complaint and direct Building Block 
Insurance PCC Ltd to follow my direction as set out under the heading Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman