DRN-3819443
The complaint
Mr I complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) for failing to stop a payment he made in 
error. He wants HSBC to compensate him for his losses.
What happened
Mr I banks with HSBC. In December 2021 he wanted to make an international payment to a 
recipient overseas, via an intermediary bank.
He completed the online payment authorisation and detailed the amount of $10,800 US. This 
equated to £8457.98. The instruction was submitted.
Shortly afterwards, Mr I realised that the amount of the transaction was incorrect, and it 
ought to have been for around £4500 instead.
He contacted HSBC immediately and asked that the transaction be cancelled. It had not yet 
debited from his account at that time.
HSBCs agent told Mr I that the payment would be stopped. Two days later, Mr I noticed that 
the payment had debited his account.
He complained to HSBC.
HSBC responded saying that the agent had been wrong to advise Mr I that the payment 
could be stopped and that, once it had been submitted, HSBC was unable to recall the 
payment. HSBC offered Mr I £100 for his disappointment but considered that it had not been 
possible to prevent the transaction.
Mr I was not happy and contacted us.
Our investigator has looked into this matter and did not recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. She considered that HSBC had acted in line with the terms and conditions and as 
the payment was to be immediate, HSBC was unable to stop it. She considered that the 
payment of £100 was reasonable to reflect the inconvenience of the wrong information Mr I 
was given.
Mr I did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
I issued a provisional decision in respect of this complaint in October 2022. In that 
provisional decision I set out that Mr I had raised that if he had been aware that the payment 
could not be stopped by the bank he would have taken action to remove his funds from his 
account and force the payment to bounce, thereby stopping it himself. HSBC subsequently 
confirmed that such action would have worked, but that Mr I would have incurred charges for 
the exchange rates of the transaction by doing this. 
I therefore thought that HSBC, in wrongly telling Mr I that the payment would be stopped, 
caused him to lose out on the opportunity to stop the payment himself. I thought that Mr I 
needed to pursue recovery from the recipient directly, but if he was unable to recover the 
money, he could provide evidence to HSBC of his efforts and HSBC should consider 
reimbursing him his financial losses. 
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to 
comment or provide additional evidence. 
Mr I has not responded to the provisional decision. 
HSBC has responded, querying what I mean by Mr Is proven losses, and whether this 
includes the costs of pursuing debt recovery. HSBC considers it inappropriate for 
reimbursement to include the sum transferred as it argues that this could not be cancelled 
after the transaction was submitted. HSBC also notes that if my decision is unlimited then Mr 
I could potentially spend a great deal on legal fees seeking to recover the funds and this 
would be disproportionate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has argued that it is unfair to require HSBC to indemnify Mr Is losses as the 
transaction could not be cancelled, as per the terms and conditions and as detailed on the 
screen when Mr I submitted the request. 
I understand that and, if HSBC had confirmed that the transaction could not be cancelled 
when Mr I called in shortly after confirming it, then I would not consider that HSBC had done 
anything wrong. 
The issue here though is that HSBC acknowledges that it told Mr I, during that conversation, 
that it could be stopped and that this would be done. By doing this, HSBC deterred Mr I from 
taking any other action, such as that which he suggested he would have done, and so 
prevented him from stopping the transaction. 
I cannot be certain that Mr I would have cleared his account funds if properly advised, but it 
seems likely to me that he would have looked at ways he could stop the erroneous 
transaction, and this would have been possible for him to do at that time. I therefore think 
that HSBC, from the point of telling Mr I that the payment would be stopped, took over 
responsibility for the payment continuing without further intervention. 
In those circumstances, I think that Mr Is loss is a financial effect of HSBCs error. 
Putting things right
In putting things right, I acknowledge that Mr I has the contractual relationship with the 
recipient so is best placed to try to recover the funds, but that given that this has not 
succeeded so far it may not be possible for him to recover them. In those circumstances I 
provisionally directed that Mr I should produce evidence to HSBC of his losses and HSBC 
should reimburse him. 
HSBCs clarifying questions are helpful, and prompt the question of what is proportionate for 
Mr I to do to pursue recovery of his funds. I agree it would be disproportionate for a large 
sum to be spent on seeking to recover the funds. 
As I understand it, the transaction which was sent was for around £8457, when it ought to have been around £4500. I understand that Mr I would have had to pay the lower amount in 
any event so his loss through the transaction going ahead is the difference of around £3950. 
If Mr I had cleared his account to make the transaction bounce then he would have incurred 
charges for this, being the exchange fees that had been incurred. If HSBC calculate and 
deduct those charges from the financial effect of £3950 that would leave a more realistic 
financial effect. 
I propose that HSBC liaise directly with Mr I and explain what level of evidence it wants from 
Mr I to be satisfied that he has sustained the loss, and it then reimburse him. If HSBC wants 
evidence of legal action being pursued then it should make this clear to Mr I. If it does so I 
would then expect HSBC to reimburse him for the cost of that legal representation. 
I consider that agreement of the final sum can be left between the parties, and if Mr I 
remains unhappy at how HSBC has approached requiring evidence, or the figure that HSBC 
proposes to reimburse, then Mr I is entitled to return to our service to consider whether 
HSBC has acted fairly.
I previously indicated that I thought HSBC should pay to Mr I £400 compensation for his 
distress and inconvenience. I think that, as the above should compensate his financial 
losses, the compensation for distress and inconvenience is less than I previously thought. I 
now consider that HSBC should pay £250 compensation to Mr I for his distress and 
inconvenience, and that this is in line with other awards we would make. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Is complaint and 
direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Pay to Mr I £250 compensation for his distress and inconvenience; and 
To liaise with Mr I to obtain the evidence it requires of efforts to recover his financial 
loss, and to reimburse him for that loss, as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman