DRN-3211535
The complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about Aviva Insurance Limiteds refusal of a claim under the legal 
expenses section of his home insurance policy. 
Aviva uses claims-handlers to deal with legal expenses insurance claims on its behalf. It is 
the claims-handlers that Mr R has been communicating with in relation to the claim and the 
complaint. However, for ease I will refer to Aviva throughout this decision. 
What happened
In late June 2020, Mr R made a claim because of a dispute about a right of way over a piece 
of land he owns, on which he had started to build a property. 
Aviva initially said the dispute pre-dated the start of the policy and so would not be covered. 
Mr R provided further information and Aviva agreed to proceed with the claim, which it said 
would mean validating that the potential claim was covered and then assessing the 
prospects of success of the claim. Aviva said this would be done by one of its panel of pre-
approved solicitors but they could not act due to a conflict of interest, so Aviva agreed for   
Mr Rs solicitors to assess the merits of the claim. In early August 2020, Mr Rs solicitors 
determined that the legal claim had a 55% chance of success.
 
Aviva asked the solicitors to provide a further assessment of the case. The solicitors sent 
their report in early September 2020 supporting the claim.
On 24 September 2020, Aviva told Mr R that it was going to review the claim internally to 
assess whether there was cover for the claim. The policy covers property disputes relating to 
the policyholders home and any other property the policyholder owns or rents. Avivas 
claims-handlers had doubts that cover would extend to a property which had not been built. 
Aviva also said it was going to refer the matter to independent solicitors to review. However, 
before it received a formal opinion on this from the solicitors, Aviva told Mr R the claim would 
not be covered as the claim related to land that he was developing and as such it would not 
be considered his home in accordance with the policy wording. Aviva agreed that it should 
have identified this sooner and offered £400 compensation for the trouble caused by not 
doing so.
Mr R is very unhappy about this. He says the policy terms are not sufficiently clear that a 
property being built to be his home would not be covered and in any event Aviva accepted 
the claim and therefore cannot now refuse to continue it. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend that it be upheld, as 
she thought that Aviva was entitled to refuse cover in the circumstances and its offer of 
compensation was reasonable.  
Mr R does not accept the Investigators assessment. I have summarised the points he has 
raised in response to the Investigator and in his initial complaint below: 
Mr R called the legal helpline, also provided with the policy, before he submitted the 
claim. During that conversation, the adviser raised a number of issues but none of 
them related to the policy not covering the claim.
The policy definition of home only includes the address shown in the insurance 
schedule but the property dispute cover in the legal expenses section of the policy 
clearly intends to include cover for second homes. 
In any case, the definition doesnt exclude homes under construction. He had started 
work on the property and he considers the policy wording could be read as including 
a house not yet owned or built. 
Aviva imposed further assessment stages to his claim unexpected after he thought 
his cover had already been confirmed. These stages of assessment are not set out in 
the policy.
Aviva has tried to deliberately fail the claim based on new tests not included in the 
policy wording.
The policy provides reasons why a claim may be discontinued but does not provide 
for changing its mind having already accepted a claim. 
The policy states that it will decide if the claim is covered and then assess for 
prospects and, provided there are reasonable prospects, it says it will continue to pay 
the legal costs throughout the claim. His claim was accepted for cover and was 
assessed as having reasonable prospects of success, so Aviva is contractually 
bound to meet his costs. 
Aviva accepted the claim after rigorous process and after it had already refused it 
initially. He does not therefore accept the mistake explanation. 
Avivas response to his complaint was contradictory and did not answer his 
complaint. 
Aviva is named as the underwriter but declined any involvement until apparently 
deciding it was not covered. He thinks the use of the underwriter at that late stage 
was disingenuous. 
Aviva sought an independent assessment from another solicitor but in fact proceeded 
to make the final decision and cancel the request before getting a response. 
The Investigator has said that he has not been financially prejudiced by Avivas 
handling of the claim but this is not true. A second neighbour made a claim against 
him regarding the development which he had to defend, incurring significant legal 
and other costs. He has therefore suffered financial loss due to the decision made by 
to reject the claim.
Any reasonable person would believe that the claim had been accepted as an
insured event after proper scrutiny and that once accepted the only grounds for 
rejection (according to the policy wording) would be a less than 51% chance of 
success. 
The policy provides some common examples of property disputes, which might be 
covered. These include: boundary disputes regarding building works or fences and 
right of way disputes, neither of which specifically refer to or are qualified by the 
term your home in contrast to the first example in the list. This again suggests that 
he should be covered. 
In any case, he strongly contests the decision by underwriters to impose a last 
minute process (not contained within the policy) to reject a claim as not being 
covered when already assessed as covered by the policy above at the initial stage.
Mr R wants us to investigate the internal discussions that led to the claim being accepted 
first of all and then refused; and he wants the claim covered and substantial compensation. 
As the investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Legal expenses insurers are required to keep legal expenses claims separate from other 
areas of business. Aviva has done this by using claims-handling agents to deal with its legal 
expenses business, including claims and complaints. While the business entities have to be 
kept separate, Aviva is ultimately responsible for the way its agents handle the claim. 
Is the claim covered? 
Mr Rs policy provides cover for certain specified insured events. This includes property 
disputes: 
The property dispute section covers your main home and, for this section only, includes
any other homes you own or rent. You will not be covered for a claim which relates, in
any way, to the letting out of a property.
A dispute relating to the interference of your use, enjoyment or right over your home.
A dispute relating to damage to your home.
A dispute regarding an agreement for the sale or purchase of your home.
A dispute with your landlord regarding a tenancy agreement to rent your home.
A dispute with a contractor in relation to work on your home.
The policy then goes on to give some examples of disputes that might be covered: 
Common examples of property disputes
 Where a neighbours overgrowing ivy or leylandii damages your home.
 Boundary disputes regarding building work or fences.
 Rights of way disputes especially over shared driveways.
 Noise and other nuisance disputes e.g. tree root encroachment.
 Interference with drains or sewers by building work.
Home is defined in the home insurance part of the policy as: The house or flat and its 
outbuildings (including garages), at the address shown on your schedule, all used for 
domestic purposes only. However, as Mr R has pointed out the property dispute section set 
out above extends this to also cover any other home the policyholder owns or rents. 
Mr R and his solicitor have argued that the policy terms set out above do not make clear that 
an existing building has to be on the land for it to qualify as a home within this section of 
cover and it does not exclude homes under construction. Mr Rs intention is to build a 
property on the plot of land which will be his main home (and had started building it at the 
time of the claim) so it should be covered. 
I do not find this persuasive. In my opinion, the policy term is sufficiently clear that it only 
provides cover for the policyholders main home and any other homes currently owned or 
rented by him. I do not think that a partially built house on a site not occupied by the 
policyholder would reasonably be deemed to be a home. And I do not think the examples of 
common property disputes section changes this, as it the earlier section has already clearly 
restricted the cover to the insureds home. I do not therefore think the claim is covered.
Has Aviva acted fairly in refusing the claim, having indicated it was accepted? 
Mr R says Aviva is not permitted by any policy term to revisit the decision to accept the 
claim, and the only way a claim can fail having been accepted for cover is if there are no reasonable prospects of success. This is not correct. The policy sets out the normal course 
of events in how a claim will be processed, as guidance for policyholders, but it does not 
mean that any part of the process cannot be revisited. I do not agree there needs to be a 
specific term to allow Aviva to do so. If a claim has been accepted initially and then it 
transpires it should not have been, any insurer is entitled to refuse to continue that claim. 
Even if that were incorrect, I am required to consider what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances and that means what is fair and reasonable for both parties. I do not think it is 
fair or reasonable for an insurer to be required to continue to meet a claim if it is not covered 
by the policy and should never have been accepted. We can consider appropriate redress 
for any detriment caused to a consumer as a direct result of anything it did wrong in that 
process (which Ill go into below) but it does not mean Aviva is obliged to continue a claim, 
which is not covered. 
Mr R is also unhappy that this decision was made by Aviva without waiting for the response 
of the solicitors it had referred this to. I do not think it needed to wait for this. It was a 
question about policy cover, which is within its remit. While Aviva said it would refer it for 
advice, it was not wrong to decide that matter itself.  
I am not therefore persuaded that Aviva has acted unreasonably in refusing the claim. 
Did Aviva act reasonably in the way it handled the claim?
Mr R is also very unhappy with the way the claim was handled and the time taken to make 
this decision. He also says that additional stages of assessment were imposed which are not 
set out in the policy.
The claim was presented as a dispute about a right of way over land owned by Mr R and 
reference was made in the claim form to an incident in 2017, which pre-dated the policy. I do 
not therefore think it was unreasonable for Aviva to investigate that and on provision of an 
explanation that this was unrelated to the current dispute, it agreed to proceed. 
Aviva agreed to send the matter to Mr Rs solicitor for an initial assessment but Mr R says 
further assessment stages which are not set out in the policy, were unfairly imposed. These 
are part of Avivas internal claims process and insurers do not have to set out in a policy 
document exactly how it will process claims. The claims handlers said they had sought an 
underwriting decision  that doesnt suggest anything untoward, only that they investigated 
further whether the claim Mr R wants to make is one which is covered by the policy. 
I also do not see anything unfair or unreasonable in the process itself. I think it is reasonable 
that an insurer verifies the policy cover, i.e. that the claimant has a policy at the relevant 
times, that there is cover under a specific policy term and that there be reasonable prospects 
of success all of which are relevant to whether there can be a valid claim. 
Aviva wasnt satisfied that there was a valid claim and so asked for further information. The 
claim form referred to a build potentially being held up or not going ahead but no other 
information which would have meant that Aviva should have known at the outset that the 
claim was not covered. 
It took Aviva from 26 June to 13 October 2020 (a total of roughly three and a half months) to 
determine that the claim was not covered. I do not think all of this time was due to any 
wrongdoing on Avivas part (for example, it made reasonable enquiries about the timing of 
the event leading to the claim and, as stated, it would not have known from the outset that 
the claim was not covered). However, I do think Aviva could have reached its decision that the claim was not covered sooner than it did. And I appreciate it would have been a stressful 
time for Mr R and
I can also see that Mr R thought from some early correspondence that the cover had been 
confirmed, and so there would have been disappointment and loss of expectation when 
Aviva refused the claim. 
Mr R says he has also suffered financial loss as a result of the refusal of the claim, which 
Aviva should compensate him for. While he has suffered financial loss as he is having to 
fund his legal fees and I have no doubt the legal action has been costly, Aviva is not 
responsible for those costs. I can only make an award for financial loss that arises from 
something an insurer did wrong. I have already concluded Aviva was not wrong to refuse the 
claim. What it did wrong was not reaching this conclusion sooner. The result of not telling   
Mr R this sooner was that he had an expectation his claim would be covered but there is no 
convincing evidence that any financial loss occurred as a direct and sole result of this. I have 
seen no evidence that it altered the position Mr R is in, which is he is uninsured for this 
claim. 
Having taken everything into account, I am satisfied that the £400 already offered by Aviva is 
sufficient to compensate for this and is in line with awards made in similar scenarios. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint as I consider Aviva Insurance Limited has already made a 
reasonable offer in full and final settlement of the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman