DRN-3568872
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy because Metro Bank PLC (Metro) did not reimburse the money she 
transferred to a fraudster.
What happened
Miss M says that for some months she had followed someone on a social media platform. Ill 
refer to this person as A. A posted something about an investment opportunity involving a 
payment of £600 and then A would complete trades and charge 20% commission on any 
profit. Miss M hadnt traded before but decided to go ahead. A said that Miss M could make 
£2,000 to £5,000 in 24 hours. There was also a promotional offer that meant that Miss M 
was guaranteed to get her initial £600 payment back. 
A communicated with Miss M via a messaging platform and advised her of the profits she 
had made. The messages show that A told Miss M shed made £722 within around 90 
minutes. Profits continued to rise on the day the initial payment was made and A told Miss M 
that as her profits after commission had been deducted exceeded £5,000 (they were 
£8,720.09), she would need to pay a release fee of £2,375. 35% of the fee would be 
refunded later. Miss M was then asked to pay further fees that she was told would be 
refunded to her in full. 
I have set out below the payments Miss M made to two named individuals that I have 
referred to as payee one and payee two.
Payment Date Amount Payee
1 14/05/21 £600 1
2 15/05/21 £2,375 1
3 15/05/21 £2,500 1
4 15/05/21 £2,500 2
5 15/05/21 £250 2
6 15/05/21 £2,750 2
7 16/05/21 £2,750 2
Total £13,725
Miss M realised shed been the victim of a scam when she didnt receive her profit and A 
stopped communicating with her. She reported the matter to Metro on 19 May 2021. Shes 
unhappy with Metros decision not to reimburse her and with the service she has received. 
Metro is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  Metro says one or more of 
those exceptions applies in this case and so it hasnt provided a refund to Miss M. It says 
that Miss M ignored effective warnings it gave during the payment journey and she made the 
payments without a reasonable basis for believing that the payee was the person she was 
expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services and/or the person or 
business she was transacting with was legitimate.
Metro was able to recover a total of £4.65 of Miss Ms funds. In respect of the service it had 
provided, Metro said it didnt update Miss M as it should have. In recognition of this Metro 
initially paid Miss M £25 compensation but increased this to £75 when Miss M complained to 
this service. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Miss Ms complaint recommended that it be upheld in part. 
She said that under the CRM Code Metro should have provided an effective warning for the 
third and subsequent payments but didnt do so. But Miss M didnt have a reasonable basis 
for believing she was paying a legitimate payee for the following reasons:
- She didnt complete any checks on the trader or the investment even though she 
questioned whether the investment was legitimate
- The expected profits were unrealistic
- There was no investment agreement 
- Miss M was asked to pay fees which werent disclosed initially 
- Miss M paid two different payees, neither of whom were the trader
- Miss M was told to lie to her bank about the reason for payment. 
So the investigator recommended that Miss M receive 50% of payment three and of each 
subsequent payment. The investigator didnt award interest as the funds came from an 
account that didnt pay any. 
Miss M accepted the investigators view, but Metro did not. It said it provided an effective 
warning to Miss M. Metro went on to say that Miss M chose the wrong payment reason twice 
and it shouldnt be held responsible for this. As Metro didnt accept what the investigator said 
Miss Ms case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Metro 
should have reimbursed Miss M under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether it ought 
to have done more to protect Miss M from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Miss M was tricked into making the payments. But this isnt 
enough for her to receive a refund of the money under the CRM Code. The Code places a 
level of care on Miss M too. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
 The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by failing to 
take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning
 The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
 The customer has been grossly negligent 
There are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code that do not apply to this case. Did Miss M have a reasonable basis to believe she was making legitimate payments.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of Miss 
M and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Metro has raised about the legitimacy 
of the transactions Miss M made are enough to support its position that she failed to meet 
her requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the payments she made. I dont think she 
had a reasonable basis for believing the payments were for genuine goods or that the 
person she transacted with was legitimate. This means that Miss M isnt entitled to a full 
refund of her loss under the CRM Code. Ill explain why I have reached this conclusion. 
- Miss M was approached by someone she hadnt met on social media and decided to 
invest based on what she was told. Social media isnt a normal platform for legitimate 
investments and there was nothing to say the person Miss M communicated with was 
qualified to provide advice.
- The rate of return offered to Miss M was too good to be true and ought reasonably to 
have led her to be concerned and to take additional steps before making payments. 
A profit of £2,000 to £5,000 in 24 hours wasnt realistic and should have been a red 
flag to Miss M that something wasnt right. 
- Miss M wasnt provided with any documentation about the investment. There was no 
identification process, no contract and nothing to say what Miss M had agreed with 
the individual she met on social media.
- Miss M didnt complete any checks to satisfy herself it was a legitimate investment 
opportunity. She didnt look into the broker, the company the scammer said she 
worked for or the investment itself. 
- Although Miss M believed she was making an investment when she made payments 
she chose as the payment reason paying friends and family as she says this is what 
the scammer told her to say (because it would be quicker). Being asked to lie to her 
bank should have been a red flag to Miss M. If the investment was genuine there 
would be no reason to give a false payment reason.
- The payments Miss M made were to two named individuals and not to an investment 
company or even the trader/fraudster Miss M communicated with. She wasnt 
provided with an explanation for this and didnt question it. 
- After she made the initial investment payment Miss M was asked to pay additional 
fees that werent disclosed to her initially. Its clear from the messages Miss M 
exchanged with the scammer that she had concerns about making these payments 
but continued to do so. When she was asked for the first fee of £2,375 she checked 
whether that would be all and the scammer confirmed it would be. So I think Miss M 
ought reasonably to have been concerned about being asked to pay more and 
completed some checks before accepting what the scammer told her. 
Did Metro meet its obligations under the CRM code? 
Even though I dont think Miss M had a reasonable basis for belief when making the 
payments, she may still be entitled to a refund of 50% of the money she lost if Metro didnt 
meet its obligations under the CRM Code  one of which is to provide effective warnings.
The CRM Code says that where firms identify authorised push payment (APP) scam risks in 
a payment journey, they should provide effective warnings to their customers. This should 
include appropriate actions for the consumer to take to protect themselves from scams like 
the one Miss M has fallen victim to.
I dont consider Metro needed to provide an effective warning in respect of payments one, 
two and five. Payments one and two were relatively low in value and an unusual pattern of 
spending hadnt emerged at that stage. Miss M transferred funds into her account and then made transfers leaving the balance largely unaltered. The fifth payment was low in value and 
only the second payment to a new payee, so I dont consider Metro had any reason to be 
concerned that Miss M might be at risk of being scammed. 
The position was different when Miss M made the third payment. Miss M was making a third 
payment to the same payee in the space of two days, so an unusual pattern of spending had 
emerged. The total amount transferred (including the third payment) amounted to £5,475. 
Miss M hadnt made payments of over £300 in the months before this, so I think Metro ought 
reasonably to have provided an effective warning under the CRM Code. I also think Metro 
should have provided an effective warning in respect of payments four, six and seven. 
Effective warning 
Metro has said that Miss M ignored an effective warning that was presented to her on 
screen during the payment process when she set up new payees for payments one and four.
Miss M chose paying friends and family as the payment reason and was provided with a 
warning specific to that payment reason. The warning said,
If youre sending money to someone youve never met or dont know, they might not be who 
they say they are.
Things to remember
 If you met them online, theres an even higher risk of them not being who they claim to be 
Dont make this payment unless you know your money is going to the right place. 
Metro has said that its obligations under the CRM Code to share an effective warning are 
based on customer input and it shouldnt be held responsible if a customer hasnt accurately 
recorded the reason for the payment. 
The CRM Code says.
Effective Warnings should be risk based and, where possible, tailored to the APP scam risk 
indicators and any specific APP scam types identified through the user interface with which 
the Customer is initiating the payment instructions.
So I consider Metro provided a warning specific to the type of payment Miss M said she was 
making. But I dont consider the warning was effective under the CRM Code. The warning 
includes some helpful advice like the fact that someone a customer hasnt met before might 
not be who they say they are, and this is particularly so if a customer met them online. But 
the warning doesnt include information about the common features of this type of scam and 
doesnt explain the consequences of going ahead with the payment. 
For the sake of completeness, even if Miss M had chosen the correct payment reason of A 
financial opportunity, Im not persuaded that the warning Metro says she would have seen 
would be effective under the CRM Code. Ive seen this warning and it doesnt give any 
consequences of going ahead with the payment, which is a requirement for a warning to be 
effective under the CRM Code. 
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not satisfied that the warning Metro gave an effective 
warning in respect of the payments that required one. It follows that Miss M didnt ignore an 
effective warning when making these payments so Metro cant rely on this exception to 
reimbursement. In the circumstances, Metro should be partially liable for these payments. Should Metro have done more to protect Miss M? 
In addition to its responsibilities under the CRM Code, when Miss M made the payments, 
Metro should fairly and reasonably have had systems in place to look out for unusual 
transactions or other signs that might indicate that she was at risk of fraud (among other 
things). 
Im satisfied that the third payment Miss M made was unusual and out of character and so 
Metro should have asked her questions about it to satisfy itself she wasnt at risk of financial 
harm. I think Metro should have asked Miss M the reason for the payment and then some 
questions about the investment like how she found out about it, the rate of return and what 
checks shed completed. Im persuaded that Miss M would have answered Metros questions 
honestly and the scam would have come to light. Although the scammer asked Miss M to 
say she was paying friends and family when she made the payment online, she wasnt given 
a cover story and was only told to lie because the payment would go through more quickly. 
But I also think Miss M should share responsibility for her loss. I say this for the same 
reasons I have set out above in relation to Miss Ms reasonable basis for belief. 
Overall, I consider Metro could have prevented the third and subsequent payments from 
being made so it should refund 50% of the third payment and all subsequent payments. 
Interest
I am not awarding any interest as the funds were transferred from an account that didnt pay 
any interest.  
Recovery 
Ive also considered whether Metro could have done more to try to recover the money once 
it had been told of the scam. Wed expect a business to take reasonable steps to try to 
recover the money from the bank it was sent to. Metro has shown that it contacted both 
receiving banks on the day the scam was reported so I dont think it could have done 
anything more to recover Miss Ms funds. 
Service
Miss M raised a scam claim on 19 May 2021 and didnt receive an outcome until 1 
September. She made various calls and didnt receive promised return calls too. So I can 
understand why Miss M is unhappy with the service shes been provided with. But Metro did 
try to call Miss M on 21 July and left a message with a third party that I understand Miss M 
didnt receive. Taking everything into account I consider the offer of £75 is fair and 
reasonable and so Im not recommending Metro pay any more. 
Overall
For the reasons Ive set out, Miss M didnt do enough in the circumstances. But Metro also 
didnt do enough in respect of payment three onwards, so liability should be shared between 
both parties. 
My final decision
I require Metro Bank PLC to:
- Pay Miss M 50% of payment three onwards (amounting to £5,375); - If Metro hasnt done so already, pay Miss M £75 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman