DRN-2025377
 
The complaint
Mr B and Ms J are unhappy that they were unable to port (transfer) their TSB Bank plc 
mortgage interest rate onto a mortgage secured on a new property. They are asking TSB to 
waive the early repayment charge (ERC) payable on redemption of their existing mortgage.
What happened
Mr B and Ms J had a mortgage with TSB which was on an interest rate product which ran 
until the end of February 2022. If the mortgage was repaid before that date, there would be 
an ERC of approximately £6,600 payable to TSB.
In late September 2019 Mr B and Ms J decided to move house. They found a property and 
spoke to TSB about porting the interest rate product onto a mortgage secured on the new 
property. 
The mortgage adviser noted that the property looked as if it had been separated into two 
dwellings and he checked this with Mr B and Ms J. They confirmed that they were buying the 
freehold of the entire property with a single title. 
An application was submitted and a valuer inspected the property on behalf of TSB. At this 
point TSB became aware that the property was converted into two separate freehold flats. 
This didnt fall within TSBs lending criteria. 
In the valuation report the surveyor said:
The property has been converted from an existing building, which originally 
comprised of a single dwelling. It would be a suitable security if reconverted back to a 
single dwelling, or held as two separate properties with appropriate leases created. 
TSB informed Mr B and Ms J that the property wasnt suitable security for the mortgage. 
Mr B and Ms J challenged this and, after talking to their solicitors, decided to go ahead with 
the purchase, arranging the titles so there would be two separate leasehold titles on the 
flats, with the mortgage secured on the ground floor flat, and that they would own the 
freehold title. They would then, over a period of years, undertake the work to convert the 
property into a single dwelling.
However, this was not acceptable to TSB either and so the application was declined. In its 
final response letter dated 11 November 2019 TSB said that it couldnt agree to the 
leasehold proposals because Mr B and Ms J would still own the freehold and if they 
converted the property into a single dwelling, TSB would only have security over the ground 
floor. 
The bank also had concerns about the risk, albeit small but nevertheless present, that the 
conversion works might not be completed. TSB said that there had been instances where it 
had had to take possession of a property where conversion works were incomplete, leaving 
the security uninhabitable or unsaleable. TSB explained that it could only agree to a 
mortgage if the entire property was converted into a single freehold dwelling before 
completion.
TSB accepted that its communication had been poor at times. To compensate Mr B and Ms 
J for this, TSB offered a payment of £150. But TSB didnt agree to waive the ERC.
Dissatisfied with TSBs response, Mr B and Ms J complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An investigator looked at the complaint. He didnt think TSB had done enough to put 
things right. He was satisfied that TSB didnt need to reimburse the ERC, because the 
property didnt meet TSBs lending criteria. 
But he thought the compensation of £150 was too low and asked TSB to increase this to 
£250. He also asked TSB to pay the legal costs incurred by Mr B and Ms J in challenging the 
valuation.
Neither Mr B and Ms J nor TSB agreed to this. Mr B and Ms J want additional compensation 
to cover the ERC. TSB thinks its offer of £150 compensation is fair.
As the matter remains unresolved, it falls to me to issue a decision on the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whats happened isnt in dispute, so all I need to decide is what would be an appropriate 
amount of compensation  a waiver of the ERC (as Mr B and Ms J want), reimbursement of 
legal costs to challenge the valuation and £250 (as recommended by the investigator) or the 
£150 compensation for trouble and upset (which TSB has offered).
Where a complaint is about the exercise by a lender of its commercial judgment my role is to 
decide whether that judgement has been exercised fairly and reasonably; it isnt to substitute 
my own judgement for that of TSB. In other words, I have to decide if TSB took into account 
all relevant factors and gave proper consideration to them before reaching its decision. It is 
only if I thought no lender could reasonably have made the decisions TSB made in this case 
that there would be any basis for intervention on my part.
TSB is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that TSB makes in respect of what 
those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular lending assessment, and 
whether it should lend and if so, on what terms are clearly discretionary matters for TSBs 
own commercial judgement that I would not interfere with.
Im satisfied that the adviser noted in September 2019  before the mortgage application 
was submitted on 4 October 2019  that the property appeared to be two separate flats. 
On 28 September 2019 he raised this with Mr B and Ms J, saying: 
I just want to check that the property you are buying is the full property as it looks 
like it was separated into 2 buildings previously? Is it a freehold property? 
Mr B and Ms J said: 
Yes, freehold of whole property with single title.
But the property was in fact two freehold flats held under a single legal title. Freehold flats 
are uncommon because of the difficulties in ensuring that there are reciprocal covenants for the maintenance, repair, upkeep, etc. of multiple flats contained within the same building. 
Thats why flats are generally held on long leases which all contain reciprocal covenants. 
I wouldnt expect a mortgage adviser to be aware of these legal nuances and Im satisfied 
TSBs adviser was entitled to take Mr B and Ms Js answer at face value.
It wasnt until the surveyor inspected the property that the issue about there being two 
freehold flats came to light. The surveyors comments about what would generally be 
considered acceptable security are not, in my opinion, recommendations that if Mr B and 
Ms J arranged the two flats on long leases then TSB would agree to their application.
Im satisfied that, after this was proposed by Mr B and Ms Js solicitors, TSB gave fair and 
proper consideration to the request. Ive seen the correspondence from TSBs legal 
department. Im not at liberty to disclose this to Mr B and Ms J, as it is subject to professional 
privilege. But I can see that there were detailed discussions about the proposals put forward, 
the legal implications, and legitimate reasons why the application still didnt meet TSBs 
criteria.
TSB explained its reasons for declining the application in its final response letter. This is a 
decision TSB is entitled to reach, and Im satisfied that before reaching its decision, proper 
consideration was given to the application. In the circumstances, I can see no basis upon 
which it would be appropriate for me to interfere in that decision.
Because the application didnt meet TSBs lending criteria, it wasnt possible to port the 
mortgage interest rate product. This meant that the ERC was fairly charged and so it would 
not be fair or reasonable for me to order TSB to reimburse this.
I also dont think it would be appropriate for TSB to have to pay Mr B and Ms Js legal fees 
incurred in challenging the valuation. I appreciate they were looking for a way forward to go 
ahead with their purchase in a way that would satisfy TSBs lending criteria. But Im not 
persuaded additional legal costs were incurred as a result of any error on the part of TSB.
TSB has acknowledged that its customer service could have been better, as it should have 
made it clearer at an earlier stage that the application didnt meet its lending criteria. TSB 
offered £150 compensation for its poor customer service. The investigator thought £250 was 
more appropriate. 
Ive looked at the timescale here.  The valuation report was done on 21 October 2019 and 
the application was definitively declined in the final response letter dated 11 November 2019.  
In the circumstances, I think TSBs offer of compensation of £150 is fair, reasonable and 
proportionate to the errors made by the bank and the period of time involved. Given this, I 
dont intend to order TSB to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that, if it has not already done so, TSB Bank Plc must pay Mr B and Ms J 
compensation of £150 for trouble and upset. I make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss J to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman