The complaint
Mrs T says she was mis-sold a regular premium mortgage payment protection insurance 
(MPPI) policy by Santander UK Plc (Santander).
What happened
Mrs T took out a mortgage with Santander in 2004. At the same time she took out a regular 
premium MPPI policy to cover her repayments if she became unemployed.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld because she didnt think 
there was enough information to show that the policy wasnt presented as optional and 
thought that the policy provided a suitable benefit to Mrs T. 
Mrs T disagrees. She says it wasnt made clear the policy was optional and she didnt need 
it.  
So the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
The sale took place 15 years ago so unsurprisingly there is very little information available 
from the time of the sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis of what information I have and 
what I think is most likely to have happened.
Santander needed to make it clear to Mrs T that she had a choice in taking the policy. Mrs T 
says this wasnt done but she hasnt provided any real specific details about the sale which 
is understandable considering the amount of time that has passed. And as the policy was 
sold over the phone there isnt any sales documentation I can refer to.
But from what I know about Santanders phone sales process at the time, I think its likely 
that it wouldve made Mrs T aware that MPPI was optional and that Mrs T had MPPI 
because she freely chose to take it rather than anything else. I also note that Mrs Ts policy 
covered her for unemployment only when there was the option to take accident and sickness 
cover too. I think this suggests to me that a discussion of her circumstances took place and 
Mrs T choose to take unemployment cover only to tailor the policy to her needs.
DRN-1127163Ive not seen enough to say that she wasnt given a choice or that she didnt agree to buy it.
Santander say it advised Mrs T to take the policy. What this means is that Santander not 
only had to provide information about MPPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that 
Mrs T could make an informed choice about buying MPPI. It also had to make sure that if it 
were to recommend MPPI that the policy was suitable for Mrs Ts needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Santander did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a 
suitable recommendation for Mrs T for the following reasons:
 
She was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim.
 
Mrs T says that she was entitled to a good level of sick pay and had significant 
savings. But the policy covered her for unemployment only and wouldve paid out on 
top of any savings and for potentially longer, covering her for up to 12 months if she 
became unemployed. 
 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mrs T in her circumstances 
especially considering she was taking on a significant and long term financial 
commitment. Given the implications if she was unable to meet her repayments I think 
Mrs T wouldve been interested in protecting them. 
 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mrs T at the time. 
And if she decided she no longer wanted the policy she couldve cancelled it.
 
I also need to consider whether Santander gave Mrs T information in a way which was clear, 
fair and not misleading so that she could make a proper choice about whether or not she 
wanted to take the policy out. 
I dont know if Santander did give all the information as it shouldve. But for the same 
reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what Mrs T has told us about her 
circumstances at the time, I think she wouldve still taken out the MPPI policy if shed been 
given all the proper information.
So this means Mrs T isnt worse off as a result of any wrong doing by Santander.
 
 
 
 
 My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold Mrs Ts complaint against Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman