DRN-3888812
The complaint
Mrs H has complained about Scottish Widows Limiteds handling of her request to update 
her fathers, Mr Hs, address on his pension policy.
What happened
Mr H is unwell and unable to manage his own affairs. Mrs H has power of attorney (POA) to 
make decisions on his behalf.
In January 2022 Mrs H wrote to Scottish Widows to notify it that her father had moved into a 
care home. She enclosed a copy of a POA document. She asked that Scottish Widows send 
all of her fathers future correspondence to her address. Amongst other documentation 
provided, she enclosed a copy of an abbreviated extract of death certificate relating to her 
brother who had been a joint POA with her.
Scottish Widows replied. It said it wasn't able to accept the copy of the POA. It said Mrs H 
would need to send a certified copy or she could take the original into a local branch and the 
staff there could certify it. 
Mrs H visited a local branch, which did certify the copy of the POA she presented. Scottish 
Widows replied, it said that the POA Mrs H had taken to the branch related to her mother 
and not her father, so it couldnt accept it. Scottish Widows also said it would require a copy 
of Mrs Hs brothers full death certificate along with evidence to verify her fathers identity.
Mrs H rang Scottish Widows. Amongst other things she asked it about its complaints 
procedure. The call handler told her that he could take her complaint over the phone. Mrs H 
didnt want to do that, so he provided an email address allowing her to put her complaint in 
writing.
Mrs H emailed Scottish Widows to complain. It replied. It said it hadn't been able to accept 
the documents Mrs H had provided as they weren't certified copies. It repeated what it 
needed to be able to update Mr Hs address. 
Mrs H wasnt happy with Scottish Widows response and brought her complaint to us. One of 
our investigators looked into it. While noting that Scottish Widows didnt get everything right, 
and asking it for proof that it had amended its system to prevent any letters from being sent 
to Mrs Hs fathers old address in error, our investigator didnt think Scottish Widows needed 
to take any further action. Mrs H didnt agree so her complaints been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint Mrs Hs raised a number of specific issues. But in this decision I 
don't intend to address each and every point individually. Instead I will focus on what I see 
as being the key matters at the heart of Mrs Hs complaint following our Investigators 
assessment of it and the reasons for my decision. 
I can understand Mrs Hs frustration that Scottish Widows has been unable to complete a 
fairly simple task of updating her fathers address with hers. That would ensure she receives 
any correspondence and can deal with it for him. But I also understand why Scottish Widows 
has policies in place to make sure it has verified all the required details before essentially 
handing the power to make financial decisions on a policy to someone other than the 
policyholder. 
In this case Mrs H sent Scottish Widows a scanned copy of a POA. That copy had been 
certified by a solicitor. But  once scanned  it is no longer the original certified copy as it 
has essentially been copied again. Further, I can see that Scottish Widows told Mrs H it 
would need each page to be certified and the version Mrs H provided didnt have that level of 
certification. So Mrs H hadn't provided what Scottish Widows needed in order to update 
Mr Hs address. In those circumstances, I can understand that, before committing to update 
Mr Hs details with Mrs H as his POA, it wanted to be sure that all the documentation was in 
order. And as that process is designed to protect her fathers interests and to ensure his 
pension isn't accessed by someone not entitled to do so, I don't think there's anything wrong 
with that. 
Mrs H told us that all the other financial businesses shed dealt with have accepted the 
scanned copy of the POA. That might be the case. But the fact that different businesses 
might have differing levels of identity verification doesn't mean that Scottish Widows has 
acted unfairly.
Given Mrs Hs reluctance to send original documents (which is entirely understandable), I 
think Scottish Widows made a reasonable suggestion in saying that she could provide a 
certified copy of the POA, by taking it into a local branch. And Mrs H did in fact visit a 
branch. Unfortunately she took the incorrect POA with her, so Scottish Widows still couldnt 
accept it., And I dont think that's because of anything Scottish Widows did wrong. And, if 
she wishes to do so, she could still take her fathers POA and the other information 
Scottish Widows needs to a branch to complete the address update. I think thats a 
reasonable solution to the issue.
Mrs H is also dissatisfied that Scottish Widows didnt return the documents shed sent it. 
Scottish Widows has told us that  as none of those documents were originals  it scanned 
them onto its system and then destroyed the copies Mrs H sent to it. So, there was nothing 
for it to return. This isnt an unusual practice. Its increasingly common for businesses and 
organisations to work in paperless environments. That is, rather than having physical files 
where documents are stored, information is kept electronically. So, when original documents 
are received theyre usually scanned and returned to the owner. As I've said above thats a 
fairly common practice and I dont find it unreasonable. So, as Scottish Widows hadn't 
retained the copies Mrs H sent to it and she hadn't sent any originals, I dont think there was 
anything to return. I don't think thats unfair. 
Mrs H also wasnt happy that Scottish Widows told her on the phone that it didnt have a 
complaints process. I haven't heard that call, so I don't know precisely what information was 
exchanged. But its not the case that Scottish Widows doesn't have a complaints process. In 
fact its website has a page briefly setting out what the process is. Instead it would seem that 
Scottish Widows call handler didnt have access to a document describing its process which 
he could send to Mrs H. And as Mrs H wasnt happy to make her complaint over the phone, 
the call handler gave her an email address to allow her to put it in writing. I think that was a reasonable response in the circumstances and Im satisfied that Mrs H wasnt prevented 
from making her complaint due to the lack of explanation concerning a formal complaints 
process. 
That said, Scottish Widows clearly didnt get everything right. In one letter it addressed 
Mrs H as Ma  rather than Ms as it had done in its other letters. While far from ideal, I'm 
satisfied that this amounted to a minor typographical error that didnt alter the overall 
meaning of the letter. Further, Scottish Widows also told Mrs H that shed need to supply her 
brothers full death certificate. But in fact, the nature of the POA gave Mrs H the authority to 
make decisions for her father independently of her brother. So Scottish Widows didnt 
actually need his death certificate at all. It would have been helpful if Scottish Widows had 
acknowledged that in its complaint response. But I don't think that omission meant that its 
dealt with Mrs H unfairly. 
I appreciate Mrs H thinks that Scottish Widows has put obstacles in her way which have 
prevented her from looking after all of her fathers affairs. But as I've said above, I think its 
reasonable for Scottish Widows to want to be absolutely certain that a POA is legitimate and 
that its applying it appropriately. And it did offer a reasonable solution for Mrs H to sort the 
issue out. 
For completeness Mrs H sent us a letter to show that Scottish Widows had written to her 
father at her home address, asking if thats where he currently lives. It's not entirely clear 
why it did that. But as this wasnt part of Mrs Hs original complaint and isn't something that 
Scottish Widows replied to in its complaint response. I haven't looked into that matter further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I'm not going to instruct Scottish Widows to take any further 
action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman