DRN-3288748
The complaint
Mr K complains about Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Banks 
decision to close his current account. 
What happened
In March 2021, Mr K received notice from M&S Bank they would be closing his current 
account on 31 August 2021. They said this was because more customers were using online 
services. 
Mr K was unhappy with this as he managed his account entirely online  so he didnt think 
M&S Bank were being honest about their decision to close his account. He complained to 
M&S Bank. 
M&S Bank responded to Mr Ks complaint. They said while they were sorry for any 
inconvenience caused, they were entitled to decide to close his account. 
Mr K referred his complaint to our service. Our Investigator said we couldnt look into 
whether M&S Bank were telling the truth about their reasons for closing these accounts. But 
he was otherwise satisfied that they acted in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account and hadnt treated Mr K unfairly. 
Mr K didnt agree. He said he felt we could look into whether M&S Bank were being honest 
or not. He still felt compensation was due as, he says, they werent being honest and didnt 
have a genuine reason for deciding to close his account. 
As Mr K didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
M&S Bank decided to close all current accounts in 2021 because, they said, more 
customers were using online services and they intended to focus on the other financial 
products they offered. Mr K doesnt think this is the truth. 
  
The Financial Ombudsman Service wouldnt usually interfere in a legitimate business 
decision. Its up to M&S Bank to decide what services they want to offer customers and why. 
So Ive considered whether M&S Bank have treated Mr K fairly, taking into account all the 
circumstances. 
Under the terms and conditions of Mr Ks account, M&S Bank were entitled to close Mr Ks 
account by giving him 60 days notice. But they gave him more than 60 days notice. And 
they werent obliged to give him a reason at all  so I dont think the reason theyve given 
makes any difference to the outcome of Mr Ks complaint. 
Mr K doesnt think the terms were clear enough that M&S Bank could close his account for 
any reason, he had interpreted this to mean the account could only be closed if the bank 
stopped trading. But having reviewed the terms relating to closing accounts, Ive seen 
nothing to suggest these would only apply if the bank stopped trading. 
Mr K was also unhappy that M&S Bank offered no help in switching his account elsewhere 
and sent increasingly threatening letters as the closure date got closer. Ive reviewed the 
letters M&S Bank sent Mr K. Having done so, I dont agree that the tone of these letters was 
threatening or otherwise inappropriate. Although the reminder did warn that time to switch 
was running out  which was true - so I dont think it was unreasonable for M&S Bank to 
highlight this. And the letters explained what Mr Ks options were and what he needed to do 
to move his account elsewhere if he wanted to  which is what Id expect in these 
circumstances. 
As I find Mr K hasnt been treated unfairly by M&S Bank it follows that I dont agree that 
compensation is warranted as he says. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman