DRN-4347026
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy about the repair AXA Insurance UK Plc carried out as part of a claim he 
made under his landlord insurance policy.
What happened
Ill summarise the main points about this dispute:
Mr S got in touch with AXA about a leaking underground pipe. It arranged for a 
drainage company, D, to deal with the claim.
D accepted the pipe had been damaged by tree roots and was covered by the policy. 
It agreed to re-route the pipe to resolve the problem. However, when it returned to do 
this, D instead carried out a repair by replacing the leaking section of pipe.
Mr S queried why D had changed its approach and not told him about it before 
carrying out the work. D said it had initially thought a repair wasnt feasible because 
of difficulty accessing the pipe. But when it started work, it was able to carry out the 
repair. It also said the age and material of the pipework meant it was likely more 
leaks would occur due to wear and tear and it recommended Mr S replace it.
Mr S said this didnt match what he was told by D initially. He doesnt recall it saying 
there was any problem with access  he recalls it saying a re-route was required to 
resolve the problem properly, given the nearby tree may cause further damage. He 
was concerned the work D had carried out hadnt fully resolved the problem.
AXA accepted D should have been clearer about the work it was going to carry out. It 
offered £125 compensation. But it thought the repair had resolved the leak, so it 
didnt agree to carry out any other work.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He wasnt satisfied AXA 
had carried out a lasting and effective repair as it accepted a risk of further damage 
remained unless the pipe was re-routed, given the nearby tree.
AXA didnt think this was fair. It thought the repair it had carried out had provided a 
lasting and effective repair to the leak. Whilst it had noted the potential for further 
problems, it didnt think it was required to carry out preventative measures  which it 
thought a re-route of the pipe would amount to.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision in which I said:
The policy covers accidental damage to underground drains and pipes. AXA has 
accepted the leak was caused in this way.
The policy says AXA may repair, reinstate or replace the damaged property. And 
permanent repairs made by its suppliers are guaranteed.
This means AXA has the choice about how to put the damage right. However, its a 
general fair and reasonable principle that any repair carried out should be lasting and 
effective. So it should properly resolve the damage for a reasonable period of time.
In the context of this claim, AXA carried out a repair by replacing a section of pipe. I 
understand thats stopped the leak and the pipe is free flowing around the repair. So, 
as it stands, the repair appears to be lasting and effective.
Ds report says it suggested re-routing the pipe due to lack of space but also to 
reduce the risk of future leaks due to large roots and repair may fail due to the 
location of the tree. I think this shows the re-route was motivated by access as well 
as the tree. And Ds suggestion to re-route the pipe was in part because of the 
possibility the tree could cause further leaks in the future.
AXA isnt required to ensure no further leaks are likely throughout the pipework. In 
my view that would go beyond an effective and lasting repair of the damage and 
would amount to preventative measures. I wouldnt expect AXA to do that.
If there comes a point in the future where theres a further leak from or related to the 
section of the pipe that AXA repaired, Mr S is welcome to get in touch with AXA 
about it. I would expect it to bear in mind its policy guarantees its work. And the wider 
fair and reasonable principle to carry out a lasting and effective repair. Depending on 
the circumstances, AXA should consider whether theres more for it to do.
As it stands, I dont think theres more for AXA to do. Im satisfied its carried out a 
lasting and effective repair, based on the currently available evidence.
AXA accepted D should have been clearer about the work it was going to carry out 
and it should have explained why it didnt re-route the pipe. I agree  it told Mr S it 
was going to do one thing and then did another. That caused him avoidable distress 
and naturally gave him less confidence in D. Im satisfied £125 compensation is a 
reasonable remedy to that, so I dont think AXA needs to do anything further.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr S said that because the pipe had suffered leaks previously, he explained to AXA 
that he wanted to have the pipework replaced or re-routed to avoid further problems. 
D agreed to re-route the pipework and thats why he paid his excess. 
However, D changed its approach without telling him, and carried out a repair. Thats 
left him in a position where he would still like to have the pipework replaced or re-
routed  so he doesnt think hes received any benefit from paying an excess. He 
said if hed known D was only going to carry out a repair, he wouldnt have agreed to 
it or paid his excess  he would have the pipework replaced or re-routed.
That information was shared with AXA. It agreed to refund the excess if Mr S has the 
pipework replaced or re-routed within six months.
Mr S also shared information from a drainage company, G, that he thought supported 
his position. And he said D refused to offer a guarantee.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I remain satisfied AXA has met 
its policy terms and acted fairly in relation to the pipe damage. Ill explain why.
The policy covers certain damage to the pipework and, in summary, offers to put that 
damage right. It should do so in a lasting and effective way. I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest AXA has failed to achieve that.
Whilst G has quoted to replace the pipework, it hasnt offered a professional opinion 
to explain why that work is necessary in order to achieve a lasting and effective 
repair of the pipe damage and/or why AXAs repair wont produce a lasting and 
effective repair of that damage.
So, although I can understand why Mr S may wish to have the more comprehensive 
work carried out, its not covered by the policy and hasnt been shown to be required 
to put right the damage in a lasting and effective way.
Although D itself may not provide a guarantee, AXAs policy  which is the contract of 
insurance  says it guarantees the work. So AXA is required to do so. And it would 
be unfair if its repair wasnt lasting and effective. So if a problem were to arise which 
showed the repair wasnt lasting and effective, Id expect AXA to take steps to put 
that right anyway.
Theres no dispute that AXA, through D, failed to communicate clearly with Mr S 
about the work it was going to carry out. That was unfair and I can understand why 
thats caused him distress and frustration. I remain satisfied that £125 is reasonable 
compensation for that.
Its also clear to me that if Mr S had known AXA would carry out a repair only, he 
wouldnt have proceeded with the claim. He would have turned to G to have the 
pipework replaced. That would have meant he wouldnt have paid his excess to AXA 
 he would have put it towards the cost of Gs work.
As a result, I think AXAs agreement to reimburse the excess if Mr G has the work 
carried out within six months of the date of this final decision is fair. It means that if 
he pays for the work, he wont lose out on his excess due to Ds poor communication. 
But if he doesnt pay for the work, hes received a claim settlement under the policy 
and so its fair hes paid an excess for it.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman