DRN-3184819
The complaint
Mr M complains about the suitability of the advice he received from Towergate Financial 
(East) Limited (Towergate) to transfer the benefits of his defined benefit Occupational 
Pension Scheme (OPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP). He says his ex-wife followed the 
same transfer process as himself and has since been offered redress  so he thinks he 
should have been offered a settlement as well.
What happened
Mr M held deferred benefits in an OPS. The OPS made an offer to its members to transfer 
their benefits from the scheme to another pension with an enhanced transfer value  which 
in Mr Ms case was around an additional 131% of the current transfer value. Mr M responded 
to the offer by asking the advisory firm involved (now Towergate) to contact him for financial 
advice. The advice fee was paid for by the employer.
Mr M met with Towergate on 25 October 2007 and completed a fact find. It was noted that 
he was a self-employed plasterer but had deferred benefits within the OPS from March 1999 
to January 2007. The enhancement offered by the OPS meant that instead of a transfer 
value of £12,439 Mr M would receive £28,826, which gave him an additional taxable lump 
sum of £16,387. Towergate issued a suitability report after it had carried out its analysis 
following the meeting. It said it wouldnt recommend a transfer of the OPS to a PPP because 
the growth required for a transfer to be in Mr Ms best interests was greater than it thought 
was achievable. 
But Mr M told Towergate that, in order to repay some debts, he wanted the additional 
enhanced taxable lump sum from the OPS and to transfer the residual fund value to a PPP.  
Towergate said it would only facilitate the transfer to new PPP, invested into medium risk 
funds, if it treated Mr M as an insistent client. The transfer completed in late 2007. 
In May 2020 Towergate was undertaking a review of past pension transfers at the regulators 
request and it contacted Mr M with regards to his 2007 advice. It asked him to complete a 
questionnaire. Following this Towergate wrote to Mr M and concluded that we identified a 
number of areas on your file where the advice process could have been improved upon, but 
we are satisfied that these points did not negatively impact upon your decision to transfer. 
But the following month Mr M complained about the original advice hed been given. He said 
the interview process at the time had been rushed with little prior notice of a meeting. He 
said his interview took place alongside his wife (at the time) and didnt allow them to seek 
impartial advice. He now understood that his (now) ex-wife received a redress settlement 
because of the advice she was given and therefore believed he should be treated equally  
as their interview and transfer process had been carried together - and be offered 
compensation. 
But Towergate didnt uphold his complaint as it said it told Mr M not to transfer his benefits 
and he knowingly acted against its advice  with a robust and compelling reason to do so. It 
did accept that it could have been clearer in explaining that retirement from the scheme at 
age 60 would have been on the same terms as at age 65, but was satisfied that, whatever 
further information it would have provided, Mr M would have transferred his benefits 
regardless.
Mr M remained unhappy with that outcome, so he brought his complaint to us. Initially 
Towergate told us that it thought Mr Ms complaint had been brought outside of the time 
limits allowed, but it subsequently accepted our view that it hadnt been brought out of time 
and could be considered. So, one of our investigators looked into the whether the advice had 
been suitable. He thought Mr Ms complaint shouldnt be upheld and made the following 
points in support of his findings:
The suitability reports sent to Mr M recommended that he didnt transfer the OPS 
benefits.
Towergate did set out the options available to Mr M and gave risk warnings to that 
effect. 
Towergate carried out an analysis to calculate the critical yield needed by a PPP to 
match the OPS benefits. The investigator agreed that the critical yield wasnt likely to 
be achievable based on Mr Ms attitude to risk (ATR).
He thought Towergate had acted fairly and in accordance with the regulatory COBS 
rules when providing its advice, and only went ahead with the transaction when it 
was satisfied Mr M could be treated as an insistent client. 
He thought Towergate followed the insistent client process.
He thought that Mr Ms reasons for transferring  namely receiving an enhanced 
lump sum and paying off his debts were not unreasonable in the circumstances.
But while Mr Ms reasons for transferring werent unreasonable, they were against 
Towergates recommendation  so the transfer was processed on an insistent client 
basis. He thought therefore that Towergate had acted reasonably and treated Mr M 
fairly.  
Mr M wasnt happy with the assessment. He said that other similar complaints had been 
upheld by our service and thought he should have achieved the same outcome. He believed 
he only had one meeting with Towergate, that the process was rushed and that he didnt 
send the insistent client emails. The investigator explained that all complaints are dealt with 
on their own merits and that, with regards to the emails and meetings, hed drawn his 
conclusions on the basis of the evidence hed been provided with. 
The PPP statement from November 2020 showed a fund value of £21,81.08 invested across 
a balanced portfolio of funds. 
But as Mr M still didnt agree the complaint was passed to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I know 
this outcome will disappoint Mr M and I have some sympathy for his position here, but I dont 
think Towergate has acted unfairly so Ill explain my reasons. 
Mr M says he only ever attended one meeting with Towergate which was carried out jointly 
with his ex-wife. He says the whole process was rushed and they werent given any prior 
notice of what the impact of the process might be. While Towergate says it carefully went 
through an insistent client process when Mr M made it clear that he wanted to transfer 
against its initial recommendation. It says Mr M attended two meetings and there was further communication between the meetings which confirmed the ongoing process. So, as theres 
no agreement here between the two parties about what took place, Ive set out a timeline of 
events to show how the transfer process unfolded  based on the evidence Ive been 
provided with.
The timeline of events regarding meetings and advice
Initially Mr M completed a response return card from deferred member which he sent to his 
OPS asking to be contacted for advice about a possible pension transfer. Thereafter the 
following steps were taken to complete the process.
-18 October- Towergate wrote to Mr M to confirm a forthcoming appointment on 
25 October 2007 regarding his OPS benefits. 
-25 October 2007- a fact find was completed by Towergate about Mr Ms situation and 
circumstances. Certified identity and address verification was collected at this meeting.
-30 November 2007- Towergate issued a suitability report which recommended that Mr M 
didnt transfer out of the OPS. 
-4 December 2007- Mr M sent an email to Towergate expressing his desire to go ahead with 
his initial decision of taking the enhanced lump sum and transferring the residual fund 
value into a PPP.  
-7 December 2007- Towergate sent Mr M a further letter to confirm a second (rescheduled) 
appointment on 13 December 2007. The letter referenced bringing any relevant documents 
highlighted at the previous meeting. 
-12 December 2007- Mr M sent a further email to Towergate stating that he wanted to go 
against Towergates recommendation and be treated as an insistent client.  
-12 December 2007- Towergate issued another suitability report setting out its reasons for 
advising against the transfer but then confirming the course of action Mr M wanted to take. 
- 13 December 2007- At the second meeting the relevant paperwork, including application 
forms for the transfer and new PPP, were signed along with the insistent client 
documentation. 
So having established the timeline Ive begun by considering whether this process did fit with 
what was required for Mr M to be defined as an insistent client. 
The insistent client position
Having explained to Mr M that it recommended that he didnt transfer his pension, Towergate 
decided to treat him as an insistent client following his emails of 4 and 12 December 
2007.So Ive carefully considered the guidance that the regulator has set out for businesses 
when dealing with an insistent client, to determine if Towergate acted fairly and correctly. 
This guidance can be found at COBS 9.5A. 
To be defined as an insistent client Mr M needed to:
Have received a personal recommendation from Towergate.Want to enter into a transaction that was different from that recommended by 
Towergate.
Want Towergate to facilitate that transaction. 
In this case I think that definition fitted Mr G. He had received a personal recommendation 
from Towergate which was quite specific in saying This report provides recommendations 
taking into account the personal information that you have provided to us and confirms the 
advice given at the meeting, which was that we recommend that you should NOT transfer 
out of the scheme of which you are a member.
So in its first suitability report Towergate was clear in its recommendation. But Mr M wanted 
to enter into a transaction that was different to the one set out by Towergate as evidence by 
the email he send on 4 December 2007 which said, as advised I am writing to confirm that 
after receiving your reports and taking on board you (sic) ideas, I am still wanting to go 
ahead with my initial decision. Which is to take the cash lump sum and invest the remainder 
of my pension as advised with (provider x).
This was followed by another email dated 12 December 2007 which said as per your 
telephone message. I am writing to confirm as an insistent client I will be going against the 
advise (sic) given by M2 financial (now part of Towergate). As discussed in prior meetings I 
wish to take advantage of the cash lump sum and transfer my remaining pension to (provider 
X).
Mr M had received a recommendation but then wanted Towergate to facilitate something 
different in that he wanted to take the enhanced lump sum as previously offered and transfer 
the residual pension fund. So I think this satisfied the definition of an insistent client. I know 
Mr M says he doesnt recall sending the insistent client emails to Towergate, but the 
evidence Ive seen, which seems to suggest they were sent from his wifes email account but 
were signed by Mr M, doesnt support Mr Ms claim that he didnt send them. 
So in order to proceed in line with the above definition, Towergate had to communicate with 
Mr M:
In terms that were clear and not misleading.
To ensure he was able to understand the process.
To demonstrate it hadnt recommended the transaction and that it wasnt in 
agreement with the recommendation.
The reasons why it disagreed with the recommendation.
The risks of Mr Ms proposed actions.
The reasons why it didnt recommend the transaction. 
On balance I think Towergate did meet these objectives and so I think it followed the correct 
course in dealing with Mr M as an insistent client. And to support that conclusion Ive looked 
carefully at the suitability reports, with cover letters, that Towergate provided.
The suitability report from 25 November 2007 said, In the event that you decide to act 
against our advice not to transfer and decide to transfer into an alternative registered 
pension scheme, m2 have selected provider x as the default personal pension provider for 
both illustrative comparisons within this suitability letter and our recommended receiving 
plan. 
And following Mr Ms insistent emails Towergate provided a second suitability report dated
12 December 2007 which said, Further to the recent Suitability Report which we sent you 
confirming our advice NOT to transfer out of the final salary pension scheme of which you are a member, I am writing to confirm receipt of your subsequent letter, in which you are 
insisting that you wish to transfer out against our advice. While we would stand by our 
original advice NOT to transfer, as it is your wish to transfer out we are able to arrange a 
scheme into which you can transfer, given your insistent nature, on your behalf.
We will need a signed and dated letter from you, identifying why you have chosen to 
pursue this option, confirming it is against the advice of m2. If you decide to pursue this 
route, we will also need a copy of the signed declaration which follows this page for our
files. Please return this with your Insistent Client Letter.m2 will then offer you the 
opportunity of a second meeting so that we can explain in more detail our rationale not to 
transfer before acting on your instructions to aid you with the options available and complete 
the application process as necessary.
So I think this was clear and not misleading and should have allowed Mr M to fully 
understand the process involved  which I think he did as he sent the insistent client emails 
between the meetings with Towergate, which would suggest he was aware that he would 
only be able to get the enhancement and transfer if he was insistent. 
And I think the report also demonstrated that Towergate hadnt recommended the transfer 
and didnt agree with the decision to go ahead  although I think it did accept why Mr M 
might take that course of action. Towergate also said it would discuss with Mr M at the last 
meeting the rationale behind its recommendation and Im satisfied there were numerous 
warnings within the report regarding the risks of Mr Ms actions. The main page of risk 
warnings were generally generic although they were relevant to Mr Ms situation, but within 
the report Towergate also referenced the critical yield required, the security of the OPS, the 
possible advantages of death benefits in retirement from the OPS, and Mr Ms ATR as being 
risks that a transfer might not be in his best interests.  
So, overall Im satisfied that Mr M met the regulators broad definition of an insistent client, 
and that Towergate then treated him fairly in that regard following the steps the regulator 
said it had to take to ensure Mr M was aware that he was being treated as insistent and 
what this meant for him  as well as clearly setting out its own rationale for disagreeing with 
Mr Ms decision. 
Ive also considered a number of other factors which it could be argued that, if they came 
into play, might have suggested that Towergate had treated the insistent client process as a 
papering exercise and didnt reflect what actually happened. These were factors such as 
whether the payment for the advice was contingent on the sale going ahead, whether the 
insistent client forms were signed during the final presentation meeting, and whether 
Mr M used his own words to explain why he wanted to go against Towergates 
recommendation and transfer his pension. I also considered whether Mr M had approached 
Towergate for advice or whether it approached Mr M. 
Looking at those factors, Im satisfied there were no additional pressures at work here and 
that Towergate was simply tasked with providing Mr M with advice  as the firm 
recommended by the employer - as to whether it was in his interests to accept an enhanced 
lump sum from the OPS and to transfer the rest of the fund to a new plan. Theres no 
evidence to support any suggestion that Towergate treated Mr M unfairly during its advice 
process.
But even if I am wrong in my supposition and Towergate didnt follow that guidance, I might 
still conclude that Mr M truly insisted on a particular transaction knowing the potential 
consequences. And I have concluded that Mr M, not unreasonably in my view, wanted to 
benefit from a taxable lump sum of over £16,000  which wasnt otherwise available from his pension. Therefore I think, on balance, he would have taken that course of action regardless 
of Towergates recommendation.  
But I also need to consider the suitability of the advice Towergate gave here to ensure its 
recommendation was actually in Mr Ms best interests.   
The suitability of the advice
Towergate has said that its recommendation was always for Mr M not to transfer his OPS 
benefits. It says that, at age 65, a critical yield of 6.6% was required to match the OPS 
benefits and it thought this was probably unachievable given Mr Ms ATR. It also said that, 
while it should have explained more clearly that the OPS benefits werent reduced by taking 
benefits at age 60, it was even more unlikely that the required critical yield of 8% would be 
achieved at that age. 
So Ive looked carefully at Towergates advice and Ive concluded that it wasnt unsuitable at 
the time. The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service 
was publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't 
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they 
provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably 
achievable when the advice was given in this case. 
The investment return (critical yield) required to match the occupational pension at 
retirement of 65 was quoted as 6.6% per year. This compares with the discount rate of 6.7% 
per year for the 29 years to Mr Ms retirement in this case. But that would have been 
required simply to match the benefits and I dont think its unreasonable to say that an extra 
few tenths of a percentage on top of the critical yield would have been the minimum required 
to exceed the benefits. 
But even if it could be argued that the critical yield required would have been close enough 
to consider the transfer, I think it would have required investment performance that was 
probably more than could have been expected for Mr Ms medium ATR. Of course, I 
couldnt discount the possibility that such performance could have been achieved 
consistently over such a relatively long investment horizon. But Ive taken into account the 
regulators position that,  when a firm is making a personal recommendation for a retail 
client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a pension scheme with safeguarded benefits 
and who is considering whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by 
assuming that a transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. 
And in consideration of my analysis above, I think its reasonable for Towergate to have 
reached the conclusion that it couldnt clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that 
the transfer was in (Mr Ms) best interests. I accept that Towergate could have been clearer 
in making Mr M aware that he would have been in the same position with his OPS benefits 
by retiring at age 60 instead of 65. Towergate has acknowledged its failings in that area of its 
report. But the critical yield required to match the OPS benefits at age 60 was 8% which was 
more unlikely to be achieved over a shorter investment horizon. So, even if Towergate had 
been clearer here the evidence would still support the suitability of its recommendation not to 
transfer. 
Mr M has said that if hed been made fully aware of this information then he may have acted 
differently  but its unclear to me what actions he would have taken differently as 
Towergates recommendation would still have been the same and Mr Ms only other course 
of action would have been to accept its advice and not to transfer  which is the at the very 
root of his complaint. Mr M has suggested that the process he went through was rushed and that he only actually 
attended one meeting. He also said that meeting was held with his ex-wife in attendance, 
who took the same course of action as him but who has now received compensation from 
Towergate for its advice to her. But I havent seen anything to support Mr Ms claim here and 
the evidence I have seen shows that two meetings were arranged and suitability reports and 
further communication followed each meeting. Indeed, Towergate was only able to follow the 
insistent client process by making a recommendation in its first meeting which it was then 
able to change following Mr Ms insistent client emails. So I cant agree that only one 
meeting took place or that Mr M was rushed through the process. 
I can understand Mr Ms frustration at his ex-wife receiving compensation for what he 
believes is a similar situation. But as the investigator explained each complaint or situation is 
looked at taking into account its particular circumstances. Two cases that can appear similar 
may get different outcomes due to the particular circumstances which would need to be 
considered in each case. Here Towergate decided that Mr Ms ex-wifes situation dictated a 
different outcome, and as she didnt bring her case to us as a complaint theres nothing 
further for us to consider.  Simply because Mr M believes he should be compensated along 
the same lines as his ex-wife doesnt mean thats the correct outcome in both cases.
Summary
Im satisfied that Towergate did follow the insistent client process in this case and treated 
Mr M fairly and reasonably. I think it went through the process correctly, setting out its 
recommendation and clearly setting out the risks and implications for Mr M of not following 
the advice.
But ultimately Mr M was offered an additional lump sum which was far greater than the 
actual original transfer value, so I think its entirely reasonable for him to have been 
influenced by the extra lump sum available and to decide that it was of greater value to him 
at that time than as a (slightly) higher income in retirement. I think regardless of what advice 
Towergate did give Mr M ,it was more likely than not that he would have taken the 
enhancement and transferred the residual fund into a new PPP in any case.  
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman