DRN-1382989
 
Complaint
Mrs S complains that Lloyds Bank plc cancelled her credit card without informing her.
Background
Mrs S had a credit card account with Lloyds. She says that she wanted to use the card to 
book a holiday but the card was declined. As a result she had to use a debit card to make 
the payment.
When she asked Lloyds Bank about this, it told her that the card had been cancelled two 
years earlier under the Banks use it or lose it project. She said she was never contacted to 
advise her of this and she asked Lloyds to reinstate the card. She also said that Lloyds 
should give her the same protection on the payment that shed made using her debit card as 
she wouldve had if shed used her credit card.
Lloyds refused to do this. So, Mrs S complained to Lloyds about what had happened. It said 
its records showed the account had been closed some two years earlier. It said its policy 
was to close accounts that werent being used. Mrs S hadnt used her account and that was 
why it had been closed. But because of the passage of time Lloyds said that it couldnt 
provide her with a copy of the letter itd sent her. Lloyds offered to pay her £75 compensation 
because of what happened.
Mrs S wasnt satisfied with this response and so she complained to our service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint. He said that although Lloyds hadnt been able to 
provide a copy of the letter advising her that the account would be closed it had provided 
evidence that it was closed under its use it or lose it project. So, he didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
Mrs S disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S had a credit card account. This meant that Lloyds had provided her with a credit limit, 
allowing her to use the card to pay for items and then pay off the balance at a later date. So, 
I wouldve expected Lloyds to regularly review the account to satisfy itself that the credit limit 
was still appropriate. 
Mrs S has mentioned that it wouldve been strange for Lloyds to close her account just a few 
months after itd sent her a replacement credit card which still hadnt expired when she tried 
to make the payment.
I can understand why Mrs S wouldnt have expected the account to be closed so soon after 
a replacement card was issued. But, I can see it was over two and a half years after the replacement card was issued before she first tried to use it. And, even though Lloyds had 
sent a replacement card, it is the case that she hadnt used the card or the credit limit on the 
card for some time before the account was closed.
Lloyds decided to close the account because Mrs S hadnt been using it. I think that, in 
circumstances where the account hadnt been used for some time, Lloyds acted fairly and 
reasonably when it made its decision to close the account.
The terms and conditions for the account state that Lloyds can end the agreement and close 
the account provided it gives two months notice. Mrs S says that she didnt receive any 
notice from Lloyds to inform her that the account would be closed. And, it is the case that 
Lloyds hasnt been able to provide a copy of the letter that it says it sent to her. It says this is 
because it's purged its records.
In cases, where an original document cant be provided, it's sometimes necessary to look at 
other information to see if that supports an argument that the original document existed. In 
this case, Lloyds has provided a copy of its records which state the date the account was 
closed and the reason for closure  which was its use it or lose it project. Its also provided 
the letter template it used at that time to write to customers. 
Ive looked at the letter template and I can see that it indicates that action is required within 
two months if the customer wants to keep the account open. 
So, having considered the evidence Lloyds has provided, Im satisfied, on balance, that the 
account was closed under the use it or lose it project and Lloyds wouldve sent a letter, 
providing two months notice that the account would be closed if no action was taken.
This doesnt mean Mrs S received the notice. She says that she didnt receive it. But, I can 
see that Lloyds held the correct address for her on its systems and, on  balance, Im satisfied 
that Lloyds did send the notice to her at the address on its records, which is what it was 
required to do under its terms and conditions. 
Ive also considered what Mrs S has said about Lloyds' refusal to reinstate her credit card 
account or to give her the same protections for the payment as she wouldve had if shed 
been able to use her credit card. I can understand that Mrs S wouldve been embarrassed 
when the credit card didnt work. But, she still chose to proceed with the payment using a 
debit card and so I dont think Lloyds was acting unfairly when it didnt agree to her requests.
Having considered everything here I think that the offer of £75 compensation is fair and 
reasonable for what happened and I dont require Lloyds to do anything more.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman