DRN-4504989
The complaint
M, a limited company, complains about delays in arranging a commercial mortgage, which it 
says meant that AIB Group (UK) Plc ended up lending at a higher interest rate than it should 
have done.
What happened
M is a limited company which has a commercial mortgage with AIB. M meets the micro-
enterprise test and is therefore an eligible complainant under our rules.
M took out its first loan in 2017  the loan was agreed in December 2016, with funds drawn 
down a few months later. The loan was for five and a half years to fund the development of 
Ms business. After the first six months, the loan moved on to a fixed interest rate for the 
remaining five years. The fixed rate was described in the loan agreement as 3.75% above 
the fixed cost of funds rate  the fixed cost of funds rate being set on the date the funds 
were drawn down.
The loan was due to come to an end in November 2022 and would need to be repaid or 
re-financed at that point. On 15 August 2022, concerned about rising interest rates, one of 
Ms directors  who Ill call Mrs P  contacted AIB to ask about ending the existing fixed rate 
and re-financing early.
M says it didnt get a proper response to this request. In early September it was contacted by 
AIB to discuss the upcoming end of the loan. Mrs P says she was concerned to be told that 
re-financing would require a full new application rather than a brief review, as she said shed 
been led to believe at the time of the first application in late 2016. She also complains that 
she still hadnt been given the break cost figure to enable M to decide whether it would be 
better to take a new fixed rate immediately or wait until November.
AIB told Mrs P that M could break the fixed rate immediately and go on to a variable rate. Or 
it could apply for a new fixed rate to take effect on a new loan agreement from November. A 
new fixed rate was likely to be around 7.75% - 3.75% above the 4% cost of funds.
On 21 September AIB offered to reduce the 3.75% margin to 3.35% - this was because it 
accepted it had delayed by around two weeks in responding to Ms initial request in August, 
and it said this would reduce the fixed rate M could now obtain to what it would have been 
able to obtain in August. But the actual interest rate to be paid could not be determined until 
an application had been completed, as that would determine the cost of funds available on 
that day. The fixed rate was booked on 27 September, which meant the interest rate on the 
loan was 8.611% - cost of funds of 5.261% plus the reduced margin of 3.35%.
AIB didnt think it had acted unfairly. It had offered to reduce the margin to reflect that there 
was some delay in responding to Ms initial contact  this covered the increase in the cost of 
funds M would have had to pay because of the delay. But it said that a full new application 
was required to re-finance the loan after November 2022, and the actual interest rate could 
only be determined on the day the fixed rate was booked. That was 27 September 2022  
and the reduction in the margin covered the increase in cost of funds compared to what 
could have been obtained had it been booked sooner.
M complained to us. It said a ten year facility had been agreed in 2016  so all that should 
have been changed in 2022 was the five year fixed rate. It said that had AIB responded to its 
request in August, it would have been able to secure a rate of around 7.25%
Our investigator thought that AIB had delayed in implementing the new fixed rate, at a time 
of rising interest rates. He said it had taken AIB around two weeks to get to the point of 
booking a new rate from the time it started the process in mid-September. If AIB had started 
arranging the new loan when Mrs P first contacted it in mid-August, M would have been able 
to book a new rate around 29 August. So AIB should amend the loan as if M had booked a 
rate on 29 August not 27 September, using the cost of funds rate available on that date. He 
said that AIB should confirm whether the 0.4% discount it had already offered was sufficient 
to achieve that. And he said AIB should pay M £150 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused.
AIB didnt accept that. It said it didnt agree that M would have been able to book a rate 
before 27 September. It said that M hadnt decided to go ahead with a new loan application 
on 15 August, it was just looking for information about its options. It accepted that it had 
delayed in responding to Mrs Ps questions. But it said that once it had understood that it 
had treated the application as a priority and fast-tracked it, so that it completed in much less 
time than would usually have been the case. Had nothing gone wrong, M would still have 
secured a rate around the end of September, so it wouldnt be fair to require AIB to offer a 
rate that was available in August.
Having looked at all the evidence I took a different view. So I issued a provisional decision 
setting out my thoughts to allow the parties a further chance for comment.
My provisional decision
I said:
Ive thought carefully about everything thats happened here. Both parties have 
provided detailed evidence about the timescale of events from their point of view.
While theres disagreement about the details, the bigger picture is not in dispute. 
Mrs P, on behalf of M, first contacted AIB to ask about the cost of breaking the 
existing fixed rate on 15 August but AIB didnt carry out the calculations or give Mrs P 
the information shed asked for.
Separate to Mrs Ps request, AIB got in touch with M on 7 September to discuss the 
upcoming end of the loan and the possibility of re-financing. This was a scheduled 
contact ahead of the end of the loan term and wasnt in response to Mrs Ps contact 
in August.
Incidentally, I dont think Mrs P is right that this was or was intended to be a ten year 
loan. The loan agreement from December 2016 is clear that the loan is over a five 
year term. Mrs P has referred to a letter offering a loan which says loan repayments 
have been calculated over a 10 year term with a 5 year review on same as per your 
facility letter but this letter is dated 3 December 2015, not 2016. Its not clear 
whether thats a drafting error and it should be dated 2016, or whether its a record of 
an earlier discussion pre-dating this loan. As the interest rate in the letter is also 
different to the interest rate in the loan agreement, that suggests its related to earlier 
discussions about a different loan. But in any case, even if the letter is about this loan 
and the date is an error, the agreement is set out in the facility letter (loan agreement) not the letter. And the loan agreement is clear that the loan is over a five 
and a half year term.
That means that the application in 2022 wasnt a simple interest rate switch. It was a 
new application for a new loan to replace the existing one. That included a new 
valuation and new underwriting checks.
In August, M hadnt decided what to do. The initial contact was about the cost of 
breaking the existing fixed rate, which ran until November. At this point, the options 
open to M included continuing with the existing fixed rate but applying for a new loan 
to follow on, continuing with the existing fixed rate while looking to re-finance with 
another lender, or breaking the existing fixed rate and moving on to a variable rate for 
the remainder of the term until November  after which the same options about the 
future would apply. If M decided to apply for a new loan with AIB from November, it 
could take a fixed rate or a variable rate.
What should have happened was that AIB explained this to M in August. That didnt 
happen. It was only following the contact on 7 September that things started to move. 
M decided not to break the existing fixed rate and move on to a variable rate for the 
rest of the term because the variable rate wasnt lower than the existing fixed rate.
The application for the new loan from November than began to move ahead. Mrs P 
says that a valuation was a waste of time because the property had increased in 
value, and the loan amount reduced, since 2016. That may well be true. But that 
doesnt mean it was unnecessary or unreasonable for AIB to carry out a valuation. 
Its standard for new lending  which this was  and enables AIB to confirm that there 
are no issues with the property which have arisen in the meantime and that it meets 
AIBs current lending criteria. Id always expect a bank to require a valuation in 
situations like this.
The application then proceeded, and an offer was issued on 21 September. M signed 
and returned it and booked a new interest rate on 27 September.
The interest rate for this loan, like the earlier 2016 loan, is a fixed rate and based on 
two elements. Theres the cost of funds rate, and a margin. The cost of funds rate 
changes all the time, and reflects the cost to AIB of raising the money it lends to M. 
These costs are not directly linked to Bank of England base rate, but reflect changes 
in the money markets. The margin is the fixed amount above the cost of funds rate 
that AIB charges  this represents the amount it needs to charge above the cost of 
raising the funds to cover matters such as its operating costs, risk, and reasonable 
profit.
The margin is set out in the loan facility letter. The cost of funds rate is set on the 
date the interest rate is booked and the funds to lend allocated.
M booked the new interest rate on 27 September, when the cost of funds rate was 
5.261%. Ms complaint is essentially that this rate was increasing throughout August 
and September, and so if AIB hadnt delayed in responding to the initial enquiry in 
August, M could have booked a rate in late August or early September, substantially 
reducing the rate it would have to pay over the term of the new loan from November.
Ive thought carefully about this. But Im not persuaded, on balance, that M would 
have been in a position to have booked a rate much sooner than it did.
In the first place, M hadnt decided to take out a new loan from November at the time of the first contact in August. Mrs P says that even in early September it was looking 
at other alternatives to see if it could get a better rate elsewhere.
Secondly, even if M had decided to apply for a new loan in August, I dont think the 
process would have happened much more quickly. When Mrs P complained in early 
September about the failure to provide the break cost as requested, AIB recognised it 
had made a mistake and it expedited the new loan application. It ensured it was 
passed to the relevant people internally more quickly, and also took other steps to 
speed things up  such as arranging a valuation alongside the underwriting rather 
than afterwards as would usually be the case. The result was that a loan application 
that would usually take around six weeks took from 9 September to the issue of an 
offer on 21 September.
In other words, if AIB had started the process in mid-August and processed it within 
its usual timescales, the offer would have been issued in late September, allowing M 
to book a rate at the end of September. By expediting the process because of the 
delay at the start, AIB ensured that M was in the same position, with the offer and 
rate booking happening around the same time as they would have done without the 
initial delay. In addition, AIB also reduced its margin from 3.75% to 3.35% - reducing 
the overall interest rate by 0.4%. I think this fairly compensates M for the delay in 
getting the process started. I dont think it would be fair to require AIB to give M a 
cost of funds rate that was available in late August, as that would never have been 
possible even if nothing had gone wrong from the start.
The external context in which this application happened is that, because of events in 
the wider economy, this was a time of rising interest rates. AIB isnt to blame for that. 
But it explains why Mrs P was so worried about identifying Ms options and securing 
a rate as quickly as possible  and why shes complained that the rate has increased 
because of AIBs delay. As Ive explained, I dont think that is the case  but I can 
see why Mrs P would be worried that it was.
The reality is that I think M was simply unfortunate. It could see that interest rates 
were rising  and so any delay in securing a new rate risked the rate it ended up with 
getting ever higher. So once the facility letter was in place, it booked a rate as soon 
as possible at the end of September. This was understandable given what had 
happened up to that point.
M didnt have to do that. It could have opted for a variable rate  or it could have 
booked a fixed rate later, in October or November. The cost of funds rate peaked in 
late September / early October, so if M had waited we now know, with the benefit of 
hindsight, that it could have secured a lower rate. But it actually booked a rate at the 
top of the market.
That couldnt have been known at the time. But the context of rising rates explains 
the sense of urgency Mrs P felt, and her frustrations at the delay M experienced. 
Ultimately, though, I think AIB put things right in a fair way. It expedited the 
application so that the offer letter was issued around the time it would have been 
without the delay, and it also reduced its margin. The decision to book a rate, and 
when to do so, once the offer letter had been issued was Ms.
Finally, M also complained about the start of the new loan. AIB didnt collect the final 
payment on the old loan, instead adding it to the balance of the new loan. It shouldnt 
have done that without consulting with M  because doing that rather than allowing M 
to make the payment increased the starting balance of the new loan.AIB has put that right by reducing the loan balance by the amount of the interest that 
will be charged on this additional balance over the loan term. This means that M 
wont be charged any extra interest because of the extra borrowing represented by 
the uncollected payment.
M says that the loan repayments are still higher because of this  while thats true, 
because of the reduction in interest they are only higher by the amount of the 
November 2022 payment spread over the term of the new loan. While M will have to 
pay that amount over the term, it didnt have to pay it in November 2022. The amount 
of the November 2022 payment M has saved is the same as the total of the extra 
amounts it will have to pay over the loan term, and so M has not suffered any 
financial loss following the reduction of interest.
The responses to my provisional decision
M didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said that AIB had told it that it would take 
around two weeks to set up a new rate. It referred to an email from an AIB staff member, 
dealing with its initial complaint about failing to make contact in August 2022, which said I 
believe two weeks would have been a reasonable timeframe from initial enquiry [to 
re contract]  It is reasonable to assume we may have been in a position to re-contract on 
30 August. M said that it therefore didnt agree with my assessment that six weeks would 
have been a reasonable timescale  and that the difference had an impact on the outcome 
reached.
AIB said it had nothing to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered what I said in my provisional decision, and Ive considered Ms response 
to see whether it changes my mind. Im afraid it doesnt. I accept AIB sent Mrs P the email 
referred to  I saw it and took it into account in reaching my provisional decision. But Im not 
persuaded that what the email says is correct in light of all the other evidence about what 
was actually required.
In the first place, I dont think that  even if a two week timescale was realistic  it would be 
fair to take the timescale as starting from Ms initial contact to AIB in mid-August. At that 
point M had not decided to re-contract with AIB. Its enquiry was about the possibility of 
breaking the existing fixed rate, not starting a new loan agreement from November. That 
may have been because M mistakenly thought that the loan agreement continued beyond 
November and all that would be required then is a new interest rate not a new loan. But its 
also clear from what M has said that in August it wanted to know about the cost of breaking 
the existing fixed rate so it could consider its options. M wanted to know what the break cost 
would be so it could look at the market and decide whether to ask AIB for a new fixed rate, 
or whether to move the loan to another lender. 
If, then, AIB had answered the initial enquiry promptly in mid-August, it would have told M 
what the break cost was and then M would have gone away and thought about its options, 
including consulting with other lenders. It wouldnt have started the re-contract process with 
AIB there and then. It follows that even if AIB hadnt delayed at this stage the re-contracting 
process would not have started in mid-August and  even under a two week timescale  
would not have finished by 30 August.I also dont think the two week estimate given in the email is actually realistic under normal 
circumstances. In September AIB actually achieved that timescale, but only by expediting 
the process internally and by carrying out the valuation alongside the underwriting process 
rather than afterwards; steps it took to resolve Ms complaint. A normal application would 
have taken more than two weeks. 
Had AIB responded to M in mid-August and provided the break cost as required, I think its 
likely M would have taken some time to consider its options and explore the market, as it 
said it would do. If, having done so, it had decided to remain with AIB I dont think its likely it 
would have made that decision until late August or even early September. If that had 
happened, issuing an offer on 21 September  which is what actually happened  would still 
have been quick. For those reasons, I dont think AIBs failure to respond to Ms initial 
contact resulted in an offer that was issued any later than it would otherwise have been. 
Finally, the setting of the fixed rate is separate to the loan re-contracting process. Once AIB 
agrees to lend and issues a loan offer, the borrower then has the option of selecting a fixed 
or variable rate at any time up to drawdown. The fixed rates available on any given day 
change from time to time. Ive said that I dont think the offer would have been issued any 
sooner even if AIB had responded to M in mid-August. Once the offer was issued, it was 
then up to M to decide when to select the rate it wanted. It was Ms choice to book a rate on 
27 September, when rates were close to their peak. If M had waited, it might have been able 
to secure a lower rate as they fell from mid-October. But even if nothing had gone wrong it 
would never have been able to select a rate before the peak, in early September, as an offer 
would never have been issued by then. 
I do think AIB should have responded to M promptly, with the break costs, when contacted in 
mid-August. But I dont think the failure to do so caused M any financial loss, since the new 
loan would always have been offered around the same time as it actually was. And while the 
delay undoubtedly caused M inconvenience, and its directors found that upsetting and 
frustrating, AIB has reduced the interest rate on the new loan agreement by 0.4% for the 
duration of its term. This will reduce the interest M would otherwise have had to pay over the 
new term, and I think thats fair compensation in all the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because AIB Group (UK) Plc has 
already made a fair and reasonable offer to resolve it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman