DRN-2323337
The complaint
Mr D and Ms D complain that TSB Bank plc made a mistake processing an international 
payment. Mr D and Ms D would like TSB to compensate them for the additional costs they 
incurred.
What happened
In November 2019, Ms D asked TSB to send money to an account that Mr D held overseas. 
TSB said the payment failed because Ms D gave them the wrong details.
Ms D says that when she asked TSB to make the payment, the advisor went in a different 
room. Ms D says she didnt give TSB the wrong details. Ms D is unhappy that the payment 
was returned, and that less money was returned due to a change in exchange rates.
Ms D decided to withdraw money in cash so she could use an alternative business to make 
the payment. The alternative method was more expensive. Ms D and Mr D want TSB to 
compensate them for the short fall and additional fees.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr D and Ms Ds complaint be upheld. He noted that 
Ms D had previously made an international money transfer to the same account. And that 
additional information was required at that time.  The investigator didnt consider it likely that 
TSB wouldve told Ms D the details were the same as the previous payment if they werent.
The investigator also referred Ms D to the terms of her account which say the customer is 
responsible for making sure they give the correct information for the person they want to 
pay.
Ms D doesnt agree with the investigators recommendation. Ms D says she wasnt aware of 
the terms of her account that say shes responsible for giving TSB the correct payment 
details. Ms D is unhappy with the level of customer service that she received from TSB.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In cases like this, where the evidence is inconclusive, I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. That means Ill look at all the available evidence and decide what I think is most 
likely to have happened.
Ms D says that she was concerned about the details that TSB used when she made the 
payment in branch in November 2019. I have listened to a call recording between this 
service and Ms D. In it she says that the details for the November payment looked different. 
Ms D says she explained this to the member of staff processing the transaction. And that  
Ms D gave the advisor a piece of paper with the correct overseas bank address on it. 
Its difficult for me to know exactly what happened in branch. But given the problems Ms D 
encountered making the same international payment only a few months earlier, I think shed 
have understood the importance of making sure all the details were correct. Im not 
persuaded that Ms D wouldve allowed TSB to continue with the payment had she been as 
concerned as she says she was.
I also take account of the terms of Ms Ds account. These say that the customer is 
responsible for making sure that you give TSB the correct information for the person you 
want to pay. If you dont, were not responsible if the payment is delayed or goes to someone 
else. So, TSB places the onus on the customer to make sure that they provide the right 
information to make an international payment. 
I know that Ms D says that TSB told her the details on the payment in November 2019 were 
the same as the earlier payment. From the evidence that TSB has given us, this wasnt the 
case. So, Im struggling to understand why TSB wouldve told Ms D this. On balance, Im 
persuaded that TSB used the details that Ms D gave to it. 
Im satisfied that TSB tried to amend the payment details after Ms D complained. On this 
occasion it wasnt successful. As I dont find that TSB was responsible for the failure of the 
international payment, I cant require it to refund the shortfall or any additional costs incurred.
Im sorry that Ms D is unhappy with the level of customer service she received from TSB 
after she complained. As a service, we cant investigate every aspect of a complaint that is 
brought to us. In general, the rules that apply to this service mean that we cant consider 
complaints about the way in which the business has handled a complaint. This means I 
havent considered the impact on Ms D of any delays by TSB once she complained. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms D to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman