DRN-3029297
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
2006. Mr S says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include Mr Ss 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint but thought Lloyds offer to pay back 
some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-disclosure of high commission and profit 
share Mr S paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Ss representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ss. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ss complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that Lloyds offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. 
Ive summarised my reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Mr S says the PPI was just included with his card. But his card application form listed the 
PPI under the heading Select your additional benefits and had boxes to say either Yes 
or No to the cover  and nothing on the form said the cover had to be taken. On Mr Ss 
form, which he signed to take the card, the yes box, saying he wanted to take the cover, 
was selected - and I think it likely Mr S wouldve known that if he didnt want cover the 
no box shouldve been selected instead. Taking everything into account, what I have 
makes me think it more likely Lloyds presented the PPI to Mr S as something he didnt 
have to take unless he wanted it - and he chose to take it. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr S, so Lloyds had to check it was right for him. And 
the evidence about his circumstances at the time shows it wasnt unsuitable for him. For 
example, he was eligible for it and seems to have had a need for it, taking into account 
that from what hes told us he was entitled only to statutory pay for sickness, didnt have 
savings to fall back on if he couldnt work and was entitled to redundancy pay but had 
been with his employer only two years. So I think it likely Mr S wouldve suffered a loss of 
income if disability or unemployment kept him off work for an extended time  and hes 
told us he was financially stretched, so it doesnt look like he couldve easily coped with a 
loss of income. So I think Mr S wouldve found the policy benefit useful and what I have 
doesnt persuade me the cover wasnt affordable. Also, Ive nothing to suggest Mr Ss 
injury more than 15 years earlier was something Lloyds ought to have thought might 
keep him off work in future  and he hasnt told us hed had any other health issues. So I 
dont think the policy restrictions for pre-existing health issues made the cover wrong for 
Mr S. Also there were no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back issues 
 and nothing about Mr Ss employment or job wouldve made it difficult for him to claim.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found he chose to take it, and his application form said the PPI 
was cover so he could continue to meet his minimum card payments if he couldnt work 
due to accident, sickness or unemployment  so it looks to me like he wanted this type of 
cover. It wasnt unsuitable for him, as I concluded above, and it seems like it would have 
been useful for him if something went wrong. Overall, I dont think it likely the cover was 
too dissimilar to what Mr S thought he was buying from the information its likely he was 
given  and with this and all Ive said above in mind, I dont think he wouldve declined it 
had Lloyds done anything more.
Overall, I consider Mr S wouldve still taken the PPI. I think the policy couldve provided a 
useful benefit at a difficult time if he couldnt work due to disability or unemployment, given 
his circumstances at the time of the sale. I also think it was sufficiently close to what its likely 
he thought he was getting. And, in those circumstances, I think he wouldve have taken the 
policy in any event.
Mr Ss representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and that the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
Mr Ss representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ss individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ss particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all the cost 
of the PPI to Mr S.non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and, if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Lloyds offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Mr S about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Lloyds and Mr S was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Lloyds didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case; 
I dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr S because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified. Mr Ss representatives have made a number of 
representations about this part of the complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment 
and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary they have said Mr S should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: Lloyds failed to tell Mr S about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value, they say I should find that Mr S wouldnt have taken out the policy 
had he known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the 
premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Mr S 
in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds not disclosing the high level of 
commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Ss representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Lloyds failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above;
I think it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr S paid for his PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr S 
with the policy Ive concluded above he wouldve still taken if Lloyds had done everything it 
should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Lloyds offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Ss complaint or make any award in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr S an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) - if it 
hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman