DRN-3433418
The complaint
Mr R complains about the way British Gas Insurance Limited handled a claim he made 
under his home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R had a HomeCare policy with British Gas that covered him for repairs to his kitchen 
appliances in the event of damage or breakdown. In early 2021 Mr R contacted British Gas 
because he had some problems with his cooker. The fascia needed replacing and the 
ceramic hot plate needed to be re-sealed. An engineer attended but said they needed to 
order some parts, so another appointment was made for late March. But the engineer didnt 
keep to that appointment. Mr R complained as he said hed taken a day off work and had to 
buy a takeaway for his family because it was too late to cook anything by the time he 
realised nobody would be turning up. British Gas apologised and gave Mr R £85 as a 
gesture of goodwill for the inconvenience caused. It also arranged another appointment for 
mid-April.
The appointment in April 2021 was cancelled. A further appointment was made but the 
engineer who attended didnt have the right parts with them. British Gas said the part was 
out of stock and it would let Mr R know when it was available. In May it said the part might 
not be available until July and said it had the option of writing off his cooker and contributing 
30% towards a new one. Mr R said he wanted his cooker to be repaired and he complained 
again about the delay in doing that. British Gas said some of the delay was out of its control 
because the part was out of stock but accepted some of the delay was because the part had 
to be re-ordered as the first engineer had left the business. It gave Mr R a further £150 for 
the inconvenience caused by that delay. And arranged another appointment for July.
The engineer who attended in July said they could replace the fascia but it would take three 
weeks to repair the hot plate. Mr R agreed to British Gass offer of writing off the cooker and 
contributing 30% to a new one. Its supplier had the cooker Mr R wanted and said it would 
cost him about £1,175, with British Gas paying about £500, which was 30% of the total cost 
(not including the installation fee). Mr R agreed to buy the cooker but he was told it was now 
out of stock. The supplier offered another cooker but Mr R said he wanted to wait for the 
cooker he was after. When that cooker became available again, it had gone up in price. It 
cost Mr R about £1,615, with British Gas paying about £650, which was 30% of the total cost 
(not including the installation fee). The oven was installed in November 2021.
Mr R remained unhappy because he said he was out of pocket by over £400 because of the 
delay in delivering the cooker. He thought British Gas should pay 50% towards the cost, 
rather than the 30% its given him. More generally he didnt think it had done enough to 
compensate him for the delays and poor service it had provided.
Our investigator thought the £235 British Gas had given Mr R was reasonable for the 
inconvenience caused by the missed and cancelled appointments, and for the delay in 
ordering the part. But he thought British Gas needed to do more to compensate Mr R for the 
increase in price due to the time hed had to wait to buy a new cooker. 
British Gas didnt agree with the investigators findings and so Mr Rs complaint has been 
passed to me to make a final decision. I came to a different conclusion from that reached by 
the investigator and so sent a provisional decision to Mr R and British Gas to give them an 
opportunity to comment. British Gas agreed to my decision while Mr R didnt reply. So, my 
findings and decision below are substantially the same as set out in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy say:
Reasonable timescales
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you 
know as soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
British Gas said part of the delay in repairing Mr Rs oven was because the relevant part was 
out of stock. It believes that was something out of its control and I think thats reasonable. 
There wasnt much it could do to repair Mr Rs cooker without the relevant part and it had to 
wait for that. So, I dont think British Gas should take responsibility for all of the delay in 
repairing his cooker.
But theres no dispute that British Gas didnt provide a very good service to Mr R between 
March and June 2021. It failed to keep to appointments it had made, and it had to re-order 
the parts it needed because the previous engineer had left British Gas. The impact of that on 
Mr R was that he had to take time off work unnecessarily and he had to deal with the 
inconvenience and stress of not knowing if and when an engineer would attend. British Gas 
apologised to Mr R and paid a total of £235 for that poor service. And I think thats a 
reasonable amount in the circumstances. 
But what about the continued delays in repairing the oven and then the delays in providing a 
new cooker? Due to the delay in repairing Mr Rs cooker, British Gas offered to write it off 
and contribute towards the cost of replacing it. In the circumstances, that seems like a 
reasonable thing to do. Mr R was initially keen to avoid that as he wanted his cooker to be 
repaired. But due to the continued delay and the suggestion it would take three weeks to 
repair the hot plate, he decided to accept British Gass offer. Mr R says the delay was due to 
the unavailability of engineers at the time which meant hed have to wait three weeks for 
someone to come and complete the repair. And he felt he had no choice but to accept its 
offer of a contribution towards the cost of a new cooker.
As Mr Rs cooker was more than three years old, British Gas said it would contribute 30% to 
the cost of a replacement. Thats in line with the terms and conditions of his policy which say 
itll source the replacement from its approved supplier and contribute 30% towards the 
current retail selling price if the existing appliance is three years old or more. The terms also 
say that the policy holder can use the contribution towards an alternative model of their 
choice from its approved supplier. 
There was a delay in providing the new cooker but I dont think British Gas should take 
responsibility for that delay. Mr R was keen to get a particular cooker and although it was 
available at the start, it had gone by the time he tried to buy it. And by the time it became 
available again, it had gone up in price. Thats unfortunate but I dont think that was due to 
any poor service or mistake by British Gas. Mr R paid more for the cooker than he would have done originally, but so did British Gas. It paid 30% of the retail selling price as per the 
terms of his policy and I think that was fair.
In between times, British Gas offered Mr R other, similar, cookers but he decided to wait for 
the one he wanted. So, on balance, I dont think it would be fair to ask British Gas to pay a 
larger contribution towards the cost of Mr Rs new oven. 
But I do think British Gas should do more to put things right. The evidence shows Mr R was 
keen to avoid having to buy a new cooker. And he did so only because of the delays in 
getting his old one repaired. As Ive said, I dont think British Gas should take responsibility 
for matters out of its control. And the non-availability of the parts it needed was not in its 
control. But the delay in sending an engineer to complete the repair was something in its 
control. It was ultimately Mr Rs decision to accept British Gass offer to write off his cooker 
and contribute to a new one. But that decision might have been different had British Gas 
been able to repair his cooker sooner. 
Putting things right
I cant say that Mr R has lost out financially due to that delay. After all, he now has a new 
cooker and as Ive said, I dont think it would be fair to ask British Gas to contribute more 
towards the cost of that cooker. But I think Mr Rs experienced a certain amount of trouble 
and upset he might not otherwise have experienced. I can understand how he might have 
felt pushed into making the decision to accept its offer. And he then had to wait several 
months to get a new cooker, even though that was not due to any fault by Mr R or British 
Gas. So, I think British Gas should recognise that trouble and upset by paying Mr R some 
further compensation on top of the £235 its already paid. And I think an amount of £150 
would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold Mr Rs complaint in part and direct British Gas 
Insurance Limited to pay him a further £150 for the trouble and upset caused by its poor 
service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman