DRN-4020336
The complaint
Mr E complains Grove & Dean Ltd trading as Performance Direct mis-sold him a legal 
expenses insurance (LEI) policy. 
What happened
In October 2020 Mr E took out a home insurance policy with optional LEI cover through a 
broker, Performance Direct.
Mr E initially applied for the policy online, but his application wasnt approved, so he 
called Performance Direct, and the sale of the policy was completed during the call.  
Mr E says the LEI policy was mis-sold because he didnt see the policy documents 
before buying it, and he was misled as to what it covered. Mr E says he requested 
the policy documents be sent by post to him, but he never received them. 
In its final response Performance Direct said:
oIts advisor didnt comment on whether negligence was included under the 
LEI policy  and so, it didnt agree with Mr Es view that hed purchased the 
policy on that basis. 
oThe policy documents were available online, so Mr E had sight of the terms 
and conditions prior to purchasing the policy. 
oIt acknowledged the policy documents might not have been received by post, 
but that it was five months after the sale that Mr E made Performance Direct 
aware of this, by which point hed already accessed them online.
Mr E remained unhappy and so brought a complaint to this Service. 
An Investigator considered it and didnt think the policy had been mis-sold. 
Because Mr E disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it for the same reasons as our Investigator, and Ill explain 
why. 
But first, its important to explain that any concerns Mr E has about making a claim under the 
policy are separate to this decision. I am only considering whether the policy was mis-sold to 
him. Claims are dealt with by the insurer  a different business  and Performance Direct 
isnt responsible for how claims are handled. I want to assure Mr E that whilst I have read his 
comments, I am only addressing those which I consider relevant to this complaint.  
Performance Direct is responsible for the sale and so Ive looked at how the policy was sold, 
and the information provided to Mr E at the time. 
From what Ive seen, the policy was sold on a non-advised basis  meaning Performance 
Direct didnt give advice to Mr E. Its duty was to provide enough information before the sale 
to enable Mr E to make an informed decision about whether he wanted to take out the 
policy. And the information it provided had to be clear, fair, and not misleading. 
Ive listened to the recording of the conversation when Mr E called Performance Direct. He 
did so after obtaining an online quote and applying for cover online. When the application 
was refused, the website advised him to call Performance Direct  which was when the 
policy was purchased. 
During the call, the only mention of LEI is when Mr E asks who the LEI insurer is  the rest of 
it is about the home insurance policy and the call handler spends time confirming the 
information Mr E had inputted to his online application was correct. 
Theres no discussion about whether the policy covers claims for negligence or any type of 
legal dispute for that matter, and so, Im not persuaded Mr E only agreed to the LEI policy 
being added based on this information as it simply was never said during the call. After the 
call handler confirmed the underwriter of the LEI policy, Mr E said okay, perfect and 
proceeded to purchase the policy. 
The call handler said she could send the policy documents by post to Mr E  as requested 
by him  but that hed automatically receive them by email which would include access to an 
online portal where the documents would be stored. The call handler also made Mr E aware 
during the call that he had 14 days to review the documents and decide whether he wanted 
to cancel. 
Its not clear whether the documents were received by Mr E in the post  he says they 
werent and Performance Direct has said, whilst it can see the request was generated by its 
call handler to send them, it cant say for certain the documents were sent due to the 
passing of time. And it wouldnt be fair to ask Performance Direct to compensate Mr E for 
something that may or may not have happened. 
Even if the documents werent sent by post, I dont think Mr E would have done anything 
differently as I think he always intended to take out a LEI policy as he wanted this type of 
cover, having added it during his online application. 
Furthermore - and importantly - when Mr E was applying for cover online, he was asked to 
confirm whether hed read the policy documents and wouldnt have been able to proceed 
until hed done so. So, Im satisfied Mr E did have sight of the policy wording before he 
agreed to purchase it and I dont think whether the policy was mis-sold to him or not hinges 
on whether he received the documents by post as well  especially as the policy documents 
were sent to him by email and were available on the portal immediately after the sale. 
Mr E has since said his disability means he needed the documents to be sent by post, but he 
didnt say this in the call with Performance Direct. Rather, he simply said he was no good 
with computers  which is not by itself indicative of a disability.  And so, Im not satisfied its 
reasonable to say Performance Direct has treated him unfairly when it was unaware of his 
disability. 
I appreciate Mr E may not consider the policy to meet his needs now but that doesnt mean 
the policy had been mis-sold. I need to consider what happened at the time of sale and as 
Im satisfied Performance Direct provided enough information to allow him to decide whether 
he wanted to take out the policy and that the information was clear, fair, and not misleading, 
I dont think the policy was mis-sold.For completeness, Mr E has said Performance Direct has withheld and altered information, 
but Ive not seen any evidence to suggest this has occurred. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman