DRN-3931432
Complaint
Mrs W is unhappy that Barclays Bank PLC (Barclays) closed her account and recorded a 
fraud prevention marker against her. 
Background
In July 2020, Mrs Ws Barclays account received a number of payments from a third-party. 
Barclays subsequently received a notification from the third-party bank (which from this point 
onwards, Ill refer to as X) which sent the funds, stating that its customer had been scammed 
into making these payments into Mrs Ws account. Barclays reviewed Mrs Ws account and 
as a result of its investigation, decided to close Mrs Ws account and record a fraud 
prevention marker.
After learning that Barclays had recorded a fraud prevention marker against her, Mrs W 
complained to Barclays. Barclays looked at Mrs Ws complaint and didnt uphold it. As      
Mrs W remained dissatisfied, she referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mrs Ws concerns. She didnt think that Barclays had 
done anything wrong or acted unfairly. Mrs W didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to 
consider her complaint.  
My provisional decision of 23 January 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 23 January 2023 - setting out why I was intending to 
uphold Mrs Ws complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a 
summary of my findings. 
I started by explaining that the marker Barclays filed is intended to record that there was a 
misuse of facility  relating to using an account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file 
such a marker, Barclays isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mrs W is guilty 
of a fraud or financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere 
suspicion or concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
I then went on to explain that in practice this means that Barclays had to first be able to show 
that fraudulent funds entered Mrs Ws account, whether they were retained or merely passed 
through. Secondly, Barclays also needed to have strong evidence to show that Mrs W was 
deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an 
illegitimate payment. This could include Mrs W allowing someone else to use her account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank had to carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
This meant that in order to determine Mrs Ws complaint, I needed to decide whether I think 
Barclays had enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mrs Ws account and that 
she was complicit in this. Barclays had to have enough evidence to meet both parts of test 
for it to have acted fairly and reasonably.
Having considered matters, it was clear that Barclays received a fraud notification regarding 
a number of payments made into Mrs Ws account. So I could understand why Barclays had 
concerns about the usage on Mrs Ws account.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ws account permitted Barclays to close it without notice in 
certain circumstances. These included where it had reasonable grounds for thinking a 
customer commit(ted) (or attempt) fraud against us or someone else. Given Barclays had 
received a notification from X stating that fraudulent funds had found their way into             
Mrs Ws account, I thought that Barclays was, at that stage, reasonably entitled to suspect 
fraud may have taken place and legitimately entitled to reach the conclusion that there was 
an immediate risk in keeping Mrs Ws account open. Therefore, I thought that Barclays was 
entitled to close Mrs Ws account in the way that it did.
That said, even though Barclays may have had reasonable grounds for concern about     
Mrs Ws account usage and this was enough to justify its closure, I didnt think that it 
automatically followed that Barclays was entitled to register a fraud prevention marker. 
Barclays believed Xs fraud notification was enough to conclude that fraudulent activity took 
place. It also questioned what else would we expect it to review in order to conclude that 
fraud took place. 
However, I explained that a fraud report wasnt in itself enough to register a fraud prevention 
marker against a customer. A bank also needed to investigate veracity of any fraud report 
received and also produce sufficient evidence to show that a customer was complicit in any 
fraudulent activity. And I didnt think that Barclays had done this here as I thought that there 
were a couple of things that didnt quite add up in the fraud allegation made by Xs customer.
I thought this was the case because the notification received from X indicated that its 
customer reported having transferred the funds to Mrs Ws account after speaking with 
people on social media who offered her a return of £10,000.00 if she invested with them. 
However, the payments reported as being fraudulent werent the only payments made from 
Xs customers account to Mrs Ws account. There were other payments made - totalling an 
amount which was more than the reported transactions -  a couple of days before.
Given the proximity of the unreported transactions to the reported ones and the fact that the 
notification was also made so soon afterwards, I found it strikingly odd that the person who 
reported the fraud didnt report the earlier transactions. I couldnt see a reasonable 
explanation why Xs customer would report some transactions and not other higher value 
ones in circumstances where they said they believed they were tricked into making 
payments to someone for investment purposes. I found it difficult to believe and accept that 
they would have forgotten about the earlier payments too.  
I also found Barclays comments in relation to need the need to direct any questions 
regarding the unreported transfers to X to be incredibly disappointing. This was information it 
should have obtained at the time and certainly before deciding it had enough to record a 
fraud marker against Mrs W in the first place. Furthermore, I also struggled to understand why Xs customer used the reference owed 
when making these payments, as well as the unreported ones. This reference didnt really 
tally with someone making transfers for investment purposes. Barclays questioned whether 
Mrs W had provided evidence to demonstrate that she lent Xs customer money. But I 
thought that this ignored the fact that it wasnt for Mrs W to disprove Barclays conclusions. It 
was Barclays responsibility to demonstrate that fraudulent activity took place and that Mrs W 
was complicit in this.
 
And having thought about matters, I was minded to conclude that Barclays had failed to do 
that. Barclays needed to have relevant and rigorous evidence such that it could report the 
matter to the police. Simply pointing out that it had received a fraud notification, from X, that 
fraudulent activity took place, especially in circumstances where the available evidence calls 
into question the plausibility of the fraud allegation - just wasnt enough to meet what is a 
high bar. 
So overall and having considered everything, I was minded to find that Barclays didnt have 
sufficient evidence to meet the test for recording a fraud marker against Mrs W. In my view, 
the evidence Barclays relied on didnt clearly demonstrate that Mrs Ws account was in 
receipt of fraudulent funds. This left me intending to uphold Mrs Ws complaint and directing 
Barclays to remove any and all fraud markers it had recorded against her.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs W didnt provide anything further in response to my provisional decision.
Barclays responded to my provisional decision saying that it had been in contact with X and 
it had confirmed that it refunded all of the transfers its customer made to Mrs Ws account. 
This included refunding the transactions which werent included on the fraud report. 
Furthermore, it didnt think that the use of the reference owed was a reason to remove the 
fraud marker. In its view, such references are often used to deter banks from looking into 
fraudulent payments. It asked us to obtain evidence that Mrs W lent Xs customer funds and 
as this hasnt been received, its fair to assume that the payment reference that was used, 
was used in order to deter the bank from uncovering the scam. As this is the case, it wasnt 
comfortable removing the fraud marker.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Barclays further comments. But in truth I dont think that these comments 
have really added anything new. It still appears to be arguing that as X has concluded fraud 
took place, its for Mrs W to disprove that fraud took place. X may have refunded all the 
payments to its customer but this still doesnt explain why the earlier payments werent 
reported as being fraudulent.
Furthermore, while I accept that alternative references are sometimes used to disguise 
fraudulent payments, the facts and circumstances of this case  especially the nature of the 
allegation of fraud made - havent persuaded me thats what happened here. And I certainly 
dont think it fair and reasonable to record a fraud marker based on an assumption that fraud 
took place.As Ive said throughout this decision, it is for Barclays to prove that Mrs W was complicit in 
fraudulent activity. It isnt for Mrs W to disprove this. And I remain satisfied that Barclays 
hasnt done enough to meet the high evidential bar in this case. Accordingly while I 
appreciate that Barclays may not feel comfortable removing the fraud marker, thats 
precisely what Im requiring it to do here. 
So overall and having considered everything, including Barclays further response to my 
provisional decision, Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. And Im still upholding 
Mrs Ws complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 23 January 2023, Im 
upholding Mrs Ws complaint. Barclays Bank PLC needs to remove any and all fraud 
markers it has recorded against Mrs W. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman