DRN-3616002
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money she lost after she fell victim 
to a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here, 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
Miss A saw an item for sale on a well-known online marketplace, that she was interested in 
buying. She contacted the seller, by way of messages, and asked if the item was still 
available. Miss A asked the seller if she had any pictures of the item inside the box, 
explaining that she didnt like doing things over marketplace. But the seller responded to 
say the item was brand new and sealed, and she wouldnt open it unless she was 100% that 
the item would be bought. 
Miss A told the seller she did want the item, but was worried it wasnt real and it was a lot of 
money to lose. In response the seller offered to send Miss A a copy of the receipt for the 
item. The seller went on to send Miss A a copy of an order confirmation for the item, along 
with identification, by way of a passport. The seller also sent Miss A details of the bank 
account to where the payment should be made. 
Believing everything to be genuine, on 26 January 2022, Miss A went ahead and made a 
payment for £336 to the bank details provided by the seller. But she became concerned, 
when a friend told her that shed purchased the same item the day before, and when the 
seller started to make excuses for not having sent the item. Unknown to her at the time,   
Miss A had been dealing with a fraudster and had sent her payment to an account controlled 
by the fraudster. 
Miss A raised the matter with Monzo. It has committed to follow the Lending Standards 
Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code (although it isnt a signatory) which 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. Monzo says one or more of those exceptions 
applies in this case.
Monzo issued its final response to Miss A in January 2022, not upholding her complaint. In 
summary it considered Miss A didnt have a reasonable basis for believing she was making 
a genuine purchase and she hadnt undertaken enough due diligence, before making the 
payment. Monzo did try and recover the money that Miss A lost from the receiving bank (the 
bank to which the money was paid), but unfortunately no funds remained. 
Unhappy with Monzos response, Miss A then brought her complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators looked into things and thought the complaint should be upheld and that 
Monzo should refund Miss A the money she lost, along with interest. In summary, our 
investigator thought that Miss A did have a reasonable basis for believing the sale was 
genuine.
Monzo didnt agree with our investigators view. In summary, it said in her communication 
with the fraudster Miss A had demonstrated a clear understanding of the risks associated 
with this type of purchase, but didnt follow the guidance given by the marketplace for using 
its platform safely. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
- Under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded Miss A the money 
she lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply 
in the circumstances of this case.
- In the circumstances Monzo should fairly and reasonably refund the money Miss A 
lost.
- The money was taken from Miss As current account. It is not clear how Miss A would 
have used the money if Monzo had refunded it when it should have done, so Monzo 
should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% simple per year, 
from the date Monzo decided not to refund Miss A under the CRM Code to the date 
of payment.
Ive thought carefully about Monzos representations regarding whether Miss A had a 
reasonable basis for believing the transaction to be genuine. But they do not persuade me to 
reach a different view.
 
Did Miss A have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment?
In particular I am not persuaded that Miss A failed to take the requisite level of care required 
for Monzo to choose not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code. Ill explain why;
- Miss A saw the item she was interested in on a well-known social media platforms 
marketplace. She engaged with the seller through a number of messages. From 
reviewing these messages, I dont consider the seller was applying any pressure 
(which can often be the indicator of a scam).
- The fraudster was clever in gaining Miss As trust further by providing a copy of their 
passport and a copy of the order form for the item. Miss A has said that where the 
name on the passport, the order form and the bank details all matched it reassured 
her that everything was genuine. It should be remembered that Miss A is not an 
expert in matters relating to fraud, and I can see how receipt of someones 
identification, which matched an order form and bank details would have given    
Miss A comfort that she was dealing with a legitimate seller. 
- As well as this, Miss A did ask for photos of the item. I think the answer the fraudster 
gave, that the item was new and sealed and so they didnt want to open it, was 
plausible, and I can understand why Miss A reasonably moved on from this.
 - I also dont think the price the item was being sold for could be considered as too 
good to be true, whereby Miss A should reasonably have had doubts about the 
legitimacy of the item or the seller.  
- Monzo has argued that, price of the item aside, Miss A ought to have considered the 
purchase too good to be true when she was informed she needed to pay by bank 
transfer, which Monzo says was an unsafe payment method. I dont agree with the 
position Monzo has taken on this point, I say that as Miss A did make attempts to 
mitigate her risk, by asking questions to satisfy herself that the item was genuine. 
And for reasons explained above, I think the questions she asked where 
proportionate and it was reasonable for her to consider she was safe to pay the seller 
by the method they requested. Overall, I dont think it follows that being asked to pay 
for an item by bank transfer, in and of itself, would make a sale seem too good to be 
true.
- Im also not persuaded by Monzos argument that Miss A ought to have realised the 
risks of paying by bank transfer, as it says the risks are expressed in the 
Marketplaces own guidance. I say that because the information regarding payment 
is contained amongst a variety of other information and requires multiple clicks to 
see the particular section to which Monzo refers. Considering the circumstances of 
this case, I think its disproportionate and impractical to have expected Miss A to 
have read the entirety of the help guide before proceeding. 
All things considered, I can see why Miss A would have been reassured, after liaising and 
messaging with the seller, that she was dealing with a legitimate seller for legitimate items 
when making the payment. Im satisfied Miss A took proportionate steps to try and mitigate 
any risk and that it wasnt unreasonable for her to proceed in making the payment she did.
Overall and on balance, Im not persuaded that Monzo has shown that Miss A lacked a 
reasonable basis of belief for making the payment. 
Putting things right
For the reasons outlined above, Monzo Bank Ltd should now;
- Refund Miss A the £336 she lost as a result of this scam
- Pay 8% simple interest per year on that amount calculated from the date Monzo 
Bank Ltd originally declined Miss As claim until the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman