DRN-3997894
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) unfairly declined their 
request to port (transfer) their mortgage and take out additional borrowing. 
Mr and Mrs E took out a mortgage with another lender and repaid his Nationwide mortgage - 
incurring an early repayment charge (ERC). 
Mr E has dealt with the complaint throughout on behalf of both parties.
What happened
Mr E had a mortgage with Nationwide which he took out in 2017. This was initially on a five-
year fixed rate, which expired in 2022. 
In 2020, Mr E contacted Nationwide asking to port his mortgage and add a new borrower 
(Mrs E).
Nationwide advised them to apply for a decision in principle (DIP) online, which they did 
around August 2020. Following this, they spoke to a mortgage consultant to progress their 
application. 
Mr and Mrs E have described several issues they had throughout the process which they 
say led to delays, wasted time and stress. This included poor customer service and a lack of 
updates or promised call backs. 
Ultimately, Nationwide declined the application to port the mortgage and take out additional 
borrowing. But said it would consider a like for like port without the additional borrowing. 
Mr and Mrs E complained. Nationwide upheld the complaint and offered £200 compensation 
by way of an apology for the customer service issues experienced. 
Mr and Mrs E brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator thought the complaint 
should be upheld. He concluded that Nationwide should pay Mr and Mrs E an additional 
£200 and refund the ERC (plus 8% simple interest). 
Nationwide didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter and so the 
case has been passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the complaint. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is worth highlighting to begin with that porting a mortgage involves an entirely new 
application, for a new mortgage. If a porting application is successful the new 
mortgage retains some of the features of the old mortgage  usually, amongst other 
things, the interest rate. But the mortgage itself is based on a new lending decision 
by the business, assessed at the time it is made  against the lending criteria in place 
at the time of the porting application. 
A mortgage loan and a mortgage product are two different things. A loan is the 
underlying transaction in which money is lent; the product is the terms that sit on top. 
For example, an agreement to borrow £100,000 over 25 years is a mortgage loan; an 
agreement that for the first two years a fixed interest rate rather than the standard 
variable rate will apply is the mortgage product that sits on top. 
 
When moving house, a borrower pays off their old mortgage with the proceeds of the 
sale. They also, and separately, apply for a new mortgage to fund buying the new 
property. Here, Mr and Mrs E asked to increase their borrowing. A lender will 
consider the new application on its own merits. If its prepared to grant a new 
mortgage, it will then consider whether to port across the old product  if the terms of 
the old product allow it. These are two separate decisions. 
 
If a lender isnt prepared to grant a new loan, then porting cant happen, and so the 
mortgage product ends with the old loan. Depending on the product terms, an ERC 
may be payable. 
 
Looking at the mortgage offer I think it was made sufficiently clear that while porting 
was a feature of the mortgage product there were conditions attached. 
 
I understand that Mr and Mrs E feel that Nationwide hasnt treated them fairly. But in 
my view the decision not to lend as much as Mr and Mrs E requested (that is, an 
increase in the mortgage debt) was one that Nationwide was entitled to make as a 
matter of its commercial discretion. It has explained that the loan to value (LTV) was 
88% - which is greater than the maximum amount of 85% it was willing to lend and 
so didnt meet its criteria at that time. And its provided reasons as to why the 
underwriters didnt approve the application. Having reviewed these, I dont consider 
them unreasonable. As Ive said, Nationwide doesnt have to lend more. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs E were able to re-mortgage to another provider. But the 
fact they could get a mortgage elsewhere doesnt mean that Nationwide did anything 
wrong. Different lenders have their own policies, which is only right. 
Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs E the option to reduce the requested amount to the 
same amount as was currently outstanding, so in effect port the mortgage on a like-
for-like basis, but they chose not to do so.
And so I dont think the fundamental underlying decision to reject the application was 
unfair here. But I do think that Mr and Mrs E were misled somewhat throughout this 
process and can appreciate their obvious disappointment when the application didnt 
proceed. 
Its not in dispute that there were customer service issues here. And I think its clear 
that Nationwides mortgage consultant raised Mr and Mrs Es expectations that the 
application would be approved. He should have been aware of the LTV limits and 
advised here  Nationwide has accepted this and offered compensation in 
recognition of the failings. Ive considered the email from the mortgage consultant to Mr and Mrs E in October 
2020. Whilst this explained that the case was still to be underwritten - the mortgage 
consultant said that it was well within affordability and its only the payment holiday 
thats caused the automatic refer. 
This was incorrect information, or a mis representation. It was not well within 
affordability. When we are looking at complaints about misrepresentation, we 
consider the appropriate remedy is to place the consumer in the position they would 
be in if the incorrect information hadnt been given. We dont put them in the position 
they would be in if the misinformation had been correct (that is, that Mr and Mrs E 
could port the mortgage and take out additional borrowing), or in a position where 
theyve gained from this misinformation. 
Mr and Mrs E were led to believe that the application would be successful. But even 
if they were not misled in this way by the adviser  the application still would not have 
been approved and so the appropriate remedy is to put them in that position. 
I still think that they would have needed to seek a mortgage with another lender as 
Nationwide was not prepared to lend on this basis and so they would have still 
needed to pay an ERC. As a result, I dont consider the fair remedy here is for the 
ERC to be refunded.  
And its important to note here why an ERC is charged. The ERC is not a penalty as 
that has a distinct meaning in law; its a contractual term that applies where there is a 
breach of contract. 
And here  the termination of the contract prior to the end of the fixed rate deal 
triggers the payment of the ERC (in short, it needs to be paid so there is no breach of 
contract  as per the conditions). The ERC is not a penalty imposed by the business; 
its charged in line with the offer.
So I dont currently think I can fairly uphold this part of the complaint as the fee was 
correctly charged.
But I do think that Mr and Mrs E should be compensated for the obvious distress, 
worry and upset this matter caused. Ive noted what they have said and I can see 
that they contacted Nationwide for updates and to chase the progress of the 
application. Ive thought about a fair way to put this right.
Putting things right
I dont consider that Nationwides offer of £200 goes far enough to recognise the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
I think its clear that there were failings in how Nationwide dealt with this application 
and so Im currently minded to uphold this complaint in part and direct Nationwide to 
pay Mr and Mrs E an additional £300 compensation (bringing this to a total of £500). 
But I dont think that it would be fair for the ERC to be refunded  for the reasons Ive 
explained.  
Having considered all the available evidence, I currently think this is a fair resolution 
to the complaint. Responses to my provisional decision
Mr E responded to my provisional decision. He said that I had missed the whole point of his 
complaint  that they were incorrectly told they could apply to port their mortgage with a LTV 
of 88% but this was not possible.
He said that, as the application was refused on the basis that Nationwide would not accept 
the loan to value (LTV) being above 85%, it should not have allowed it to proceed with the 
application on this basis from the very beginning. And that, as a result, he incurred solicitor 
costs and estate agent fees that he otherwise would not have.
Mr E also said that it was too late to back out once his application was declined and so was 
left with no choice but to incur the ERC  or otherwise pay thousands in solicitor and estate 
agent fees. 
Nationwide responded to say it accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can completely understand that Mr and Mrs E are upset and disappointed with the outcome 
of my provisional decision. But I can assure them that I did consider their main point before 
issuing my decision  Im very sorry if it felt like I had not. I reviewed all of the information 
and evidence provided by both sides and thought very carefully about what the fair outcome 
should be here. 
And I can understand Mr Es point that he simply would not have committed to the estate 
agent and solicitor fees if he knew from the outset that there may have been issues with the 
porting application. Thats understandable  as is his point that he felt that he got to a stage 
in the application in which he had no choice but to proceed. Mortgage applications can be 
complicated, stressful and drawn out  particularly when porting a rate from one mortgage 
to the next. 
Ive thought really carefully about what Mr E has said but Im afraid I still dont consider that it 
would have been apparent from the outset that the application may have been declined. 
Nationwide has accepted that it incorrectly told Mr E that he could obtain a decision in 
principle (DIP) online. Actually, it should have said that this would need to be completed over 
the phone  as that is the process for porting applications. But notwithstanding this, a DIP is 
not a formal offer. Its merely an indication of how much a lender may be willing to lend  
subject to further checks and being considered by an underwriter. And so, as is often the risk 
with buying a new property, nothing is certain until the mortgage offer is issued. 
Ive noted that the online DIP was issued on 15 August 2020. And I can see that Mr E 
agreed to the estate agent contract on 20 August 2020 and put the house on the market 
from 27 August 2020, having already had their offer accepted on the house they were 
hoping to move to.
The appointment with the mortgage consultant was not until 14 September 2020, which is a 
few weeks afterwards. I certainly think that the mortgage consultant could have managed Mr 
and Mrs Es expectations better at this stage and should have provided correct information 
about the LTV limits. Its regrettable that the adviser said that the DIP was accepted and that 
there was nothing to worry about. He should have explained that the DIP was only partly 
accepted to allow for a full submission of the application for an assessment. And it is only once an application is assessed by an underwriter that a full decision can be 
made. By this time Mr and Mrs E had instructed estate agents and solicitors, their house was 
on the market and they had an offer accepted on the house they wished to purchase. And 
so, they were quite advanced in the process by this stage. I can understand that they felt 
they had no choice but to continue.
But what is crucial here is that it was not the case that - just because the LTV was above 
85%, he could not apply  Nationwide has said that as the application fell in a bracket of 
between 85% - 90% LTV and he was an existing borrower looking to port his rate  this 
needed to have a full assessment by underwriters to evaluate the application as a whole. 
And so it was simply not apparent at this stage that the application might be declined purely 
on the level of the LTV. 
Nationwide said that the reason Mr and Mrs Es application was declined was also due to 
concerns about the wider affordability of the mortgage and lack of disposable income. Whilst 
the end result was not what Mr and Mrs E were hoping for  I dont consider that Nationwide 
has treated them unfairly when it declined the additional borrowing, and Ive noted that it 
offered to consider an application on a like-for-like basis. 
I can also see that Mr E borrowed additional money from a family member to reduce the LTV 
- but the application was still, unfortunately, not accepted due to affordability concerns. And 
so I think it was not possible that they would have been able to obtain a mortgage with 
Nationwide  but this was not apparent until the full affordability assessment was 
undertaken.
And whilst Ive noted that Mr and Mrs E secured a new mortgage with a different lender, this 
does not have any bearing on whether Nationwide should have approved the application  
different lenders have different criteria and lending appetite, which is only right. 
As Mr and Mrs E exited their mortgage early  the ERC was charged in line with the original 
mortgage offer. As I explained in my provisional decision, I dont consider that this should be 
waived or reduced in some way. Its not a penalty, but a fixed cost of breaking the contract at 
that stage and as a result, I dont consider it reasonable to charge a reduced amount of the 
fee. Thats not a fair remedy here.
But I still agree that Nationwide provided poor service here and I still consider that an 
additional £300 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances  bringing the total compensation 
to £500. Putting things right
I consider that there were failings in how Nationwide dealt with this application and I dont 
think the offer of £200 goes far enough to address this. I consider that an additional £300 is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
This brings the total compensation to £500. I direct Nationwide Building Society to pay this to 
Mr and Mrs E. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and direct 
Nationwide Building Society to settle the complaint as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman