Complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank plc trading as First Direct (First Direct) gave him 
incorrect information about cleared funds on his account causing him stress and 
inconvenience. 
Background
Mr K has an account with First Direct and telephoned them to check his balance following a 
payment into his account. He was told by a member of First Directs staff he had funds in his 
account and following this Mr K attempted to make a bank transfer which was declined. He 
rang First Direct again and was told he was misinformed previously and the funds werent 
cleared. First Direct told him to ask the sender of the funds to contact their bank to authorise 
the release of the monies as the payment was being held for security reasons. A number of 
calls and messages followed and eventually later in the afternoon Mr K was informed the 
funds were now available to him. 
As an apology for their initial mistake First Direct paid Mr K £100. 
Mr K felt the compensation of £100 was insufficient for the stress, anxiety and trouble he had 
experienced throughout the day.  
First Direct admitted to making the initial error and believed the compensation paid to Mr K 
was fair.  They also said, they told Mr K they would make sure if there was a problem with 
the payment it would be covered by them, to give him peace of mind. They felt there was 
little else they could do but Mr K wasnt happy with this and referred the matter to this 
service. 
The investigator gathered the information available but didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint as the 
amount of compensation he was paid fairly reflected the inconvenience caused. 
Mr K disagreed and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
When looking at Mr Ks complaint, I have considered whether First Direct adequately 
compensated him for the stress and trouble it caused.  
DRN-1692982I can see that Mr K would find it frustrating and stressful to learn a payment into his account 
wasnt available to him after being told previously by a member of First Directs staff that it 
was. 
Mr K had to make a number of phone calls and deal with messages sent by First Direct 
which would have been time consuming and stressful. Mr K was asked to make a call to the 
sender of the payment to check with their banks Fraud Team as First Direct said the 
payment was being held for security checks. Mr K then rang First Direct to say the sender of 
the payment had informed him the funds had been released and while I have no evidence 
relating to that call or if the sender did contact  their fraud team, Im satisfied this is what Mr 
K was told and he would have thought it was dealt with.  Mr K was then told by First Direct 
that the funds werent cleared so he complained again as he thought the payment should 
now be available in his account following his call to the sender.  
The sending bank, like all banks, conduct security checks from time to time as part of their 
fraud prevention process and it can be frustrating when this happens but unfortunately it is 
part of everyday banking. What is important here is customers are not financially 
disadvantaged as a result of these processes and I am satisfied that Mr K wasnt. 
To resolve the issue and to help Mr K,  First Direct decided to contact the sending banks 
Fraud team themselves and eventually got the payment released and advised Mr K of this 
later in the day. 
There is no dispute from First Direct that a member of their team made the initial mistake 
causing the confusion over the payment and as I would expect to see a compensation 
payment was made to Mr K as an apology to cover the inconvenience caused to him. What 
is important to note here is that First Direct did tell Mr K they would cover the payment if it 
became a problem and they did this to try and put his mind at rest earlier in the day. 
Fortunately this wasnt necessary as the payment credited his account. 
So when considering the compensation payment made to Mr K and taking into account that 
First Direct did offer this straight away, communicated with him and eventually corrected the 
problem on the same day - I am satisfied that it is a fair amount in the circumstances.  
While my decision will be disappointing for Mr K, I wont be asking First Direct to do 
anymore. 
My Final Decision 
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28July2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman