DRN-2822603
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complained that their repair was delayed under their home emergency policy 
with British Gas Insurance Limited (BG).
What happened
Mr and Mrs S said they contacted BG, informing it their boiler had broken down and they had 
no heating or hot water. They said BG was aware of their vulnerability but was unable to 
provide an appointment within a reasonable timeframe. It wasnt possible for BG to send an 
engineer earlier as BG had resource issues due to industrial action, which was compounded 
by Covid-19. 
Mr and Mrs S said the advisor provided two alternative telephone numbers for them to call to 
arrange an emergency appointment for an alternative third-party tradesman to visit. Mr and 
Mrs S tried calling the numbers provided, but no one responded to them. One of these 
numbers was with a well-known organisation which connects people with local tradesmen.
Mr and Mrs S said it was cold, so they purchased two electric heaters costing £24.99 each 
and had to sit under duvets to try and stay warm. They said they were cold and they both felt 
unwell for two weeks afterwards.
Mr and Mrs Ss son intervened to make sure his parents werent left without heating and hot 
water. He arranged for a third-party engineer to fix the boiler. Mr and Mrs S complained as 
they thought they had been left without heating or hot water for a significant number of days 
unnecessarily.
BG apologised, repaid Mr and Mrs S for the costs of the third-party engineer and offered £30 
in compensation. This was challenged by Mr and Mrs S, so BG increased the compensation 
to £300, which it said included the costs for the two heaters that Mr and Mrs S purchased.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint, as she thought BG had been fair and 
reasonable by covering the cost of the third-party repairs and offering £300 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience of Mr and Mrs S sourcing their own tradesman. Mr and Mrs 
S didnt think the compensation was fair, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that Mr and Mrs S have genuinely experienced some hardship with the 
delay in getting their boiler fixed during the cold weather. However, I agree with the 
investigators decision, I think BG has acted fairly. It has accepted responsibility for what has 
happened and it has apologised. I think it has offered fair compensation for what has 
happened. So, I wont be upholding this complaint. I know Mr and Mrs S may be 
disappointed with this decision, but Ill explain why I have reached this conclusion.
I have considered what Mr and Mrs Ss policy says for the expected turnaround time for 
repairs. There is no turnaround time defined. The policy states well carry out any repairs or 
visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless something beyond our control makes 
that impossible  in which case well let you know as soon as possible and give you another 
time when we can visit.
I think there were factors that impacted on BGs ability to attend the repair. BG explained the 
reasons for this. It wouldve been a busy period anyway for BG during the Winter months 
which it should be ready for, but there was an additional impact of industrial action and 
Covid-19. I think BG has reasonably argued it was a particularly demanding period for them 
resource wise and I dont think this was all within their own control. As BG has acted in line 
with its terms and conditions, I dont think it has been unreasonable.
I have also considered what other actions BG has taken given Mr and Mrs Ss vulnerable 
circumstances. BG has said we did offer our winter contingency, whereby we will cover the 
cost of repair if a 3rd party is engaged to complete the repair. We also provided the contact 
details of [a third-party organisation who connects customers with local tradesmen]. 
I think BG has been fair in trying to provide an alternative solution to Mr and Mrs S to get the 
repair done as soon as possible by saying it will cover the cost of a third party to carry out 
the work. It also provided a contact number for what it believed to be a reliable service who 
could provide the repair. BG has honoured its winter contingency by paying Mr and Mrs S 
for the repairs carried out by the third party. I think BG has been fair by invoking its winter 
contingency and paying the costs of the third-party repair.
Mr and Mrs S were without the use of their boiler for some time, which led them to been left 
in cold conditions. BG said: I am sorry that you were not advised or assisted in engaging a 
third-party to attend. BG has acknowledged with Mr and Mrs Ss vulnerable circumstances it 
should have taken on more responsibility and arranged the appointment with a third-party 
tradesman on Mr and Mrs Ss behalf to fix the boiler. It has offered £300 compensation for 
this failing which includes the cost of the heaters that were purchased by Mr and Mrs S. BG 
has also said there is no guarantee that, had BG attended, the repair would have been 
completed any sooner.
I think BGs compensation is fair in the circumstances. I think if Mr and Mrs Ss policy had 
said a repair would be completed in 24 hours, then there would be a greater argument for 
higher compensation. However, it didnt. As BG had resource issues, it invoked its winter 
contingency which seems a reasonable action in the circumstances. As BG have 
acknowledged, it could have helped Mr and Mrs S more by arranging the appointment with 
the third-party tradesman.  But, I think the compensation BG has offered is fair for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by Mr and Mrs S having to source their own tradesman, 
so, I wont be upholding this complaint.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, I think British Gas Insurance Limited 
has fairly dealt with this complaint. I dont require British Gas Insurance Limited to do 
anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman