DRN-3059965
Complaint
Mr W has complained that TSB Bank plc (TSB) irresponsibly provided him with an 
unaffordable loan.
Mr W is being assisted with his complaint by his wife who Ill refer to as Mrs W.
  
Background and my provisional decision of 6 September 2021
Mr W also has a complaint about a loan he jointly took out with his wife. And Mrs W has her 
own complaint about a loan in her sole name. Weve looked at those complaints separately 
and I wont be offering any opinion on whether those loans should have been provided. That 
said, I will be referring to facts of those loans insofar as they are relevant to Mr Ws 
application for this loan in his sole name.
TSB provided Mr W with a loan for £12,000.00 in April 2016. The loan had an APR of 6.9%, 
required no payments to be made for the first three months and was then due to be repaid in 
60 monthly payments of £240.11. The purpose of this loan was consolidation of existing 
debts although some of the information provided suggests a portion of the funds were 
earmarked to buy a car.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws complaint. She eventually reached the 
conclusion that TSB hadnt done anything wrong when providing Mr W with his loan as this 
loan consolidated Mr Ws existing debts at a lower interest rates and at lower more 
affordable monthly payments. Mrs W, on Mr Ws behalf, disagreed with our investigator and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
On 6 September 2021, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on        
Mr Ws complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of 
my findings. 
I started by explaining that weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending 
complaints on our website and Id considered this while provisionally deciding Mr Ws 
complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I thought that there were three overarching 
questions that I needed to consider in order to provisionally decide what was fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Ws complaint. These questions were:    
Did TSB carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr W 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
Bearing in mind the circumstances was it the case that TSB ought reasonably to 
have realised it was increasing Mr Ws indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable 
or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further credit?
Did TSB act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr W in some other way?
 
I proceeded to consider each of these questions in turn.
I explained that the rules and regulations when TSB lent to Mr W required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
These checks had to be borrower focused  so TSB had to think about whether sustainably 
repaying the loan would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr W. In practice this 
meant that TSB had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr W undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for TSB to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr W. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I thought that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
I also set out that there may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a 
proportionate check shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any 
indications of borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. I 
kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether TSB did what it needed to before 
providing Mr W with his loan. 
Were TSBs checks reasonable and proportionate
TSB said that Mr Ws loan was considered affordable, in line with its policy, based on what it 
was told during the application. The information TSB gathered at the time suggested it 
concluded Mr W received just over £1,500.00 a month, which was made up of benefits of 
£1,295.00 and a pension of £212. It also looked as though Mr Ws mortgage and joint loan 
commitments were deducted from Mr Ws income as well as additional non-credit related 
expenditure. The result was that TSB concluded the maximum monthly repayment Mr W 
could afford was £518 and the maximum monthly repayment it was prepared to agree to was 
£373. As the monthly repayment of £240.11 for this loan was lower than this, the loan was 
deemed affordable.
I carefully thought about what TSB had said. And I began this section by setting out that it 
didnt automatically follow that a lender will have acted fairly and reasonably when providing 
a loan simply because it acted in line with its policy. I thought that it was important for me to point this out because TSBs casehandler appeared to believe that it was outside my remit to 
uphold a complaint where a lender followed its policy. 
I also pointed out that simply requesting information from a borrower didnt, on its own, mean 
that a lender would have carried out a borrower focused assessment of the borrowers ability 
to sustainably repay a loan. And I was concerned at some of the information TSB appeared 
to have proceeded with in this case.
I was concerned that TSB appeared to have disregarded the payments to Mrs Ws loan 
when assessing the affordability of this loan, even though it has told us that Mrs Ws loan 
was agreed  even though it took up almost all of Mrs Ws income - because it was deemed 
affordable based on Mr and Mrs Ws joint household finances. Given it also argued that    
Mrs Ws loan was affordable because of Mr Ws contribution, I could not see a reasonable 
basis for not including these payments in Mr Ws expenditure for this loan. 
I was also particularly concerned at some of the other omissions on the expenditure side of 
the income and expenditure calculation. For example, there appeared to be nothing 
recorded for motoring costs even though Mrs Ws loan and some of the proceeds of this loan 
were supposed to have been used to buy a car. Secondly even though there was a section 
on the application entitled clothing this had a figure of 0 recorded even though the 
assessment was purporting to assess Mr Ws projected expenditure over the next five years. 
I was also mindful that that this loan was running concurrently with Mrs Ws sole loan and      
Mr W and Mrs Ws joint loan. And the combined payment required from all three loans was 
in excess of £700. I thought this was particularly important here because I also thought that 
TSB didnt properly account for the source of Mr Ws income. 
I wanted to make it clear that I wasnt saying that Mr Ws income being made up of benefits 
and a small pension, on its own, meant that TSB should have declined any application. But 
I did think that TSB ought to have been on notice Mr W was on a fixed income. And, in these 
circumstances, I thought that TSB ought to have been particularly mindful that Mr W could ill 
afford to develop a dependency on credit.
I said this because I thought that there was a greatly reduced prospect of a consumer, in 
Mr Ws position, being able to come into increased funds and use them to completely clear a 
persistent cycle of borrowing  in the way an employed individual mightve been able to. For 
example, as a result of working overtime or maybe getting a bonus. 
And in this case, I was particularly mindful of the fact that this wasnt the first consolidation 
loan Mr W was provided with and the proportion of the household funds going to TSB was 
increasing. I didnt think that it was fair and reasonable for TSB on the one hand to say that 
Mr W unreasonably concluded that the bank would continue to consolidate his debts and 
therefore continued to rely on credit, when it didnt appear to have factored this in as well as 
Mr Ws source of income, when it made its decision to lend.
As there was no evidence that TSB asked for, or considered, further information to properly 
scrutinise the inconsistencies and address the concerns I highlighted, I found that it didnt 
complete fair, reasonable and proportionate affordability checks before providing Mr W with 
his loan.
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before Mr Ws loan was 
provided, I couldnt say for sure what they wouldve shown. And ordinarily I have needed to 
have gone on to decide whether it was more likely than not that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would have told TSB it shouldnt have provided this loan. However, I 
didnt think that it was necessary for me to do that in this case. I said this because this wasnt Mr Ws first loan with TSB and I was mindful that the relevant 
rules and guidance clearly set out that a lender shouldnt continue offering credit where the 
borrowing was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and/or where it was apparent the 
borrower may be experiencing financial difficulties. So in addition to assessing the 
circumstances behind each individual lending decision, I also thought it was fair and 
reasonable to look at what unfolded during the course of Mr Ws relationship with TSB. 
By this stage, I had already explained why I didnt think that reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks were completed for this loan. I had also explained that this wasnt the 
first consolidation loan Mr W (and his household) had been provided with. It appeared as 
though this was the third time TSB (in its current form) consolidated existing debts for Mr Ws 
household. And it was also advancing additional funds  over and above what Mr W already 
owed - when providing this loan. 
From what Id seen, TSBs defence of this complaint in large part relied on the fact that this 
loan had a lower interest rate than the existing debts being consolidated. So if I took TSBs 
argument to its logical conclusion, I saw it as being even if this loan was unaffordable, it still 
wasnt unfair to lend because this loan was less unaffordable then Mr Ws existing 
repayments to his creditors. And therefore Mr W, in any event, didnt lose out as a result of 
having been provided with this loan.
I had concerns with this argument for two reasons. Firstly, I thought that TSB was presenting 
a false dichotomy as it was somehow suggesting that Mr W was faced with a binary choice 
of ether paying his existing creditors an unaffordable amount, or paying TSB a perhaps less 
unaffordable amount. But this ignored the fact that Mr W could have attempted to reach an 
arrangement with his existing creditors to repay what he owed more gradually. After all his 
existing creditors owed a regulatory obligation to exercise forbearance and due 
consideration in the event that he was struggling to repay what he already owed. 
I wasnt suggesting that TSB was required to provide Mr W with debt advice in relation to his 
existing debts and tell him to reach arrangements with his existing creditors instead of 
lending to him. What I was saying was that Mr Ws choice wasnt as binary as TSB appeared 
to be suggesting. And that it didnt automatically follow that Mr W wont have lost out simply 
because his TSB loan had a lower an APR than his existing debts. 
Secondly, TSB advanced Mr W additional funds over and above what he owed elsewhere. 
So while it might have reduced his monthly payment (once again perhaps to a less 
unaffordable payment), it nonetheless increased Mr Ws overall indebtedness. This was     
Mr Ws third consolidation loan and the amount he owed was increasing. Equally, it ought to 
have been apparent that Mr Ws indebtedness was increasing in circumstances where he 
(and the household) was only repaying what he owed by borrowing further. And this, in itself, 
is highlighted as unsustainable within the regulator rules. 
TSB itself noted that Mr and Mrs W appear to have been relying on being provided with a 
further consolidation loan further down the line in order to repay what they owed. I didnt 
think it was fair and reasonable for TSB to argue this while also failing to acknowledge its 
shortcomings in terms of Mr Ws adoption of this repayment strategy. In my view, TSBs 
actions encouraged Mr W to continue kicking the can further down the road. And it was 
clear that the previous consolidation hadnt reduced Mr Ws (and Mrs Ws) overall 
indebtedness  Mr W owed more than he did previously. I also said this while especially 
mindful of what Id already highlighted and commented on when talking about the make-up 
of Mr Ws income in the previous section of this provisional decision. TSB also said that it couldnt have been expected to have known that Mr Ws circumstances 
could change. But given it would have, or at the very least it, ought to have known that the 
term of this loan extended past Mr Ws natural retirement age and his fixed income made it 
unlikely the loan would be repaid early, I thought that TSB ought to have realised that Mr W 
was always going to have to make the payments to this loan past his retirement age. So I 
thought that it ought to have questioned Mr Ws ability to make his loan payments at this 
stage and also queried whether hed still have the same entitlement to benefits at this stage.
Therefore, I thought that a change in Mr Ws circumstances was reasonably foreseeable at 
the outset. And I thought that it was perfectly fair and reasonable to expect TSB to have 
considered Mr Ws ability to make his payments in these circumstances  especially as it 
was increasing the amount he owed. And I didnt think it was fair and reasonable for TSB to 
argue that Mr Ws inability to make his payments was down to an unforeseen change in 
circumstances.   
Given all of TSBs obligations and what I thought was fair and reasonable taking into account 
the circumstances and everything Id covered in this section, I was minded to find that TSB 
ought fairly and reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Ws indebtedness in a way 
that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. And so it shouldnt have provided him with this 
loan.
I then went on to consider the third of the overarching questions set out in my provisional 
decision. I considered that Mr W (and Mrs W) were unhappy that TSB hasnt agreed to 
consolidate all of their loans into one new one. I could understand why Mr and Mrs W may 
have wanted their loans and existing debts consolidated into a single further loan. But I had 
to consider this in the context that Id already concluded that TSB ought to have realised it 
was providing Mr W with a loan that was unsustainable for him in April 2016. As this was the 
case, it would have been unfair for TSB to have consolidated Mr Ws borrowing into a further 
interest-bearing loan at a time when his circumstances had changed for the worse.
In those circumstances, I would expect a lender to exercise forbearance and due 
consideration rather than provide further unsustainable credit. I could see that when Mr W 
got into trouble with this loan, TSB transferred it to its collections, froze the interest and 
attempted to reach a repayment arrangement with Mr W. This was in line with what Id 
expect a lender to do in such circumstances. Albeit I did have some limited concerns over 
whether it was the best decision to pass Mr Ws account to a third-party bearing in mind 
everything that was going on at this stage.  
That said, overall I didnt think TSBs decision to decline a further consolidation loan or pass 
Mr Ws account to collections was unfair in the circumstances. So overall I found that TSB 
didnt also act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr W in some other way.  
In conclusion I set out that, overall and having carefully thought about the three overarching 
questions set out at the start of my provisional decision, I intended to issue a final decision 
which found that:
TSB didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr W to satisfy itself 
that he was able to sustainably repay his loan;
TSB ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that this loan was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful for Mr W and was unfairly and excessively increasing his overall 
indebtedness; 
TSB didnt also act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr W in some other way.These findings left me minded to issue a final decision reaching the overall conclusion that 
TSB unfairly and unreasonably provided Mr W with this loan in April 2016.
I then went on to consider whether Mr W had lost out because of TSBs shortcomings. I 
explained that Mr W paid and is still being expected to pay additional interest and charges as 
a result of being unfairly provided with his loan. I considered TSBs argument that Mr W 
wouldve have paid more interest on his existing commitments had he not been provided 
with this loan. But I had already explained that I didnt think this was automatically the case, 
as it was entirely possible Mr W would have reached an arrangement to repay what he owed 
his existing creditors. And it was perfectly possible this arrangement wouldnt have accrued 
further interest. 
In my view, TSB providing Mr W with this loan meant that he had to pay TSB additional 
interest for the privilege of it allowing him to delay dealing with what, in my view, had already 
become an unsustainable debt position. And I thought that Mr W had to pay this additional 
interest at a time when he was already finding it difficult to repay what he owed. So I was 
satisfied that Mr W has lost out because of what TSB did wrong and that TSB needed to put 
things right. 
I finally set out a method of putting things right, which I thought fairly and reasonably 
addressed TSBs shortcomings and Mr Ws resulting loss.
TSBs response to my provisional decision
TSB didnt respond to my provisional decision or provide anything further for me to think 
about.
Mr Ws response to my provisional decision   
Mrs W, on behalf of Mr W, responded to confirm receipt of my provisional decision and 
acceptance of my findings.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I remain satisfied that there are three overarching 
questions that I need to consider in order to decide what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ws complaint. These questions are:    
Did TSB carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr W 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
Bearing in mind the circumstances was it the case that TSB ought reasonably to 
have realised it was increasing Mr Ws indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable 
or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further credit?
Did TSB act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr W in some other way?
In my provisional decision, I, in some detail, set out my thoughts in relations to these key 
questions and in essence the reasons why I intended to uphold Mr Ws complaint. And as 
neither party has disputed my provisional findings or provided anything further for me to think 
about, I see no reason to depart from these conclusions.  So having carefully thought about the three overarching questions set out above, I still find 
that:
TSB didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr W to satisfy itself 
that he was able to sustainably repay his loan;
TSB ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that this loan was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful for Mr W and was unfairly and excessively increasing his overall 
indebtedness; 
TSB didnt also act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr W in some other way.
These findings leave me reaching the overall conclusion that TSB unfairly and unreasonably 
provided Mr W with this loan in April 2016. As Ive already set out why I think that Mr W lost 
out because of what TSB did wrong, Im satisfied that TSB should put things right. It should 
do this by following the method set out in the next section of this decision.  
Fair compensation  what TSB needs to do to put things right for Mr W
Ive given a lot of careful thought to what fair compensation should look like in this case. 
Ive already explained that Mr Ws real loss here is the interest that TSB has added to this 
loan. So Im satisfied that TSB should make sure that Mr W pays no more than the 
£12,000.00 he was advanced.
Ordinarily, where I find that a lender unfairly provided a borrower with a loan, Id direct the 
lender to remove any adverse information recorded about that loan from the borrowers 
credit file. However, Im mindful of the circumstances of this case and in particular my 
reasons for upholding the complaint. 
Ive upheld Mr Ws complaint on the basis that Mr Ws existing debts, at the time of this 
application, already appear to have been unsustainable and that TSB potentially providing 
him with less unaffordable credit didnt take into account that Mr W may have reached 
arrangements with his existing creditors. But adverse credit information being recorded on
Mr Ws credit file would have been one of the consequences of him reaching arrangements
with his existing creditors.
It would be unreasonable and illogical for me to say that TSB should remove the interest
added to this loan because providing it delayed Mr W dealing with the consequences of his
unsustainable debt, but depart from this conclusion in terms of Mr Ws credit file going
forward. And, in these circumstances, I think that removing adverse information where it was 
more likely than not a lender would have recorded this would place Mr W in a more 
advantageous position. In my view, this would be counterproductive and arguably not in     
Mr Ws best interests, or those of any potential lender.
So having carefully thought about everything, including everything Mr W (and Mrs W on his
behalf) has told us, Im not going to direct TSB to amend Mr Ws credit file to remove any
adverse information.
All of this means that Im satisfied TSB should do the following to put things right for Mr W:
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £12,000.00 originally lent. TSB should treat any payments made should the new starting balance 
be cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mr W;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr W to the date of settlement;
HM Revenue & Customs requires TSB to take off tax from this interest. TSB must give     
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
It appears as though TSB sold the outstanding balance on this account to a third-party debt 
purchaser. If it has it will either need to buy the account back from the third party and make 
the necessary adjustments, pay an amount to the third party in order for it to make the 
necessary adjustments, or pay Mr W an amount to ensure that it fully complies with this 
direction.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision of 6 September 2021, Im 
upholding Mr Ws complaint. TSB Bank Plc should put things right in the way Ive set out 
above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman