DRN-3746148
The complaint
Mr P complains about the way China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd [CT] has handled a 
claim hes made on his buildings insurance policy following subsidence at his property.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties, so Ill provide a summary 
here.
Mr P owns a property which was insured under a buildings insurance policy 
underwritten by CT. He made a subsidence claim in 2020 but CT said Mr P had 
misrepresented the facts when taking out the cover so it avoided the policy and the 
claim wasnt considered against the remaining policy terms. 
Mr P brought a complaint to this Service and one of our Ombudsmen didnt agree Mr 
P had misrepresented the facts and he told CT to:
oReinstate the policy.
oReconsider the claim for subsidence and alternative accommodation against 
the remaining policy terms.
oPay Mr P £1500 for the 20 months of avoidable delays.
This complaint focuses on CTs actions subsequent to this final decision. 
Mr P was unhappy CT wanted to undertake a six-month monitoring period as he 
thought the engineers report he had provided was sufficient for the claim to be 
settled immediately. CT issued a final response in July 2022 and didnt uphold Mr Ps 
complaint, saying engineers confirmed six-months of monitoring was required.  
Mr P raised a further complaint with this Service about the monitoring and CTs 
decline of his alternative accommodation claim. Our Investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. She concluded CT was progressing the claim with no evidence of 
avoidable delays and alternative accommodation wasnt covered by the policy in Mr 
Ps circumstances, although she noted CT would consider this further once repair 
work started if Mr P was left without facilities.
Mr P asked an Ombudsman to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr P feels CT arent complying with the previous Ombudsmans final decision 
as he is of the view CT should be settling the claim based on that decision. As Ive 
detailed above, the direction to CT was to reconsider  distinct from settle - the claim 
against the remaining policy terms. And seemingly this is what it has done. But if Mr 
P disagrees he could try to enforce the previous decision in court as one of my 
colleagues has explained.  
Mr P has also referenced the total length of the claim since it started but as this has 
already been considered under the previous complaint  and an award of £1,500 
made by the Ombudsman for 20 months of avoidable delays  I wont be 
reconsidering this or any of the other things previously looked at by that Ombudsman 
under that complaint.
The focus of this decision is on CTs actions up to the point it issued its final 
response in July 2022 and whether the steps its taken so far in reconsidering Mr Ps 
claim for subsidence and alternative accommodation against the remaining policy 
terms have been fair and reasonable.
Monitoring period
When investigating claims relating to subsidence, its common for insurers to appoint 
experts to investigate and manage claims. Part of this may involve monitoring the 
movement of the property over a period of time to establish the underlying cause, the 
extent of an insurers liability under the claim and to inform the best and most 
appropriate solution to address the issue. I consider this to be good industry practice 
and a prudent approach to ensuring a lasting and effective repair.
In this case, CT appointed engineers who visited and undertook an inspection of the 
property to assess the damage and to recommend what further investigations were 
required. They concluded a 6-month period of monitoring was necessary to assess 
whether the damage was progressive, seasonal or attributable to general 
consolidation. They wanted to gather readings over the growing season to determine 
what aspect of the property was moving and to what extent. 
Ive not seen any opposing professional opinion that says why this wouldnt be 
necessary and as I explained above, its good industry practice.  While Mr Ps 
engineer did comment on the cracks seen in the property and the possible causes in 
its reports in 2015 and 2018, it also acknowledged further investigation would be 
required. Generally, this Service wouldnt interfere with the professional opinion of an 
engineer with regards to what investigative work would be required on a site theyd 
visited. 
Overall, and for the reasons Ive explained, I think it was reasonable for CT to rely on 
the professional opinion of its engineer in saying a six-month period of monitoring 
was necessary.
I note from CTs final response and Mr Ps submissions, he seems to have accepted 
the period of monitoring. 
Alternative accommodation
As a general principle, when making a claim on a policy, the onus is on the consumer 
to show the claim is covered by the policy.
The policy contains the following term regarding alternative accommodation costs 
which I consider relevant to this claim:
oIf we have accepted a claim for damage to the home and the damage means 
your home cannot be lived in, we will payAny reasonable additional accommodation expenses for youThe most we will pay is up to 20% of the 
sum insured for buildings, until the home is ready to live in
So, the key question for me to consider here is whether it could reasonably be said 
Mr Ps home cannot be lived in. The policy doesnt contain a definition of what makes 
a home uninhabitable. Whilst not definitive, this Service generally considers it to be 
where theres no kitchen, bathroom or toilet facilities. Ive not seen anything to 
suggest this applies. Ive then gone on to consider the other evidence Ive been 
provided with.
When undertaking the inspection of the property, the engineers instructed by CT also 
considered whether the property was uninhabitable. While acknowledging the 
damage was widespread, the engineer didnt consider the property to be 
uninhabitable. Theres no indication of any health and safety concerns detailed in his 
report.
Mr P explained on several occasions he and his family heard cracking noises from 
the property, they were concerned about these and this led to them moving out in 
January 2020. 
In August 2020, Mr P did speak to an engineer, and based on what Mr P told him 
during that conversation, the engineer thought it was correct Mr P left the property as 
it may not have been safe to live in. But I have to keep in mind here, this comment 
was not as a result of an inspection undertaken by the engineer but just based on a 
comment made by Mr P on his historic recollection of the noises he said he heard 
before moving out.
Overall, Im more persuaded by the opinion of the engineer instructed by CT as they 
had undertaken an onsite inspection and had been specifically asked to assess and 
comment on the propertys habitability. Overall, Im satisfied it was fair for CT to rely 
on the engineers opinion that the property wasnt uninhabitable and it follows Im 
satisfied it acted reasonably when it declined the claim for alternative 
accommodation.
I note from the file, CT has confirmed it will reconsider a claim for alternative 
accommodation if the remedial work renders the property uninhabitable for a period 
of time. This seems reasonable in the circumstances. 
In summary
For the reasons Ive explained, I wont be asking CT to take any further action on this 
complaint.
The claim is still ongoing and I can understand Mr Ps frustration with the overall time 
taken. I would remind CT of its obligation to handle claims promptly and fairly and Id 
expect it to adhere to this when progressing the claim and remedial work through to 
conclusion. If Mr P is unhappy with CTs actions going forward, he may of course be 
able to bring further complaints to this Service  subject to our usual considerations -
once CT has had the opportunity to consider his concerns.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman