DRN-3275397
The complaint
Mr G complained that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
irresponsibly provided him with unaffordable loans.
What happened
118 118 Money provided Mr G with two loans as follows:
Loan Date taken Amount Term Monthly repayment Date repaid
1 20/09/2016 £1,000 12 months £114.77 22/06/2017
2 22/06/2017 £1,318.11 18 months £116.70 4/03/2018
Mr G applied for loan 1 for the purpose of debt consolidation  in other words, Mr G said he 
would use the loan to repay other debt. When Mr G took out loan 2, he borrowed enough so 
he could use £318.11 to repay the balance outstanding on loan 1 and still leave him with a 
£1,000 to spend. He said the loan purpose was again to consolidate other borrowing. 
When Mr G complained to 118 118 Money it didnt uphold his complaint so he brought his 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint. He didnt think that 118 118 
Money had done anything wrong when it provided the loans. Our adjudicator explained why 
he was recommending that the complaint shouldnt be upheld.   
Mr G disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint so it comes to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
Id like to reassure Mr G that I've looked at the complaint afresh and independently reviewed 
all the available information. Having done so, I am not upholding Mr Gs complaint for 
broadly the same reasons as our adjudicator. Ill explain my reasons. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
118 118 Money gathered some information from Mr G about his income and expenses 
before it agreed the loans. It completed income verification with a third party and checked 
Mr Gs credit file to understand his existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. 
The credit checks 118 118 Money carried out showed that Mr G wasnt involved in any sort 
of arrangement with creditors and bankruptcy wasnt flagged up. He had no active county 
court judgements registered and no significant recent defaults on his record. 
In-between loans 1 and 2, Mr G had increased his reliance on credit. He had opened four 
new accounts and seemed to be making more use of credit cards. But he had available 
credit he wasnt using. Overall, he didnt appear to have an excessive amount of credit for 
someone in his financial situation and it didnt look like he was having problems managing 
his money effectively. He had an overdraft facility at the bank that he didnt appear to have 
been using when 118118 Money ran its loan 2 credit checks so this didnt suggest that he 
was in any serious financial difficulty. 
I think its fair to say that all the information 118 118 Money had gathered tended to suggest 
that Mr G seemed to be managing his credit without any signs that he had a serious debt 
problem. The credit checks 118 118 Money obtained showed that Mr G had previously had 
some money problems and by loan 2, two recently taken out credit cards were close to their 
credit limit. But it wouldnt be unusual for someone applying for this type of lending to have 
other debt  and sometimes even an impaired credit history. And these wouldnt necessarily 
be fair reasons not to lend. 
Although Mr G increased his borrowing with 118 118 Money when he took loan 2, I dont 
think at this early stage this was enough to suggest he had become over-reliant on using 
credit or that 118 118 Money shouldve known he was in financial difficulties at the time. 
I dont think the amount of debt shown on Mr Gs credit checks was excessive having regard 
to his income or that anything else revealed in the credit checks 118 118 Money carried out 
was enough for me to say that a responsible lender shouldve realised it needed to find out 
more before lending or that it should have refused the loan application altogether. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for 118 118 Money to lend here  especially as there wasnt 
anything obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Mr G wouldnt be able to repay the 
loans in a sustainable way. The loans appeared to be affordable looking at Mr Gs income 
and expenditure. And I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required 118 118 Money to 
probe any more deeply into Mr Gs finances or ask Mr G to prove what he was declaring (by 
requiring him to send in his bank statements for instance) or check other information sources 
to verify what he had told the lender (or omitted to say) about his financial circumstances. 
I accept that Mr Gs actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the other information 118 118 Money obtained. But in order to 
uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. In this case, 
I dont think that 118 118 Money did anything wrong in deciding to lend this loan to Mr G. 
And I havent seen enough to make me think that 118 118 Money acted towards Mr G in any 
other way that wasnt fair and reasonable.For these reasons, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this is a disappointing 
outcome for Mr G but hope setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive 
reached my conclusions. Mr G has repaid these loans, but if he would like help to manage 
his spending theres more information about how to get free debt advice and other support 
on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman