DRN-4021288
The complaint
Miss H complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) handled 
a claim under her car insurance policy and handled the administration of her policy. 
What happened
Miss H had a motor insurance policy with Advantage covering her car.
In early October 2022 Miss H was involved in a collision with a third party and she made a 
claim. Advantage assessed that the collision might be non-fault.
There were problems getting her car repaired. Then the car was assessed as being beyond 
economical repair. Miss H wasnt happy with the valuation provided by Advantage and she 
complained. It increased its valuation of her car, and agreed to waive its excess. These 
discussions meant there was a delay making payment for the write-off value.
Miss H purchased another car and paid an extra premium. Advantage had a system error so 
it thought she hadnt paid. It chased her for the money repeatedly.
Throughout the claim and while trying to contact Advantage to sort out the premium payment 
Miss H made repeated calls to Advantage that lasted for a very long time. She was promised 
several calls back that didnt take place.
Advantages system didnt record her new car correctly.
Miss H was unhappy with the original claim and Advantages errors and she complained. 
Advantage agreed its service hadnt been up to expectations and initially awarded her £130, 
and later said it would increase this to £280 compensation. It also agreed to waive the 
additional premium for her new car (£22.78) making a total of £302.78.
Miss H remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into her complaint and upheld it. He thought Advantage should pay Miss H a total of £450 for 
her distress and inconvenience. He also thought it should pay interest at 8% simple for the 
period during which the payment for the car was delayed.
Advantage accepted the view. 
Miss H didnt think the compensation was sufficient given the length of time it has taken 
Advantage to deal with her issues and the work shed had to do to chase it up. She thought 
a figure of £630 would be more appropriate. 
She asked for the decision to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from later correspondence that the situation is a little unclear and Miss H has said 
that Advantage has lied about the amount it has paid her. 
Im therefore going to sum up the current position as I understand it in order to bring some 
clarity:
Miss H has accepted the write-off value of her car and this amount has been paid. 
Advantage has not deducted the excess, so she received the full write-off amount.
Miss H tried to pay an additional premium of £23.27 but this amount was refunded.
Advantage has waived the additional premium of £22.78 it charged Miss H for her 
new car.
Advantage has paid Miss H £130 total compensation for its claims delays and its 
poor handling of this additional premium. This was paid in two parts; £100 + £30.
Advantage has offered Miss H additional £150 compensation, but she hasnt 
accepted it. 
Advantage has agreed to pay Miss H 8% simple interest on the difference in the 
delayed write-off payment.
Our investigator said Advantage should pay a total of £450 compensation, which it 
accepted, but Miss H didnt.
The £450 compensation would include the figures mentioned above of £130 + 
£22.78 + £150. It would be increased to £450 to take account of Miss Hs distress 
and inconvenience.
The 8% simple interest on the change in the write-off value would be paid on top of 
this figure. 
Having read the file, its clear to me that Advantages service throughout Miss Hs claim and 
change of vehicle has been poor. 
Miss H has told this service about the delays shes encountered, and the long calls shes 
had to make to try and resolve her claim.
I can see that Miss H seems to have been charged a different additional premium than she 
should have, when she changed her vehicle. I suspect that this different amount then caused 
issues in Advantages system, which is why it was refunded to her, and then Miss H was 
chased by Advantage for payment of the correct amount.
Miss H has said that she believes Advantage has lied about the amount it has paid her. Ive 
looked into this and I think theres been a misunderstanding of what has been paid and 
promised. But I dont think Advantage has lied to Miss H.
Because Miss H has now accepted the write-off valuation of her car, Im therefore left to 
establish the level of distress and inconvenience shes been caused by Advantage. I think 
this has been significant. Its left her distressed because of the lack of clarity and service she 
thought she would receive. I can see from her evidence that shes spent a significant amount of time on the phone chasing up matters, and Advantage hasnt called her back when it 
promised to.
Ive considered this services guidelines about the level of compensation thats appropriate in 
Miss Hs situation, and I think a total of £450 is appropriate. This would include the £130 
Advantage has already paid, and the £22.78 it has waived. So it would pay an additional 
amount of £297.22 to Miss H.
Ive said above that I also think Advantage should pay 8% simple interest on the revised 
vehicle value amount.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I direct Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Miss H:
A total of £450 compensation. Im aware payments and credits totalling £152.78 have 
already been made. 
8% simple interest on the difference between the vehicle valuation figures, from the 
date Advantages suppliers initially made the lower offer, to the date Advantage 
offered the uplifted figure to Miss H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman