DRN-3590999
The complaint
Mr Y complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) mishandled his 
claim that he was double charged by a hotel.
What happened
Mr Y booked a day stay at a hotel and was quoted £49. He noted that the hotel had made a 
separate charge on his AESEL account for £98. He contacted the hotel and it offered to 
refund him in US dollars, but he didnt consider this was acceptable.
He contacted AESEL on 26 September 2021 and it asked for supporting evidence but gave 
him only one day to respond before closing his claim. On 7 October he complained and the 
dispute was reopened There was some confusion within AESEL which resulted in some 
duplication. However, it asked for further information. It says that it was given the two 
invoices for the two charges made by the hotel and a booking confirmation email. After a 
period of several weeks it decided not to pursue a chargeback and it closed his dispute on 
25 November 2021.
AESEL rejected Mr Ys complaint and he brought the matter to this service. It was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.
On the matter of duplication he noted this had resulted in AESEL sending contradictory 
letters. However, he was satisfied that AESEL had properly considered the claim and 
rectified the matter. 
He considered the merits of the claim and spoke to the hotel which gave an explanation for 
the two invoices. On balance he thought the chargeback claim was unlikely to succeed and 
so he concluded that AESEL had not done anything materially wrong.
Mr Y did t agree and said that the hotels explanation was not as compelling as our 
investigator thought. He believed undue weight had been given to it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mr Y but I do not consider his complaint should be upheld. I will 
explain why.
It may help if I explain the chargeback system. Chargeback doesn't mean there is joint 
liability on the card company. It is a voluntary scheme administered by the card provider. 
The consumer makes a claim to their bank and it puts a request to the merchant's bank. But 
there are no guarantees the consumers bank will be able to recover the money through 
chargeback, or that the merchant will accept that the claim is justified. If the bank feels that a 
claim won't be successful, they don't have to raise a chargeback.
My role is not to decide the outcome of a chargeback, but to decide if it was handled 
properly by AESEL. 
I agree that in the first instance the business did not give Mr Y sufficient time to submit 
evidence in support of his claim. One day was not enough time to allow him to deliver the 
material he wanted in support of the claim. If AESEL had not reopened the claim I may well 
have upheld Mr Ys complaint. However, it did rectify the matter and gave Mr Y sufficient 
time to provide the evidence. 
He supplied the invoices and booking confirmation email. AESEL rook the view that this 
wasnt sufficient to show the second charge by the hotel was wrong. That meant it didnt 
consider a chargeback had a chance of succeeding. I think that is a reasonable conclusion 
to have reached. 
Subsequent to his initial claim Mr Y has provided further evidence to this service about the 
events which led to the second charge and it may well be that the second charge is 
incorrect, but AESEL had to rely on the evidence it had received at the time. As a result I can 
only conclude that it reached a reasonable decision. If the additional material Mr Y has 
supplied to this service been available to AESEL it may have reached a different conclusion. 
As for the opening of two claims I am satisfied this was an administrative oversight, but it 
was rectified and I do not consider AESEL need take any further action. 
On balance I have concluded that I do not consider I can uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman