DRN-3238349
The complaint
Mrs W and Mr W complain that Bank of Scotland Group plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold 
them two life assurance policies when they re-mortgaged in 2004 and 2009.  
What happened
Mrs W and Mr W transferred their mortgage to a repayment mortgage in 2004. Bank of 
Scotland recommended a level term assurance policy to protect the mortgage of £61,467 
over 15 years. The policy included £37,500 life cover and £57,000 critical illness cover on a 
joint life basis for the term of the re-mortgage. And, there was additional life and critical 
illness cover of £6,763 provided by a Mortgage Cover Plan (MCP) with Bank of Scotland. 
Around this time, Mrs W and Mr W encashed an endowment policy previously assigned to 
Bank of Scotland that had £14,500 of life cover. They still held another endowment policy 
that provided £19,500 life cover until January 2014. 
In May 2009, Mrs W and Mr W had a further re-mortgage with Bank of Scotland. They 
borrowed a total of £104,450 until 2023 on a repayment basis. The policy Bank of Scotland 
recommended was a decreasing term assurance plan that provided life cover of £104,450 
and £57,000 critical illness cover for the term of the mortgage. Bank of Scotland say Mrs W 
and Mr W had confirmed there was £47,450 critical illness cover in place.
Mrs W and Mr W complained to Bank of Scotland that theyd been mis-sold the two life 
policies in 2004 and 2009. And that theyd been pressured into taking the policies when they 
werent a condition of the borrowing. Mrs W and Mr W said they had some existing cover 
Bank of Scotland hadnt considered, and when the mortgage was paid off, Bank of Scotland 
didnt tell them how to cancel the policies.
Bank of Scotland provided a final response and didnt uphold Mrs W and Mr Ws complaints, 
and they brought their complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into things for them and thought that a decreasing term 
cover policy wouldve been more suitable than the level term policy Bank of Scotland 
recommended in 2004. Our investigator thought Bank of Scotland should have made it clear 
to Mrs W and Mr W that another provider may have been able to provide this type of cover. 
And, to put matters right, Bank of Scotland should work out the difference between what they 
paid in monthly premiums for the policy and what they would have paid for a decreasing 
term assurance policy. If, after doing that, Mrs W and Mr W had paid more in premiums than 
they would otherwise have done, Bank of Scotland should return the difference in the 
premiums. And add simple interest at the rate of 8%* per year from the date each premium 
was paid up to the date of settlement.
In respect of the 2009 policy, our investigator thought Bank of Scotland didnt take account 
of the existing endowment policy Mrs W and Mr W had. And said that Bank of Scotland 
should work out the difference between what Mrs W and Mr W paid in premiums for the 
decreasing term assurance policy and what they would have paid for a policy that had 
£14,500 less life cover. If, after doing that, Mrs W and Mr W had paid more in premiums than 
they would otherwise have done, Bank of Scotland should return the difference in the 
premiums and add simple interest at the rate of 8%* per year from the date each premium 
was paid up to the date of settlement.
Neither Mrs W and Mr W nor Bank of Scotland responded to the view our investigator sent, 
so the case has been passed to me to decide.  
As I reached a significantly different conclusion to our Investigator I issued a provisional 
decision. I invited further comments from Mrs W and Mr W and Bank of Scotland. In my 
provisional decision I said:
The 2004 re-mortgage
At the time of this re-mortgage, Mrs W and Mr W had three policies in place. There were 
two endowments and an existing MCP. However, one of the endowments was encashed 
around the time and this left a shortfall in life and critical illness cover. At the same time, 
the mortgage was switched from an interest only mortgage to a repayment mortgage.
Although Mrs W and Mr W believe Bank of Scotland should have taken into account other 
protection they had with their employers, this type of protection isnt normally suitable to 
consider when protecting a mortgage. This is because the cover provided will likely end if 
employment ends and the cover isnt guaranteed for the full term. So, I consider it 
reasonable Bank of Scotland didnt take this cover into account.
Bank of Scotland did take into account Mrs W and Mr W had £19,500 life cover within an 
endowment policy and recommended the shortfall be protected. The shortfall of life and 
critical illness cover in 2004 was £37,500 and £57,000 respectively. I therefore consider it 
was suitable for Bank of Scotland to recommend cover for these amounts and for the full 
term of the mortgage. However, at the time, Bank of Scotland wasnt able to offer a 
decreasing term cover policy. Instead they recommended a level term cover policy. 
Bank of Scotland recommended a level term policy to protect Mrs W and Mr Ws 
repayment mortgage. This cover wasnt right for Mrs W and Mr W, as it wouldnt go down 
in line with their mortgage. So, as the remaining mortgage reduced, the cover would have 
remained the same  which means they were paying for cover they didnt need. 
A decreasing term assurance policy would have been better  as this type of cover would 
have reduced in line with the remaining mortgage amount. Had this been made clear to 
Mrs W and Mr W, I dont think theyd have taken out the policy recommended. So, I 
consider Bank of Scotland should have recommended a decreasing term assurance 
instead, as Mrs W and Mr W did have a need for this type of cover. 
Im satisfied that Bank of Scotland took into account the life cover provided by the 
endowment policy. So, I intend asking them to work out the difference between what Mrs 
W and Mr W paid in monthly premiums for the 2004 policy and what they wouldve paid 
for a decreasing term assurance policy that provided the same initial life and critical 
illness cover over the same term. If, after doing that, Mrs W and Mrs W paid more in 
premiums than they would otherwise have done, Bank of Scotland should return the 
difference in the premiums to Mr and Mrs W and add simple interest at the rate of 8%* 
per year from the date each premium was paid up to the date of settlement.
The 2009 re-mortgage
When Mrs W and Mr W took out further borrowing in 2009, Bank of Scotland 
recommended a decreasing term assurance policy for the full term of the mortgage. The 
policy had life cover of £104,450 and critical illness cover of £57,000. Bank of Scotland have told us Mrs W and Mr W had existing critical illness cover of £47,450 in place. And 
Ive seen this is recorded within a letter Bank of Scotland sent to Mrs W and Mr W on 21 
May 2009. The letter was a summary of the information theyd used to make a 
recommendation. It was in the demands and needs section of the letter. The same letter 
explained the policy recommended was optional and not a condition of the mortgage.
Im satisfied that there was a need for life cover at the time of this re-mortgage and that 
this policy was intended to replace the existing policy Bank of Scotland sold in 2004. Im 
satisfied Bank of Scotland recommended a suitable policy based on the information 
theyd collected from Mrs W and Mr W at the time. And that the life cover and critical 
illness cover this policy provided was suitable to protect the mortgage amount for the full 
term. I consider its likely the letter of 21 May 2009 gave Mrs W and Mr W an opportunity 
to review the recommendations made and highlight any issues with the level of cover.
I can see that Mrs W and Mr W may have still held an endowment policy providing 
£19,500 of life cover which was due to mature in November 2014. Ive thought about 
whether Bank of Scotland should have considered this as suitable to protect some of the 
2009 borrowing. However, as Ive already explained, Bank of Scotland recorded there 
was no additional life cover to consider. And they explained this to Mrs W and Mr W at 
the time. I consider its more likely than not that this endowment policy had been 
encashed, or Mrs W and Mr W intended that it wouldnt be used to reduce their mortgage 
balance when it matured in 2014. 
So, taking all of the circumstances at the time of the 2009 re-mortgage into account, Im 
persuaded the recommendation made by Bank of Scotland was suitable. And they dont 
need to take any further action. The policy provided suitable life cover for the full term of 
the mortgage, which no existing policy could. And it provided critical illness cover to 
protect the shortfall for the full term of the mortgage too.
Ive noted that Mrs W and Mr W say they were never told that when they paid off their 
mortgage how the policy taken in 2009 could be cancelled. However, Ive seen that Bank 
of Scotland wrote to Mr W on 4 May 2016 and told him that he could continue with the 
cover. Or that he could write to them to let them know if they wanted to cancel the policy. 
Bank of Scotland have provided evidence the policy continued until a claim was made on 
the critical illness part of the policy in 2019. So, Im persuaded its more likely Bank of 
Scotland did tell Mrs W and Mr W how to cancel the policy, but Mrs W and Mr W chose to 
keep the policy after the mortgage ended in 2016. Theres no evidence they contacted 
Bank of Scotland to cancel the policy between 2016 and 2019, when they made a claim.
Bank of Scotland accepted my provisional decision without further comment.
Mrs W and Mr W say theyd made another complaint to Bank of Scotland that had been 
settled. And that the complaint I am now considering has similar evidence. Mrs W and Mr W 
believe that because of this I should uphold the complaints and direct Bank of Scotland to 
refund all of the premiums they paid plus interest. I will address Mrs W and Mr Ws 
comments in my final decision below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W and Mr W did complain to Bank of Scotland about the sale of a different type of 
insurance policy in 2013 and they received a settlement in this regard. The policies Mrs W 
and Mr W complained about in 2013 were payment protection insurance policies.I appreciate that Mrs W and Mr W feel that the 2004 and 2009 policies were sold in similar 
circumstances, but that is not the case. The policies Bank of Scotland sold in 2004 and 2009 
were life policies that protected a mortgage on death or critical illness. Bank of Scotland 
identified a need for such cover based on the information obtained from Mrs W and Mr W. 
I consider the 2004 policy should have been a decreasing term policy and not a level term 
policy. The mortgage was on a repayment basis, so a decreasing term policy would have 
been more suitable. In this regard, because there was a need identified for life and critical 
illness cover to be in place, Bank of Scotland should take steps to put Mrs W and Mr W back 
into the position they would have been in if the policy had been a decreasing term policy. 
In respect of the 2014 policy, this provided suitable life and critical illness cover for the new 
mortgage and for the full term. The level of cover was based on the information Mrs W and 
Mr W provided at the time. And Bank of Scotland had confirmed to Mrs W and Mr W why the 
policy was suitable in a separate letter shortly after the policy was recommended.
Having considered Mrs W and Mr Ws comments, I see no reason to change the findings 
that are set out above or the outcome that was set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold part of Mrs W and Mr Ws complaint in respect of the 2004 term assurance policy. 
Bank of Scotland, trading as Halifax, should work out what Mrs W and Mr W paid in monthly 
premiums for the 2004 policy, and what they would have paid for a decreasing term 
assurance policy for the same initial sum assured and term. If, after doing that, Mrs W and 
Mr W paid more in premiums than they would otherwise have done, Bank of Scotland should 
return the difference in the premiums and add simple interest at the rate of 8%* per year 
from the date each premium was paid up to the date of settlement.
*If Bank of Scotland, trading as Halifax, considers that they are required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs W and Mr W how much 
they have taken off. They should also give Mrs W and Mr W a tax deduction certificate if they 
ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman