DRN-3748976
The complaint
Mr D and Mr R complain Skipton Building Society said the Early Repayment Charge (ERC)
on their mortgage would take account of a 10% overpayment allowance on the mortgage, 
when they ported the mortgage and reduced their borrowing. But it didnt reduce their ERC.
What happened
Whilst the complaint is brought by both Mr D and Mr R. as the mortgage is in both their
names, all of our dealings have been with Mr R. So Ill mainly refer to him below.
Mr D and Mr R planned to move house. They had taken out a mortgage with Skipton on their
existing home in 2019, and had a five year fixed interest rate, running until 2024. They first
planned to move to a new build home, which would have reduced their mortgage somewhat.
But the timings didnt work for the first property theyd hoped to buy, so Mr D and Mr R went
ahead with a different purchase.
Mr R said he discussed with their financial advisor at the time whether any ERC would be
reduced to take account of the 10% overpayment allowance on their mortgage. Mr R said
their advisor told them it would be reduced, and shed confirmed this with Skipton.
Mr R said they were worried because neither redemption statement, for the first or second
planned purchase, reflected that their ERC would be reduced when they were porting their
mortgage. So they asked for clarification on this. Mr R said they believed they would pay
some early repayment charges, but this would be calculated after any 10% overpayment
allowance was considered. So they thought they would pay around £800-£900. But they said
Skipton wouldnt confirm in writing what they would actually pay.
Mr R said he spoke to Skipton, and it confirmed the ERC would be based on the amount of
the mortgage they were repaying, but it would be reduced based on the 10% overpayment
allowance. Mr R said Skipton confirmed this on calls on 2 September and 4 October.
The house sale and purchase completed on 8 October, and Mr D and Mr R said they were
charged around £2,600. They said they didnt know this was going to happen until the day of
completion. They said theyd complained, and Skipton initially said it would give them this
money back. But then it refused. And they said emails showed Skipton had confirmed the
ERC would be waived providing they ported the mortgage and completed on the same day.
Mr R said when Skipton responded to their complaint, it accepted theyd been given wrong
information, but said the ERC had been charged in line with their original mortgage. So it
wouldnt refund the ERC. It would only pay £350 in compensation.
Mr R said that didnt make up for what had happened. Theyd had to borrow money for
urgent work on the new house, which theyd expected to be able to pay for themselves.
Mr R thought Skipton should at least do what it originally offered, and reduce the ERC on
their mortgage. So it should refund £1,777.50 as a minimum, but probably the whole ERC
theyd been charged. And he thought it should pay more compensation. They asked for total
compensation in the order of £3,250.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He understood this had been
upsetting and stressful for Mr D and Mr R, but he did think Skiptons response was fair. He
said although it can be concerning to see the full ERC on the statements, that wasnt unfair,
it was standard practice, and he explained why thats done.
Our investigator did agree that Skipton had made mistakes, but he couldnt see that Skipton
then agreed to pay the ERC back. And he said Skipton had followed the terms of Mr D and
Mr Rs original mortgage. So he thought it didnt have to pay this money back.
Our investigator didnt think Mr D and Mr R would have done anything differently if theyd
been given correct advice on how the ERC would be calculated. He thought they would still
have gone ahead with the house move, and paid the fees. So he thought that a payment of
£350 fairly reflected the impact of the customer service failings on Mr D and Mr R.
Mr R replied. He said he and Mr D were glad our investigator agreed Skipton had made
mistakes, but didnt think hed got the outcome right. Mr R was unhappy that we didnt intend
to penalise Skipton for its clear errors. He wanted to stress that these errors were repeated,
and theyd relied on what Skipton said.
Mr R didnt think it was relevant to ask if they would have behaved differently if theyd
received correct advice. But he said with hindsight, they thought they wouldnt have
continued with the purchase of the house they bought. They said if theyd found out earlier
about the ERC they could have tried to make arrangements to fund an overpayment without
penalty. And they also had a reservation on a different, and more expensive property. Given
the extra costs, they could have bought that property instead, not decreased their mortgage,
and not incurred any ERC. But they said they werent able to make informed decisions,
because they got no proper advice from Skipton.
They said they were certain that they wouldnt have ended up with thousands in fees, and
having to go into personal debt. They expected the ERC to be paid back, with interest on
top. And they said that our service had told lenders to refund an ERC before. They quoted
two previous cases which they said were similar, and set a precedent.
Mr R said that he and Mr D wanted this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it
was passed to me for a final decision. I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold it 
in part. This is what I said then: 
I understand that Mr R may not have read his 2019 mortgage offer, when trying to 
resolve the issue of how an ERC would be calculated when he reduced the amount of 
his mortgage. But I do think its clear from the 2019 terms that Skipton wouldnt make 
any allowance for the 10% overpayment allowance when someone moves, ports a 
mortgage, and reduces the amount of their borrowing. The original terms say You can 
use the 10% overpayment allowance up to 5 working days before the redemption of 
your mortgage.
Mr R said he hadnt understood how this would work, because he didnt think porting a 
mortgage counts as a redemption, but the 2019 terms set out how portability works, like 
this  If you complete on your new loan at the same time as you redeem your existing 
loan no early repayment charge will be payable.So its clear that porting does involve the redemption of the existing loan. And those 
terms then go on to say If you do not port your loan in full, an early repayment charge 
will be payable on the balance not being ported.
I think that Skipton followed the terms of Mr Rs mortgage when it charged an ERC on 
the full amount by which his mortgage was being reduced.
Mr R said his advisor told him Skipton would include the 10% overpayment allowance 
when he reduced his mortgage, so an ERC would be based on the amount of the 
mortgage reduction, minus 10% of the overall lending. Its perhaps surprising that a 
mortgage broker would give this advice, as this isnt the usual approach taken by 
lenders, and its not in line with Mr Rs existing mortgage. But I note Mr Rs broker said 
Skipton confirmed this to her.
Mr R didnt get anything in writing which said this from Skipton. So he rang Skipton. And 
it's not in dispute that Skipton gave Mr R incorrect advice on two calls, which happened 
on 2 September and 4 October. On both of those calls, Mr R outlined his understanding 
that when an ERC was calculated, Skipton would treat part of the payment he and Mr D 
made for redemption, as an overpayment. Then it would calculate the ERC based on 
the amount which was left owing after this. Skiptons staff wrongly confirmed that to Mr 
R, on each call.
Our investigator asked about the impact of this misinformation, and Mr R said he didnt 
think this was really relevant, Skipton should be penalised anyway for giving wrong 
information. But our service isnt a regulator, and we dont have powers to penalise firms 
for their mistakes. Rather, we try to provide a fair and reasonable outcome in the 
particular circumstances of each complaint. So it is important to think about how this 
impacted Mr R and Mr D, and what might have happened differently if theyd been given 
correct information.
Mr R and Mr D set out the impact of this on them personally. They said they only found 
out on the day of completion that they would be charged an ERC on the whole reduction 
on their mortgage. But Mr R also sent us an email dated two days before completion, 
where he says Skiptons ERC has been calculated without giving credit for the 
overpayment allowance. He said then that he and Mr D would need to complete on this 
basis, and at their risk.
I appreciate that only two days before completion is very late for the position to be 
confirmed, and in reality Mr R and Mr D had few real choices then. So I need to think 
about what would have happened if the correct position had been confirmed earlier.
Mr R said he mightve been able to pay the 10% overpayment in advance, though he 
accepts this wouldve been difficult. From what hes said, I dont think its likely that Mr R 
and Mr D would have achieved this. But I also think, because Skiptons advice was 
confused and unhelpful, they lost the chance to try. Ill bear that in mind when I think 
about compensation.
Mr R also said he and Mr D had a reservation on a new-build property, and they could 
have bought that instead. But Mr R also said they didnt buy this because the timetable 
for this property had changed. And hes referred to them having their heart set on the 
place they did buy. For those reasons, I think its unlikely they wouldve bought the more 
expensive house.Finally, Mr R said that what would not have happened is the position he and Mr D had 
ended up in, of having to take on new personal debt when they moved. The purpose of 
their move was to reduce their mortgage and their personal debt, all at once. So Mr R 
said he was planning this carefully, and watching costs closely. But all this was upended 
when he discovered he would be charged an ERC on the full amount of the mortgage 
reduction.
Because Mr R phoned Skipton about this twice, and because each time he was 
concerned to work out how much ERC he would be paying, I do think its likely that he 
was keeping a very close eye on costs. And because Skipton wasnt giving him the right 
advice, but instead endorsed his misunderstanding of how the ERC would be 
calculated, he was planning on the wrong basis. Again, Ill bear this in mind when Im 
thinking about compensation.
I do think Skipton followed the terms Mr R and Mr D agreed to in 2019, when it charged 
an ERC in 2021 on the full amount of their mortgage reduction. I dont think Skipton has 
to pay this back. Mr R says there is precedent for our service telling firms to do so, but 
each decision of this service is made on its own merits, and here, because I dont think 
its most likely Mr R and Mr D wouldve avoided paying the ERC if they had correct 
advice at all stages, I dont think its fair and reasonable for me to ask Skipton to repay 
the ERC in full.
But I do think Skipton should pay more than the £350 it offered. Mr R and Mr D are 
clearly deeply disappointed and upset by what has happened. And although I think its 
most likely they would still be in broadly the same position now if theyd been given 
correct advice, they werent able to make fully and properly informed decisions about 
their purchase. They also lost the chance, however slim, of avoiding the full amount of 
the ERC they were charged.
For those reasons, I think Skipton should pay a total of £600 in compensation.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Skipton replied, to say it had no further points to add, and it would agree to pay £600 in 
compensation. Mr D and Mr R didnt reply.
Neither side has offered any further evidence or argument, and I havent changed my mind. 
Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Skipton Building Society must pay Mr R and Mr D £600 in 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman