DRN-3258437
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined a claim he made 
for subsidence under his home insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint isnt in dispute, so Ill summarise the key points:
Mr P took out a home insurance policy in 2020. It was underwritten by Red Sands.
Later that year, he discovered a possible subsidence problem and got in touch with 
Red Sands. It appointed a loss adjuster to inspect the damage.
Red Sands declined the claim. It said when Mr P took out the policy, he said there 
had been a previous subsidence problem at the property  and he had certain 
evidence to show it had been dealt with properly. Whilst Mr P had some evidence, it 
wasnt the specific documentation Red Sands had asked for.
Red Sands said it wouldnt have offered a policy including subsidence cover if it had 
known Mr P didnt have the specific documents it had asked for. Because of that, it 
said subsidence cover had been removed and his claim was declined.
Mr P thought this was unfair. He said hed openly disclosed the history of subsidence 
to Red Sands. And as he had evidence to show the repairs had been completed, he 
honestly believed hed answered the questions correctly to the best of his ability. He 
noted he wasnt a builder and considered himself a layman in this subject matter.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She said the relevant law 
required Mr P to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. And, overall, 
hed fulfilled that by showing the previous subsidence problem had been dealt with. 
She asked Red Sands to reinstate the subsidence cover and consider the claim.
Red Sands disagreed. It made a number of points, which Ill summarise:
oIt requires specific documentation to manage the risk it takes on.
oIf Mr P had any doubt about the information he was providing when taking out 
the policy, he could have used email or the chat function to check.
oMr P should know more than a layman given his experience buying a 
property with a previous subsidence problem. He should have mitigated the 
risk of buying such a property, including getting a structural report, carrying 
out research and ensuring all documentation is in place.
oThe damage may be linked to previous problems and/or existed prior to the 
policy starting.
An agreement couldnt be reached, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This dispute has arisen because Red Sands considers Mr P misrepresented his 
circumstances when he took out the policy in 2020.
The relevant law for this situation is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (or CIDRA). In summary, under CIDRA, Mr P was required to 
take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. If he fulfilled that duty, Red Sands 
has no remedy and must continue with the policy as it is. If he didnt, Red Sands may have 
remedies available  such as retrospectively removing subsidence cover.
The first step is to consider the relevant question asked. Its in two parts. In the first, Mr P 
told Red Sands the property had previously had subsidence, so I dont think that part is in 
dispute. In the second, Mr P is asked to complete a sentence by selecting an option. The 
sentence says:
I [select option] able to provide a certificate of adequacy or chartered surveyors 
report to evidence that previous subsidence was adequately rectified and there are 
no ongoing issues or further movement.
Mr P was asked to select between two options: am or am not. He selected am.
Red Sands says Mr P should have selected am not. And had he done so, it would not have 
offered subsidence cover on the policy. Im satisfied from the evidence provided by Red 
Sands that selecting am not would have led to it offering a policy without subsidence cover.
Under CIDRA, Mr P is required to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. 
Amongst other things, this means he must answer questions to the best of his knowledge 
and belief  based on what he ought reasonably to have known at that point in time.
The sentence asks Mr P to confirm hes able to provide specific documentation. It also 
explains the broader purpose of this documentation  to show the problem was dealt with 
properly and to show there are no further problems.
Mr P accepts he doesnt have the specific documents Red Sands asked for. So I think its 
fair to say his answer wasnt correct  he wasnt able to provide those things. But under 
CIDRA, the test is whether Mr P took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation  not 
whether he was strictly correct.
Mr P says he answered to the best of his knowledge and honestly thought the information he 
had would fulfil the Red Sands requirements. I understand thats why he didnt feel the need 
to ask Red Sands for clarification. Ive considered the information hes provided.
When Mr P bought the property in 2014, I understand he was provided information by the 
seller about the previous subsidence claim from 2010. This included:
Confirmation the subsidence claim had been accepted by the then insurer
A loss adjuster explaining the cause of the problem was leaking drains
Evidence to show the location and extent of the drainage work required and 
confirmation it was completed
Evidence to show significant building work was carried out shortly afterMr P also provided a mortgage valuation from when he bought the property in 2014. It said 
there was no evidence of structural movement and didnt recommend a specialist report. It 
described the property as being in good condition both internally and externally. The report 
was written by a member of a recognised surveying professional body. So I think Mr P was 
entitled to consider it a reliable source of information about the property.
I dont agree that Mr P should be considered more experienced in this subject matter than a 
layman. Im not aware he has previous experience with buildings, subsidence or insurance 
claims for these things. He bought a house with a subsidence history and relied on a survey 
carried out by an expert which didnt identify any problems. Whilst he could have gone 
further and taken more advice, I dont think he was required to.
In my experience, a certificate of adequacy is usually issued by an insurer at the end of a 
subsidence claim. It tends to confirm what caused the subsidence, that the movement was 
stopped, and repairs were carried out. It isnt a guarantee against future movement or further 
subsidence claims  related to the previous problem or otherwise. It simply shows the 
problem was dealt with properly at the time.
In my view, the evidence Mr P has provided achieves broadly the same as the certificate 
would do. It shows the subsidence problem was dealt with in the usual way by an insurer  
but it cant rule out the possibility of further subsidence problems. So I dont think Red Sands 
has been disadvantaged in this case because the information from the previous claim hasnt 
been provided in a certificate format. And Mr P has shown that no concerns were identified 
when he bought the property, which goes beyond what a certificate would show.
I recognise Red Sands main point  it asked for a certificate or report and hasnt received 
either. But I think the nature of the question asked makes clear what the overall purpose of 
these documents are. And in these circumstances, as the other documentation Mr P has 
provided serves the same purpose, Im satisfied that overall Mr P has fulfilled what Red 
Sands asked for. Im not persuaded Red Sands has shown that Mr P failed to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. That means Red Sands has no remedy 
and must continue with the policy as it is.
To put things right, Red Sands should reinstate the subsidence cover. It should also 
consider the claim.
Red Sands had begun doing that. I know it had concerns about the timing of the damage, 
and the loss adjuster suggested monitoring to see how the damage developed before 
deciding on the next steps. So I dont think a conclusion about the subsidence problem was 
reached before the claim was declined when subsidence cover was removed. That means 
the claim hasnt been fully investigated or considered yet.
Because of that, I dont think it would be fair on either party for me to make a finding on the 
outcome of the claim at this stage. It will need further consideration and investigation by Red 
Sands.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to:
Reinstate subsidence cover to the policy
Consider the claim, subject to the terms and conditions of the policy
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman