DRN-3147444
The complaint
Mr J says Morses Club PLC lent to him irresponsibly. He says that he was in financial 
difficulty when the loans were arranged. He thinks if Morses had made better checks it 
wouldve seen this and not lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about four home collected loans Morses provided to Mr J between 
September 2018 and December 2019. Some of the information I have been provided about 
the lending is in the table below. 
loan date taken amount instalments repayment date repaid
1 19/09/2018 £300 33 £15 09/05/2019
2 30/01/2019 £200 33 £25 19/09/2019
3 09/05/2019 £500 33 £35 27/12/2019
4 27/12/2019 £500 34 £25 20/08/2020
The repayments are the combined amounts Mr J paid if more than one loan was running at 
once. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She didnt think that Morses was wrong to 
have approved loans 1 and 2. But she thought that the repayments for loan 3 (when it was 
added to loan 2) were too high a proportion of Mr Js income and so Morses shouldnt have 
approved loans 3 and 4.  
Morses agreed that it shouldnt have approved loan 3 for the same reasons the adjudicator 
said. But it still thought that it was right to have approved loan 4. This was because Mr Js 
income had increased, and he was only paying for this one loan, and so it was now 
affordable. 
Mr J agreed with the adjudicators opinion and so he didnt accept the offer that Morses 
made following the adjudicators opinion.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr J 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Js complaint in part, and Ive explained why below.
Mr J accepted our adjudicators opinion not to uphold loans 1 and 2. And Morses has agreed 
that it shouldnt have approved loan 3. Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing 
disagreement about these loans. And Ive included the offer Morses has made about loan 3 
in my putting things right section below. In this decision Ill concentrate on whether Morses 
should have approved loan 4. 
Our adjudicator upheld loan 3. This is because Mr Js income was recorded as being £150 a 
week. And whilst Mr Js recorded expenditure was recorded as £72 a week, the combined 
loan repayments of £35 a week were still too much to pay as a proportion of this income. 
This is now agreed. 
At loan 4 Mr Js income had risen to £250 a week - and it had also been higher than £150 for 
loans 1 and 2. And Mr Js expenditure had risen to just over £90 a week. Mr J had paid off 
loan 3 by the time he started loan 4. As Mr J seems to have some spare income when it 
approved loan 4, I can see why Morses thinks it was right to approve the loan.  
But, as Ive said above, the pounds and pence affordability of a loan is only part of the 
consideration here. Mr Js income seems to have been variable, as was his expenditure. So, 
Im not persuaded that these snapshots give the full picture. Added to this, at loan 4, Mr J 
had now been borrowing for 15 months without a break and the amounts he borrowed had 
generally increased. This, to me, points to a sustained and increasing need for this type of 
credit. Which makes it unlikely that loan 4 was sustainable. So, having thought about everything, I dont think that Morses should have approved loan 4. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr J from loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr J may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how he would (or ought 
to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is impossible to 
now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can 
fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would have been 
able to lend to Mr J in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr J would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mr J loans 3 and 4.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr J towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr J 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr J originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Mr J the total of A plus B.
D) Morses should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Js credit file in 
relation to loans 3 and 4. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Js complaint.
Morses Club PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman