DRN-3372793
The complaint
Mrs T, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proportionate affordability checks before it granted her loans. Had it done so, Morses 
wouldve discovered Mrs T was struggling financially and had a poor credit history. 
What happened
Mrs T was advanced seven home collected loans between December 2013 and February 
2020. Ive included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table 
below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £100.00 24/12/2013 25/06/2014 32 £5.00
2 £200.00 16/04/2014 28/11/2014 34 £10.00
3 £200.00 25/06/2014 21/01/2015 34 £10.00
4 £300.00 03/12/2014 10/06/2015 34 £15.00
5 £300.00 21/01/2015 sold 34 £15.00
6 £350.00 12/06/2015 sold 34 £17.50
break in lending
7 £200.00 25/02/2020 sold 34 £10.00
Mrs T had some problems repaying loans 5, 6 and 7. Morses told us that it had sold the 
balances of these loans to a third-party collection agency, as of January 2022 the 
outstanding balance due was £734.97. 
The weekly repayment column in the table above is the cost per week per loan. Where 
loans overlapped the cost per week was increased, for example when loans 1 and 2 were 
running at the same time Mrs Ts weekly commitment to Morses was £15. 
Following Mrs Ts complaint Morses wrote to her representative to explain that it wasnt 
going to uphold her complaint. Mrs Ts representative didnt accept the outcome and referred 
the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint. He didnt uphold Mrs Ts complaint about loans 1  4. 
But he thought loans 5  7 should be upheld. 
He said, for loan 5 that Mrs T was committed to spending a significant portion of her income 
on repayments and loan 6, in his view the pattern was now harmful, so the loan was 
unsustainable for her. For loan 7, he said the credit checks provided to us from Morses 
showed Mrs T was already committed to paying a significant amount of her income towards 
other creditors. This led the adjudicator to partly uphold the complaint. 
Morses agreed with the adjudicators assessment and it offered to pay compensation in line 
with his recommendation. But as Mrs T had an outstanding balance the refund for loans 5  
7 would go towards reducing the balance from £735 to £79.72.  
This offer was put to Mrs Ts representative who told us Mrs T declined the offer. The 
representative said.
We will send on any further evidence of our client's financial situation at the time as 
soon as we have it.
No further information has been received and because no agreement has been reached, the 
case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mrs T could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mrs Ts 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs T. These factors include:
Mrs T having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs T having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs T coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs T.
Morses was required to establish whether Mrs T could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs T was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Ts complaint.Morses has already accepted that loans 5  7 shouldnt have been advanced and it has 
outlined the compensation that it will pay. As Morses has already accepted something went 
wrong with these loans, I no longer think they are in dispute, so Ive not made a full finding 
about them.
But given that I also dont think these loans ought to have been provided, Morses offer to 
settle these loans is therefore fair and reasonable. So, I have included them in the putting 
things right section at the end of the decision. 
Instead this decision will focus on whether Morses made reasonable decisions to lend in 
relation to loans 1  4. 
Loans 1  4
For all of these loans, it is likely Morses asked Mrs T about what her declared weekly income 
and what her declared weekly expenditure was. 
However, due to the passage of time, Morses hasnt been able to provide and / or locate any 
evidence of the information Mrs T declared for loans 1  3. Equally, I havent seen anything 
from Mrs T to suggest what her income and expenditure may have been at the time of the 
third three loans. 
But Ive also not seen anything to suggest that Mrs Ts financial position was materially 
different when loan 4 was granted. I have the information she declared for loan 4, which I go 
into detail about below. Given what little I do have, I dont think it is unreasonable to 
conclude that Mrs T may have declared similar figures for loan 1  3. I think it is likely 
therefore Morses wouldve thought the lending was affordable. 
Morses has been able to provide information relating to loan 4. For this loan Mrs T declared 
she had a weekly income of £160. Mrs T declared her weekly expenditure to be £100. This 
left Mrs T £60 per week in disposable income to be able to afford the contractual repayments 
of £25 per week (weekly cost for loans 3 and 4). 
Based on the information Mrs T declared Morses couldve been confident she was in a 
position to afford the contractual repayments she was due to make for these loan. Given this 
was still quite early on the lending relationship which means, in my view, Morses could rely 
on the information Mr T had provided. 
I think the checks that Morses did were proportionate and it didnt need to do any further 
checks before agreeing to these loans. 
Ive also thought about that some of these loans overlapped but even taking into account the 
higher weekly repayments as a result of this the loans still looked affordable. So, this doesnt 
change my mind about the checks that Morses carried out. 
Im therefore not upholding Mrs Ts complaint about these loans. 
Ive outlined below what Morses has already agreed to do for loans 5  7. 
Putting things right
Morses has already accepted that loans 5 to 7 shouldnt have been provided to Mrs T. But 
for completeness and in line with what it has already agreed Ive outlined below what it has 
agreed to do. If Morses have sold the outstanding debts Morses should buy these back if Morses are able 
to do so and then take the following steps. If Morses are not able to buy the debts back then 
Morses should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs T towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything Morses have already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs 
T which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs T originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mrs T as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mrs T 
having made overpayments then Morses should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Morses should then refund 
the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mrs T. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Morses should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mrs T. 
E. Morses should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ts credit file in 
relation to loans 5 and 7. The overall pattern of Mrs Ts borrowing for loan 6 means 
any information recorded about it is adverse, so Morses should remove this loan 
entirely from Mrs Ts credit file. Morses do not have to remove loan 6 from Mrs Ts 
credit file until it has been repaid, but Morses should still remove any adverse 
information recorded about this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mrs T a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint about loans 1  4. 
But Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mrs T as it has already agreed to do and as 
directed above for loans 5 - 7. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman