DRN-2802605
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Amtrust Europe Limited declined their claim on their sofa 
warranty.   
What happened
In 2019 Mr and Mrs M bought a sofa and a five-year warranty underwritten by Amtrust. In 
August 2020 they discovered a tear and fraying underneath the mechanical foot rest and 
made a claim on the warranty.
Amtrust inspected the damage and declined the claim. It said the damage had been caused 
by wear and tear over time. And this is excluded under the warranty.
Mr and Mrs M made a complaint as they said, due to the location of the damage, they hadnt 
noticed it straight away. And had made a claim as soon as they had. 
Amtrust didnt uphold the complaint and maintained its declinature. So Mr and Mrs M 
brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said the damage appeared to 
have originated from a single incident. And she thought it was reasonable that Mr and Mrs M 
wouldnt have noticed it straight away as it was on the underside of the foot rest. So she 
didnt think Amtrust had applied the exclusion fairly. 
Amtrust didnt agree. It said there was no evidence that the damage was caused by a single 
incident and said the possible reasons Mr and Mrs M had suggested for how it was caused 
wouldnt be covered under the warranty. It asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance claim is made, its first for the insured to prove there is an insured peril  
something that is covered by the insurance policy. It is then for the insurer to either accept 
the claim or prove that an exclusion applies. 
In this case Amtrust has said that the following exclusion applies:
This Insurance will not pay for costs arising from:-
e) by wear and tear, anything which happens gradually or over a sustained period of time, or 
by the accumulation of multiple stains 
I have looked at the photos of the damage to the underside of the foot rest. I can see the 
damaged area is frayed and the stuffing of the sofa is coming out. So I agree it looks like the 
damage hasnt just occurred and may have worsened over time. 
However, I also need to decide if Amtrust has acted fairly and reasonably when applying the 
exclusion in the circumstances. In this case, I dont think it has, Ill explain why. 
The damage to the sofa is on the underside of the foot rest. This means it would be 
completely concealed when the foot rest isnt in use and would face downwards, towards the 
floor, when it is. For this reason, when damage is caused to that area, its reasonable that Mr 
and Mrs M wouldnt notice it straight away. And if they dont notice it straight away, it is likely 
to get worse over time until they do.  So while I appreciate its likely the damage has 
worsened over time, I dont think its fair to apply this exclusion here. As I cant see that Mr 
and Mrs M could have taken any further reasonable action to prevent this from happening. 
And they raised a claim as soon as they noticed the problem.
In response to our investigators view, Amtrust said that the warranty covers for accidental 
damage, which is described in the policy as: damage caused by a sudden and unforeseen 
accidental event. It said that it doesnt believe the damage to the foot rest was caused by a 
one off event, so wouldnt be covered by the warranty regardless of the exclusion.  
I have looked at the photos of the damage. I can see that there is a tear that extends to 
almost the entire length of one of the footrests. And I wouldnt expect a leather sofa to rip to 
that extent just from gradual wear and tear.  As the tear is so large, I think its most likely this 
was caused by an initial one off event that ripped the fabric. And then this rip has got worse 
and frayed over time as the foot rest continued to be used. So I think the damager was most 
likely initially due to accidental damage. 
Amtrust has said that Mr and Mrs M havent been able to explain how the damage happened 
initially. And the explanations they gave dont make sense. I appreciate it makes it more 
difficult to assess a claim when the cause is unknown. However given the position of the rip, 
I dont think its unreasonable that Mr and Mrs M werent aware of what caused it. And I dont 
think its fair for Amtrust to decline the claim on this basis. 
For these reasons I agree with our investigator that Amtrust has acted unfairly by declining 
Mr and Mrs Ms claim. I therefore require it to accept the claim and repair the damage. And, 
if it cannot be fixed to provide a replacement, in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. I require Amtrust Europe 
Limited to accept their claim and repair the damage to the sofa. If this isnt possible then it 
should replace the sofa, in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman