DRN-4122854
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that QIC Europe Ltd declined a claim they made under their home 
insurance policy for a water leak.
Mr G has primarily dealt with things, so for simplicity, Ill refer to him only.
Reference to QIC includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
Ill summarise the main points about this dispute:
Mr G got in touch with QIC in August 2022 about a water leak under his home. It 
appointed a drainage company, C, to investigate the problem.
C said there was no evidence of a one-off accidental incident, so the claim was 
declined. Mr G disagreed, he thought the problem had happened around the same 
time as there was hot and dry weather and this meant the ground beneath the house 
had moved and damaged the pipe.
Concerned about the impact of the continued water leak, Mr G turned to a contractor 
to have the pipe repaired in September 2022.
Mr G complained about the outcome of the claim and the way it had been handled. 
He said QIC and C had been slow and unresponsive about arranging Cs inspection 
and the results of it. He also said C had focused on the pipe problem and not 
considered whether any resultant water damage was covered by the policy.
QIC said the pipe damage wasnt covered because it didnt meet the definition of 
accidental damage under the policy. It didnt think there had been a delay.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said the evidence 
suggested the pipe damage wasnt covered. And as Mr G had said hed dealt with 
the resultant water damage, there wasnt anything further to consider on that point.
Mr G disagreed. He said C hadnt found the source of the leak because it was under 
the house and the cost of accessing it would have been prohibitively expensive. So it 
didnt know exactly what the damage was or what had caused it. He maintained the 
unusually hot weather in the summer was the likely cause. He also said that although 
hed repaired the water damage, it would be fair for QIC to contribute to the cost.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers accidental damage to underground pipes.
Accidental damage is defined in the policy. Amongst other things, the damage must 
be sudden, happen at a specific time, and be caused by something external and 
identifiable to be accidental.
Cs report said the leak was under the house. And because there was no evidence of 
anything above the pipe which could have caused the damage, it was likely adverse 
ground movement over a period of time that led to the leak.
I understand Mr G broadly agrees the leak was under the house and caused by 
ground movement. But he thinks that was a sudden problem. And he questions 
whether its fair to rely on Cs opinion when it hasnt accessed the damage.
As Mr G has noted, because the section of the pipe that was leaking is below the 
house, the cost of accessing it means its not in the interest of either party to pay to 
do so and see the damage. That means neither party knows exactly what the 
damage looks like and that leaves a degree of uncertainty about the cause of it.
When this Service looks at a complaint, we consider things on the balance of 
probability. That often means making decisions on the basis of what we consider to 
be more likely than not in the circumstances.
Here, the policy is quite specific about what form the damage must take for it to be 
covered. And given the location of the pipe, its unlikely there would have been 
accidental damage unless a specific, sudden event can be identified as the cause.
The only such event suggested is that of ground movement due to weather 
conditions. Even if that were the case, in my view thats an inherently gradual 
process, not a sudden one  as perhaps a drill through a pipe would be.
So whilst the exact cause of damage is uncertain, Im satisfied the available evidence 
and wider circumstances mean the pipe damage is unlikely to meet the policy 
definition. And it follows the claim for the pipe damage was fairly declined.
The policy also covers damage caused by water escaping from a domestic water 
installation. Mr G said there was water damage internally, which is what alerted him 
to the leak. I understand Mr G has carried out work himself to put the damage right, 
so he has no invoice or receipt for the work. But there would clearly have been a cost 
to him, both financially and the time he spent doing it.
QIC has noted the policy excess for an escape of water claim is £600. Given the 
nature and extent of the damage, its suggested the cost to Mr G was likely below 
that amount. From the evidence Ive seen, I agree. So whilst I agree there was likely 
damage caused by escape of water, Im not satisfied it would be fair to require QIC to 
pay towards its repair.
When Mr G first made the claim, he was told a company, D, would be in touch with 
him within seven working days. A few days later, C was appointed instead. That 
meant Mr G waited a few days longer for an inspection than he thought he would. 
Similarly, it took a few days longer for Cs report to be produced and assessed than 
Mr G was told to expect. These delays were unhelpful and it would have been preferable had they not happened. But overall Im satisfied the claim was dealt with 
reasonably promptly and I dont think compensation is due in the circumstances.
Overall, Im satisfied QIC has treated Mr G fairly.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman