DRN-1542946
The complaint
Mr B complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) declined his claim 
on his motor insurance policy following the theft of his car. He wants it to pay his claim and 
pay him compensation for his mental anguish.  
What happened
Mr B took out cover with LV, and he reported his car was stolen four weeks afterwards. LV 
investigated the claim. It said evidence from the car's keys showed that the car had been 
last driven some time before Mr B had last said he had used it. LV said Mr B hadn't provided 
a true account of the incident. So it declined the claim. 
Our investigator didn't recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought LV was 
entitled to decline the claim under the terms and conditions of the policy as it had no 
evidence that an insured event had occurred. 
Mr B replied that he thought LV had dealt with him in bad faith. He asked for his complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it's come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurer has acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably. 
The policy term and condition that LV relied on to decline Mr B's claim was that the theft 
hadn't occurred as he'd reported it. I think the policy requires Mr B to provide accurate 
information about his claim. I think the policy states that if he doesn't, then his claim may be 
declined. I don't think this is unusual in insurance policies and I think it's fair and reasonable. 
But I think it's for LV to show that Mr B hasn't reported his claim accurately in order for it to 
rely on the policy term and condition to decline his claim. 
Mr B said his car was stolen whilst it was parked about a mile and a half away from his 
home. He still had both the car's keys. LV had the car's keys forensically inspected as part of 
its claim investigation. It said this showed that the car had been involved in a collision shortly 
before Mr B took out his policy. Mr B said he'd had a collision about two years earlier. But 
the key assessment showed different and unrelated damage. I think it was reasonable for LV 
to rely on the expert interrogation of the car's keys.
LV then appointed a claim investigator to interview Mr B about the circumstances of the car's 
theft. LV found that the car had been uninsured for two months until Mr B took out cover with 
LV. He said he'd  used the car in this time. This was confirmed by the key evidence. So LV 
thought the car had been uninsured when Mr B had a collision. Mr B said he'd driven the car more recently. But this wasn't recorded on the keys. Mr B 
asked for details of the interrogation of the keys. I can see that LV provided him with this in 
its decision to repudiate his claim. 
So I think there were several inconsistencies between Mr B's report of the theft and what 
was shown by the analysis of the car's keys. I think LV reasonably concluded that Mr B 
hadn't provided an accurate account of the theft. And I think it was therefore entitled to rely 
on the policy's terms and conditions to decline the claim. So I don't require LV to pay Mr B's 
claim or to pay him any compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman