DRN-3210055
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc refused to refund payments he made to a 
fraudulent binary options company. 
What happened
Mr M saw an advert online about investing and left his contact details on a webform. An 
account manager from Golden Markets contacted him the following day to offer its trading 
services. The account manager advised Mr M that he would guide his trades for him until he 
would be able to independently trade. He also told Mr M that the investments would be easy, 
risk free and hed be able to withdraw his funds whenever he wanted. 
On 23 August 2021, Mr M made three payments to Golden Markets totalling £7,671.06 using 
his HSBC Visa credit card. He also made additional payments to Golden Markets from 
another banking provider (Bank B). Mr M received the following credits back to his HSBC 
credit card account from Golden Markets:
£268.12  30 August 2018 
£150.82  27 September 2018
£882.89  26 November 2018
But Mr M became suspicious when he was unable to get in touch with his account manager. 
He requested to withdraw his funds through Golden Markets online portal but his access to 
this portal was disabled shortly after. 
A staff member working for Golden Markets got in touch with Mr M via Skype and said they 
were unaware they were working for a company which traded without a license and the 
company was in the process of closing down. They agreed to authorise a refund for Mr M. 
Mr M provided details of an alternative banking provider (Bank C) to receive the refund and 
£1,756.06 was processed to that account on 19 February 2019. Mr M noted Golden Markets 
website was shut down in March 2019.
  
Mr M approached HSBC for assistance in recovering his payments on 8 April 2019. HSBC 
declined to process chargeback claims because it was out of time to do so. It said section 75 
wouldnt be applicable to the payments. It noted that the payments on 23 August 2018 were 
declined and blocks were placed on his account until he called HSBC to confirm that the 
payments were genuine. HSBC recognised there were customer service failings and paid Mr 
M a total of £200 compensation by way of an apology. 
Our investigator recommended that HSBC refund Mr Ms disputed payments (plus the 
associated transaction fees). Our investigator also handled Mr Ms Bank B complaint about 
payments made to Golden Markets. Bank B offered to settle Mr Ms case. HSBC didnt 
agree. In summary it said:
An FCA warning is not evidence that a merchant is operating as a scam, but warns 
that a merchant is not regulated such that one should proceed with caution. 
There is no regulatory obligation to communicate information from FCA and/or 
IOSCO alerts within one month internally. This amounts to retrospective regulation by 
this service.
DISP 3.6.4 states the ombudsman will take into account relevant law and regulations. 
We should therefore explain our rationale in circumstances where we have departed 
from the law and it feels the outcome has clearly departed from the law but not 
explained why.
The FSA Consultation Paper should not be used as the reference point for what a 
bank ought to have done in binary options cases or how its transaction monitoring 
ought to have operated in order, arbitrarily, to impose strict liability on the basis of a 
standard that did not exist (and still does not exist). A bank has a regulatory duty to 
operate risk-based systems. The opinion is administratively unworkable taking into 
account the millions of transactions being processed by it and other payment service 
providers on a daily basis. 
The FSA Consultation Paper does not address binary options; it is concerned with 
investment fraud in general. Whilst the practices carried out by some merchants in 
this area might have been reflected in this guidance, blanket conclusions about 
merchants should not be applied on the basis of the consultation paper. 
HSBC would have been required to have strong grounds for suspecting a payee is a 
fraudster to likely engage its obligations to delay payments in order to comply with 
regulatory requirements. Whereas the opinion states otherwise.
A recent decision of Phillip v Barclays highlighted payments arising out of clean 
money did not mean that initial payments constitute money laundering.
It can apply blocks to certain merchants, these can be circumvented by those 
merchants changing merchant/acquirer codes. 
It does not routinely apply blocks to particular merchants as it needs strong grounds 
to do so and this threshold would not have been satisfied by the existence of an FCA 
or IOSCO warning. 
The opinion (which is heavily templated and not specific to the complaint) is 
particularly inappropriate because the payments took place on a single day. 
Therefore, its unlikely that Mr M would have accepted that this was a scam based on 
a single conversation. Mr M received a series of credits and it took him over seven 
months to report the matter to HSBC and therefore any intervention at the time of the 
payments would not have made a difference. 
Mr M clicked on an online advert, he was contacted by a merchant by telephone, 
unquestioningly believed promises of profits without any risk and paid across to the 
merchant over £7,500 on a single day without undertaking any research to verify 
what he was being told or the legitimacy of the merchant before parting with his 
money. 
Mr M knew about the possibility of checking the FCA website because he performed 
the search after he lost access to his trading account (though it does not know the 
exact date of the search).   
Overall Mr M did not behave how a reasonable person would have and did not carry 
out any basic due diligence until after the payments were made. 
The complaint has therefore been referred to me for determination. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as a binary-options scam is in fact a 
scam. Some cases simply involve high-risk investment bets on the performance of (e.g.) 
commodities, cryptocurrency or stocks that resulted in very disappointing returns or losses. 
Some binary-options traders promoted these productswhich were not regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) or its predecessor at the timeusing sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have duties to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering (see below). But when simply executing 
authorised payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains 
or give investment advice  and the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would not 
constitute unauthorised investment advice (see its predecessors 2012 consultation paper on 
investment fraud, below). So, the first question to resolve is whether this particular 
retailer/trader was actually a fraudster.
I am satisfied that Golden Markets were not carrying out legitimate cryptocurrency trades but 
were instead dishonestly defrauding customers, e.g. by not actually making trades/bets with 
the money received from clients but simply manipulating their online trading platform to 
show purported gains in order to induce further investments from victims such as Mr M. In 
the absence of evidence to the contrary, I have concluded this because:
From January 2018 (i.e. prior to the date of these disputed transactions), binary 
options traders were required to be regulated by the FCA  whereas Golden Markets 
were not. Nor were they regulated in any other jurisdiction so far as I am reasonably 
aware. This indicates they were operating illegally, probably with dishonest 
intentions. Legitimate firms tend to comply with regulatory requirements. 
On 25 May 2018, an alert about Golden Markets was published by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) warning that they were offering financial services in its 
jurisdiction without authorisation. This is a potential indicator of dishonest intentions. 
On 15 April 2019 (after Mr Ms payments), Comision Nacional del Mercado de 
Valores in Spain published an alert on the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO) investor alerts portal. 
Having concluded that this was a scam rather than just a bad bargain or poor investment 
advice, I must now go on to consider three more issues in order to determine the outcome of 
the complaint:
1. Were any of the disputed transactions so unusual or uncharacteristic for Mr M and/or 
his account that HSBC fraud alerts ought reasonably to have triggered some sort of 
intervention?
2. If triggered, would HSBCs intervention have made a difference and prevented or 
reduced the loss?3. And if so, was Mr M partly to blame for what happened such that it would be fair and 
reasonable to reduce compensation proportionately?
unusual or uncharacteristic activity
HSBC is aware of our general position on a PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence duties to 
protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. We have published many 
decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules and 
regulations. It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail.
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr M for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. This is 
because they were made by Mr M using the legitimate security credentials provided to him 
by HSBC. These must be regarded as authorised payments even though Mr M was the 
victim of a sophisticated scam. So, although he did not intend the money to go to scammers, 
under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his bank account, Mr M is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of  terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I am satisfied there were enough triggers in this case to have alerted a responsible 
regulated bank such as HSBC that Mr Ms account was being subjected to unusual and 
uncharacteristic activity. There were reasonable grounds to suspect a fraud or scam, and 
therefore justify an intervention (such as phoning him in order to ask discreet questions 
about the nature and purpose of the payments).
First, regulated firms ought reasonably to take notice of common types of scams. As long 
ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicatedin its consultation paper entitled 
Banks Defences Against Investment Fraud: detecting perpetrators and protecting victims 
(the 2012 paper)that it was good industry practice for firms to build up an updated watch-
list of types of scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly to share timely and detailed 
intelligence with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, etc. Whilst the 
regulator gave no specific timings, it is not unreasonable in my view to expect an 
international bank to update its watch-list and communicate internally to staff within, say, one 
month of an alert being posted by the FCA or International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO). In my judgment, such alerts should automatically trigger alarm-
bellsand lead to the payment being pausedpending further enquiries (and a possible 
scam warning) to the payer.
In Mr Ms case, there was a warning about Golden Markets on the FCAs published warning 
list around three months prior to Mr Ms payments. It is not unreasonable to expect a large international bank that regularly updates its internal alerts to include information about 
payees who had tried to carry out regulated activities without permission. I accept the 
warning would not have identified what type of investment was being sold; and it did not 
necessarily follow from the nature of the warning in isolation that these were fraudsters. But 
given the timing of the alert relative to the first payment, I do think HSBC ought to have 
automatically blocked it; and it had several months to update and communicate its watch-list. 
The bank had constructive if not actual notice that the payee might not be a legitimate 
merchant  therefore, it would have been reasonable for it to have properly questioned Mr M 
before processing all the payments in order to satisfy itself that all was well.
HSBC suggests our investigator misapplied the 2012 paper. Im aware that the contents of 
the 2012 paper did not specifically reference binary options. However, I dont think the 
intention of the 2012 paper was to limit the types of investment fraud firms ought to focus on. 
Not least because the 2012 paper noted firms use of Industry Intelligence at chapter 10. And 
specifically at paragraph 10.9, which shared examples of good practice:
A bank participates in cross-industry forums on fraud and boiler rooms and makes 
active use of intelligence gained from these initiatives in, for example, its transaction 
monitoring and screening efforts. 
A bank takes measures to identify new fraud typologies. It joins up internal 
intelligence, external intelligence, its own risk assessment and measures to address 
this risk 
Binary options is a type of investment fraud and Im satisfied the spirit of the 2012 paper was 
intended to provide examples of good and poor practice to help firms tackle investment fraud 
more generally. This is evident by the FCAs inclusion of the contents of the 2012 paper in its 
2015 and 2018 Financial Crime Guides, along with its FCTR 14.1.2 in December 2018. I 
think this demonstrates that it has considered the contents of the 2012 paper to remain 
relevant over the years; as investment scams evolve and new types of investment scams 
emerge. 
I was mindful of the High Court judgment referred to by HSBCPhilipp v Barclays Bank
plc [2021] EWHC 10 (Comm)even though I did not cite it. In that case, the judge took a 
different view about the so-called Quincecare duty on a bank. But Im not suggesting the 
Quincecare duty applies to this case. And notwithstanding what the judge said, we have a 
duty to resolve complaints based on what we think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case, taking into account not just the law, but also regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. Indeed, DISP Rule 3.6.1 of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook 
states that, The Ombudsman will determine a complaint by reference to what is, in his 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. This wide remit is further 
clarified in DISP Rule 3.6.4:
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, 
the Ombudsman will take into account:
a) relevant:
i. law and regulations;
ii. regulators rules, guidance and standards;
iii. codes of practice; and
b) (where appropriate) what he considers to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
In other words, whilst we do take account of caselaw such as Philipp, we are not bound by it 
if, in all the circumstances and in the ombudsmans opinion, it would result in unfair or 
unreasonable outcomes. HSBC say that although it can apply blocks to certain merchants, these can be circumvented 
by those merchants changing merchant/acquirer codes. It has not expressed how this 
applies to Mr Ms case, so I havent considered this point any further. Though there appears 
to be no dispute that Mr Ms payments were sent to and received by Golden Markets.
HSBC refers to paragraph 2.11 of the FSA Consultation Paper which it argues; confirmed 
that there should be strong grounds for suspicions for payments to be delayed, still less for 
the more extreme circumstances of preventing a series of payments. This threshold would 
not have been satisfied by the existence of an FCA or IOSCO warning.
At paragraph 10.4 of the 2012 paper, the FSA noted there are a number of sources 
available for building up a watch list for investment fraud. Among other things, it included 
lists published on the FSA website of UK and overseas unauthorised businesses. And lists 
published by other organisations e.g. the International Organisation of Securities 
Commissions Investor Alert list, which it noted covered a number of different jurisdictions.  
If HSBCs regulator is satisfied that its own warning lists; along with IOSCO alert lists are 
sources available for building up a watch list for investment fraud, I think this satisfies the 
threshold for strong grounds for suspicions enabling HSBC to delay payments to payees 
published on said lists. If HSBC has the capabilities of delaying payments to particular 
merchants, Im not sure why it wouldnt be in a position to do so from the first payment. In 
the context of Mr Ms case, Im satisfied that HSBC ought to have blocked payments to 
Golden Markets based on the credible warning published by the FCA. 
Ive noted HSBCs comments that an FCA warning is not evidence that a merchant is 
operating as a scam, but warns that a merchant is not regulated such that one should 
proceed with caution. However, the FCA published the following information about its 
warning lists in August 2017:
You can check and search our Warning List of firms we know are operating without 
permission or running scams. If they appear on this list it is because we have 
identified that they are operating without our authorisation.
The page goes onto say: 
Even if a firm isn't on the Warning List, it might still be a scam.
So I would disagree with HSBCs suggestion that an FCA warning is not evidence that a 
merchant is operating a scam. The FCA has indicated otherwise and has expressly 
explained they routinely publish warnings about firms they know are running scams. 
HSBC notes our comments on regulatory alerts published by the FCA and/or IOSCO and 
suggests we seek to apply retrospective regulation by the back door. There is no 
retrospective application of obligations here. A regulated firm has always been obliged, if 
only as a matter of good practice, to take account of alerts published by the regulators  for 
the reasons set out in the 2012 paper that I previously cited. It is neither onerous nor unfair 
for an international bank to maintain a watchlist of potentially fraudulent or illegally-operating 
payees; nor to pause any payments directed to such persons rather than simply execute the 
instructions of lay clients with less knowledge and expertise. I conclude that a one-month 
grace period from publication might be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  but 
that merely operates in favour of firms to give them time to update their systems. Within the 
spectrum of reasonable conclusions, I could equally have concluded that, in this day and
age, electronic alerts should be acted upon more quickly. I am satisfied that it is fair and
reasonable for a large corporate body to update its fraud alerts and watchlists within amonth of its regulator publishing an alert. HSBC has given no good reason why this is not
the case. I still think it would be unreasonable to expect a firm to act immediately on an
alert because that would not take account of the commercial realities and logistics faced
by bodies corporate.
Indeed, it appears that there were in fact fraud triggers that prompted HSBC to speak to Mr 
M in relation to his credit card transactions to Golden Markets. It appears HSBC was merely 
checking whether it was actually Mr M who was carrying out these transactions. But, as Ive 
said above, its responsibility goes further than simply checking that a payment is authorised, 
and HSBC ought to have had some concerns that Mr M was falling victim to a scam.   
If HSBC had fulfilled its duties by asking suitably probing questions, there is no reason to 
doubt that he would have explained what he was doing. In such circumstances, whilst the 
bank had no duty to protect him from a bad bargain or give investment advice, it could have 
explained to him that there was a regulatory warning and invited him to look more closely 
into this trader. It could have also explained its own customer experiences with unregulated 
and unlicensed high-risk investment traders in that customers would often be prevented from 
withdrawing available balances. After all, at that time, there was information in the public 
domainwhich a bank ought to have known even if a lay consumer ought notabout the 
very high risks associated with binary options trading, including many warnings of potential 
fraud (e.g. Action Frauds June 2016 warning; the European Securities and Markets 
Authoritys July 2016 warning; the Financial Conduct Authoritys consultation paper of 
December 2016; and the Gambling Commissions December 2016 scam warning that an 
unlicensed operator is likely operating illegally; City of London Polices October 2017 report 
noting victims had lost over £59m to binary options fraud; Visas Business News publication 
of October 2017 where it expanded its chargeback scheme rules to cover binary options and 
investment disputes arising from merchants often unlicensed and unregulated deploying 
deceptive practices; and so forth). After all, Golden Markets isnt new to regulated firms and 
weve seen several HSBC customer complaints about this particular dealer. It seems likely 
that HSBC wouldve seen a number of consumer complaints prior to Mr Ms disputed 
payments to have been familiar enough with binary options scammers like Golden Markets 
deceptive trading practices. 
There is no evidence that HSBC provided Mr M with any meaningful warnings or gave him 
other reasons to doubt the legitimacy of the payments he was making. It was a missed 
opportunity to intervene.
causation
If HSBC had asked Mr M what the payments were for and the basic surrounding context, it is 
likely he would have fully explained what he was doing and that everything had been done 
over the phone and online with his broker. HSBC did not need to know for certain whether 
Mr M was dealing with a fraudulent high risk investment trader or investing in a legitimate 
(albeit highly speculative) product; reasonable grounds for suspicion are enough to trigger a 
banks obligations under the various regulations and principles of good practice. I consider 
there were such grounds here and, therefore, that HSBC ought reasonably to have provided 
a scam warning in light of all the information then known to financial professionals about the 
risks associated with unregulated binary options. 
If HSBC had given a warning, I believe that Mr M would have paused and looked more 
closely into Golden Markets before proceeding. There is no evidence that he was willing to 
take high risks or had a history of speculative investments or gambling; by his account, he 
was an inexperienced investor. It seems more probable that he would have made further 
enquiries into whether or not Golden Markets were regulated in the UK or abroad. He could 
have discovered they were not and the various regulatory warnings about the risk of unregulated investment scams (see above). In other words, I am satisfied that a warning 
from his trusted bank would probably have exposed Golden Markets smoke and mirrors, 
causing him not to invest and preventing any losses.
Even if he had not worked out that this was a scam, it is likely that a warning would have 
alerted him to the common issues arising in relation to binary options and unregulated high 
risk investment dealers, which in turn would have revealed the truth behind his supposed 
brokers (mis)representations  i.e. that they were not really regulated UK investments but 
highly-risky bets more akin to a wager in which the broker must lose if he is to win. So before 
Mr Ms payments were actually processed, he would probably have stopped in his tracks. 
But for HSBCs failure to act on clear triggers of potential fraud or financial harm, Mr M would 
probably have not lost any money. 
contributory negligence
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000). In this case, I do not think that Mr M was to blame for what 
happened; that he did not foresee the risk of this sort of harm or any harm. At the time of his 
trading, Golden Markets was subject to an FCA warning. Having carried out a historic web 
search, relevant to the time of Mr Ms payments, to note what information would have been 
available had Mr M researched Golden Markets, Ive noted there was no adverse information 
published about them that Im reasonably aware of. Ive only noted adverse information 
about them became prominent from March 2019 and Ive noted Mr M contacted HSBC 
shortly after this. Therefore, I dont think Mr M would have reasonably seen any adverse 
information about Golden Markets at the time of his payments. 
Mr M believed that Golden Markets were legitimate and his account manager gained his 
trust by explaining he would show him how to trade until he could do so independently. He 
had the use of an online trading account and saw his investments performing. I dont think 
he could have reasonably known about the operation of this type of scam unless prompted 
by for instance, his trusted bank. I think the onus was on HSBC to inform Mr M of the risk 
that he would likely lose all of his money if he made payments to Golden Markets. I do not 
place too much weight on general but arcane information in the public domain for reasons 
previously alluded to about the information imbalance between financial professionals and 
ordinary consumers. And that responsibility fell upon HSBC from the initial payment based 
on what it ought to have known about Golden Markets. 
Mr M was unaware of the common deceptive tactics used by binary options scammers, as 
communicated by Visa to its acquirers and issuers in 2017, so he made payments to Golden 
Markets. I do not think he could earlier have foreseen the risk that the company he was 
dealing with was a scam and the trading account he was viewing was likely to be a 
simulation.
In the circumstances, I do not think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis that 
Mr M should share blame for what happened.
Ive noted that Mr Ms payments to Golden Markets were subject to transaction fees. For the 
avoidance of doubt, I do not think these transaction fees would have been incurred if the 
transactions had been stopped (as Ive concluded they should have been). So, I also think 
HSBC should return these fees. 
I think the compensation of £200 (in total) in recognition of HSBCs service failings is fair and 
reasonable under the circumstances. And I make no additional award of compensation.As a final point, I mention in the background section that Mr M paid Golden Markets from his 
credit card accounts with HSBC and Bank B. And when he was offered a refund by Golden 
Markets, he provided his Bank C account details to receive it. I did find it curious that Mr M 
received some credits back from Golden Markets. But I think this is common practice 
amongst scammers like them in order to keep their customers on the hook for longer and 
make them believe that all is well. Ive noted this is what happened in Mr Ms case as once 
he received credits from Golden Markets, he made further payments to them using his Bank 
B account. The overall losses between Mr Ms HSBC and Bank B accounts significantly 
outweigh the credits he received back. Ive no doubt scammers like Golden Markets are 
keen to operate for as long as possible before disgruntled consumers disrupt their 
operations with card scheme dispute claims and regulator complaints. So, seeing patterns of 
smaller credits (in relation to the overall investments) is not unusual to keep the scammers 
operating for as long as possible. In any event, Ive deducted Mr Ms Bank C credit from the 
settlement details below as it wouldnt be appropriate for HSBC to refund monies hes 
already back. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I have decided to uphold this complaint. I therefore require 
HSBC Bank UK Plc to:
Refund all three of Mr Ms disputed payments (totaling £7,671.06), less the credits 
received to Mr Ms HSBC credit card account from Golden Markets and the refund of 
£1,756.06 (paid to Mr Ms Bank C account). 
Refund all of the transaction fees applied to each of the disputed payments at bullet 
point one. 
Refund interest and charges applied to Mr Ms HSBC credit card in respect of the 
disputed payments only. 
Pay 8% interest on any payments Mr M made towards his HSBC credit card in 
relation to the disputed payments only. If HSBC deducts tax in relation to the interest 
element of this award, it should provide Mr M with the appropriate tax deduction 
certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman