DRN-2320991
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy Allay Claims Ltd are charging Mrs G a fee for a payment 
protection insurance claim (PPI) claim, that they said they hadnt authorised them to make. 
What happened
In March 2020, Mr and Mrs G said their lender Ill call L told them theyd had a successful 
PPI claim for their joint account. And shortly afterwards Allay sent Mrs G an invoice asking 
for payment of their success fee.
Mr G said as the account with their lender was in joint names the fee wasnt justified as he 
hadnt authorised Allay to act on his behalf to pursue a joint PPI claim. Mr and Mrs G 
complained to Allay.
Allay said that Mrs G had asked them in June 2019 to check whether shed any PPI on any 
of her accounts. Shed also signed a letter of authority (LoA). Lender L hadnt accepted this 
LoA as Mrs Gs signature wasnt clear. But she had signed another LoA for lender L in 
August 2019. Allay said they submitted her PPI claim and the claim was successful. Theyd 
spoken to Mrs G to tell her claim had been successful and Mrs G had said she was happy to 
pay the fee.
Mr G reiterated the account was in joint names and he hadnt authorised Allay to pursue the 
claim. He said another claims management company had acted for them. 
Allay agreed theyd only been authorised by Mrs G and theyd only asked for a fee based on 
the redress paid to Mrs G. They said lender L had accepted them as being Mrs Gs 
representative. But if Mr G could show another CMC had been involved, they would look into 
this. Mr and Mrs G referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator said Mrs G had authorised Allay to act for her in pursuing PPI on all her 
accounts. And lender L had accepted the LoA. He said Allay had acted fairly and 
responsibly in only seeking their fee for the redress paid to Mrs G. Mr and Mrs G didnt agree 
and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Gs frustration as he doesnt agree that Allay were authorised to look 
into whether there was any PPI for their joint account. Where there is a different version of 
events as is the case here, I base my decision on what I think most likely happened.  And I 
need to determine whether Mrs G had authorised Allay to act on her behalf, and whether this 
authorisation allowed Allay to look into Mr and Mrs Gs joint account without Mr Gs 
authorisation. And if she had, whether she let them know she no longer wanted them to work 
for her. 
Allay has shown an online application for a free PPI check was made in June 2019. The 
personal details in this application correlate with the personal details Mrs G has given this 
service. The application also had the details of Mrs Gs lender, and the product type of the 
accounts to be checked, this included loan, mortgage and credit card. 
So, on balance I think  Mrs G completed the on-line form as the information was specific to 
her. On completion of the application, an LoA was generated, populated with this 
information. The LoA couldnt be submitted without a signature being added. As I think Mrs 
G completed the application, I have no reason to doubt that she added the signature to the 
form. The LoA above the signature said:
 I/We hereby appoint and authorise Allay to pursue my/our claim for compensation in 
respect of mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) on the above account and any other 
accounts I/we hold with you.
Allays terms and conditions were also available to see. And in signing the LoA Mrs G had 
agreed to them. 
On 17 June 2019 I can see Allay sent a request to lender L to determine whether Mrs G 
had a PPI policy with them. But late July 2019, lender L rejected the LoA as Mrs Gs 
signature was unclear. Allay asked Mrs G to digitally sign another LoA, and I can see this 
was done in August 2019, before the 29 August 2019 deadline for making such claims.
Allays terms and conditions say:
We will notify you once PPI has been identified and submit your complaint to the lender. If 
the claim is successful, our normal fee, as per this Terms of Engagement, will apply.
Ive checked Allays records and can see Mrs G was notified in December 2019 that PPI had 
been found and Allay had submitted her claim to lender L. I can also see Mrs G was asked 
to complete a PPI questionnaire for additional information relating to her claim. In the 
questionnaire details of Mrs Gs employment and employer were noted. She also stated the 
claim was for a home improvement loan taken out in 2004. And that it was for single, not 
joint PPI cover.
In March 2020, lender L notified both Allay and Mr and Mrs G that the PPI claim had been 
successful. The letter to Mr and Mrs G clearly shows a reference to Allay. 
Ive listened to calls made by Mrs G to Allay where her claim is discussed and the fee that 
she needed to pay Allay for her successful claim. In the call when the payment of the fee is 
discussed Mrs G says, Yes I know that. And at no point in the call does she question why 
Allay had acted for her. So, Im satisfied Mrs G authorised Allay to act for her and she knew 
that if her claim was successful, she would have to pay a fee.
But in May 2020 Mr G spoke to Allay.I can understand Mr Gs frustration as he  says he 
made a claim to lender L with another CMC and hadnt authorised Allay to look into their 
joint account. I havent seen any evidence of Mr Gs making a claim with Allay or another 
CMC. And I cant hold Allay responsible for lender L offering redress to both Mr and Mrs G, 
when Allay has only acted on Mrs Gs instructions to pursue PPI on her accounts. Allay 
hasnt asked Mr G to pay a fee for the redress paid to him as they werent authorised to act 
on his behalf, only Mrs Gs. So, I cant say Allay has caused any detriment to Mr G.
 Allays terms and conditions say:
From the point we submit your complaint, you have a 14 day cooling off period during which 
you can cancel your contract with us. If at any time during the 14 day cooling off period we 
obtain an offer of compensation for you, our normal fee will be payable.
I havent seen any evidence that Mrs G asked Allay to cancel the agreement either within or 
after the 14 day cooling off period. And by not telling Allay she didnt want them to act on her 
behalf before the end of the 14 day cooling off period, theyd submitted her PPI claim to 
lender L and the claim was successful.
The agreement Mrs G had with Allay was on a No win No fee basis. Allay charged a 
percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they actually undertook. 
This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claim would be done for free. When a 
claim was successful, Allays fee may be more or less than the value of the work they 
actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. 
And Allays fee as outlined above isnt based on the work they did but on whether the claim 
they submitted was successful or not. Allay submitted Mrs Gs claim as their agreement 
hadnt been cancelled. And her claim was successful.
Allays fees were charged in line with what Mrs G agreed to and reflect the fee cap thats in 
place for PPI claims. Mrs G could have cancelled her claim with Allay. But I cant see she 
cancelled the claim before it was successful. 
I know Mr and Mrs G will be disappointed by my decision but Im satisfied that Allay was 
authorised by Mrs G to act on her behalf and her claim was successful. This means Allay 
can charge their fees for Mrs Gs successful claim. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman