DRN-2781614
The complaint
Mr T complains The One Stop Money Shop Limited (Money Shop) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr T took one loan with Money Shop in June 2019.  The loan (£800) was arranged over 12 
months with monthly instalments of £126.67. I understand the loan was fully repaid on 12 
August 2020.
Our adjudicator didnt think it was wrong for Money Shop to have lent the loan. He felt there 
wasnt enough information to suggest the loan was unsustainable, or that Money Shop 
needed to verify Mr Ts income or expenses before it lent.  
Mr T didnt agree with the adjudicators findings. In summary, Mr T says that Money Shop 
shouldnt have lent as:
hed borrowed over £3,200 from seven other pay day loan companies in the three 
months prior to the loan; 
he was borrowing from friends and family; 
he had a severe gambling problem at the time which led to his need to take out 
loans; 
if more checks had been carried out by Money Shop, such as a request for bank 
statements, it wouldnt have lent as the further checks would have indicated the loan 
was unaffordable. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Money Shop had to assess the lending to check if Mr T could afford to pay back the amount 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. Money Shops checks could have taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ts 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Money Shop should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr T. These factors include:
Mr T having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr T having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr T coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr T.
Money Shop was required to establish whether Mr T could sustainably repay his loan  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr T was able to repay 
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (the industry regulator) says in the Consumer Credit
Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ts complaint.
The loan of £800 was due to be repaid through twelve instalments of £126.67. Mr T declared 
an income of £2,500 and expenditure (for example, for mortgage/rent, council tax, 
telephone/broadband, other loans and other expenses) of £1,550. 
I can see that Money Shop had sight of a recent payslip which suggested Mr Ts income 
declaration was accurate. So Im satisfied Money Shop had a fairly clear idea of Mr Ts 
income.    
Money Shop also carried out a credit check before it lent but this didnt seem to reveal any 
significant adverse information to indicate that further checks ought to have been completed. 
As Mr T has suggested, there was an indication of other short-term lending activity. But at 
the point of lending, the credit check only revealed two short-term loans had been taken out 
in the last 6 months and one outstanding short-term loan with a balance that didnt seem to 
be particularly concerning. 
It would be helpful for to explain that the information a consumer might see, when they 
request a copy of their credit file, might be very different to that seen by a lender. A lender 
might only see a small portion of the credit file, or some data might be missing or 
anonymised, or the data might not be up to date. So, this may explain any differences 
between the information Money Shop saw and what Mr T says shouldve been seen.
So, considering the expenditure declared by Mr T of £1,550 (which included what he told 
Money Shop about his other loan commitments), this left a disposable income of £950 
before repayment of the monthly instalment of £126.67. 
Overall therefore I dont think it was unreasonable for Money Shop to lend as repayment of 
the loan wouldve seemed affordable and sustainable for Mr T. Im sorry to hear that Mr T was struggling financially and repaying the loan has proved 
difficult. And I accept that Mr Ts full financial circumstances may not have been reflected in 
the information he provided. And it might be that Mr Ts actual financial position may well 
have been apparent if further information  such as bank statements  had been obtained.
But I dont think it had reached the point either in the lending relationship or based on
what Money Shop knew about Mr T, that meant it needed to verify the information. So, I 
dont think that it could or should have known that Mr T may have been having financial 
difficulties at the time it lent the loan. 
It is of course possible that, had Mr T continued to borrow from Money Shop, then it may 
have needed to have carried out further, more in-depth, checks which may have involved 
asking for evidence of his financial position. But considering Mr T took one loan and this 
appeared affordable, I dont think Money Shop was wrong to have provided it.
Looking at all this together, I agree with the adjudicator that I dont think that Money Shop 
was wrong to approve Mr Ts loan. 
I appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to Mr T but I hope my explanation 
helps him understand why I have come to the decision that I have.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman