DRN-2834733
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) reneged on 
their Agreement in Principle.
What happened
Mrs H and Mr H were existing mortgage customers of Halifax. They wanted to move house.  
They spoke to Halifax. On 10 September 2020, Halifax issued a Mortgage Promise which 
said theyd lend £165,690 to Mrs H and Mr H. Their offer on the property was accepted. 
Later, on 2 December 2020, Halifax revised their Mortgage Promise to £123,000.
Mrs H and Mr H complained that Halifax should honour their Mortgage Promise  it was a 
promise.  The call on 10 September 2020 wasnt available  and Mrs H and Mr H say this 
was suspicious. They said that because Mrs H had become pregnant after the Mortgage 
Promise, then that was discriminatory. But even so  Mr H said the Mortgage Promise was 
based on his salary alone, without that of Mrs H. Because of what happened, they lost the 
house of their dreams. As a result, they bought a cheaper house  with a mortgage of 
£125,000 plus another loan of £10,000. They believed that the Mortgage Promise should be 
honoured, or £10,000 paid in compensation.
Halifax apologised for the raised expectations that the agreement in principle had given and 
paid compensation of £200. But the Mortgage Promise was an agreement in principle and 
was based on all the information being 100% accurate  e.g. income, financial commitments, 
dependents, term of mortgage, and valuation of the property. Up until a full mortgage offer 
was made, their lending decision could be changed. They could only give a full mortgage 
offer after all the checks had been completed. The application Mrs H and Mr H made in 
September 2020 had been overridden by further details provided, and so couldnt be 
checked. Also, the call recording of the conversation on 10 September 2020 wasnt 
available. While they couldnt be certain, they thought that Mrs Hs salary may have been 
included in the September 2020 Mortgage Promise.
Mrs H and Mr H brought their complaint to us. Our investigator said that while Halifaxs 
Mortgage Promise maybe somewhat misleading, the document did clearly state that the 
mortgage (of £165,690) was subject to several things. A full mortgage offer wasnt made. He 
couldnt see that Mrs H and Mr H had suffered any financial loss but could appreciate that a 
false hope had been provided by the Mortgage Promise. But the compensation provided by 
Halifax was appropriate for the stress and anxiety experienced by Mrs H and Mr H.
Mrs H and Mr H asked that their complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H and Mr H received an agreement in principle  named a Mortgage Promise  on 10 
September 2020. On the face of it, this said Halifax would lend them £165,690 to finance the 
purchase of their new house. Based on that, they went ahead and had their offer accepted  
but later, in December 2020  this was revised down to £123,000, and so they lost their 
purchase. Mrs H and Mr H want Halifax to honour the original offer or pay compensation of 
£10,000. Halifax dont have a record of the data used to generate the agreement in principle. 
Also, the call of the interview (at which the AIP was put together) isnt available, and the 
mortgage adviser has left Halifax. So  we have a lack of information. In such 
circumstances, I must make a decision based on the probability of what I think happened 
taking into account the evidence we do have.
Ive looked at the Mortgage Promise document sent to Mrs H and Mr H. It clearly says that 
more information and checks needed to take place before a mortgage offer could be made. 
And, that any mortgage offer was subject to change. It says: The Mortgage Promisewe 
will make a mortgage of £165,690 availableSubject to a satisfactory assessment of the 
property to be mortgaged.the information you have supplied being correct.the amount 
available may change depending on the type of property you choose.we may ask you to 
put down a bigger deposit.provided you meet the conditions of this Mortgage Promise, a 
full mortgage offer can be made if you make a full mortgage application
It goes on to say that a full mortgage offer was needed for a purchase to go ahead: You 
should not enter into a binding legal agreement to buy a property until you have received, 
and are happy with, the full mortgage offerthe mortgage promise has been based on 
certain assumptions which may change once you apply for a mortgage and we have fully 
assessed your needs and circumstances. This may mean the amount available shown in this 
promise is subject to change. I note also that the Mortgage Promise didnt name the 
property - and salary, address and identification information was also needed.
The Mortgage Promise also said  read the booklet Information for mortgage customers. 
Ive looked at this and it says Get an Agreement in Principle. This helps you find out 
whether you can get a mortgage with Halifax. It also gives you an idea of what we can lend 
you based on your circumstances. The amount we might be able to lend you isnt 
guaranteed and youll need to complete a full mortgage application. So  again, this says 
that the Mortgage Promise wasnt a guarantee of a loan, and a mortgage application was 
needed.
And so  the Mortgage Promise was an agreement in principle. It wasnt a mortgage offer  
and so I dont think that Mrs H and Mr H could treat it as such. There were many things that 
needed to be checked and verified before a full mortgage offer could be made  and only 
then could Mrs H and Mr H go ahead with their purchase.
Its not clear why things changed between the Mortgage Promise of £165,690 in September 
2020 and the later AIP of £123,000- in December 2020. Thats a big change. Mr H told us 
that only his salary was used in the AIP in September 2020  but I can see that in that 
document, it asked for proof of Mrs Hs salary  which suggests that her income was being 
taken into account. And  but the time of the second AIP, shed been made redundant  so 
that might explain the difference between the two AIPs. But  Halifax cant explain why there 
was the change. To this end  its unfortunate that the call - which recorded the meeting at 
which the Mortgage Promise was put together - isnt available, as that might explain what 
happened. 
And - its here that Halifax were at fault  they couldnt explain why there was such a 
difference between the two Mortgage Promises. And so  Mrs H and Mr H were left with a Mortgage Promise in December 2020 which wasnt enough to buy their house, and nor could 
Halifax tell them why that was.
But equally, the Mortgage Promise was only an agreement in principle, with a lot of checks 
to be made and further information provided before a full, formal mortgage offer could be 
made. And so  I dont think I can ask Halifax to provide a mortgage of £165,000 or pay 
compensation of £10,000  as Mrs H and Mr H have asked. 
I can appreciate that Mrs H and Mr H are disappointed by what happened. And suffered 
stress and anxiety. They couldnt move to their chosen property. Halifax have paid 
compensation of £200  and I think on balance, this was a fair way for them to settle this 
complaint. And so - I wont be asking them to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman