DRN-4410166
Complaint
Miss C has complained that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) 
irresponsibly provided her with a credit card. 
Shes said the credit card was unaffordable and her financial situation became worse when 
she started being charged interest after she unintentionally missed payment during the 
promotional period.
Background
Miss C was provided with a credit card, which had an initial credit limit of £12,000.00 in 
December 2017. The credit limit on Miss Cs card was never increased but it was decreased 
to £10,975.00 in October 2019 and then £10,325.00 in January 2020.
One of our investigators reviewed what Miss C and Tesco had told us. And he thought that 
Tesco ought to have realised that it shouldnt have provided this credit card to Miss C. So he 
upheld Miss Cs complaint. 
Tesco disagreed with the investigators view and so the case was passed to an ombudsman 
for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Cs complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im upholding Miss Cs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a bit more detail.
Tesco needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Tesco needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss C 
could afford to repay before providing Miss C with her credit card. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The credit card Miss C was provided with had a credit limit of £12,000.00. And as this was a 
credit card Tesco was required to understand whether Miss C could repay around 
£12,000.00 within a reasonable period of time.  
From the information provided, I understand that Miss C was asked to provide a declaration 
of her income and she stated it was around £2,100.00 a month. She also declared that she 
was paying rent of £700. I can also see a credit check was carried out which showed that 
Miss C had 8 active accounts. The total amount Miss C owed was approaching £9,000.00 
with around £8,500.00 being owed on a loan and around £350 owing on existing revolving 
credit accounts. 
Tesco says that when Miss Cs credit commitments together with a reasonable estimate of 
living costs were deducted from her income she had a sufficient amount left over to repay 
what she would owe within a reasonable period of time, if she had used the entire 
£12,000.00 available to her.
Ive thought about what Tesco has said.  
I want to start by saying that a lender is entitled to rely on the information it obtains as part of 
affordability assessment as long as it is reasonable to do so. But, in this instance, there were 
a number of inconsistencies in the information that Tesco used to determine that this credit 
card was affordable for Miss C. These inconsistencies are so difficult to explain that I dont 
think it was reasonable for Tesco to have relied on this information.
For example, Tesco appears to have relied on Miss C having monthly loan repayments of 
£36 despite the credit search carried out also showing the loan as having an outstanding 
balance of nearly £8,500.00. Equally Tesco also appears to have used a rent amount of 
£632 in its calculation of Miss Cs expenditure, despite Miss C having declared monthly rent 
of £700. Furthermore, despite this Miss C was also recorded as living at home with parents 
too. 
Given these discrepancies and the lack of anything to suggest that these were queried 
before the application was approved, Ive not been provided with enough to satisfy me that 
the checks Tesco carried out before providing this credit card were reasonable and 
proportionate. 
As Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before          
Miss Cs credit limit was provided, I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. 
Nonetheless, I still need to decide whether it is more likely than not that proportionate checks 
would have told Tesco that Miss C would have been unable to sustainably repay £12,000.00 
within a reasonable period of time.
I think that Tesco needed to get a better understanding of Miss Cs income and expenditure 
before providing her with this credit card. Having looked at Miss Cs income, payments to 
existing credit commitments and her regular living expenses, its clear that she was on 
maternity leave and receiving less than usual salary at this time. Furthermore, Miss C was 
also paying substantially more towards her credit commitments than Tesco thought she was. 
The monthly repayment to her loan alone was over £300.
What Ive seen, from around the time, suggests most of Miss Cs income was taken up by 
her existing living costs and repayments to her existing commitments. I think that she was 
clearly in a position where every little helped and counted. So she didnt have the funds 
necessary to make the payments Tesco believe were necessary to repay this credit card 
within a reasonable period of time. Id also point out that Tescos assessment of a sustainable repayment doesnt even include 
any interest that would be due should Miss C have breached the terms and conditions of the 
interest free period, which she went on to do, or once her promotional offer expired when 
she would still have had an outstanding balance based on the payment amount Tesco used 
in its affordability assessment.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Miss C would not have been able to repay 
£12,000.00 within a reasonable period of time and certainly without borrowing further. In 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted Tesco to the fact that Miss C couldnt afford a credit card with a limit of 
£12,000.00 in December 2017. 
Im therefore satisfied that Tesco didnt act fairly and reasonably when it provided Miss C 
with her credit card in December 2017.
Miss C ended up paying and is still being expected to pay interest on a credit card which she 
shouldnt have been provided with in the first place. So Im satisfied that she lost out 
because of what Tesco did wrong and that Tesco should now put things right.
Fair compensation  what Tesco needs to do to put things right for Miss C
Having carefully considered everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable, in all the 
circumstances of Miss Cs complaint, for Tesco to put things right in the following way:
Rework Miss Cs credit card account to ensure that all interest, fees and charges are 
removed. 
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Miss C along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after all adjustments have been made, then Tesco should remove any 
adverse information from Miss Cs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco to take off tax from this interest. Tesco must give 
Miss C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
I understand that Tesco sold an outstanding balance on Miss Cs account to a third-party 
debt purchaser. So it will need to either buy the account back from the third-party and make 
the necessary adjustments, pay an amount to the third party (equivalent to that needs to be 
made on Miss Cs account) in order for it to make the necessary adjustments, or pay Miss C 
an amount (equivalent to the interest, fees and charges which need to be refunded) to 
ensure that it fully complies with this direction.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Cs complaint. Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC should put things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman