DRN-2840346
The complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Mrs C says 
AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 1997 Mrs C took out a PPI policy at the same time as applying for a high street store card 
during a store visit.
The policy provided protection for Mrs C's store card payments in the event she 
couldn't work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy would pay out 
15% of the outstanding account balance each month and it would pay out until Mrs C 
returned to work or the balance was paid off - whichever happened first. It cost no more than 
£1.00 for every £100 Mrs C owed on the card.
At the time of the sale Mrs C has told us she was employed as an administration clerk and 
she was entitled to six months sick pay and some redundancy pay. She said she had no 
other means she could've used to make her repayments in the event she was unable to 
work. Mrs C has said she had a medical condition around the time of the sale.
According to AXA's records, Mrs C paid around £65 in total for PPI during the policys 
lifetime.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought 
the available evidence showed that Mrs C chose to take out the cover. And there was 
nothing to indicate it was wrong or inappropriate for her.
Because Mrs C, through her representative disagrees the complaint comes to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account all that is relevant here in deciding Mrs C's case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint and my reasons are set out 
below.
did Mrs C have a choice about PPI? 
did she agree to take it out?
AXA had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
AXA has provided a copy of Mrs C's store card application. Looking at this I can see there 
was a separate section about PPI, which required a customer to tick a box if they wanted to 
take out PPI. And there is a tick in this box on Mrs Cs application. This section didnt say or 
imply that Mrs C had to take out PPI  so if she didnt want the cover she couldve left this 
section blank.
So taking everything into account, I think Mrs C chose to take out PPI and she did so without 
undue pressure. 
the information  
AXA says it didn't recommend or give advice to Mrs C to take out PPI. Mrs C hasnt said 
either way. Looking at what happened in this case, I've not seen anything to show or 
suggest AXA considered Mrs Cs individual circumstances and recommended the cover to 
her. So AXA didn't have to ensure the cover was right or suitable for Mrs C. But it did have to 
give her enough clear and timely information about the policy, so she could make an 
informed decision about it.
I accept its possible the information AXA gave Mrs C about the PPI wasn't as clear as it 
shouldve been. I also accept that because the sale took place in a non-financial business 
there wasn't likely anything that could reasonably be described as a conversation about PPI.
But as I found above, Mrs J chose to take out the policy - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. And based on her circumstances at the time it doesn't appear that it was 
fundamentally wrong or inappropriate for her - for example Mrs C was eligible for the cover 
and she was permanently employed.
Im mindful that Mrs C has told us that in circa 1997 she had a medical condition, which 
she saw a doctor about and received medication. But given the lack of certainty about the 
date of diagnosis Im not persuaded I can safely conclude Mrs Cs condition was pre-existing 
 its possible things happened after she took out the policy. But in any event, because Mrs 
C hasnt said or implied her condition was significant such that it impacted her ability to work 
and she needed time off because of it, Im not persuaded Mrs C wouldve likely thought her 
condition would be the main reason she need time off work in the future and need to claim 
on the policy.
In addition Mrs C wasnt caught by any of the other significant exclusions and limitations on 
cover, so I think she still had some good reasons to take out the cover   it would have been 
useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. Because of this, I 
dont think better information about the PPI would have likely put Mrs C off taking out the 
cover. 
I note that Mrs C has also said she was trying for a baby at the time of the sale. But Mrs C 
hasnt said that she was pregnant at the time of the sale and that she planned to stop work 
almost straightaway for example. So I dont think this is important or relevant to my 
consideration of the complaint.
conclusionOverall, while AXA might not have done everything it should fairly and reasonably have done 
when it sold Mrs C PPI, in light of her circumstances at the time I think, on balance, Mrs C 
wouldve still gone ahead and taken out PPI in any event.
This means I dont think Mrs C has lost out as a result of having PPI, so AXA doesn't have to 
do anything to put things right.
Mrs Cs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says applies to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
we are not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; 
these policies represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and 
limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith 
meant that AXA should have gone further and disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mrs Cs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Cs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Cs particular case. But 
these points doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint - for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold 
this complaint. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman