DRN-3327182
The complaint
Mrs Rs representatives complain that advice given by Portal Financial Services LLP 
(Portal) to transfer the benefits from her occupational pension scheme to a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP) wasnt in her best interests.
Mrs R is represented in this complaint by one of Mrs Rs daughters and her partner, referred 
to as the representatives.  
What happened
Mrs R was employed full-time as a civilian in the Police and was a member of her local 
government defined benefit (final salary) occupational pension scheme (OPS). Her normal 
retirement age was 65. 
Mrs R had returned to work following an extended absence due to illness and was 
considering reducing her hours. So she sought advice from Portal about whether she could 
access the benefits in her OPS and release the tax-free cash (TFC). 
Portal wrote to Mrs R in January 2015 setting out her options in respect of her OPS which 
were:
Do nothing  leave her pension where it was;
Transfer the benefits releasing a tax-free lump sum of £18,412, leaving the reminder 
invested;
Take full benefits, releasing up to £18,412 TFC and retire with an income;
Portal suggested once shed read the letter Mrs R should arrange a telephone appointment 
with an adviser to talk through the options.  
During the call on 9 February 2015 the Portal adviser completed a fact find in which Mrs Rs 
circumstances were recorded as:
Aged 60, married with no dependent children
In good health but taking medication for minor medical conditions, her weight was 
around 12 stone;
Working full-time earning around £18,525, her husband was unemployed;
Renting a property costing £450 per month
Credit card debt of £750 costing £40 per month to service;
No assets and net household disposable income of £100 per month; 
A potential forthcoming inheritance;
The transfer value of her OPS was £73,650
Her objective was recorded as needing TFC of £18,412 for home improvements and 
improve living quality
Mrs R didnt intend to retire yet and wanted to keep working for a few more years. Given the 
critical yield of 16.4% necessary to achieve the same benefits, Portals suitability letter dated 
15 February 2015 reflected Mrs Rs circumstances as set out above and concluded the 
transfer from a defined benefit (DB) pension scheme wasnt in her best interests. But it 
agreed to facilitate the transfer on an insistent client basis, even though it was against their 
advice, and provided the forms to enable her to do so.
Mrs R signed the insistent client options form on 11 February and the insistent client 
declaration on 19 February 2015, so the transfer of £73,650 to a self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP) with provider N went ahead. She took just under £18,904 as her pension 
commencement lump sum (TFC) and the remainder was invested in a flexi-access 
drawdown plan, the illustration for which suggested it would provide an annual income of 
£3,761 before tax. Portal had assessed Mrs R as having a balanced attitude to risk defining 
such investors as having a moderate level of knowledge about financial matters. 
A year later Mrs R wished to take a lump-sum withdrawal of £20,000 (gross), described as a 
pension strip from the SIPP to enable her to reduce her working hours and pay off debts. A 
further fact find was completed by a different Portal adviser in April 2016.  This recorded Mrs 
Rs circumstances as:
Aged 62, married with no dependent children;
In good health but with asthma recorded as a medical condition and her weight was 
now 8 stone;
Working full time earning £19,000, husband unemployed;
Renting a property costing £450 per month
Unsecured loans totalling £5,000 costing £196 per month to service;
No assets and household net disposable income of £100 per month
The balance of her SIPP was recorded as just under £52,284. Portal produced a pension 
strip report which explained the withdrawal would be taxed, but likely within the 20% bracket. 
And as Mrs Rs husband was in receipt of welfare benefits they recommended the couple 
find out whether this additional income would affect his entitlement. Mrs R signed a 
declaration of 14 April 2016 to say she understood this withdrawal would mean her paying 
more than £4,000 tax in 2016/17 as she was working. She went ahead with the withdrawal 
and received £18,202 in June 2016. From December 2016 Mrs R took regular monthly 
withdrawals from her SIPP of £800 - £1,000.
Sadly Mrs Rs husband passed away in September 2019 aged 65. It was when going 
through the couples paperwork the family discovered Mrs R had transferred her pension 
which they dont think Portal should have allowed her to do. As the fund is almost depleted 
they think shed have been better off staying in the OPS for a guaranteed income in 
retirement.
According to her family Mrs Rs memory had been deteriorating for some time and shes now 
been formally diagnosed with dementia and is resident in a care home. Mrs Rs 
representatives complained to Portal in February 2020. Portal didnt uphold the complaint. 
They said the risks and disadvantages of the transfer had been clearly explained to Mrs R. 
Shed been warned it wasnt in her best interest but wanted to go ahead anyway to access 
the TFC. 
So Mrs Rs representatives brought her complaint to this service where one of our 
investigators upheld it. Portal disagreed so it was passed to me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision in this case in February 2022. Although Id come to the same 
outcome as our investigator, I thought it fair to share some additional information provided by 
Mrs Rs representatives which hadnt previously been seen by Portal.  
In my provisional findings I said (in summary) I didnt think Portal should have refused to advise Mrs R. Although her relatives were 
aware her memory had been deteriorating since around 2014 she was still working 
and had no diagnosis of dementia. Indeed this only happened once shed been 
moved to a care home, so Portal had no reason to think she lacked capacity to make 
an informed choice;
I didnt share the representatives concern that the advice took place by telephone 
rather than face to face or didnt formally involve her husband. And despite the 
concern that Portal hadnt taken steps to confirm Mrs Rs identity, it didnt appear 
there was any dispute the advice had been given to Mrs R herself rather than 
someone else;
I accepted that Portals advice to Mrs R had been that the transfer wasnt in her best 
interests and they didnt recommend it. Their advice clearly stated that as the critical 
yield (growth rate required to match your guaranteed benefits) is 16.4% it would be 
against our recommendation to do this. Furthermore, you will be waiving your 
entitlement to a guaranteed pension £4,539 per annum and tax free cash sum of 
£6,983 which is payable at retirement age 65.
But I wasnt persuaded by Portals argument that they only included the insistent 
client declaration form with the recommendation as a precautionary approach and 
just in case Mrs R wished to proceed to reduce any unnecessary delays. 
I didnt think Mrs R met the definition of an insistent client as although she had signed 
the declaration and I could see she might be tempted to access her pension to obtain 
a higher amount of TFC, I wasnt persuaded she fully understood the long-term 
implications to her income in retirement of giving up the guaranteed benefits from her 
OPS;
I wasnt satisfied Portal had taken steps to ensure it didnt fulfilled its obligations 
didnt steer Mrs R towards following an insistent approach. The insistent client form 
gave option 1 (income drawdown after taking a tax-free lump sum of £18,412) ahead 
of option 2 (do nothing);
I felt Portal offering to help Mrs R with the transfer and providing the form before 
she saw the suitability letter is likely to have reassured her about the transaction and 
encouraged her towards proceeding without fully appreciating the implications. 
The evidence suggested Portal hadnt met the regulators expectation that Mrs R give 
a personal explanation in her own words to confirm she understood she was acting 
against Portals recommendations but had a compelling reason for doing so. 
The timing meant Mrs R had little time to consider her decision fully. There was only 
just over a week between the initial consultation and Mrs R taking the huge step of 
opting out of the final salary pension scheme shed paid into for 15 years. 
I felt Mrs R is likely to have been tempted by the prospect of taking the TFC given the 
state of her finances. Despite working full time the household monthly disposable 
income was only £100, and her husband had been unemployed for some time. The 
fact-find recorded she had £750 of credit card debt which she was making modest 
payments towards. But clearing debt is not the reason for the transfer recorded on 
the fact find. I wasnt persuaded that home improvements was a plausible reason 
for the transfer given she lived in a rental property. It came to light Mrs R and her husband had previously been owner-occupiers, but they couldnt afford the 
mortgage. So the property was purchased by a company from which they then rented 
it for £450 per month. This didnt change my view as I still felt it unlikely shed pay for 
home improvements to a rented property. 
At the time of the advice Mrs R didnt intend to stop working, although she was 
thinking of going part-time, and while it wasnt clear if she had reduced her hours, 
she was an active member of her OPS. So transferring would involve opting out of 
the scheme meaning shed lose the increased retirement income arising from any 
additional employee and employer contributions shed have made prior to taking 
benefits. I hadnt seen evidence this had been explained to Mrs R.
Portal had assessed Mrs R has having a balanced ATR although its not clear how 
that was determined. But Id seen no evidence to show Mrs R had the necessary 
moderate level of knowledge about financial matters to meet that definition. And 
Portal hadnt followed up on the assessment of Mrs Rs capacity for loss although the 
evidence it already had suggested her assets were close to zero, her investment 
horizon was quite short as she was only a few years from her normal retirement age. 
And she could expect very little financial support from a spouse or family member, 
given Portal knew her husband was unemployed, and household monthly disposable 
income was only £100.
In summary I didnt think it was sufficient of Portal to simply say the transfer wasnt in 
Mrs Rs best interests but then immediately agree to facilitate it for her, given her 
financial unsophistication and her very limited means. So as I concluded Mrs R 
shouldnt have been treated as an insistent client, it follows that I didnt think Portal 
should have assisted her with the transfer of her pension benefits from the OPS. I 
therefore thought Portal should put things right for Mrs R by applying the regulators 
guidance on redress of this nature. 
I went on to briefly consider the subsequent withdrawal (pension strip) of £20,000 
gross in 2016. I noted the fact find at this time was carried out by a different adviser 
who didnt appear to have compared the information with that obtained only a year 
earlier. Had they done so I thought Mrs Rs substantial weight loss might have 
prompted further questions. And it was significant that Mrs Rs unsecured debts had 
grown from a credit card balance of £750 to two loans totalling £5,000 which may 
have been partly for debt consolidation. Yet the monthly household disposable 
income remained at £100. 
The reason for the withdrawal was recorded as to reduce hours at work and to pay 
off debt. The fact find again stated Mrs R had no assets and little disposable income. 
I could see the implications of this additional withdrawal had been explained to Mrs R 
and she wanted to go ahead despite the additional tax implication. And the pension 
strip adviser sign-off dated 18 April 2016 said as Mrs Rs husband was in receipt of 
welfare benefits Portal strongly recommended they seek advice from the benefits 
office to find out how they will be affected. Several warnings were given including that 
the withdrawal would cause Mrs R to suffer financial poverty in future retirement. 
But the root of the risk to Mrs Rs future retirement income was the transfer away 
from the guaranteed lifelong benefits of the OPS. So given that Id already decided 
Portal shouldnt have assisted Mrs R with the transfer I didnt think I needed to 
consider this advice further. 
So my provisional decision was to uphold the complaint and I went on to explain how I 
thought Portal should put things right.Responses to my provisional decision
Portal didnt respond by the deadline or tell us they needed more time. 
Mrs Rs representatives made the following points in summary:
They believe Mrs R was contacted by Portal  they dont think she had the necessary 
experience to have sought advice;
They didnt think Mrs Rs weight was correct in the second fact find  shed been ill 
for some time and her weight had plummeted to 4 stone 8 pounds;
Mrs Rs recorded income of £18,412 seemed low;
They confirmed Mrs R received an inheritance from her father who passed away in 
2016, she hadnt received it in 2015;
They didnt think Mrs Rs husband had claimed state benefits;
They reiterated Mrs Rs memory had been deteriorating since 2013/14 but her 
husband had done nothing about it and her family lived too far away;
They wanted to know if the redress calculation would also refund the advisers fees;
They asked if the redress could be paid to Mrs Rs two daughters following her 
dementia diagnosis. They dont have power of attorney for Mrs R, but one is an 
Appointee;
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The points made by Mrs Rs representatives in response to the provisional decision are 
largely matters of background which dont affect the outcome of the complaint as they 
werent known to Portal at the time of the advice. But for completeness Ill address them 
here. 
The 2015 fact find didnt say Mrs R had received an inheritance. Under the 
Plans/Funding for Retirement/Other section the adviser has made a note of a potential 
inheritance alongside State pension, husbands pensions. So when asked about her 
income in retirement I think Mrs R must have mentioned she expected to receive an 
inheritance in the future (meaning from her father).
The idea of the redress calculation is to put the consumer in the position theyd be in had 
things happened as they should have. So this means the redress will be paid to Mrs R, 
preferably into her personal pension but if thats not possible then to her as a cash sum 
after a deduction for tax. We cannot pay the redress to Mrs Rs representatives. And as 
the investigator has explained an appointee doesnt have the same legal powers as an 
attorney and only applies to welfare benefits;
The calculation does take the advisers fee into account as its likely to have been 
deducted from the transfer value of the OPS before it was invested in the SIPP, rather 
than paid by Mrs R separately. 
Having considered everything again I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
conclusions. Which is that I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial Services LLP 
to put things right as set out below.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs R, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but their error in facilitating the transfer away from her 
OPS even though they assessed it as unsuitable. Had they done so Mrs R wouldve 
remained in the occupational scheme. 
Portal Financial Services LLP must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers. This guidance will factor in the benefit Mrs R has had of the PCLS and the 
subsequent withdrawals. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Rs representatives acceptance of the decision.
Portal Financial Services LLP may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions 
(DWP) to obtain Mrs Rs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme 
(SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Rs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Rs SIPP. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax 
relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mrs Rs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mrs R within 90 days of the date 
Portal Financial Services LLP receives notification of her representatives acceptance of my 
final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% 
per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mrs R.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Portal Financial Services LLP should put things right as set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman