DRN-2509788
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy with the amount Millennium Insurance Company Ltd (MIC) offered to settle 
her claim for water damage under her buildings and contents insurance. Although Mr L 
brought this complaint, Ill refer only to Mrs L - the policyholder - throughout my decision.
What happened
Mrs L made a claim under her home emergency policy with another insurer for a leak in her 
bathroom. The insurer fixed the leak but caused further damage. She complained to the 
insurer, and the matter was settled. However, the water damage got worse, so Mrs L made a 
claim under her home insurance with MIC. Initially, MIC declined the claim for four reasons:
the damage wasnt caused by an insured event;
the damage was caused by defective work;
the policy excluded cover for wear and tear and ongoing damage, and
Mrs L didnt notify MIC as soon as she became aware of the damage.
Mrs L supplied MIC with a surveyors report of the damage caused, dated more than a year 
after the original escape of water, and around a year before she made a claim under her 
MIC policy. MIC gave the report sympathetic consideration and accepted Mrs Ls claim. 
However, it limited its settlement offer to the damage which occurred at the original time of 
loss, excluding the subsequent deterioration.
MIC offered £300 for repairing the bathroom floor, £180 for hiring a skip and £500 towards 
the cost of the kitchen ceiling repairs. MIC declined Mrs Ls claim for a new kitchen because 
there was no evidence it had been damaged.
Mrs L complained to MIC about its offer, and she said it had been rude in its response to her. 
MIC maintained its offer.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought MIC had made a fair offer, which 
was outside the policy cover but in Mrs Ls favour. He considered Mrs Ls complaint about 
MICs response to her, but he didnt see any evidence that it had been rude. 
Mrs L didnt agree. She said her claim wasnt rejected initially; the surveyor MIC appointed 
reported that her kitchen cupboards were damaged, and MIC hadnt treated her fairly 
because it suggested she was exaggerating her claim.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mrs L will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint.  Rather 
than repeat all of the information again here, Ill focus on the key reasons for my decision.
Mrs Ls claim was for damage caused by an escape of water. The policy provides cover for 
this peril, but only if it is caused by a one-off event and reported to MIC within 90 days of it 
happening. While Mrs L might not have immediately reported the damage to MIC because 
she was claiming under another policy, I dont think its fair to expect MIC to cover the cost of 
repairs because:
she didnt report the damage to MIC until over two years later, which was well outside 
the policy deadline, and
the damage had got worse over those two years and Mrs Ls policy doesnt cover 
ongoing damage.
Despite that, MIC offered to pay for repairs as if Mrs L had made the claim when it first 
happened. Its total offer was £980 for the full cost of the bathroom floor, the skip-hire, and a 
contribution towards the kitchen ceiling. I think MICs offer was generous, given that the 
claim was outside the policy deadline and it couldve reasonably declined the whole claim. 
So, I see no reason to ask it to contribute any more.
Mrs L says MIC didnt reject her claim initially and she gave lots of reasons for why that was 
the case. I think its fair to say MIC didnt accept her claim at first, which wouldve been 
reasonable as Ive explained above. However, whether or not it accepted her claim from the 
start doesnt matter now, because it has made a fair settlement offer.
Finally, Mrs L remains of the opinion that MIC was rude to her. Ive looked at the 
correspondence and I can see that she thought MIC rejected her claim for personal reasons. 
Theres nothing in the evidence to support that opinion and, in fact, it went beyond what it 
needed to do because it accepted her claim even though it wasnt covered under her policy. 
If she pursued her claim for a new kitchen, MIC advised Mrs L that it would consider whether 
she was making an exaggerated claim. That was because the evidence it had didnt show 
extensive damage to her kitchen, and the surveyors report commenting on damage was 
completed two years after the leak. So, I can understand why MIC advised Mrs L of the 
seriousness of making an exaggerated claim and I dont think that means it was rude to her.
Overall, Im satisfied that MIC offered Mrs L a more than fair settlement given the fact that 
her claim wasnt covered under her policy. I wont be asking MIC to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman