DRN-2379275
The complaint
Mr L complains that The Share Centre Limited (Share Centre) did not process his instruction 
to transfer cash into his ISA in a timely manner. He says that he suffered a financial loss as 
a result of the delay. 
What happened
On 9 March 2020, Mr L sent an ISA Transfer Form to Share Centre by email. He was told by 
Share Centre the next day that HMRC regulations meant that they required a wet signature 
on the form before they could proceed with the transfer.
Mr L sent the form by post and received confirmation from Share Centre on 10 March that it 
had been received. This was unfortunately not the case as the agent was looking at a 
scanned copy on the system and not the form that Mr L had sent in.
After an exchange of emails on 13 March, Mr L was informed that a new transfer form was 
required with a wet signature. Mr L sent another form to Share Centre and this was received 
on 16 March.
The transfer form was processed and was completed by Share Centre on 26 March. Mr L 
then purchased stock using the cash. Mr L says that due to the delays in completing the 
transfer, the price of the stock that he wished to buy had risen in value and he had incurred a 
financial loss. Mr L complained to Share Centre and said that he had incurred a financial 
loss of £3,334.18.
Share Centre investigated Mr Ls complaint. They upheld his complaint in part as they did 
not think that the level of service he had received was in keeping with the level of service 
that they hoped to provide. Share Centre did not uphold Mr Ls complaint for financial loss. 
They said that the transfer had been completed within the guidelines set out for transfers 
and they could not be held responsible that he was only able to purchase a smaller number 
of shares with the available cash.
Unhappy with Share Centres decision, Mr L referred his complaint to the service and one of 
our investigators reviewed his complaint. The investigator didnt think that the time that 
Share Centre had taken was unreasonable and didnt uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr L has asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and will 
not be upholding the complaint.
In reviewing this complaint, I have looked at the timescales involved in the transfer process 
and how these fit in with the guidance issued by HMRC. The following is taken from HMRCs 
guidance on ISA transfers:
Deadlines and complaints
ISA transfers should take no longer than:
15 working days for transfers between cash ISAs
30 calendar days for other types of transfer
If your transfer takes longer than it should, contact your ISA provider.
If youre unhappy with the response, you can take the matter up with the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Mr L was transferring cash within a Stocks and Shares ISA so the maximum time that this 
should take is 30 calendar days. Mr L sent his initial instruction on 9 March but Share Centre 
were unable to accept this as they said that they could only act on a form that included a wet 
signature. 
Mr L has challenged whether a wet signature was required as he says that an earlier transfer 
to another provider was successful without a wet signature. Share Centre say that as Mr Ls 
previous provider did not use the electronic transfer gateway, they could not accept a 
scanned signature. 
It is not for the service to decide how a business should run its service, but I dont think that 
Share Centre have acted unfairly in requesting a wet signature for his transfer.
Mr Ls transfer form with a wet signature was received on 16 March and the cash was 
available in his ISA on 26 March. If I take this as a starting point, then the transfer took 11 
days to process and within the HMRC guidance of 30 calendar days. If I take 9 March as the 
starting point, the transfer would have taken 18 calendar days which is well within the 
guidance of 30 calendar days.
Although I sympathise that there was confusion about what he was told by Share Centre, I 
dont think that there was a material delay in the transfer process. I think that Share Centre 
completed the transfer within a reasonable time.
Mr L says that the value of the shares that we wished to buy rose in value due to the time 
taken to complete the transfer. He says that he was not able to buy the amount that he 
would have been had the transfer been completed earlier. I sympathise with Mr L that the 
share price was higher by the time the cash was available in his ISA but as Share Centre 
completed the transfer within a reasonable time and within HMRC guidance, I cant hold 
them responsible for price movements within the market.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman