DRN-2605676
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) unfairly turned 
down her business interruption insurance claim after her business was forced to close due to 
the Covid-19 pandemic. 
What happened
Mrs M holds a business interruption insurance policy with AIG. Mrs M claimed on her policy 
after her business was required to close due to the Governments actions in response to 
Covid-19. 
AIG said that the policy didnt cover Mrs Ms claim. Mrs M complained to AIG as she thought 
her claim should be covered under the extension for prevention of access. AIG said that 
extension required tangible property to have been damaged and Covid-19 hadnt damaged 
property. 
 
As Mrs M was unhappy with AIGs response she brought her complaint to our service. She 
felt that her business had been required to close and explained the financial impact of the 
closure on her business. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ms complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She 
thought AIG had turned down the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, as 
she didnt think Covid-19 had damaged property.
Mrs M asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Mrs Ms business. But for the same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding her 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
if AIG has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Mrs Ms claim. 
I understand that Mrs M feels the extension for prevention of access should cover her claim. 
This extension says:
Damage to property in the vicinity of the premises or the property, which prevents or hinders 
the use of the premises or the property or access thereto, regardless of whether the 
premises or property is damaged, but excluding damage to property of any supply 
undertaking from which you obtain electricity, gas or water or telecommunications services 
which prevents or hinders the supply of such services to the premises save to the extent that 
cover is provided under the Public Utilities Extension below.
The words in italics have a specific meaning within the policy. The policy says:
Damage means physical loss or destruction of or physical damage to tangible property.
For this extension to cover Mrs Ms claim, there would need to have been physical loss, 
destruction or damage to tangible property in the vicinity of Mrs Ms premises. I havent seen 
anything to indicate Covid-19 caused damage to tangible property in the vicinity of Mrs Ms 
premises. Instead Mrs M has said her business closed as a result of the Governments 
actions in response to the national pandemic. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mrs M was hoping for, but having considered this matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly ask AIG to pay the claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman