DRN-3566643
The complaint
Mr L complains on behalf of his business, J that its brokers, J M Glendinning (Insurance
Brokers) Limited (JMG), failed to provide J with adequate cover which would include
Accidental Damage, and failed to advise that this was not included within Js policy.
What happened
I sent the parties a provisional decision in May 2022, in which I set out the following 
background information to the complaint and my provisional findings. 
J owns industrial buildings and held Property Owners insurance which was arranged by
JMG and its predecessor organisation since 2003. In around 2015 a neighbouring business
built a large retaining wall following excavations. In February 2020 a large part of the wall
collapsed on to one of Js buildings causing severe damage to the premises and property
belonging to Js business tenants who were in occupation.
Js insurer appointed loss adjusters who prepared an engineering report. They stated that
there was no subsidence or storm damage and the collapse was due to accidental damage
from collapse of the retaining wall. The report also stated that, the collapse occurred during
a period of adverse weather and it is likely the wall was of inadequate design to withstand
the hydroscopic forces occurring from the accumulation of rainwater in the ground.
The loss adjusters stated that storm perils were a single one off event and not the
consequences of periods of bad weather. And concluded that, as per their report, the
damage was due to the collapse of an independent wall and this would be regarded as an
Accidental Cause. In response Js insurer said it wouldnt cover the claim.
Js representatives complained to JMG saying Js directors were unaware it wasnt covered
for Accidental Damage when the wall collapsed and that historically J always had this cover.
They said Accidental Damage cover is shown on the 2017 renewal documents, but
disappears thereafter without any notice or agreement, or any difference to the sum insured
or premium. They said the claim value was in excess of £200,000 and J had effectively been
left uninsured.
JMGs representatives responded that it had offered a full review of Js policy in March 2017,
but this hadnt been taken up by Js directors. They said the policy included specified perils
and although an extension for Accidental Damage was available, this wasnt selected by Js
directors at inception of the policy and had not been added subsequently. They said it was
shown erroneously in JMGs internal documents and those issued to J at renewal.
JMGs representatives said Accidental Damage cover wasnt shown in the 2019 renewal
documents, but this didnt prompt J to raise the issue and discussions at the time concerned
flood cover and premiums. But JMGs representatives also told Js representatives that JMG,
should have discussed accidental cover with your client and if necessary obtained a policy
which included such cover. However, it concluded that JMG wasnt responsible for Js 
losses.
Mr L, on behalf of J, wasnt satisfied with this response and brought the complaint about
JMG to our service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said that contrary to JMGs 
contention J was never made aware that Accidental Damage cover wasnt included in the 
policy or that reference to it within the renewal documents was an error. She said JMG had 
been misleading and unclear about this and the policy had been mis-sold to J. She said JMG 
should consider settling Js claim against Accidental Damage cover that it should have held. 
JMGs representatives disagreed with the investigator and requested the complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman. They said the investigator hadnt considered whether JMG owed 
J a duty of care, or whether mis-selling was the cause of Js losses. In reserve JMGs
representatives said JMG owed J a duty to act with reasonable care and skill when obtaining
insurance, but J hadnt selected Accidental Damage cover at inception or subsequently.
They accepted this should have been discussed with J and, if necessary, Accidental
Damage cover obtained. JMGs representatives said the wall collapse was due to Storm 
Dennis that occurred just before the damage and so it should be covered under the storm 
peril in Js policy. They said winds gusted between 54-62 mph and were accompanied by 
heavy rainfall, which over the two days, totalled in excess of 50% of the average total 
monthly rainfall. They said its clear the storm caused the damage and so J should claim for 
this against the insurer. JMGs representatives said an ombudsman cant decide a complaint 
against JMG without assessing the underlying insurance position.
Mr L brought a complaint against Js insurer and the insurer confirmed its rejection of Js
claim for lack of damage related to a storm and that J didnt hold Accidental Damage cover.
Mr L referred this complaint to our service and in a final decision we found that storm wasnt
the cause of the wall collapse. Mr L then continued with his complaint about JMG.
JMGs representatives said that if Js legal action about the damage from the collapsed wall
is settled J isnt entitled to double recovery for any losses and so any sums recovered via its
complaint must be deducted from any award it has obtained. Shortly afterwards, J and the
owner of the neighbouring property reached an agreement to settle Js legal action in
respect of a payment of damages and a commitment to rebuild the wall properly.
My provisional findings
This complaint concerns Js broker, JMG, and so it is JMGs actions and decisions that I
have to consider here. I havent considered the actions or decisions of the policy insurer
against whom the complaint to this service has been concluded. However, it is worth noting
that no liability was accepted by the policy insurer for Js claim under the storm peril. But the
claim has been declined by Js insurer for lack of Accidental Damage cover on the policy.
At JMGs suggestion, J asked its insurer to indemnify the claim under the storm peril and to
consider whether any other cover within its policy might apply to its claim. In response Js
insurer confirmed that the storm peril didnt apply and as to whether Accidental Damage
cover would have applied had it been held by J, it said:
This was not our insureds wall that collapsed but the neighbours wall that had collapsed 
on to our insureds property so cover would have been provided to the insureds own 
property had they elected to take out accidental damage cover.The only expert assessment of the cause of damage to the wall that I have seen is the loss
adjusters report. This states that the collapse of the wall would be regarded as an
Accidental Cause. I have seen no reason to depart from this view and I accept what Js
insurer says about covering a claim for Accidental Damage were one available to J.
I have looked carefully at JMGs handling of Js insurance arrangements to determine if it
mis-sold the policy to J, as suggested by Mr L, in particular concerning the lack of Accidental
Damage cover, and to see if it has caused J loss. Ive also considered if J would have acted
differently had JMG provided more or better information about the Accidental Damage cover
that might have been associated with Js policy.
JMG says that J was never properly on cover for Accidental Damage as its directors didnt
request this cover when the policy started in 2003. I have requested JMG provide records
from the start of the policy, but they arent available and so I cant reach a view on this. I note
that JMG wasnt the original broker for this policy.
JMG has acted as Js broker for a number of years and the sale of policies were provided to
J on an advised basis by JMG. This means (under the Financial Conduct Authoritys
Insurance Conduct of Business regulations) JMG had a responsibility to provide appropriate
information at each renewal that is clear and not misleading to enable J to make an informed
choice about the cover it required. JMG is required to take reasonable care to ensure the
suitability of its advice as J was entitled to rely upon its judgement.
JMG recommended the insurance cover to J that it acquired, and it arranged and sold the
policy. In order to carry its role out properly JMG needed to gather information from J. JMGs
representatives said JMG would usually review Js cover before annual renewal, but it said
that due to difficulty in contacting the directors this wasnt always possible. I think that
communication difficulties might have been overcome with more effort and I think that JMG
itself should have reviewed the cover offered to J or at least been more proactive in making
contact in order to meet its responsibilities under the regulations.
Mr L said to JMG, We have trusted your knowledge and expertise to arrange and manage 
our insurance for many years. Your failure to properly carry out this duty has left us suffering 
a significant loss for which we had thought, on the basis of the insurance documentation
provided by you, that we would be covered. JMG recommended policies for J as meeting 
its needs and set these out as: An insurer with a good claims service is necessary. Cover
required for the buildings, rent receivable and property owners liability (Demands and 
Needs 2011).
JMG have acknowledged that some documents sent in 2016, 2017 and 2018 state the policy
includes Accidental Damage cover but that the main policy schedule doesnt include this and
that this was an error. JMG said the policy never included Accidental Damage cover and the
insurance documents should not have included this.
Ive seen the policy renewal documents for 2016, 2017 and 2018 and they all show cover for
Accidental Damage. The renewal documents before this make no reference to Accidental
Damage, they just state that Js buildings are covered.
JMGs representatives wrote to J and said JMG, should have discussed accidental damage
cover with your client and if necessary obtained a policy which included such cover. I think
this is an acknowledgement of responsibility on JMGs part of its failure to obtain Accidental
Damage cover and its failure to inform J of the lack of Accidental Damage cover and present
an opportunity for this to be obtained. JMGs representatives also said JMG owed a duty toact with reasonable care and skill when obtaining insurance.
Mr L has confirmed that he believed Js policy included Accidental Damage cover. Having
reviewed the evidence including the insurance records I think it was reasonable for Mr L to
hold this view. And I think most reasonable people in Mr Ls situation would have concluded
similarly. Had Mr L known J wasnt covered for Accidental Damage, he has said, and I am
persuaded, he would have wanted to take out this cover and would have made
arrangements for the same.
From what Ive seen, I think had the option to include cover for Accidental Damage been put 
to J it would have been accepted and so JMGs actions affected the exercise of its choice 
and the cover J held. In conclusion, I currently think that JMG failed to take reasonable care 
to ensure the suitability of its advice to J as it is required to do. As a consequence, I currently 
think that Js insurance policy was mis-sold to it by JMG and that it would be fair and 
reasonable for JMG to step into the shoes of the policy insurer in respect of Js losses.
Following our recent request to J for information about the damage its suffered, Im aware
that its losses remain uncrystallised. When it is ready to do so, J will need to send detailed
information about its losses to JMG. JMG will then need to consider payment for evidenced
losses connected to the Accidental Damage cover that exceed the settlement payment in
this respect that J has already received from neighbouring businesses. If Js losses do not
exceed the settlement it received, then there is nothing for JMG to pay. Should J incur
insured losses other than those claimable under the Accidental Damage cover in the policy,
such as loss of rent, then such claim should be made to its insurers.
My provisional decision and the parties responses 
I provisionally decided to uphold the complaint and require JMG to put itself in the position of 
Js insurer and assess its claim with reference to the Accidental Damage cover that was 
available, but not in place in Js policy. I agreed with JMGs representatives that its insured 
liability would be subject to all relevant terms and conditions of the policy in place with Js 
insurer, including any excess. Any additional premium that would have been chargeable to J 
in respect of Accidental Damage cover would need to be deducted from any related claim.
I also agreed with JMGs representatives that the out of court settlement in respect of Js 
legal action against its neighbouring businesses should be deducted against any award 
made as a consequence of this decision. I said it will be open to J to present details of its 
insured losses to JMG in respect of the collapsed wall and seek recovery of losses in excess 
of its agreed out of court settlement under the Accidental Damage cover of the policy.
JMGs representatives said its client wants to obtain engineering advice about the wall 
collapse and has requested further information from J. They said that this information is 
would enable JMG to investigate matters and provide me with further representations and I 
should await receipt.  
JMGs representatives said JMG owed J a duty of care to act with reasonable care and skill 
when obtaining Js insurance. They said this duty had been breached, but causation is 
denied. They reiterated their position that the wall collapsed due to Storm Dennis and that it 
had stood for c.4-5 years before the date of collapse, with no issues. And since the loss 
adjuster had noted hydroscopic forces from the accumulation of rainwater it is beyond doubt 
that the storm caused the collapse and cover should have been provided under the policy.
JMGs representatives said it is Js position that the policy would have responded had 
Accidental Damage cover been in place. But that Accidental Damage cover as described in the policy wouldnt have offered cover as it excludes damage from a latent defect or from 
the collapse of buildings.
JMG representatives said J hasnt provided detailed information about its losses, but its 
liability is subject to all relevant terms and conditions under the policy, including the policy 
excess and any additional premium would need to be deducted from a claim. 
J responded that its tenant may make a claim for its losses and wanted to know how that 
would be covered. It said it would pass details of its out of court settlement to JMGs 
representatives, but didnt think its other requests for information were relevant to the 
present complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reconsidered all of the information and evidence connected with this complaint and 
having done so remain of the view that it should be upheld, and for the reasons set out 
within my provisional decision. I have separately considered Js complaint about its insurer.
In summary, Mr L said he believed Js policy included Accidental Damage cover and I 
remain of the view that it was reasonable for him to believe this. Had Mr L known J wasnt 
covered for Accidental Damage, he has said, and I accept, he would have made 
arrangements for this cover.
Consequently, JMGs actions affected the exercise Js choice about the cover it held. I 
remain of the view that JMG failed to take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its 
advice to J as it is required to do. And Ive concluded that Js insurance policy was mis-sold 
by JMG and that it would be fair and reasonable for JMG to step into the shoes of the policy 
insurer in respect of Js losses.
I have considered the points made by the parties in response to my provisional decision. In 
response to Js point about further claims for its tenants and its own losses, we have said 
that any claim should be passed to Js insurer to consider in the first instance. 
In response to JMGs representatives point that I should await further evidence about the 
structure of the wall and potential causes of its collapse, we have said this could only be 
potentially relevant to Js complaint against its insurer. And our involvement in that complaint 
ended when we sent out the final decision. 
Although JMGs representatives accept that it failed in its duty of care to J, its response 
concerns the engagement or otherwise of Js insurance policy  issues relevant to Js 
complaint with its insurer which has been the subject of a separate final decision.
JMGs representatives said it is Js position that the policy would have responded had 
Accidental Damage cover been in place. The representatives should note that this is the 
insurers position, as I said in my provisional decision, the insurer has told us, cover would 
have been provided to the insureds own property had they elected to take out accidental 
damage cover. This is only relevant now to any action outside of our service that JMG might 
wish to take against the insurer.
The representatives have suggested that the Accidental Damage cover wouldnt have 
engaged due to policy exclusions for latent defect or collapse of buildings. I think they have 
misunderstood the nature of the Accidental Damage cover as the exclusions to which they refer only apply if the wall belonged to the insurers policyholder. As it didnt the cover would 
have applied to J without exclusions. The insurer has explained that it wasnt insuring the 
neighbours wall, but Js risk from it; This was not our insureds wall that collapsed but the 
neighbours wall that had collapsed on to our insureds property. I dont think the insurers 
comments leave much room for doubt that Js policy would have engaged had Accidental 
Damage cover been in place. 
I set out in my provisional decision that any settlement of Js claim by JMG should be subject 
to the terms and conditions of Js policy with its insurer. That and the settlement in resolution 
of Js legal action remain relevant to the settlement of any claim by JMG as a consequence 
of this decision.
Js losses remain uncrystallised. When it is ready to do so, J will need to send detailed 
information about its losses to JMG.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I require J M 
Glendinning (Insurance Brokers) Limited to put itself in the position of Js insurer and assess 
its claim with reference to the Accidental Damage cover that was available, but not in place 
in Js policy. 
I agree with J M Glendinning (Insurance Brokers) Limiteds representatives that its insured 
liability would be subject to all relevant terms and conditions of the policy in place with Js 
insurer, including any excess. But without reference to any of the exclusions for Accidental 
Damage cover within the policy. Any additional premium that would have been chargeable to 
J in respect of Accidental Damage cover would need to be deducted from any related claim.
I also agreed with J M Glendinning (Insurance Brokers) Limiteds representatives that the out 
of court settlement in respect of Js legal action against its neighbouring businesses should 
be deducted against any award made as a consequence of this decision. 
I said it will be open to J to present details of its insured losses to J M Glendinning 
(Insurance Brokers) Limited in respect of the collapsed wall and seek recovery of losses in 
excess of its agreed out of court settlement under the Accidental Damage cover of the 
policy. Losses incurred under any other insured cover within the policy should be presented 
to Js insurer in the first instance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman