DRN-2781299
The complaint
Mrs R complains Acromas Insurance Company Limited havent met a claim under the 
Breakdown Repair Cover (BRC) element of her roadside assistance policy.
A number of other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Acromas are 
responsible for it Ive primarily referred to them in this decision.
A representative has supported Mrs R in bringing this complaint, but for simplicity Ive just 
referred to her in this decision.
What happened
In March 2021 I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, what I thought 
about that and how things needed to be put right. Ive copied below this information, and it 
forms part of this final decision.
On 27 May 2020 Mrs Rs car unfortunately broke down. Acromas attended the car, and the 
technician recorded the car wouldnt start, they thought it was the turbocharger, there was 
noise from the engine and smoke from the exhaust. Theyve said Mrs R would make 
arrangements with a BRC garage. The BRC is an additional paid element of the policy to 
provide cover for damaged parts, and Acromas would usually want Mrs R to go to one of its 
approved garages for any repairs.
Mrs R called Acromas and asked if the turbocharger would be covered under the policy and 
says she was told it would be. Acromas suggested two garages, but neither could do the 
work. Mrs R found another garage who could, and Acromas took the car there on 
1 June 2020. Mrs R explained due to a family illness she needed the car urgently. Acromas 
said an inspection was needed to confirm cover could be provided, and they couldnt chase 
this up. This went on for over two weeks, with Acromas contacting Mrs R on 16 June 2020 to 
confirm the inspection could now go ahead anytime. 
In this call on 16 June Mrs R asked for the name of the contact of who would be carrying out 
the inspection and was told this would be a breach of GDPR rules so Acromas couldnt 
provide this. Mrs R let Acromas know the intention was to have the part refurbished. And, 
around 3pm the same day, Mrs R received a call from someone saying theyd been 
instructed by Acromas to pick the car up from her. Mrs R explained that wasnt correct as the 
car was already in a garage. Shed expected the company to contact the garage directly and 
gave over the details.
On 18 June Mrs R contacted Acromas to find out if theyd had the inspection report back yet. 
Acromas said they hadnt, and when Mrs R asked if they could check whatd happened 
Acromas said they couldnt speak to the company as everything was done on a portal. Mrs R 
let Acromas know shed collected the turbocharger as she was planning on having it 
refurbished. But, as she was concerned by what Acromas were telling her, held on to it.
The next day, Acromas told her the report had been received, and Mrs R could get the 
turbocharger refurbished now.
On 22 June 2020 Acromas told Mrs R theyd turned down the claim because the car wasnt 
at the garage for inspection. Mrs R was confused by this, as she understood the inspection 
had taken place on 16 June, and the car was at the garage, as was the turbocharger at that 
point. She says she asked Acromas to send her the reports, but they refused. So, she went 
and spoke to the garage where her car was.
They told her two people had come to inspect the car  the first person on 16 June, and the 
second on 18 June. Mrs R investigated matters, found CCTV evidence to support the 
inspectors had seen the car, and werent happy Acromas wouldnt pay the claim. Mrs R has 
said overall this has cost her £557.60  of which she says Acromas is responsible for £500 
of as per the BRC policy terms for a damaged part.
Ultimately, our investigator felt compensation of £300 was fair to resolve the case because 
of the confusion caused and for how the complaint was handled. She didnt think the part 
should be covered as it didnt meet the terms.
Acromas said the confusion was between Mrs R and the first company who came out to 
inspect the car, so werent prepared to agree to pay this. Because of that, the complaints 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The timeline Ive listed in the background is Mrs Rs, but is largely supported by the notes 
Acromas have provided. A lot has happened in this complaint, and its clear some confusion 
has been caused. So, I think its helpful to firstly set out what I think happened, and who 
caused the confusion, before deciding the remainder of the case.
Whos responsible for the confusion
Mrs R had a breakdown on 27 May, and by 1 June it seems the breakdown itself had all 
been sorted and the only issue outstanding was the claim for the parts. This is why Mrs Rs 
recollections, and Acromas notes, all refer to an inspection of the turbocharger. Two 
different companies were seemingly instructed to carry out inspections. 
The first of those companies attended the garage on 16 June  Ill call this company M. The 
second company attended the garage on 18 June  Ill call this company A.
M called Mrs R to say theyd been told by Acromas to arrange a roadside pick up and drop 
off the car to another location. Mrs R said no, that wasnt correct, it was an inspection that 
was needed of the turbocharger which was with the car in the garage. This inspection 
occurred and, as a result of Mrs Rs understanding that the turbocharger had been seen, she 
collected it from the garage and arranged for it to be refurbished.
Acromas say theyd got no record of themselves instructing M  nor do their linked entities. 
Theyve added theyd only ever use A, not M, for Mrs Rs situation  but they do use M for 
other things on occasion. Their opinion is the confusion was caused by Mrs R saying an 
inspection was needed and cant say how M got involved.
With that in mind I think Acromas are saying once M called Mrs R to move things forward M 
took instructions from Mrs R  and therefore its not their responsibility. But I cant agree with this. Ms notes clearly say they were instructed by a linked entity to 
Acromas. Itd also be a quite significant coincidence if a company that Acromass linked 
entities do occasionally use, was somehow brought in to this issue by anyone other than 
Acromas or one of their linked entities.
Acromas havent been able to confirm how M got involved as Ive said above  so in the 
absence of evidence I need to decide what I think is most likely. At the time M were 
instructed, which was 16 June, the only outstanding issue between Mrs R and Acromas was 
the claim on the policy  the roadside assistance element had been settled over two weeks 
earlier. With that in mind, Im satisfied its reasonable to say Acromas are responsible for M 
being instructed  and the subsequent confusion.
Ive considered what this means for the claim for the turbocharger itself, and whether 
compensation would be appropriate, below.
My thoughts on whether Acromas should pay the £500 benefit under the terms of the policy
Acromas turned down the claim because the part wasnt present on site when As 
representative went to see it. But, as Ive said above, I think this was solely down to the 
confusion caused by Acromas  and not as a result of anything Mrs R did. With that in mind, 
I have to weigh up whether I think its fair, based on the evidence Ive got, her claim isnt 
met. While I understand Mrs R will be disappointed, I think Acromas have acted fairly here.
M have recorded this looks like a sudden failure  which would be covered under the policy 
terms. These notes are brief though, and Acromas have provided a report from their 
engineers department which goes into substantially more detail to explain the issue was 
wear and tear, and a pre-existing fault. Theyve referred to the build-up of oil and linked this 
to the smoke and noise from the engine. This would be excluded under the policy terms, 
provides substantial more depth  and given the confusion Im more persuaded by 
Acromass engineer. 
So, overall, Im satisfied that this fault wouldnt have been covered under the policy terms 
and wont tell Acromas to meet the claim.
What compensation, if any, is appropriate
But, I do have to consider how Acromas handled the claim. Although its been correctly 
turned down, its taken a fair amount of work and investigation on Mrs Rs part to get to the 
point where everyone has some understanding of what happened.
I think in the course of handling the claim Id have expected Acromas to treat Mrs Rs 
concerns more seriously, and properly investigate matters. They didnt. That has put Mrs R 
to some distress  and its only after shes done a lot of work that anyone is able to confirm 
what happened, why, and whether the claim should be met. It should be for Mrs R to provide 
information Acromas have asked for to investigate matters  it shouldnt be for Mrs R to have 
to fight to prove what happened because during the course of the claim she wasnt properly 
listened to.
I note our investigator felt compensation should be paid for this, and for the poor complaint 
handling. As Acromas have said, poor complaint handling is a separate issue  and isnt 
actually something we can usually consider under our rules. So, I cant make any findings on 
the way Acromas handled the complaint in this case  but I can, and am, on their 
investigation of the claim.
Overall, on this point, Im satisfied £300 is a fair and reasonable amount to award.Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs R said she accepted the outcome Id reached.
Acromas didnt reply by the deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs R accepted my decision, and Acromas didnt reply by the deadline, Ive seen no 
reason to change my outcome. I still think Acromas need to pay compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I uphold this complaint, and order Acromas Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mrs R £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman