DRN-3676243
The complaint
Mr U complains about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim and its 
decision to settle with the third-party, under his wifes motor insurance policy. 
What happened
In January 2021 Mr U was involved in an incident when driving. He says he was stationary at 
traffic lights and then rolled forward three feet touching the car in front. He says the third-
partys car was in a very poor condition. Mr U contacted Admiral and asked it not to settle 
the claim from the third party as it would be based on dishonesty. But Admiral settled the 
claim anyway without involving him. 
Mr U doesnt think the engineer reports conclusively show that the damage claimed was as a 
result of the incident. He complained to Admiral and it offered him £200 compensation for a 
lack of communication, failing to provide copies of reports, delays, difficulties in supplying 
evidence, and for inspecting the wrong part of his car.
Admiral subsequently arranged for a desktop assessment of the claim. It says if this 
confirmed there was no possible way Mr Us vehicle caused the damage to the third-party 
vehicle then his no claims bonus would be reinstated. The assessment didnt rule out the 
impact causing damage to the third-party. So, Admiral concluded it had settled the claim 
appropriately. 
Mr U didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold his complaint. He says Admiral acted in line with its policy terms when settling 
the claim as it thought best. He thought communication couldve been better, but the 
compensation Mr U received was fair to acknowledge this. 
Mr U wasnt satisfied with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Us complaint. Let me explain. 
My remit here is to consider whether Admiral treated Mr U fairly when handling this claim 
and deciding to settle with the third-party.
Mr U describes the accident as his car having rolled a few feet into the back of the third-
partys car. There is no dispute that his car impacted the other vehicle, albeit Mr U maintains 
this was at a slow speed and didnt cause any damage. He says the third-party car was 
already in a very poor condition before the incident and it cant be shown that the damage 
claimed wasnt pre-existing.
I acknowledge Mr Us comments that he told Admiral not to settle the claim. Ive read his 
policy terms to understand what is expected to happen in these circumstances. The policy 
terms, under the heading, General Conditions say:
We are entitled to:
-conduct the defence or settlement of any claim on your behalf 
This term is typical of motor insurance policies. It means that Admiral has a contractual right 
to settle the claim how it chooses. It doesnt need Mr Us consent or agreement to do this. 
That said, we still expect Admiral to handle the claim reasonably and to do so based on the 
facts and evidence.
Ive read the inspection reports that were arranged by Admiral. I note that during the first 
inspection that took place in March 2021, the engineer focused on the rear of the car. The 
report says the instruction was to inspect for damage to the front of the vehicle. But on 
discussion with Mr Us wife she had advised it was the rear of the car that he was supposed 
to look at. 
Mr U was involved in an earlier accident when the rear of his car collided with another 
vehicle. I understand this is why there was some confusion as Mr Us wife thought it was the 
earlier accident the engineer was interested in. The engineer says he took some images of 
the front of the car but commented, they are not particularly close. He comments that the 
photos dont appear to show any damage. 
In May 2021 a further inspection was carried out, whilst Mr U was present. The report says, 
light accidental damage to the front bumper at 63 to 66cm, however it is possible that this 
minor damage maybe related to a previous incident. The front number plate and plinth 
protrude on this vehicle therefore its likely that contact would have been made in this area 
first, however, there is no evidence of damage.
Ive seen the report from the inspection of the third partys car. This includes photos of the 
rear bumper. I can see that there are marks on the bumper above the number plate and the 
right-hand section appears to be misaligned with a gap showing. 
Admiral arranged for a desktop inspection of Mr Us car as a result of his concerns with how 
itd handled the claim. Ive read the report that was produced. It says that the purpose of the 
report is to consider the consistency of the damage caused. The engineer comments that 
the photos of Mr Us car are of a good quality. The report says, They [the photos] show the 
vehicle to exhibit markings to its front bumper cover above the registration place [sic], which 
may be incident related. 
The report also comments that, The images of the [third-partys car] are of a lower quality 
and the inspection was carried out in adverse weather conditions. The images show the 
[cars] rear bumper cover to exhibit a recent marking consistent in height and profile with the 
upper edge of [Mr Us cars] registration plateAccounting for the differences in resistance 
to damage of these models the damage to the [third party car] resulting from this incident 
cannot be ruled out.
I acknowledge Mr Us view that the damage to his front bumper was only reported at the 
second inspection in May 2021 not at the first inspection in May. He says this damage was 
caused sometime after the inspection in March and isnt connected to the incident in 
January.
I acknowledge Mr Us argument. But I note he hasnt confirmed how the damage occurred if this wasnt at the time of the incident in January 2021. The engineer identified that the 
damage to the third partys bumper aligned with the upper edge of Mr Us number plate. And 
he couldnt rule out the possibility that damage was caused to the third partys rear bumper 
as a result of the collision. 
In its complaint response, Admiral says that if the third party can show on the balance of 
probabilities that Mr Us car caused the damage, then its reasonable to accept this. It says 
the first part of proving this claim is accepting that the vehicles came into contact during an 
accident. Mr U doesnt dispute that his car collided with the rear of the third-partys car, 
which I think reasonably proves there was contact. 
The engineer reports indicate the height of Mr Us registration plate aligns with the damage 
seen on the third-partys bumper. Admiral says its unable to prove he didnt cause damage 
to the bumper. It says that in its experience of the civil court, the third-party has shown, on 
the balance of probabilities, that damage occurred as a result of this incident. 
I acknowledge Mr Us comments that the third-partys car was in a poor condition prior to the 
incident. I dont dispute this. But as Admiral explains in its complaint response, if Mr U 
caused damage to the third-partys car, regardless of its condition, then the third party is 
entitled to claim for this. 
Based on the evidence I think Admiral has shown its decision to settle the claim as it did, 
was reasonable. Had it continued to dispute the case, and this ended up in court, I think its 
shown theres a good chance it would have lost, which will have resulted in further costs. 
Admiral has paid Mr U £200 compensation and £10 for out of pocket expenses. From the 
information Ive seen there were aspects of the claim that couldve been handled better. 
Communication regarding how evidence could be provided doesnt appear to have been 
very clear. Admiral concedes its general standard of communication wasnt at the level it 
would expect, which I think is a fair assessment. I also think Mr Us concerns about the 
damage claimed being caused by the accident, couldve been investigated more quickly and 
this delayed matters. However, I think Admirals apology for the inconvenience caused along 
with its compensation payment is fair. 
Having considered all of this, I dont think Admiral behaved unfairly when relying on its policy 
terms and settling the claim in the way it did. I dont think it treated Mr U fairly regarding the 
delay in investigating his concerns and with the poor standard of communication. But I think 
its apology and compensation is reasonable in acknowledging this. So, I cant fairly ask it to 
do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman