DRN-3700547
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has unfairly handled a 
subsidence claim under her buildings insurance policy.
Any reference to Mrs A or RSA includes any agents or representatives unless specified.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties. So, Ive summarised events. 
Mrs A holds an RSA buildings insurance policy. She made a subsidence claim under 
her policy related to damage to her garage and kitchen extension which had been 
built in 2004  replacing and extending the existing garage. RSA appointed its loss 
adjuster (C) to investigate the damage.
C said the damage in question was as a result of defective workmanship related to 
inadequate foundations and declined the claim. It said the main property had 
foundations of 1000mm, and the extension had foundations of 600mm which werent 
sufficient and shouldve been a similar depth to the main property in line with 
guidelines applied by a certain builder of new homes (I will call them NB).
Mrs A appointed a surveyor (R) who disagreed with Cs findings, saying the garage 
extension construction was of a very good standard. They said architect drawings 
from the time showed the previous garage foundations to be 800mm and that 2004 
extension would replicate this depth. R said planning approval was granted, as was 
Building Regulation, and a certificate confirming this upon completion. And Building 
Control surveyors notes reflected a depth of 800mm into firm clay.
R said C failed to substantiate its position that the foundations were 600mm. And the 
distinction between the main property and garage was correct as the former was built 
on made ground, where as the garage was built on clay of low shrinkage potential. R 
also said any water demand on trees did not appear to be a foreseeable risk to 
Building Control, nor Mrs A.
So, Mrs A and R brought the complaint to this Service. One of our Investigators 
looked into what happened and upheld the complaint. He found Rs commentary 
persuasive and agreed RSA had failed to substantiate the foundations depth. Nor 
had it provided clarity on which specific 2004 standard wasnt met. And it wasnt fair 
for RSA to rely on NB guidelines where it had failed to show the property was 
constructed by an NB registered builder with the intention of providing an NB 
warranty.
The Investigator also said there was evidence of low soil plasticity which disproved 
any suggestion put forward by RSA to the contrary. He said an excess would still be 
payable if the claim was valid. And that RSA should reconsider the claim, paying Mrs 
A £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, and her surveyor 
costs to the date the complaint was referred to this Service.
Mrs A accepted the view, but RSA didnt. In summary, RSA said:
oMistakes it accepted it made during its handling and within Cs report hadnt 
impacted the progress of the claim.
oRoots were present to 1.3m in depth at the site of the garage borehole and 
1.2m in the main property borehole.
oMrs Cs builder had failed to consider the main houses foundation depth, or 
the proximity of trees which means it was inevitable the garage foundation 
would fail.
oEven if it conceded that the depth of the foundations were 800mm, it was still 
lower than the main property.
oThe minimum depth requirement at the time was 750mm but taking into 
account good practice, NB guidelines show the depth wouldve needed to be 
greater to account for vegetation, while acknowledging these guidelines do 
not specify a depth.
oThe Regulations in place at the time required the building shall so be 
constructed that movement of the subsoil caused by swelling, shrinkage or 
freezing will not impair the stability of any part of the building. And so 
whether a certificate was granted or not only demonstrates the build was 
completed in line with the architects drawings, not that it had considered the 
appropriate regulations in place which it considered to be poor design.
oIt agreed reference to high plasticity was incorrect.
oIt said it could not guarantee that the foundations wouldnt have been affected 
at a greater depth than 600mm, but it felt it was unlikely to have occurred if 
they had been constructed using a greater depth.
The Investigator looked again but didnt change his mind. He reiterated:
oThe certificate of completion showed plans had been submitted in line with 
building regulations and were inspected by the relevant authority. 
oRSA couldnt fairly rely on NB terms.
oEven if defective workmanship had been found, wed expect B to demonstrate 
the damage only occurred as a result of this, and here roots had been 
discovered between 1.3m and 1.2m deep across the property, lower than any 
of the depths RSA had sought to rely on. 
RSA still disagreed and asked for further time to reply. This was granted and the 
deadline has passed some time ago, but its provided nothing further. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
In this case theres no dispute that Mrs As home has been damaged by subsidence. 
Her policy covers subsidence damage, but specifically excludes damage that has 
arisen from poor design or faulty workmanship like many policies of this nature do.
RSA said Mrs As extension has been damaged by nearby trees, and the foundation 
depth for this extension wasnt deep enough so it was poorly designed. 
As RSA has said this claim falls under an exclusion, the onus is on it to demonstrate this is the case. As outlined above, RSA has relied on NB standards. I will not repeat 
these in full as theyre known to both parties. But RSA says these show a minimum 
foundation depth of 750mm was required for an extension. And, taking into account 
the nearby trees, NB guidelines wouldve recommended a greater depth.
I want to be clear that NB standards and guidelines were not Building Regulations or 
equivalent to them when the extension was built in 2004. Instead they are standards 
set out by NB within its role of overseeing and supporting improvement of building 
practices in new homes. 
Ive read the NB guidelines RSA mentioned, but I cant see Mrs As extension was 
subject to them. I say this as the extension was built on an existing property (not a 
new build), and Ive seen nothing to suggest the builder was required to take into 
account these standards. 
So, I dont think its fair for RSA to rely on these guidelines when determining whether 
or not the extensions foundations were adequate. Ive gone on to consider the 
relevant building regulations in place at the time which RSA has quoted.
RSA has said the fact the subsidence has occurred shows that the building wasnt 
correctly constructed.
When this extension was built, Id agree the builder had a responsibility to ensure it 
was constructed to an appropriate standard  the Building Regulations from the time. 
Id expect this to include ensuring the foundation is capable of supporting the 
structure for a reasonable period of time, taking into account the circumstances. 
Evidently the architect drawings from the time do show the foundation depth to be 
800mm, and this seems supported by the other evidence from 2004, including the 
Building Control surveyors notes. 
RSA has since said the actual depth used was 600mm based on its own 
investigation. But that the evidence from 2004 would only show the works carried out 
met the design  which appears to me to be 800mm depth. So while I take into 
account the evidence RSA has provided, I think in light of the conflicting evidence on 
both sides it would have been reasonable for it to provide further evidence should it 
want to rely on the depths of the foundations in question.
However, even if I were to agree that the depth in question was 600mm and did not 
meet the Regulations in place at the time, I would go on to consider if this wouldve 
changed anything in regards to the subsidence claim itself.
RSA has been clear that there are roots found at depths of 1.3m and 1.2m across the 
property. These depths are beyond even what it said RSA has said shouldve been in 
place at the time. So, it strikes me that even if the depth had met the NB guidelines 
that RSA has sought to rely on  which Ive already explained simply dont apply  it 
seems most likely that the subsidence wouldve still occurred.
RSA has provided some very limited comments saying it doesnt believe this 
subsidence wouldve still occurred, but no reasoning or technical opinion why. For 
these reasons, Im satisfied RSA has unfairly applied this exclusion in the 
circumstances of this case. And Im directing it to reconsider the claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms, without use of this particular exclusion.
Evidently the back and forth in this case wouldve been distressing for Mrs A. 
Thankfully it appears to me that R has carried much of the back and forth for her 
which appears to have reduced the impact on her directly. So, Im in agreement a 
payment of £150 in compensation would be fair in these circumstances.
In this particular case  it appears to me Rs role has been significant to Mrs A in 
putting her case across and obtaining evidence. And in light of her age and position, I think its fair in this instance for RSA to cover reasonable costs incurred up until the 
date this complaint came to this Service.
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must do the following:
Reconsider Mrs As claim against the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Pay Mrs A £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused.
Pay Rs reasonable costs incurred up until the date of this complaint coming to this 
Service on 2 March 2022 upon receipt of supporting invoices/documentation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman