DRN-3195586
The complaint
Mrs B complains that U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) calculated the 
premiums on her landlords insurance policy incorrectly, meaning she was overcharged for 
several years.  
What happened
Mrs B has had a landlords insurance policy with UKI for some years. The policy renews on 
14 March each year.
In 2015 UKI moved its existing policies over to a new system. The new system required 
additional information to be recorded, which hadnt been noted before. UKI decided to 
assume the answers to the new questions, but sent a document to customers asking them to 
check the information recorded and contact it if anything needed to be changed.
Mrs Bs policy was moved to the new system in February 2016. UKI says the document was 
sent to her then, and when she renewed the policy each year after that, a policy schedule 
was also sent to her.
In 2021 Mrs B complained about the premium she was being charged. She said she had 
only just discovered that this was charged on the basis the property was semi-detached 
when its actually a terraced house. She said she had never received any documents 
previously explaining this, and had accepted the premium increases in the years since 2016 
because she didnt know this was the reason for increased premiums.  
UKI didnt uphold her complaint so she referred it to this service. Our investigator said:
it appeared a system error had led to the wrong premium being charged;
when this was spotted UKI agreed to amend it, leading to a reduction in the premium 
for this year and it was fair to assume if the error had been spotted earlier, this would 
have happened in the previous years;
UKI should refund the difference for the previous years  if UKI could provide the 
calculation for each year it could use that but if not, he proposed to use the figure 
from the most recent year, with interest of 8% added to the total;
Mrs B should also be paid £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to her.
Mrs B accepted this proposal but UKI didnt agree and requested an ombudsmans decision. 
It said there hadnt been an error on its part; any error was by Mrs B, who hadnt checked 
the documents sent to her.
Before proceeding with the decision I asked if UKI could provide details of the rating 
information used to calculate the premium each year and said if it couldnt, I was minded to 
make an award based on the reduction made in 2021, multiplied by the number of years the 
higher rate had been paid.
UKI said it has no way of knowing the rating for each year back to 2016, but confirmed the 
amendment made in 2021 was £54.51.
Mrs B said that reduction was based on around three or four months, not the whole year, 
and it should be simple for UKI to work out the calculation by looking at the premiums 
charged each year.
After considering these points I issued a provisional decision in which I said I intended to 
uphold the complaint. I set out my reasons as follows:
Its not for me to tell an insurer how much it should charge for a policy or what factors it 
should use when deciding how to calculate the premium. So if UKI wants to use the type of 
property as one of the factors when setting the premium, thats a matter for it to decide. But I 
can consider whether it has treated its customers fairly. Anything thats used in the 
calculation should be accurate and applied fairly to any customers in the same position.
I appreciate that UKI decided to use some assumptions, and says it provided this information 
to customers to check. Mrs B says she didnt receive that information and only realised when 
she received the policy documents in 2021 that the premium was being calculated on the 
assumption her property is a semi-detached house. Whether or not she had received 
documents previously, I dont think that changes the key point that her premium should be 
calculated on the correct information.
Another customer whose property was a terraced house would be charged on that basis. I 
dont think its fair that Mrs Bs premium was calculated on the basis this was a semi-
detached house if it isnt, since that means she was being charged more than she should 
have been compared to another customer with the same type of property.
Unfortunately UKI hasnt been able to provide a breakdown of the calculations for each year. 
So I cant say for certain what she would have been charged every year. I need to make a 
decision based on the information available. I can say its likely the premiums would have 
been lower each year. And without any further information I think its reasonable to use the 
figures we do have for the most recent year. So I think the fair thing to do is to direct UKI to 
make a payment based on the known reduction of £54.51 for each year from 2016 to 2020, 
which amounts to £272.55. Interest should be added to this to reflect the fact shes been 
deprived of that money.
I also agree that it would have been upsetting for Mrs B to discover she was being charged 
too much for her insurance and it would be fair to compensate her for this distress and the 
inconvenience shes been put to in trying to resolve things. In my view a payment of £100 is 
fair to recognise this.
Replies to the provisional decision 
UKI has replied saying it has no further comments to add. 
Mrs B says:
On average from around six years ago her premium increased by about £6 to £10 
per month, ending up at £14  which was when she questioned the amount and was 
given the information that had been recorded incorrectly. 
So she thinks perhaps £54 multiplied by five is not a true representation of the 
overpayment shes made  its based on approximate figures and it should be 
possible to check these more accurately.
But she notes the payment of £100 for the inconvenience caused and would accept 
the final outcome overall.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI hasnt provided any further comments for me to consider. Ive thought about what Mrs B 
says but it hasnt led me to reach a different conclusion. While I appreciate the calculation 
set out in the provisional decision is based on estimates, thats because of the limited 
information we have. And although her premiums may have increased  by more than the 
sum I have used, there would inevitably have been some increase in premium over the 
years in any event. Its only the element of the increase that relates to the incorrect rating of 
her property that needs to be considered when assessing any loss. Without more detailed 
information on this I think the calculation set out in the provisional decision is fair.
For these reasons my provisional decision hasnt changed and so the amounts to be paid by 
UKI remain the same.  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line to
compensate Mrs B by making the following payments:
£272.55 in respect of the overpaid premiums, together with simple interest at the rate 
of 8% per year from 14 March 2016 until the date of payment; and
£100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to her.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman