DRN-1874592
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that some advice she was given by an appointed representative of 
Alexander David Securities Limited (ADSL), regarding the investment of her pension 
savings, was unsuitable.
What happened
Mrs W was cold-called by an appointed representative of ADSL called St Pauls Marketing 
(SPM). So although Mrs Ws only contact was with SPM, it is ADSL that bears 
responsibility for the matters she is complaining about.
When SPM contacted Mrs W she was offered a review of her pension savings. At that time 
she was approaching retirement and held a personal pension. Mrs W says that following the 
review she was told her pension savings were frozen and that by transferring them she 
would have more control over her funds. She says she was advised to transfer her pension 
savings into a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and use the funds to invest into a 
debenture that invested in British companies.
Mrs W says that she followed that advice and transferred approximately £33,000 from her 
personal pension into the SIPP. Shortly afterwards Mrs W says she took a tax free pension 
commencement lump sum that was funded by disinvesting part of her pension savings.
Mrs W has said that she made it clear she was a low risk taker and wanted a low risk 
investment. She says she wasnt made aware that the investment was in fact high risk - 
which she didnt want. Mrs W says she had no other savings and this was her only 
pension; she had no investment experience, and trusted that the adviser was providing 
her with the most suitable advice.
Mrs W, through a representative, complained to ADSL in March 2019. I understand ADSL 
didnt acknowledge or respond to the complaint. The representative subsequently referred 
the complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ws complaint. She asked ADSL for its files and to 
provide any other evidence it wanted us to take into account. Despite reminders, she 
received no response.
The investigator therefore assessed the complaint on the evidence that had been 
presented, and in light of what she understood had happened. She noted that Mrs W had 
said that SPM had recommended the investment. She thought it was likely a discussion 
about the merits of making the investments would have taken place in the context that 
comparisons of the returns from the two investments were being made. The investigator 
therefore agreed Mrs W had been given advice and went on to consider whether the 
investment was suitable.
The investigator said Mrs W had no significant investment knowledge and no experience 
of making investments of this nature. The investigator thought the investment wasnt 
appropriate. And she didnt think Mrs W would have invested but for the actions of SPM. 
So she asked ADSL to pay Mrs W some compensation.
ADSL didnt respond to that assessment. So, as the complaint hadnt been resolved 
informally it was passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. More recently our investigator 
has managed to get in touch with ADSL. But the firm failed to meet its promises to come 
back to this Service with more information. It is therefore now appropriate for me to decide 
this complaint on the basis of the information we hold. This is the last stage of our process. If 
Mrs W accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ADSL didnt respond to Mrs Ws original complaint. Neither did it co-operate with our 
investigation; it didnt provide its business files or respond in any material way to the 
investigators assessment of the complaint. Theres only very limited evidence available to 
establish what happened at the time of the investment.
Ive carefully considered the evidence that is available including Mrs Ws recollections 
of events. SPM hasnt disputed what Mrs W said in her complaint to it, or what the 
investigator said in her assessment.
Im also mindful that this is one of a number of complaints we have received and which 
I have seen against SPM; all of a similar nature, involving seemingly similar 
circumstances and the same investments.
Clearly I need to consider each complaint on its own facts and the evidence provided in 
each particular case. But Ive noted that what Mrs W has said about SPMs role is 
consistent with what other complainants have described. So I think what she has said is 
plausible. And taking everything into account, I have found it credible.
I accept that a representative from SPM offered Mrs W a review her pension savings. 
Following that review she transferred her pension to the SIPP and invested in the 
debenture. Mrs W has said she was a low risk investor and has said the firm advised her to 
invest in the debenture. In my experience its unusual for someone of Mrs Ws background 
and experience to invest in this type of investment without prompting.
I think that was unlikely to have happened without the involvement of SPM. Im satisfied 
that it initiated the investment in the debenture. It was aware of where the investment was 
going to be made and facilitated it. Mrs W has said SPM advised her to invest; the 
investigator said she thought it likely Mrs W had been advised. In all the circumstances, 
I agree and think its more likely than not that advice was given.
The investigator also said she thought SPM was involved in arranging the transaction and 
that it was required, but failed, to assess its appropriateness. She set out her reasons for 
understanding this and went onto say she didnt think the debentures were appropriate for 
Mrs W.I agree with the investigator that its more likely than not that SPM arranged the investment. 
It was the promoter for the debenture, but Im satisfied, on the limited evidence that it went 
beyond just promoting it and was involved in arranging the investment (and advising on it). 
The debenture was high risk and speculative and clearly wasnt appropriate for Mrs W 
given her background, knowledge and circumstances
I also agree with the investigator that SPM didnt act in Mrs Ws best interests. For the 
reasons given above, I think it was clear that the debenture wasnt suitable or appropriate 
for Mrs W and this should have been clear to SPM. Im satisfied that if SPM had acted in 
Mrs Ws best interest, had not advised her to invest in the debenture or if it had told her it 
wasnt appropriate for her she wouldnt have invested in it.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that SPMs failures caused Mrs W to invest in a product that she 
would otherwise not have invested into. It follows that Im satisfied its failures caused the 
losses that Mrs W has claimed.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mrs W as close as possible 
to the position she would probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice. I think 
Mrs W would have invested differently. Im satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mrs W's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
Its unclear what the status of the debenture is. My understanding is Mrs Ws SIPP has 
little or no realisable value. Ive accounted for this in my recommendations below.
what should ADSL do?
To compensate Mrs W fairly ADSL should:
Compare the performance of Mrs W's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, ADSL should pay into Mrs Ws pension plan, to increase its value 
by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. ADSL shouldnt pay the 
compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection 
or allowance.
If ADSL is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs W's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced 
to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The 
notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs W's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
For example if Mrs W is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs W would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.Pay Mrs W £150 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied the matter has 
caused her and the disruption to her retirement planning.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mrs W in a clear, simple format.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end date)additional 
interest
SIPPstill exists 
(but 
presumed 
illiquid)for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsdate of 
transferdate of 
settlement not applicable
Actual value
This means the actual transfer value of the SIPP at the end date.
If, at the end date, the debenture is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the SIPP. So, the value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. ADSL should take ownership of the illiquid 
investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider / 
administrator. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance 
paid as above.
If ADSL is unable to purchase the investment its value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculation.
ADSL may wish to require that Mrs W provides an undertaking to pay it any amount she 
may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and 
charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. ADSL will 
need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the sum transferred from the pension provider plus any charges incurred 
within the plan on transfer, would have been worth at the end date had they grown in line 
with the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, ADSL 
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end 
of the previous month. Apply those rates to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.SIPP Fees
The investigator recommended that ADSL pay five years worth of SIPP fees if it couldnt 
buy the investment. I think this is reasonable as Mrs W hasnt got the opportunity to 
transfer to another pension if the illiquid debenture remains in it. So if ADSL cant buy the 
investment and it remains illiquid, it should pay Mrs W an amount equal to five years of 
SIPP fees based on the current tariff. This is in addition to the compensation calculated 
using a nil value for the investment.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs W wanted capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone 
who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. 
Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
I consider that Mrs Ws risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mrs W into that position. It does not 
mean that Mrs W would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 
50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a 
reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs W could have 
obtained from investments suited to her objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ws complaint and direct Alexander David Securities 
Limited to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman