DRN-2573645
The complaint
Mr N has complained about Aviva Life and Pensions Limited. He is unhappy with the 
valuation that was applied on a transfer into an Aviva Drawdown pension fund. Mr N says 
the process was delayed which caused him a loss of over £4,000 as the fund value 
decreased. He also says that he had additional costs as he had to take on a mortgage to 
provide the funds he needed.
What happened
Mr N wanted to access to pension funds from his ex-Friends Life Pension, which was with 
Aviva. He contacted Aviva on 16 July 2019 to try and access his pension funds. He was
advised that his current pension wasnt suitable for a drawdown of funds and he would need 
to be transferred to a suitable Aviva fund first. 
He was told the process would take three to six weeks. Mr N was told it was a simple 
process which he could complete online. He tried to start the transfer process on 16 July 
2019, but it couldnt be progressed, and he received error messages. This happened 
repeatedly.
Mr N contacted Aviva and explained the trouble he was having with the online process. He 
was told that there was no other way for him to transfer his pension, the only option being an 
online transfer.
Mr N contacted Aviva on several occasions hoping to find another way to start his pension 
transfer process but was told that it could only be completed online, and help couldnt be 
provided.
Then on 30 July 2019 Aviva did contact Mr N and provided him with a phone number to a
department that could help him. After several calls the transfer process was started.
Mr Ns pension transfer was applied on 16 August 2019 and the fund was bought on 20
August 2019, the date of valuation. Mr N was unhappy with the transfer process and the
delays caused by Avivas online systems. He was also unhappy with the date of the transfer
value. The value fell by almost £5,000 between his original contact on 16 July 2019 and the 
transfer valuation.
Mr N made a complaint to Aviva. Aviva responded saying that it had completed the process 
within the six-week time frame but offered £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr N didnt accept and referred his complaint to this service where it was considered by an 
investigator. 
The investigator said that the complaint should be upheld in part. He established that Aviva 
had backdated the valuation of Mr Ns pension fund to 6 August 2019. He felt this was a fair 
date for the valuation to be made. Mr N had tried to access his pension funds on 17 July 
2019. He couldnt actually submit his request until 31 July 2019 so there was a delay of 14 
days. The transfer value was taken on 20 August 2019 and so backdating to 6 August 
accounted for that delay. The value was higher on 6 August and Aviva had applied the 
difference in value to the fund.
On the overall timescale, the investigator noted that Mr N had been told that the transfer 
would take three to six weeks. It was completed within six weeks. Mr N had taken on a 
mortgage to raise funds, but the investigator didnt think Aviva was responsible for any costs 
associated with the mortgage because it had completed the transfer in the stated timescales. 
Mr N knew at outset that the fund transfer could take up to six weeks, so he was aware the 
funds were not instantly available. Aviva had not said the transfer couldnt be done, only that 
there were delays due to the online system issues. Aviva also had begun the pension 
transfer process on 30 July 2019. The funds Mr N took, completed on 7 August 2019, giving 
enough time to cancel the application.
However, the investigator felt that the award for trouble and upset should be higher. He 
noted that Mr N had to phone and email Aviva on many occasions and had been given 
incorrect advice. If Aviva knew there was a system issue, then it should have had a more 
robust process in place to help customers like Mr N. He recommended a £200 increase in 
the award, to a total of £300.
Aviva agreed but Mr N didnt. He said, in summary:
He hadnt been informed of the revaluation to 6 August 2019 and the additional 
payment, but he had checked and it did appear on his statement. 
If Aviva had accepted a 14-day delay, then it must accept a 14-day delay in selling 
his Friends Life Fund. The value on 17 July 2019 was almost £5,000 higher than 
when the transfer was initiated so he should receive the difference.
When Aviva took over the in 2017 it sent a welcome letter saying he would be able to 
access the pension online, but this was never the case, there was always an IT 
issue.
The main point is that Aviva could give no time scale as to when this IT issue would 
be resolved. He then took the decision to raise funds via a mortgage and paid a non-
refundable fee of £395. 
The investigator restated that the pension couldn't be transferred on the same day that Mr N 
requested. The date that Aviva did transfer and the date the value was taken was 20 August 
2019. As there was a 14-day delay Aviva should have used the valuation date of 6 August 
which is what it had done.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator. I 
agree with his view and with the reasoning behind it. I uphold this complaint in part.
Mr N has been clear in stating that the crux of his complaint relates to the fall in his pension 
value after 16/17 July 2019 when he tried to initiate the transfer. I can fully understand his 
frustration. A fall in value of close to £5,000 must have been a very bitter experience and 
caused a great deal of upset. However, the initial value of over £133,000 was never a value that was guaranteed to Mr N. It was not a value that would have been crystallised when the 
transfer process was started. Aviva would need to take several steps in the transfer before 
the fund value was crystallised. So, the actual transfer value could have been higher or 
lower than £133,000 depending on any changes in the fund value due to wider investment 
conditions. Unfortunately, the value decreased, but Aviva had no control over that.
Crucially, even if the transfer had begun on 16/17 July 2019 and gone ahead without 
problems, Mr N wouldnt have received the initial valuation of £133,000. The steps Aviva has 
taken put Mr N in the position he wouldve been in had the transfer gone ahead without 
delay.
Aviva has accepted a 14-day delay. That does seem right as the transfer began properly on 
30 July 2019 when it shouldve started on 16 July 2019. Therefore, Avivas decision to make 
an additional payment to reflect that delay is correct in my view. I see that Mr N says he 
wasnt told about that payment before he received the investigators view, and I cant see 
any reference to it in Avivas final response. That is unfortunate, as some earlier acceptance 
of the delay by Aviva may have given Mr N some comfort at least.
On the associated losses, I agree with the investigator. I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to make any award for the mortgage costs. Mr N was told from the outset that 
the transfer would take three to six weeks. Despite the initial delays and problems, it was 
completed within six weeks. Mr N contacted Aviva on 16 July 2019 but says he began to 
make mortgage arrangements on 26 July 2019, only ten days later. He was also aware by 
30 July 2019 that the transfer was underway. I dont think it would be fair to make any award 
for financial losses due to any financial commitments Mr N may have made so soon and so 
quickly, despite his knowing that the transfer process could take six weeks. I dont think 
Aviva couldve reasonably anticipated that he would enter into any commitments like these 
as soon as he did.
The transfer process has clearly caused Mr N considerable upset. And although Aviva isnt 
responsible for the fall in fund value (and it is this loss which is at the heart of the complaint) 
its clear that its errors and system failures caused him significant trouble and upset. Being 
unable to complete the transaction online and encountering error messages repeatedly 
would undoubtedly have been very frustrating. This would no doubt have been compounded 
when he was told (wrongly) that this was the only way it could be done. Then, once the 
transfer was put back on track, he found out that he had lost out on his expectations. I agree 
with the investigator that an award of £300 is more appropriate than the £100 offered.  
 
Putting things right
Aviva must pay Mr N £300 in total (£200 in addition to the £100 already offered).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. It must pay Mr N £300 to put 
things right.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman