DRN-4217168
The complaint
Mr G complains that a car he acquired through a Conditional Sale Agreement with  
Santander Consumer (UK) plc trading as Santander Consumer Finance (SCF) wasnt fit for 
purpose He would like to return the car or be refunded for repair costs incurred.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Mr G bought a car that was six and a half years old with 53,500 miles on the clock 
when he got it. I think he could reasonably expect more wear , tear, and repair issues 
than, for example, with a used car. Having said that we do expect cars to be fit for 
purpose at the point of sale.
I agree with our investigators view that repairs carried out in February 2023 fall 
under wear and tear issues so its not appropriate to refund the cost of these. Brake 
pads, discs and valves are items that consumers should expect to have to replace at 
some point. From the customer notes I can see at this point Mr G asked to reject the 
car but SCF didnt agree to this which I think was right. 
The more significant cost Mr G incurred was replacing the timing chain, the failure of 
which was identified by a report in February 2023 and an invoice form a garage 
confirming this needed to be replaced.
SCF said it couldnt investigate issues with the car as unauthorised repairs had been 
carried out. The first repairs were in my view routine maintenance expected of any 
consumer. From what I understand SCF turned down Mr Gs second complaint about 
the timing chain issue before he went ahead and replaced it. So, it seems to have 
based its decision on the routine maintenance Mr G carried out. It could have  
investigated the timing chain issue to identify if there was  a point-of-sale issue ..
SCF also made the point that the timing chain lifespan is between 5-7 years so Mr G 
could have expected to have to replace this. The information SCF provided on this 
was inconclusive  it was an online excerpt from a group of car users. Mr G had the 
issue with the timing chain within six months of getting the car and didnt drive 
excessive miles. If, as SCF says, the life expectancy of a timing chain is up to 7 
years I think its more than likely that given Mr Gs car was six and a half years old 
when he got it that it wasnt, as our investigator concluded, reasonably durable. So, I 
think its appropriate SCF refund the cost of this repair and provide the compensation 
our investigator recommended for loss of use.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Santander Consumer (UK) Plc should :-
Refund the cost of the timing chain repair (£2,715.50) with 8% simple interest from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement
Refund 10% of the monthly payments from February 2022 to May 2023 to cover 
impaired or loss of use with 8% simple interest to be added from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement.
Pay £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman