DRN-3155458
The complaint
Mr B has complained about a vehicle hire purchase agreement granted to him by FirstRand
Bank Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance (MotoNovo). He says that MotoNovo didnt
carry out suitable checks to confirm that the finance would be affordable for him. Mr B also
says that on investigating a problem with the car he learned that it had previously been
involved in an accident and he feels the car was mis-sold.
What happened
MotoNovo agreed credit for Mr B in June 2017 via an intermediary in order for him to acquire
a car. The cash price of the car, as per the agreement, was £15,495. The total amount owing
under the agreement, including £5,586 interest and charges, came to £21,081. Mr B paid a
deposit of £1,000 and the remainder was to be repaid by 59 instalments of £332 and a final
payment of £491 (all figures rounded).
The credit was granted under a hire purchase agreement meaning Mr B would own the car
when the credit had been repaid. MotoNovo was the owner of the car until that point and
Mr B was, in essence, paying for the use of it.
Mr Bs account history shows that he missed a payment in February 2019 and was charged
default fees and interest. He continued to make his payments until March 2020. To date,
Mr B has repaid a total of approximately £11,674 including his deposit.
Mr B says that MotoNovo should not have agreed to lend to him because he couldnt afford
to meet the repayments as he worked part-time. He says that the information about his
circumstances provided to the lender by the car dealership wasnt correct and MotoNovo
wouldnt have agreed to lend to him if it had carried out further checks.
Mr B also says that the vehicle had been previously written off and should not have been
sold to him. Specifically he said I recently drove the vehicle over a speed hump and the
bonnet automatically popped up. I took the vehicle to an independent mechanic to see why
this had happened. Upon inspection, the mechanic stated the vehicle had been subject to a
previous accident and the airbag system was not intact. Mr B also says that he wasnt given
all the information he should have been about the finance agreement before he entered into
it.
Finally, Mr B says that he was in a vulnerable position at the time of the agreement. He
explained that from 2017 to 2020 he had been lodging with friends and an ex-partner and
never had a stable address. It seems Mr B was hospitalised in May 2020 as his mental
health deteriorated when he lost his job (in March/April 2020) and ended up without
anywhere to live. Mr B was referred by the hospital on discharge to the councils housing
department, who gave him temporary accommodation.
Mr B initially said he would like MotoNovo to take back the car and refund his payments in 
order to resolve his complaint.
MotoNovo says that it carried out the required checks prior to agreeing finance for Mr B. It
also says that he applied for finance on four occasions prior to the application in question
and gave different information about his employment each time. MotoNovo says that the
vehicle wasnt written off according to the UKs write-off database and that Mr B had
declined to provide it with any information about his vulnerability when he made his
complaint.
Mr B gave permission for this Service to let MotoNovo know what he had told us about his
mental health. Subsequently, in June 2020, MotoNovo offered to accept the return of the car
with nothing further for Mr B to pay in order to resolve his complaint. It said this was because
of Mr Bs current vulnerability and not because it agreed with any aspect of his complaint.
Mr B declined this offer.
Our investigator looked into what happened when Mr Bs finance was agreed and found that
MotoNovo ought to have carried out further checks but, had it done so, wasnt likely to have
learnt anything that would have led it to decline his application. They also found that
MotoNovo wouldnt have been aware of any vulnerability Mr B had at the time. Finally, our
investigator concluded they didnt have enough information to find that the car had been of
unsatisfactory quality when Mr B acquired it. They agreed that MotoNovos offer to resolve
the complaint was a fair one.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators findings. He says hes paid a considerable amount
under the agreement and he would rather come to a settlement figure with MotoNovo which
would allow him to keep the car. MotoNovo said it would consider a reduced settlement but it
would need documentation to validate that Mr B would be able to afford to make a full and
final payment or enter into a repayment plan.
Mr B asked for his complaint to come to an ombudsman to review and resolve. I issued a 
provisional decision on the 14 August explaining why I was minded to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint and my proposals for putting things right for him. I thought MotoNovo should 
refund all the payments Mr B made, including his deposit, but it was fair that it retained a 
portion of these payments to reflect that Mr B still had the use of the car. I gave both parties 
a month to respond. 
MotoNovo said that, while Id found Mr B was employed part-time he had stated on his 
application form that he worked full-time. MotoNovo also says that I concluded that the 
repayments would not be sustainable for Mr B because his income was variable. It didnt 
comment on my proposed redress.
Mr B didnt agree with my proposed redress as he feels he shouldnt be charged for the use 
of the car beyond March 2020. He says he stopped using it then but has paid money to keep 
it legally on the road since. Mr B provided evidence of an insurance payment in October 
2021.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have again taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry
practice at the time. These included, for example, the Consumer Credit Act 1974, its
revisions in 2015 and the Financial Conduct Authoritys Consumer Credit Handbook (CONC)
which set our regulations and guidance for lenders such as MotoNovo. Ive also considered 
what both parties have said in response to my provisional decision. Having reviewed the case, I remain of the view that, on balance, MotoNovo was 
irresponsible when it agreed credit for Mr B. Ive set out my reasons again in this document. I 
have not changed my view on how things should be put right, though I appreciate that will be 
disappointing for Mr B. I will explain why in the relevant section below.
The credit to buy the car was granted by MotoNovo under a hire purchase agreement 
meaning Mr B would own the car when the credit had been repaid. MotoNovo was the owner 
until that point and any complaints about the quality of the car as given to Mr B then fall to 
MotoNovo. In addition, as the owner of the car bought from the dealership, MotoNovo was 
responsible for any negotiations the dealership had with Mr B, including advertisements, 
before he entered into the hire-purchase agreement.
MotoNovo also needed to check that Mr B could afford to meet his repayments sustainably.
In other words, it needed to check he could repay the credit out of his usual means without
having to borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse
consequences. The checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit and Mr Bs
circumstances, and MotoNovo needed to take proper account of the information it gathered.
The overarching requirement here is that MotoNovo needed to pay due regard to Mr Bs
interests and treat him fairly.
In coming to a decision on this case, I have thought about the following questions:
did MotoNovo make a fair lending decision, in other words did it complete reasonable 
and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Bs application to satisfy itself that he 
would be able to repay the finance in a sustainable way? If not, what would 
reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
was the car of satisfactory quality, in other words was it of a standard a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory for the car in question? Was the car 
misrepresented to Mr B?
was Mr B given clear, fair and not misleading information about the finance 
particulars before he entered into the agreement?
did MotoNovo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way, for example when 
Mr B had difficulty meeting repayments or regarding his vulnerabilities?
did MotoNovo make a fair lending decision, in other words did it complete reasonable and
proportionate checks when assessing Mr Bs application to satisfy itself that he would be
able to repay the finance in a sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and
proportionate checks have shown?
Having considered everything carefully, Ive concluded that MotoNovo ought to have carried 
out further checks before agreeing credit for Mr B. I think further checks would likely have 
shown that he could not afford to meet his repayments sustainably and so Im upholding this 
aspect of his complaint. 
MotoNovo says that Mr Bs application stated that he was employed as an assistant
manager on a full-time basis for several years earning a gross salary of £24,000. It also
stated that he lived with his parents and had no dependents and provided a summary of his
credit file information.
I think the information MotoNovo had should have prompted further checks. For example,
the information provided by the dealership showed that Mr B had a default on an active loanwith a similar repayment amount. And, as MotoNovo pointed out, it seems Mr B had
provided conflicting information to MotoNovo about his employment on four previous
application for credit, most recently in November 2015. I think this ought to have prompted
MotoNovo to seek verification of Mr Bs circumstances.
MotoNovo says that it didnt verify Mr Bs income as there was no requirement for it to even
request information about his income at that time. It said in its final response to Mr B
Specific regulations relating to the supply of your income, along with affordability
assessments; were only introduced after your agreement began. For further information on
this, I would recommend reviewing the Financial Conduct authoritys website; with particular
attention to Consumer Credit Sourcebook 5 and the regulations which came into force in
2018.
It is true that the wording of the relevant regulations changed in November 2018 to
specifically mention that lenders must consider an applicants income or savings when
checking affordability. However, this doesnt mean that it would never have been appropriate
to do so prior to this point. The regulations in place at the start of this agreement required
lenders to check that applicants could make their repayments sustainably. CONC 5.3.1G-6
defined sustainable repayment as being able to make repayments on time while meeting
other reasonable commitments, without having to borrow to meet the repayments, out of
income and savings over the lifetime of the agreement.
It seems to me that in order to assess the risk to Mr B of not meeting his repayments of £332
a month for five years without difficulty, especially given what it already knew, MotoNovo
would need to gather some understanding of his means and his existing commitments.
MotoNovo hasnt mentioned that it sought information about Mr Bs living costs as part of his
application for credit, so I assume it didnt do so. 
The regulations also stated that taking income levels into consideration generally meant 
independently verifying what the applicant had declared - CONC 5.3.1G  4(b). MotoNovo 
said that Mr B said he worked full time earning a salary of £24,000 but I dont think it was 
enough in this case to accept what Mr B said without an independent verification. 
Altogether, I cant say that MotoNovo did enough here to assess the risk to Mr B of not
managing to meet his repayments sustainably. And so I think its checks werent
proportionate on this occasion.
Mr B has provided his bank statements, employment contract and some credit file
information from 2017. He explained that in June 2017 he had been employed in his job for
less than a year and was working part-time. Mr B also said that his family home address is
linked to all his accounts because he feels its safer to receive his mail there as hes never
managed to have stable accommodation.
Our investigator reviewed this information and concluded that MotoNovo wouldnt have
declined Mr Bs application for credit had it understood more about his circumstances.
However, Ive come to a different conclusion. As our investigator explained, Mr Bs income 
varied considerably from month to month  his lowest pay was £974 in April 2017 for 
example. His employment contract (dated August 2016) confirms that he was employed on a 
part-time basis. Mr B said his expenses included his phone, car, living costs and rent and 
commuting. These are not generally identifiable on his bank statements as it seems he 
managed his finances mostly by cash.
Id provisionally concluded that this information wouldnt have reassured MotoNovo that Mr B 
would have been able to meet his repayments sustainably over five years given that he 
might need to spend over a third of his monthly wage on making his repayments in any givenmonth. I found, on balance, that it was more likely than not that MotoNovo would have 
declined to lend to Mr B, and so I found that it was irresponsible to have entered into this 
agreement.
MotoNovo said, in response to my provisional decision, that Id concluded that the 
repayments would not be sustainable for Mr B because his income was variable. To be 
clear, I am not suggesting that an applicant with a variable income is automatically at a 
higher risk of not being able to meet their repayments sustainably. In this case, because the 
evidence Ive seen shows Mr Bs wages varied to the extent he might end up spending more 
than a third of his income on this credit in any given month, I thought the risk was high that 
he would not be able to meet his repayments sustainably over the term of the agreement. 
Furthermore, Mr Bs work contract shows an hourly rate of just over £7 an hour for 15 hours 
a week or less than £500 a month. Mr B has confirmed that his wages included a sales 
bonus. Its possible Mr B might have earned less in some months than the minimum of £974 
Ive seen.
Having reconsidered this matter carefully, I remain of the view that its more likely than not 
that MotoNovo would have declined to lend to Mr B had it fully understood his means, and 
so Ive found that it was irresponsible to have entered into this agreement.
I appreciate that Mr B managed to meet his payments for ten months before being late with 
a payment, and that he managed to meet his payments for 18 months before being sent a 
default notice and paying additional interest. As mentioned Mr B stopped making payments 
in early 2020. In this case I dont think its reasonable to conclude that successfully meeting 
any repayments meant that Mr B was able to do so without undue difficulty. I can understand 
why Mr Bs loss of employment in 2020 caused obvious and immediate problems for him, 
however, based on everything Ive seen I think its more likely than not that Mr B struggled 
from the outset to meet his repayments sustainably, which later events compounded.
Mr B has been charged interest and fees on an agreement which I dont think should have
been put in place and MotoNovo needs to take steps to put this right for him. Ive set out how
this should happen later in this document.
Was the car of satisfactory quality, in other words was it of a standard a reasonable person
would consider satisfactory for the car in question? Was the car misrepresented to Mr B?
Mr B says that the car had previously been involved an accident and he had experienced an
issue with the bonnet opening unexpectedly. He provided a message from a local garage
who had checked the car, which said:
 I personally gave you a worst case scenario that you might need to replace the bonnet
pop-up sensors as its related to the airbag system and we cannot compromise yours or
others safety as your bonnet popped up whilst driving on a hump. We also advised you to
contact the main dealer as its possible it might be under warranty even though your vehicle
was a previous category damage, which you did.
MotoNovo said in its final response to Mr B that it had carried out a search of the UKs write
off database have found this vehicle was not deemed any category of write off, prior to
your purchase.
I accept that Mr B experienced an incident with his car bonnet however, without any further
explanation or evidence of the issue he experienced, I cant determine whether this is likely
to have been present at the time he acquired the car. So I havent found that the car was of
unsatisfactory quality.I also dont have enough information to determine whether or not the car had been in an
accident and been deemed an insurance write-off prior to Mr Bs acquisition. So I cant
reasonably conclude that such information had been withheld from him and, had it been
provided, Mr B would have not proceeded with the agreement.
Was Mr B given clear, fair and not misleading information about the finance particulars
before he entered into the agreement?
Mr B says that he was initially declined for credit but the dealership explained that a larger
deposit would help his application. I can see from the business notes provided by Mr B that
his application was declined on 16 June 2017. The dealership explained to MotoNovo on the
17 June that Mr B had provided a deposit of £1,000 and his application was then accepted.
Mr B says the following about the sale:
The sales man then rushed me through an online signing platform and made me sign an
electronic pad. He said and I quote sign here for this  sign here for this I wasnt shown
anything of payments, length of contract and interest. The salesman then explained I will 
receive a copy in the post to be able to review for my own records. I can confirm I never 
received this in the post. I was believing the application was on the same basis as the first 
but only a higher initial deposit. I had no idea how much Interest I was going to pay or length 
of contract. You ask why I didnt contact MotoNovo to ask for the contract. I didnt even know 
MotoNovo was the lender until I called up the dealership and asked the salesman who then 
checked records and told me MotoNovo was the lender.
In order to direct a business to make amends for something that it got wrong, I need to be
persuaded that the businesss error caused a loss for the consumer. In other words, if the
error hadnt happened and everything had gone as it should have, would that have changed
the outcome?
Clearly, I cant know the details of what was discussed between Mr B and the car dealership.
I note that Mr B signed the hire purchase agreement which sets out the cash price of the car,
the fees and interest associated with the credit, the total owed and the repayment amounts
and term. It may be that Mr B wasnt told everything he should have been before signing the
agreement. But I think if he wasnt expecting to make payments of £332, which started two
months later in August, Mr B might have queried the agreement details sooner and I cant
see that this happened.
So, even if Mr B had been given all the information, in other words if everything had gone as
it should have done regarding the finance information Mr B should have received, I dont
think it would have changed his mind about entering into the agreement.
Did MotoNovo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way, for example when
Mr B had difficulty meeting repayments or regarding his vulnerabilities?
Let me first say that Im sorry to hear of Mr Bs health issues and his financial and
personal difficulties. I fully accept what hes told us about these matters and Im sorry
things have been so difficult for him.
As mentioned above, I understand that Mr B wasnt in stable accommodation but was
staying with family and friends at the time of the agreement. I also understand that he
was working part-time. The medical documentation he has provided states that Mr B
struggled to deal with his circumstances for a number of years. And when he lost his
job and his accommodation in early 2020, his mental health deteriorated. Mr B told us
All my employment money went to Motonovo finance and therefore led to my break
out in [-] and mental health.As Ive explained above, I think MotoNovo should have looked into Mr Bs
circumstances further before it agreed credit for him. I think MotoNovo was likely to
have learnt then that Mr B wouldnt have been able to meet his repayments
without difficulty. However, I havent seen anything in what Mr B has told us or the
available documentation which makes me think MotoNovo ought to have known about
Mr Bs living arrangements or the impact this was having on him at the time.
I understand that when Mr B complained to MotoNovo in April 2020 he didnt wish to
tell them about his circumstances, but when he brought his complaint to us he gave
permission for us to share this information with MotoNovo. On learning about Mr Bs
difficulties in 2020 and later, MotoNovo offered to take back the car at no further cost to
him. This offer was made in August 2020 and rejected by Mr B.
Altogether, I dont think MotoNovo treated Mr B unfairly when he revealed that he was
vulnerable as it doesnt seem to me he explained his situation to it in any detail at the
time. And when MotoNovo understood more about his circumstances, it made an offer
to resolve his complaint, which our investigator considered was fair.
Putting things right
As Ive explained above, Ive found that MotoNovo was irresponsible when it entered into 
this agreement with Mr B. Hes lost out financially because of this as hes been charged 
interest and fees on the money he borrowed and the agreement has been reported
on his credit file.
Mr B has told us that he would like to repay the capital amount only and hold on to the car. I
can understand Mr Bs wishes, but my decision deals with whats gone wrong regarding the
current agreement so Ive set out below what I think needs to happen to put this right. Mr B
doesnt have to accept this decision and it would then be up to him and MotoNovo to come
to an agreeable resolution together or allow a court to decide whats best. MotoNovo has
said that its open to consideration of a reduced settlement but would need to understand
how Mr B would repay any balance.
In order to redress its error and put Mr B back into the position he would have been in prior
to the agreement, MotoNovo first needs to cancel this agreement. MotoNovo remains the
owner of the vehicle, but because I dont think the agreement should have been set up it
needs to refund the payments Mr B made under it.
In addition, I think its fair that MotoNovo retains a portion of Mr Bs payments because he 
has had the use of the car since June 2017 and its likely he would have incurred some costs 
to stay mobile or made other arrangements. There isnt an exact formula for working out 
what a fair proportion of Mr Bs payment might reflect his usage of the car. Ive considered 
the cash price of the car, the amount of interest charged on the agreement, how the 
agreement was structured and the likelihood of the car having decreased in value since the 
agreements inception.
I said in my provisional decision that Mr B has had the use of the car since June 2017 and I 
understood his usage of it hadnt been impaired due to the operation of the car, despite 
Mr Bs concerns about its history. Mr B said, in response, that he stopped using the car in 
March 2020 due to his hospitalisation and he feels he shouldnt have to pay a fair usage 
charge beyond this. Mr B says hes insured the car to keep it road-legal. I can understand 
why Mr B would continue to insure the car, not least because its a requirement of the 
agreement. However, I understand that the car was repaired to pass its MOT in November 
2020 and is currently taxed. If Mr B wasnt using the car or wasnt intending to use it, then he could have saved these costs and declared the car as off-road to DVLA. So, taking 
everything into account, I dont think I can disregard any of the time Mr Bs had the car in his 
possession. 
Having thought about everything again, I remain of the view that an amount of £175 a month 
from the date of inception of the agreement to the date of collection of the car would be a fair 
proportion of the refund for MotoNovo to retain.
In summary, to put things right for Mr B MotoNovo should:
End the agreement and collect the car with nothing further for Mr B to pay; and
Refund any payments Mr B has made (including his deposit) minus a fair usage 
charge of £175 a month for the months Mr Bs had the car in his possession; and
Remove all adverse information about this finance agreement from Mr Bs credit file.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am upholding Mr Bs complaint about FirstRand Bank 
Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance and require it to put things right for him as Ive 
proposed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman