DRN-2519504
The complaint
Mr J complains that Astrenska Insurance Limited unfairly charged him a £50 policy excess 
after he made a claim on his home emergency policy. He says the wrong contractors were 
sent to his home.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
- Mr J says when he made the claim, he was explicit about what he thought the issue 
was; and he suggested an engineer needed to look down the shower drain with a 
camera, to see if there was a blockage and identify the source of the smell. 
Astrenska says it hasnt got a copy of this call, but I accept what Mr J says.
- I also accept what Mr J says about the engineers who attended, in terms of them not 
having the necessary equipment to inspect the internal drains and them being 
external drainage contractors. 
- I can understand why Mr J is unhappy, given the report confirms the engineers were 
only on site for ten minutes; and if as he says, he was simply advised to buy drain 
un-blocker from a shop.
- But equally, the drain un-blocker solution may have also been the recommendation if 
the correct engineers had attended, and their visit may have also been brief. I note 
the engineers reported the water was draining without any issues, and Mr J told 
Astrenska that hes since had his own plumber out and for the time being, hes 
content on simply using bleach to combat the smell.
- Ultimately, Mr J initiated a claim and Astrenska started its investigations. Ive listened 
to the complaint calls, and Mr J noted he called Astrenska shortly after the engineers 
visit and it offered to send more suitable engineers, but he declined. In my view, 
Astrenskas offer to investigate the claim further was fair.
- I accept Mr J was free to end the claim there, without a second visit, but that doesnt 
mean the policy excess isnt payable. The excess became payable as soon as Mr J 
initiated the claim and costs were incurred  irrespective of what Astrenskas 
investigations found.
- Our investigator recommended £25 compensation be paid to Mr J, based on some 
service issues during the engineers visit. Astrenska accepted his recommendation, 
so I accept some service issues occurred. However, I havent seen anything that 
persuades me a higher award should be made for those services issues; or for 
external drainage engineers being appointed in first instance, given Astrenska 
offered to further investigate the issue at Mr Js home.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint in part. 
I require Astrenska Insurance Limited to compensate Mr J £25. 
I make no further awards.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman