DRN-4094512
The complaint
Mr T complains about how West Bay Insurance Plc handled a claim made by another driver 
on his commercial motor insurance policy. He wants compensation for his costs incurred and 
for his stress and anxiety.
 
What happened
Mr T said he hit another car unknowingly. The police reviewed the circumstances and Mr T 
was convicted of careless driving. He thought West Bays delays in settling the claim had led 
to the conviction against him. He was also unhappy that West Bay increased his premiums 
and declined to renew his policy. 
West Bay agreed that it had been difficult for Mr T to contact it and it paid him £150 
compensation for this. It also paid him £75 compensation for sending his correspondence to 
his old address. But it said it hadnt caused delays in settling the other drivers claim. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt see 
evidence that West Bay had handled the other drivers claim incorrectly or caused delays. 
And she couldnt see that the other driver was dissatisfied. She thought West Bay had priced 
Mr Ts premiums correctly in keeping with its underwriting criteria. And she also thought it 
had declined to renew Mr Ts policy in keeping with its underwriting guidelines. She didnt 
see evidence that West Bays actions had led to Mr T being convicted of careless driving. 
Mr T replied that he thought West Bays delays in paying the settlement had led to the court 
case and his conviction. He said West Bay hadnt returned his calls or answered his 
correspondence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that this has been an expensive, stressful and anxiety-producing 
experience for Mr T. I was sorry to hear about his financial difficulties.
Mr T described the circumstances that brought about his complaint. He said he thought hed 
hit the kerb whilst reversing, but another driver said hed hit their car. Mr T didnt dispute this. 
Mr T said the police became involved because he had left the scene of an accident, and he 
was shown CCTV footage. Mr T was taken to court, and he decided to accept a charge of 
careless driving. He paid a £380 fine and had four points on his licence.
Mr T thought the police had become involved because West Bay wasnt responding or 
settling the claim. He said it had offered him £150 compensation for not being able to contact 
it, but he had rejected this. But I think this, and the further £75 compensation were sufficient 
for the upset caused by the service failings. I wouldnt expect West Bay to contact Mr T more 
regularly unless it had updates for him. 
I can understand that Mr T feels that the claim went on for a long time. From what I can see 
its now settled and closed after 15 months. But I dont think its unusual for claims to take 
some time to settle where the insurer needs to collect and validate information. 
Ive looked at West Bays file and I can see that it progressed the claim with no avoidable 
delays. It was dependent on responses from the other driver which may have prolonged the 
claim. But I cant say that West Bay was responsible for these. So Im satisfied that West 
Bay progressed the claim in keeping with industry practice and the relevant regulations. 
Mr T said it was stated in court that the police had become involved because of delays 
caused by West Bay. But I havent seen any evidence to show that, so Im not satisfied that 
West Bays handling of the claim led to Mr Ts conviction. 
In the meantime, the claim was open and so it was recorded as a fault. At his renewal, Mr T 
said his premium increased substantially. West Bay said the increase was due to the fault 
claim and a change of address. Its provided us with evidence from its underwriting criteria 
and I can see that Mr Ts renewal premium was calculated correctly. So I cant say that Mr T 
was treated any differently to anyone else in his circumstances or that West Bay acted 
incorrectly when it increased his premium.
West Bay then declined to renew Mr Ts policy. Again its provided evidence from its 
underwriting criteria to how that it wouldnt provide cover for anyone in Mr Ts circumstances. 
I think its for West Bay to decide what risks its prepared to cover. And so I cant say it did 
anything wrong in this or treated Mr T unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman