DRN-2475015
The complaint
Ms and Mr J complain that One Call Insurance Services Limited mis-sold them a buildings 
and contents insurance policy, which didnt cover all their belongings, as it contained an 
endorsement which they werent aware of.
What happened
Ms and Mr J purchased household buildings and contents insurance through One Call. 
In September 2019 Ms and Mr Js home was burgled. They submitted a claim to their insurer 
and most of their claim was accepted and paid. But the insurer said their claim, for a stolen 
ring, wasnt covered as it hadnt been kept in a cash-rated safe when not being worn, which 
was an endorsement the insurer had placed on the policy.
Ms and Mr J were extremely upset that this part of their claim had been declined. They say 
they werent aware of the endorsement and wouldnt have chosen the policy if they had 
been.
Ms and Mr J complained to One Call. Theyd purchased their policy online. One Call said 
that during the online journey Ms and Mr J had the opportunity to review the policy booklet 
and endorsements, and consider the terms and conditions, before purchasing the insurance. 
Once theyd purchased the policy One Call say they were able to view the insurance 
documentation through an online portal, and a copy was sent to them by post, with a 
welcome letter. This asked them to read through the documentation to ensure their details 
were correct and the policy met their needs. They referred Ms and Mr J to Endorsement 9  
Jewellery Schedule which says  This insurance shall not cover the loss of jewellery 
(including watches) by theft or disappearance unless it is:
a) Being worn
b) Deposited in a bank or locked safe with adequate cash rating or in a Hotel/Motel 
safe; or
c) Carried by hand and under your personal supervision.
One Call said the endorsement was clear and Ms and Mr J hadnt complied with it, as the 
ring hadnt been kept in a safe when not being worn, so their complaint wasnt upheld.
Ms and Mr J were unhappy with One Calls response and complained to our service. Our 
investigator said he needed to decide what responsibility One Call had to make Ms and Mr J 
aware of the endorsement, and whether they did enough to fulfil this responsibility.
He looked at the sales process and whether the policy had been sold on an advised or non-
advised basis. Ms and Mr J found the policy on a price comparison website. They answered 
questions about the cover they needed and were provided with a quote. And after accepting 
the quote they were redirected to One Calls own website, to review the policy and go 
through the payment journey to complete the purchase. While they answered questions 
about the cover they needed, this was done on the comparison website. Where they were 
then presented with a range of options, before choosing the policy. 
So our investigator was satisfied that the policy was sold to Ms and Mr J on a non-advised 
basis.
Our investigator then considered how the jewellery endorsement was explained. One Call 
say they provided Ms and Mr J with enough information for them to make an informed 
decision, as during their payment journey theres a section setting out the endorsements 
which apply to their policy.
Our investigator didnt think simply listing the endorsement was enough, as it was an 
unusual term which required Ms and Mr J to do something that most policies wouldnt 
expect. He said wed expect One Call to make this very clear to Ms and Mr J.
And he thought the endorsement was very significant for Ms and Mr J, as they specifically 
listed two expensive items of jewellery to be insured. Which showed that having their 
jewellery covered was very important to them. So, even though this was a non-advised sale, 
he didnt agree that a drop-down box with a list of all endorsements was enough to bring this 
unusual and significant exclusion to Ms and Mr Js attention.
One Call also told us that the list of endorsements is included on the policy schedule. Our 
investigator agreed that there is, but said its not referred to in the contents section, to which 
it applies. And he didnt think that enough prominence was given to such an unusual and 
significant clause.
The statement of fact also refers to the endorsement, where it says under the security of the 
home section, Certain Policy Conditions require the fitment of an appropriately rated safe. 
Please refer to your schedule to see if this applies to you. But our investigator didnt think 
this was prominent enough, or specific to Ms and Mr Js policy.
As the sale was directed through One Call, and given their role in the sale our investigator 
said they had a responsibility to make sure that anything unusual or significant was made 
very clear to Ms and Mr J. He didnt think theyd done this and was satisfied that if the 
jewellery endorsement had been made clear to them, they wouldnt have bought the policy.
So our investigator agreed that the policy was mis-sold to One Call Insurance. And to put 
things right he said that One Call needed to accept the claim under the terms of the policy, 
ignoring the jewellery endorsement. And they should pay the claim for the ring with no 
further excess being deducted.
One Call didnt accept our investigators opinion so the case has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Im looking simply at the role of One Call as the brokers who sold Ms and Mr 
J the policy.  
Ms and Mr J have told us they werent aware of the jewellery endorsement in their policy. I 
need to consider what responsibility One Call had to bring the endorsement to their 
attention, and whether they fulfilled this.Having considered how the policy was purchased, and Ms and Mr Js online journey, Im 
satisfied that this was a non-advised sale. So One Call were required to make sure Ms and 
Mr J were given enough information that was clear, fair and not misleading, so they could 
make an informed choice about whether the policy was right for them.
In this case Ms and Mr Js claim for Ms Js ring was declined as the insurers said they hadnt 
complied with jewellery endorsement in the policy, which required jewellery to be kept in a 
safe when not being worn. This endorsement is a significant term because it required Ms 
and Mr J to take specific action to comply with it, and because it took away a significant part 
of their policy cover if it wasnt complied with. So I need to consider whether or not the 
endorsement was adequately drawn to Ms and Mr Js when the policy was sold.
One Call say that the drop-down list of the endorsements applying to their policy, which Ms 
and Mr J would have seen during their payment journey, provided them with enough 
information to make an informed decision about whether the policy met their needs.
But the jewellery endorsement was an unusual term requiring Ms and Mr J to do something 
that most policies wouldnt ask. So Id expect One Call to make this very clear to them. And 
the endorsement was significant for Ms and Mr J, as theyd specifically listed two expensive 
items of jewellery to be insured. I think its clear that having cover for their jewellery was very 
important to them. So, even though this was a non-advised sale, I dont think that a drop-
down box with a list of all endorsements was enough to bring this unusual and significant 
endorsement to Ms and Mr Js attention.
One Call have also said that the jewellery endorsement is included in list of endorsements in 
Ms and Mr Js policy schedule. Ive considered the policy schedule and agree that the 
endorsement is included. But was enough prominence has been given to such an unusual 
and significant term. 
The Statement of Demands and Needs says that the policy provides Ms and Mr J with 
suitable cover for your needs. So they wouldve expected the policy to cover their jewellery, 
and particularly the two expensive items theyd listed with a value of £12,700.
Looking at the policy schedule theres no mention of the jewellery endorsement under the 
contents section. The two items of jewellery Ms and Mr J had declared are listed in the 
personal possessions outside the home section, but again theres no mention of the 
jewellery endorsement. This is despite the endorsement applying to both these sections of 
the policy. On page four of the schedule theres a list of endorsements, which includes 9 
Jewellery Clause. But there arent any details. Theres more information about the 
endorsement on page five, but its part of a list of other endorsements, and I dont think its 
prominent enough for such an unusual and significant clause.
The only other place the endorsements are mentioned is on the statement of fact, where it 
says under the security of the home section, Certain Policy Conditions require the fitment of 
an appropriately rated safe. Please refer to your schedule to see if this applies to you. But 
theres no mention of the endorsement under the home contents section, where it states that 
items valued at over £3000 wont be covered unless theyre specified. So, like the policy 
schedule, the contents section of the statement of fact is silent about an unusual and 
significant clause applying to this section.
Having considered all the documentation relating to Ms and Mr Js policy I dont think that 
the jewellery endorsement was adequately brought to their attention, particularly as it was 
quite an unusual one. I now need to consider whether Ms and Mr J would have acted differently if the jewellery 
endorsement had been brought to their attention. I think they would have. They wanted their 
jewellery, including the two items theyd specifically listed, to be covered, they didnt own a 
safe and I dont think theyve have bought one just so they could have this policy. I think 
theyd have bought a policy which covered them for all the items lost in the burglary. Im 
satisfied that if the endorsement had been made clear to them, they wouldnt have 
purchased the policy. Taking this all into account I think that One Call mis-sold the policy to 
Ms and Mr J.
Putting things right
If Ms and Mr J had bought a policy which didnt require them to keep their jewellery in a safe 
when it wasnt being worn, theyd have been covered for all the items lost as part of their 
claim. So to put things right I require One Call to pay Ms and Mr Js claim under the terms of 
their policy, ignoring the jewellery endorsement. 
This means that One Call should pay the claim for the ring that Ms and Mr Js insurers
refused, under the terms of cover on the policy. This would have been considered under the
same claim as the other contents that were paid for, so no further excess should be 
chargeable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I uphold Ms and Mr Js complaint 
against One Call Insurance Services Limited.  
And to put things right I require One Call Insurance Services Limited to pay Ms and Mr Js 
claim for the ring that their insurers refused, under the terms of cover on the policy, with no 
further excess being deducted.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 February 2021.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman