DRN-2035407
The complaint
Its agreed that AXA France IARD (as the insurer) should accept responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Ms B says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy Ms B took out at the same time as she applied for a 
store card in December 2000 whilst shopping in the store. 
The policy covered her in the event she was off work sick or she lost her job unexpectedly 
and became unemployed. It paid 15% of the outstanding monthly card balance while Ms B 
was off work  until she either returned to work or the card was paid.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Ms B mainly told us that she had no need for the policy as the benefits her employer paid 
wouldve enabled her to continue making the repayments in the event of accident, sickness 
or unemployment. And shes concerned that this wouldve affected her being able to make a 
claim. Ms B doesnt feel she was given enough information given about the policy.
Shes asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint so it comes to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Bs case.
Ive looked at the complaint afresh and independently come to the same view as our 
adjudicator. Ill explain my reasons.
AXA has given us a copy of the store card application from the time of sale. Ms B has signed 
in the PPI part of the form, next to where it says Yes, I would like to protect my Account with 
Account CoverPlease debit my Account with the relevant monthly premium until further 
notice. 
It also says here: Only sign this box if you require Account Cover.
So I think it wouldve been clear to Ms B that PPI was one of the optional features offered with 
the store card she  was applying for. 
Ms B signed the completed application next to where it says Sign it only if you want to be 
legally bound by its terms. 
So I think AXA made Ms B aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it. 
No PPI recommendation was made by AXA. This means that AXA didnt have to check if the 
policy was suitable for Ms B. But it still needed to make sure it gave Ms B enough clear 
information to decide if the policy was right for her, taking into account her personal 
circumstances.
Its possible the information AXA gave Ms B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. So I need to consider if Ms B wouldve acted differently, and not bought the policy, if 
better information had been provided. 
Ms B was entitled to 6 months full sick pay followed by 6 months on half pay through her 
employer. 
This policy couldve paid a benefit for as long as Ms B was off work sick or disabled. So it 
couldve paid out for longer than Ms B was entitled to sick pay through work  and cleared 
her card balance if she wasnt well enough to go back to work. 
The policy wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing Ms B with a useful benefit at a 
difficult time  especially bearing in mind that she mightve had some extra costs as a result 
of being sick or disabled.
This benefit was also available to Ms B in the event that she lost her job unexpectedly and 
was out of work. 
So its fair to say that PPI offered Ms B better protection than she couldve relied on getting 
through her employer. And Ive seen nothing to make me think that her work benefits meant 
she wouldnt have been able to claim on the policy. 
Having the policy gave Ms B more dependable cover than relying on someone else to help 
out in the event of money problems as circumstances can always change. 
Ms B told us she had no substantial savings or any other way to cover her monthly card 
repayments if she wasnt working. 
For all these reasons, I think the policy offered Ms B useful benefits in her particular 
situation. 
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But this didnt affect Ms B. She couldve 
taken advantage of all the main policy benefits. So I dont think its likely that having more 
information about what the policy didnt cover wouldve put Ms B off taking out the PPI.
I dont think its likely that AXA gave Ms B clear enough information about the costs of the 
PPI policy. But I dont think that not knowing about the 15% benefit pay out makes any 
overall difference. The information Ive seen suggests that she chose to take out the policy 
when she didnt have to. The policy provided the cover briefly described on the application 
form. And it looks like she was happy to pay for it at the time as she agreed to pay the 
monthly premium when she filled in the application form. It seems to have been affordable 
for her. 
Looked at overall, given the useful benefits PPI offered Ms B, I think it unlikely she wouldve 
made a different decision if better information had been provided. 
On balance I think she still wouldve taken out the policy. So I dont find that Ms B has lost out as a result of anything that AXA did wrong  and theres 
nothing it needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman