DRN-2121744
The complaint
Ms V complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (when it was trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester) 
mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Lloyds Bank is responsible for dealing with this complaint. So from now on Ill just refer to 
Lloyds as the seller to keep things simpler.
What happened
When Ms V took out a mortgage that started in January 2001 she also bought PPI to cover 
her monthly repayments in the event of accident sickness and unemployment. 
Ms V took out a further advance in 2003 when she also took out additional PPI to cover the 
extra amount shed borrowed on her mortgage account.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms V disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Ms V first of all told us that she wasnt told about PPI. In response to our adjudicators view 
she now mainly says that she explained to Lloyds that she was already covered by another 
policy she had. She feels that she was pressured into buying PPI so that her application 
would be accepted. She said PPI wasnt offered to her as an optional extra. And she doesnt 
feel its fair to reject her complaint when theres a lack of paper evidence. 
Ms V has asked for an ombudsman review so this complaint comes to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Vs complaint. Heres why I say this.
what happened in January 2001 when Ms V arranged her mortgage 
Ms V took out PPI during a meeting when she was arranging her mortgage. I dont know 
what was discussed when Ms V decided to buy the PPI. But theres nothing in the mortgage 
paperwork Ive seen that suggests Ms V had to take out PPI. 
There were yes and no options on the mortgage application to say if she wished to apply 
for the cover  so I think shed have known she could choose if she wanted PPI. And I can 
see that the no option is ticked on the mortgage application Ms V signed. So what Ms V 
says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to say that Lloyds didnt make her aware of 
the PPI or that it was optional. 
It looks like Ms V then changed her mind about having PPI because she filled in her details 
and signed a separate application form in order to take out the PPI.
Based on the information Ive seen I think that Ms V chose to have PPI, knowing she 
couldve declined the cover if she hadnt wanted it.
Lloyds says it recommended the policy to Ms V. If a business makes a recommendation 
about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy information in a clear way. It also has 
to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable. 
Lloyds told us that it doesnt any longer have a policy document from the exact date Ms V 
took out PPI. But it has provided a policy document which was in use shortly afterwards  so 
I think its likely that in all main respects the policy that Ms V took out wouldve had similar 
terms and conditions.
Ive seen nothing to make me think that Ms V wasnt eligible for the policy. 
Ive taken into account Ms Vs comments, including what shes said about having other 
means to cover the repayments. She told us that was entitled to 6 months' full sick pay 
followed by half pay for 6 months. 
The policy wouldve covered her mortgage repayments (and paid some extra) for longer than 
Ms V couldve relied on getting full sick pay. And PPI wouldve paid out on top of her work 
benefits for up to 12 months per claim if Ms V was too sick to return to work or if she lost her 
job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Repeat claims were possible under the policy so it gave Ms V long term protection for her 
mortgage. 
Although Ms V mentioned having other insurance set up Ive seen nothing to make me think 
that this was PPI  I think its more likely that the policy shes mentioned provided a different 
sort of cover and paid out in different circumstances.
I appreciate its frustrating for Ms V that she no longer has her paperwork from so long ago. 
But I wouldnt reasonably expect her to have kept this all this time or to be able to produce it 
now. And Id like to reassure Ms V that I've thought carefully about everything she told us 
she remembers about other insurance she had. 
But it seems to me that even if shes right in thinking she also had some other PPI, its 
unlikely that it wouldve been sufficient cover to protect her new borrowing taken out later. 
So, this information doesnt affect my overall view.
Looked at overall, I think PPI was a suitable recommendation for Ms V looking at her 
circumstances when she took out her mortgage. 
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if any of those things 
applied in Ms Vs case. So, even if she wasnt told everything about the policys limitations or 
exclusions, I dont think having more information about what the policy didnt cover wouldve 
affected her decision to take it out. 
Ms V chose to take out the policy and so she appears to have wanted this type of cover and 
it seems to have been affordable for her. The cost of the policy was shown on the policy 
schedule sent to her with the welcome letter and Ms V couldve queried it then if she decided this wasnt something she wanted to pay for. But, from what Ive seen, it doesnt 
look as if that happened. 
Ive kept in mind also that Ms V couldve cancelled within 30 days without having to pay 
anything if she didnt want to pay the amount of the monthly premiums. 
And she had signed an instruction form to her bank to cover the cost. So, I think its fair and 
reasonable for me to say that it seems she was happy at the time to pay for PPI. And as she 
was paying for it monthly she could cancel it at any time, without further cost, if her 
circumstances changed or she no longer wanted it (as she later did in October 2001).
Its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But I think 
Ms V still wouldve decided to buy the policy even if shed been better informed as the policy 
gave her useful protection in her particular situation. I dont think better information wouldve 
stopped her buying it.
what happened in September 2003 when Ms V arranged further borrowing 
When Ms V applied to borrow more money on her mortgage account she also completed a 
separate PPI application. 
So I think that Ms V was aware that it was up to her to say whether or not she wanted PPI. 
And she made it clear she wanted more PPI to top up the cover she already had. 
As far as I can see her circumstances were unchanged and the extra PPI gave Ms V the 
same protection she already had in place for her existing borrowing. Looking at the 
information she provided at the time, I think Ms V continued to be able to benefit in full from 
everything the policy offered her. The policy couldve provided the cover she paid for if shed 
needed to claim. And it gave her valuable protection she didnt otherwise have.
Looked at overall, even if there mightve been some failings in the way Lloyds sold PPI to 
Ms V, I dont find that Ms V has lost out as a result of anything that Lloyds did wrong. So it 
doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman