DRN-2956717
The complaint
Ms W complains that Skrill Limited wont reimburse her for electronic money transfers she 
made after she fell victim to a scam. Shes also unhappy that, after reporting the scam, Skrill 
Limited closed her account.
Background
In October 2019 Ms W made ten money transfers totalling 26,300 Israeli Shekels (around 
£5,850) to a fraudster. The reason Ms W made the payments is well known to both Ms W 
and Skrill, and due to the sensitive nature of the events I dont intend to explain the 
circumstances in full. Put briefly, Ms W has explained she is disabled and, at the time of the 
scam, was in a vulnerable state. Upon reaching out for help online, Ms W was put in touch 
with a fraudster, and was led to believe they would be able to provide her with a product she 
wanted access to, that wasnt legally available in her own country.
Ms W made the ten transactions to two different accounts. She believed the payments were 
to cover, among other things, packaging, insurances and to avoid police intervention. When 
Ms W had made all ten payments, she received no further responses to her messages and 
realised shed been the victim of a cruel scam. Ms W contacted Skrill in November 2019 to 
confirm that she was unhappy that goods shed purchased had not been delivered.
Skrill has said that its obligations to Ms W are to provide an electronic money account  and 
not to ensure the delivery of any related goods or services. Skrill also decided to close Ms 
Ws account. 
Unhappy with Skrills response to her complaint, Ms W brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator thought that the payments werent so remarkable in value that Skrill ought to 
have made further enquiries before releasing the funds from Ms Ws account. He also 
thought Skrill had acted in line with its terms and conditions when deciding to close Ms Ws 
account.
Ms W didnt agree. She acknowledged she authorised the payments and violated the terms 
of the account, but emphasised that at the time of the payments she was mentally unwell 
and doesnt consider she was qualified at the time to behave properly.
As Ms W didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been referred to me 
for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
These were authorised payments even though Ms W was the victim of a cruel scam. She 
requested for the payments to be made so, although she did not intend the money to go to a 
scammer, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of 
her account, Ms W is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider  
Skrill should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism,
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which banking service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
In some circumstances, made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether Skrill acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with
Ms W when she carried out this payment transfer to a fraudster, or whether it should have 
done more than it did.
While there are expectations for Skrill to identify and block unusual transactions, I also have 
to bear in mind that electronic money accounts such as Skrill have different intended 
purposes and patterns of use than most everyday bank accounts  and therefore our 
consideration of when a payment may appear unusual will also differ. In this case, Ms W 
used an existing Skrill account to make a total of ten payments within around 18 days to two 
separate scam accounts. The largest of these payments was for 7,200 Israeli Shekels 
(around £1,600). Considering the value and frequency of the payments, while I appreciate 
this was a large amount of money to Ms W, I dont think the payments were remarkable 
enough for Skrill to have asked further questions before allowing the payments to be 
processed.
I appreciate Ms W has said she wasnt in the right frame of mind at the time of making the 
payments and therefore doesnt consider she should be held responsible. From reviewing 
Ms Ws complaint Im truly saddened to hear of the situation she found herself in and 
appreciate she may not have been thinking clearly at the time  but my role is to decide 
whether Skrill acted unfairly in allowing the payments to be made. As Skrill was unaware of 
Ms Ws situation at the time, or the reason for the transactions, I think it acted fairly by 
processing the transfers and while its extremely sad that Ms W has been targeted by such a 
cruel scam at a vulnerable time, this doesnt mean Skrill is responsible for refunding her 
losses.
Ive also considered whether Skrill acted in line with the terms and conditions of Ms Ws 
account when deciding to close it. 
A payment service provider is entitled to close an account, just as a customer can also close 
it  but it must do so in a way which complies with the terms and conditions of the account. 
The terms and conditions of the account, which Skrill and Ms W had to comply with, explain 
the circumstances under which Skrill can close an account without notice. Given the 
information presented to me by Skrill, and other relevant parties; and having looked at the 
wording of the applicable terms, I cant say Skrill acted unfairly in closing Ms Ws account 
with immediate effect. So it follows that Im satisfied Skrill was entitled to close the account in 
the way that it has done.Again, I appreciate Ms W wasnt acting with a clear mind when making these payments, but 
this doesnt override Skrills rights to close an account where its terms are breached.
Overall, for the reasons Ive explained I dont think Skrill has acted unfairly when deciding to 
not reimburse Ms W the losses shes incurred, or for closing her account. While Im truly 
sorry to hear of Ms Ws circumstances, I dont think Skrill are responsible for reimbursing the 
money shes lost as a result of this cruel scam. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman