DRN-2941775
The complaint
Mr Y has complained about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) dealt with a claim for an 
escape of water under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Y had an escape of water in his home, so he contacted UKI to make a claim. While UKI 
was dealing with the claim, Mr Y contacted UKI because he wanted to move to alternative 
accommodation as he said his home was unsafe. UKI declined this. So, Mr Y arranged his 
own alternative accommodation.
Mr Y contacted UKI a number of times about issues with his claim. He then made a 
complaint. Mr Y wanted UKI to refund his full alternative accommodation costs, replace the 
screed under his kitchen floor and to pay the cost of new blinds and a new fridge.
When UKI replied, it offered to pay £2,100 per month towards accommodation costs, rather 
than the £2,800 Mr Y was paying. It said the screed was defective and didnt form part of the 
claim, so Mr Y would need to replace this himself. It said the blinds werent damaged as part 
of the claim and the issue was that Mr Y said the blinds couldnt be removed and rehung. 
However, it had no evidence of this so its offer to remove and store the blinds remained. UKI 
also said there was no evidence to show the issue with the fridge formed part of the claim. 
UKI said there were issues with it replying to some emails, but some of the delays were due 
to Mr Y not sending in reports and quotes for a few months. It offered Mr Y £600 
compensation for the issues with handling the claim.
Mr Y complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. The 
investigator thought Mr Ys home could have been dangerous due to it not having proper 
flooring, which would have resulted in genuine concern for Mr Y about his young family. It 
therefore wasnt unreasonable for Mr Y to move to alternative accommodation, even though 
it was at a higher price than UKI would have paid if it had arranged it. However, it was 
reasonable for UKI not to pay for the fridge, as there was no evidence to show the damage 
was the result of the leak, and for UKI to remove the blinds and then consider how to replace 
them if they couldnt be reinstalled. The investigator also hadnt seen evidence to show the 
damage to the screed was the result of the escape of water, so UKI didnt need to pay to re-
lay it
As UKI did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 20 June 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning not to uphold the complaint. I said:
Mr Ys policy said it would pay for alternative accommodation where the policyholders home 
was uninhabitable while it was being repaired as part of a claim.
The policy also said:
Alternative accommodation where appropriate will be reflective of the individuals needs. 
Each claim will be reviewed taking into account the duration, location and occupancy and will 
continue for the shortest amount of time necessary to restore your home to a habitable 
condition.
Mr Y contacted UKI to say that he thought his home was uninhabitable. UKIs claim handler 
disagreed and said the property was habitable. Mr Y moved out of the house anyway and 
asked UKI to pay the £2,800 monthly cost of the alternative accommodation. UKI declined to 
do so. However, UKI later agreed to pay for alternative accommodation and offered £10,500 
based on a rate of £2,100 per month for five months. So, Ive thought about whether this was 
fair and reasonable.
When Mr Y first found the damage, he arranged for a plumber to carry out a repair. When Mr 
Y contacted UKI to make an insurance claim, UKI asked Mr Y to provide the plumbers 
invoice to show the cause of damage. Mr Y provided the invoice about five months later. UKI 
has said that it was only at this point that the full extent of the damage became clear. At that 
point, UKI appointed a loss adjuster because of the size of the claim. The loss adjuster then 
visited Mr Ys home about three weeks later. During that visit, the loss adjuster told Mr Y that 
any alternative accommodation costs would be based on a similar sized property within the 
local vicinity. Based on the loss adjusters research, this was around £1,750 per month for a 
six-month let.  
A couple of months later, the loss adjuster wrote to Mr Y and said the costs of the alternative 
accommodation would be paid at a rate of £2,100 per month backdated to when Mr Y first 
moved out of his home. This figure was based on rental prices in the local area for a 
comparable property, as well as costs such as council tax, broadband and utilities. 
Although UKI has said Mr Y found the property online, Mr Y has said he found it advertised 
in a shop window. He said I had to act immediately and
consider what was best for the health, safety and sanctity of my family, and at the time that 
was the best and most suitable property and value for money that I could find. Mr Y said he 
also searched for properties through local estate agents and online, but that when he 
contacted the owner of this property, he had to secure it urgently as there were other 
interested parties.
Ive thought about this carefully. I wouldnt expect an insurer to pay the full costs of 
alternative accommodation without it considering whether those costs were fair and 
reasonable. In this instance, the amount Mr Y was paying for alternative accommodation 
was about £1,000 more than the normal cost of similar rental accommodation in the local 
area. Ive also looked at the location of the rental property and it seemed to be about 10 
miles from Mr Ys home. I dont know whether that affected the cost of the rental property, 
but it does suggest that Mr Y was willing to consider a large search area to secure his own 
accommodation, including beyond his locality. 
Im aware that when the loss adjuster searched for properties, she found properties that 
were similar to Mr Ys and they cost about £1,750. I also looked at what is currently available 
on the rental market, both local to Mr Ys home and taking into account the distance of the 
property to which Mr Y moved. There were several similar properties to Mr Ys and at costs 
comparable to those suggested by UKI. Im aware that neither my searches or those by the 
loss adjuster showed exactly what was available at the time that Mr Y was looking, but I 
havent seen anything that persuades me that the rental market was so different at that time 
that UKI should therefore pay the costs of renting a property at £2,800 per month. Based on 
its research, UKI offered a total of £10,500, which took into account the cost of local rental 
properties similar to Mr Ys and an allowance to cover other amenities. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances and I dont currently intend to require UKI to pay anything 
further.
Mr Y also wanted UKI to replace the floor screed. When UKI lifted the flooring in order to dry 
it, it found there was a fault with it due to the way the battens were screwed into the screed, 
which had resulted in cracks in some areas and possibly affected the damp proof 
membrane. UKI declined to replace the screed because it wasnt damaged by the escape of 
water, the issue was due to poor workmanship or faulty design.
Ive read the reports about this. These explained that the issues with the screed were due to 
the way the floor had previously been constructed and this might have resulted in the damp 
proof membrane being breached. The drying certificate also listed a number of damp issues 
that were assessed to be pre-existing, rather than related to the escape of water. From what 
Ive seen, UKI seems to have restored the property to its pre-loss state. Im aware this meant 
UKI issued a certificate to show the drying had been terminated and that it wasnt 
guaranteed the property was dry. But, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think UKI acted 
reasonably by dealing with the issues that formed part of the claim and for it decide that the 
issues with the screed and the damp issues listed on the drying certificate were pre-existing 
issues.
Ive also thought about the fridge. When the damage was reported to UKI, it said it was 
unlikely the problem with the fridge was due to the leak, as it was located away from the 
area affected by the leak. Mr Y also said he didnt know why the fridge had stopped working. 
Mr Y arranged for an electrician to replace the fridge and the broken one was disposed of. 
As Mr Y was aware of UKIs view that the fridge wasnt damaged by the leak, if he had 
evidence to show otherwise, he could have provided it for UKI to consider. Im aware that 
since then there have been issues with Mr Y getting a report from the electrician, but I dont 
think that means UKI needs to replace the fridge. In the circumstances, I think it was 
reasonable for UKI to decline to cover the cost of the fridge.
Mr Y also wanted UKI to pay to replace his blinds. The blinds werent damaged as part of the 
claim. The issue was that they needed to be removed for some of the work to take place. Mr 
Y said once they were taken down, it wouldnt be possible to rehang them. I think it was 
reasonable for UKI to say it would remove and store them and then, when it reached that 
point, address the issue of whether it was possible to rehang them.
Im aware that UKI also paid £600 compensation. In the circumstances and having 
considered what happened in this case, I think that was reasonable and I dont intend to 
require UKI to pay further compensation.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 21 July 2021.
UKI accepted the decision.
Mr Y provided extensive additional comments, which I summarise below:
UKI had provided inaccurate and misleading information.
UKI hadnt appropriately advised Mr Y at various points in the claim, such as the need for 
the plumbers report and about the alternative accommodation.
UKI breached its own policies and the Association of British Insurers guidelines.
UKIs actions confirmed that it knew the cause of damage.
There were a range of hazards in Mr Ys home, including mould and exposed gas pipes.The loss adjuster was appointed very late and took some time to address the alternative 
accommodation.
UKI put the burden on Mr Y to navigate the claim.
Mr Ys property was uninhabitable.
The amount offered by UKI for the alternative accommodation wasnt enough to cover 
the costs of the broadband and council tax for his home. It also didnt include the cost of 
furniture and utensils.
There were no comparable properties to Mr Ys home on the rental market at the time.
Mr Y hadnt seen evidence of the searches conducted by UKI for the alternative 
accommodation.
The searches conducted by UKI werent for comparable properties as they didnt provide 
the same facilities. The properties UKI identified were in no way comparable and didnt 
meet Mr Ys needs in any way.
Mr Y provided details of properties he said were similar to his own for between £2,250 
and £2,400 per month.
UKI hadnt conducted any investigation of the issue with the screed.
It wasnt Mr Ys position that the screed was damaged by the claim. The escape of water 
had caused water to breach the screed not damage it.
Mr Y had now provided UKI with the electricians report.
Mr Y accepted that it was reasonable to address any issue with the blinds when they 
were refitted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. Ive read and considered the extensive additional comments provided 
by Mr Y, even if I dont comment on them here.
Im aware of Mr Ys strongly held views about the alternative accommodation and his 
reasons for this. UKI paid for alternative accommodation for Mr Y backdated to when Mr Y 
moved out of his home. The issue is whether UKI should cover the full costs Mr Y paid for 
the accommodation that he arranged. 
Mr Y has said he was not asked to provide the plumbers report to show the cause of 
damage. UKI wrote to Mr Y about the claim when he said he wanted to move to alternative 
accommodation. UKIs letter said:
I refer to our telephone conversation and confirm I await the plumbers report with cause of 
damage, estimates for reinstatement works as discussed.
Mr Y also seems to have quoted from this letter when he provided additional evidence in 
response to my provisional decision, so Ive no reason to think he didnt receive it. So, I think 
UKI told Mr Y why it needed the plumbers report as part of considering the claim.
Mr Y said he didnt receive any details of the properties UKI used for comparison. Ive read 
the email exchanges between the loss adjuster and Mr Y. This included one in which the 
loss adjuster sent the details. Mr Y then replied and commented on those properties. So, Im 
satisfied that Mr Y was sent details of the properties and had the opportunity to comment on 
them. Mr Y has also said the amount UKI offered for alternative accommodation didnt cover the 
cost for the broadband and council tax in his own home. However, I wouldnt expect the 
payment to cover those costs as Mr Y would have had to pay these anyway. The issue is 
whether the amount offered by UKI was reasonable for the cost of the alternative 
accommodation. Im aware that Mr Y provided examples of properties that were around 
£2,300 per month and that he has said the properties identified by UKI were in no way 
similar to his own. Im aware that Mr Y also said there was only one property available that 
met his needs, which he found advertised in a shop window.
UKI wasnt required to provide accommodation that was identical to Mr Ys home. I think it 
was reasonable for UKI to base the cost for the alternative accommodation on similar 
properties in the local area with an additional amount added to this to cover costs such as 
council tax and broadband. Taking into account the full circumstances of what happened, Im 
not persuaded that UKI needed to meet the full cost of the only property Mr Y said was 
available and met his needs. I remain of the view that the amount UKI offered for the 
alternative accommodation was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr Y also said UKI didnt investigate the issue with the screed. Ive looked again at what 
happened. UKI asked the drying company to inspect the floor as part of the drying process. 
Ive seen the comments Mr Y sent to UKI about the drying companys report, including in 
relation to the screed. UKI also arranged for surveyors to look at the flooring and had follow 
up discussions with them. Ive read the email the loss adjuster sent to Mr Y explaining what 
the surveyors said. So, Im satisfied UKI inspected the floor and that it explained to Mr Y why 
the screed didnt form part of the claim.
Mr Y has also said he has now provided UKI with the electricians report. This doesnt 
change my view that it was reasonable for UKI to decline that part of the claim based on the 
information available to it at the time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman