DRN-2094784
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Morgan Stanley Bank International Limited (trading as 
Advantage) overcharged them during the life of their mortgage.
Following receipt of a third-party audit, they say theyre due a refund of around £23,000.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S applied for a mortgage in 2006, which completed in 2007. It was an interest 
only mortgage over a term of 18 years. The mortgage was initially taken with a different 
lender, and was later transferred to Advantage. The mortgage was redeemed in 2014.
In 2018 Mr and Mrs S engaged with a solicitor about their mortgage account. The solicitor 
contacted Advantage on Mr and Mrs Ss behalf asking for information about the mortgage, 
and explained that following an audit of the account, they believed Mr and Mrs S had been 
overcharged around £23,000 on their mortgage. 
The solicitors firm ceased trading and Mr and Mrs S wrote to Advantage directly to ask if 
theyd accepted the claim theyd been overcharged on the mortgage. Advantage treated this 
as a complaint and issued a final response letter in August 2019. They said that the audit 
provided by the third party was not a true representation of the mortgage account. They said 
the report appears to have made a number of incorrect assumptions and omissions in 
relation to fees and charges which dont reflect the terms and conditions of the account.
Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to our service. Our investigator asked for more 
information about why they felt theyd been overcharged. Mr and Mrs S explained they felt 
theyd been overcharged, due to being in arrears in 2009, and the way they were treated 
during that time. Our investigator explained that this wasnt the complaint that had been 
made to Advantage, so the business hadnt had an opportunity to investigate the arrears on 
the account. We said that Mr and Mrs Ss complaint about the way they were treated whilst 
in arrears would need to be made to Advantage directly before we could consider it.
Mr and Mrs S still wanted our service to consider the audit report. So our investigator went 
on to consider Mr and Mrs Ss complaint that they were overcharged £23,000 as per the 
audit report. Having done so he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs S asked for their complaint to be taken further so the complaints been passed to 
me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S have provided a copy of the third-party audit report theyre relying on to say 
theyve been overcharged. Whilst this states that Mr and Mrs S have been overcharged by 
over £23,000 on their mortgage with Advantage, it doesnt provide an explanation of why this 
is, or a breakdown of how this figure has been reached. Mr and Mrs S also havent been 
able to explain to us why they think this money is due back to them.
The audit gives a list of reasons why a lender might miscalculate interest and repayment 
amounts, such as applying the incorrect rate of interest, or applying arrears fees when the 
account is up to date. But it doesnt explain which, if any, of these reasons apply to Mr and 
Mrs Ss mortgage account and the way its been administered by Advantage.
Advantage have said the audit appears to have been based on incorrect assumptions. 
Looking at the audit, I can see it has been based on the fact the mortgage was on a 
repayment basis, and that it was still active at the time the audit was completed. However, 
Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage was interest only, and was redeemed in 2014. So Im not satisfied 
the audit has been completed using all of the relevant information about Mr and Mrs Ss 
mortgage.
Advantage have sent us information about the history of Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage account, 
including the statements and transactions history. Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage offer stated their 
mortgage would be on a lifetime tracker rate from July 2008 onwards, and I can see from the 
statements thats the rate thats been applied to their mortgage.
 
In summary I havent seen anything specifically to show that Advantage have overcharged 
Mr and Mrs S on their mortgage account. I note Mr and Mrs S have since raised specific 
concerns about how they were treated when the mortgage was in arrears, but this isnt 
something that is covered by this complaint, so I havent considered this point when reaching 
my outcome.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman