DRN-4134035
The complaint
Mr W complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) wont refund money he lost to 
a cryptocurrency investment scam.
Mr W is being represented by solicitors in his complaint.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it 
again here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
The complaint concerns three payments totalling £16,150 which Mr W made to a 
cryptocurrency exchange using his RBS debit card in June and July 2019. They were made 
in connection with an investment opportunity that subsequently turned out to be a scam.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, 
even where they are duped into making that payment. Theres no dispute that Mr W 
made the payments using his security credentials, and so they are authorised. But a 
bank has a duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as 
is reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information 
which ought reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, 
it might be liable for losses incurred by its customer as a result.
Ive looked at the operation of Mr Ws account. Contrary to his representatives 
submissions, the disputed transaction amounts (£3,650, £8,900, and £3,600) werent 
out of character for the general account spending. Transactions for similar amounts 
werent unusual for Mr Ws account. For example, in the months leading up to the 
first disputed transaction, hed made payments of £8,535 and £11,662 using his debit 
card. So, I dont consider the disputed transactions were particularly unusual or 
suspicious such that I think RBS ought to have been concerned. But we know that 
RBS did block the first payment and spoke to Mr W about it. So, Ive considered 
whether its intervention went far enough.
A recording of the relevant call isnt available. But RBS has provided a recording of 
the call between its fraud prevention team and Mr W which happened the next day. 
This was in connection to a payment on his credit card to the same crypto exchange 
 on the same day as the first disputed transaction on his debit card  which the bank 
had declined. While this call happened the day after the disputed transaction, it is a 
good indicator of the sort of enquiries the bank made, as well as the responses it 
received from Mr W. 
The agent asked Mr W what the payment was for and explained that the bank 
considered cryptocurrency-related transactions highly suspicious as they carried a 
higher risk. I dont think the intervention during that call went far enough as the bank 
was merely checking whether it was indeed Mr W who had authorised the transaction 
on his credit card, which happened to be for the same amount as the first disputed 
transaction. While the bank made it clear that it didnt like these types of transactions 
on its credit cards, there was no additional context given. There was no mention of 
scams, let alone a warning. I think its more likely than not that the conversation 
during the call on the day of the first disputed transaction would have gone in a 
similar way. And so, I consider that RBS could have done more when making 
enquiries.
But thats not the end of the matter. Causation is a critical determinative factor in 
every scam case. It isnt enough that a payment service provider like RBS failed to 
act unfairly or unreasonably; its acts or omissions must be the immediate and 
effective cause of losses that were reasonably foreseeable at the time of the breach. 
I cant know for certain what would have happened if RBS had questioned Mr W 
further about the disputed transaction. In such situations, I reach my conclusions not 
based on mere possibilities but rather on what I find most probable to have happened 
in the circumstances. In other words, I make my decision based on the balance of 
probabilities  so what I consider most likely to have happened considering the 
evidence and wider circumstances of the case.
Having carefully thought about this, Im not convinced that a scam warning would 
have made a difference to Mr Ws decision-making. Ive kept in mind that the 
scammer was in constant contact with Mr W during the relevant period. They had 
already warned him that hed get a call from his bank about the payment, and that he 
needed to authorise it. It is also my understanding that Mr W had already seen profits 
from his initial investment (which doesnt appear to have been made through his 
account with RBS). In this case, Im more persuaded that any concerns Mr W might 
have had following a more in-depth discussion with RBS would have been alleviated 
by the scammers reassurances. By Mr Ws own admission to our investigator, the 
scammer was so convincing that he believed them. Under the circumstances, I find 
that Mr W was taken in by the scam. And Im not convinced that a scam warning by 
RBS would have necessarily broken the spell he was under.
Ive also thought about RBSs actions in relation to the recovery of payments after it 
became aware of the situation. As these were debit card transactions, the only 
avenue here would have been a chargeback. But time limits apply to when a 
chargeback can be raised and considered. Mr W didnt report the matter to RBS until 
2022  well outside the chargeback time limits. In any event, RBS could have only 
raised a chargeback against the merchant he paid, not another firm. And given the 
merchant he paid had provided the service (conversion of money into 
cryptocurrency), its unlikely that a chargeback would have been successful even if 
time limits had been complied with. 
In summary, I know that Mr W will be disappointed with this outcome. Not least because the 
matter has been ongoing for some time. I fully acknowledge that theres a lot of money 
involved here. Despite my natural sympathy for the situation in which he finds himself, for the 
reasons given, it wouldnt be fair of me to hold RBS responsible for his loss.My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman