DRN-3809126
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is that Santander UK Plc unreasonably withdrew a mortgage offer, without 
giving him a valid reason. Mr H believes this was because of his work in the field of mental 
health, and that the bank has discriminated against him because of his unique name.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 17 October 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, 
so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. 
In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Mr H being identified. So for these reasons, I will keep my summary of what 
happened quite brief.
In 2021, using the services of a mortgage broker, Mr H applied for a mortgage with 
Santander. A mortgage offer was issued on 25 July 2021, but this was withdrawn by 
Santander a few days later. Mr H complained. Santander didnt uphold the complaint, saying 
that, because of information about Mr H in the public domain that was relevant to the 
application, the bank had decided not to proceed with the mortgage.
Mr H brought his complaint to our service where an investigator looked at what had 
happened. He didnt think the complaint should be upheld, as he found Santander hadnt 
acted unfairly when it withdrew the mortgage offer after carrying out further checks. 
However, he thought Santander should pay Mr H £100 for trouble and upset, because the 
bank could have carried the checks out before it had issued the offer.
Mr H asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Mr H said that, because his name is 
unique, Santander was able to find out adverse information against him that is in the public 
domain. Mr H said this is discriminatory, both against him personally and against ethnic 
minorities, because it would be difficult for Santander to find out this kind of information 
about him or other applicants if they had a more common British name. 
Mr H also said that £100 in no way compensates him for the immense mental distress he 
has suffered, nor is it sufficient deterrent to Santander changing its policies.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, and these are my 
reasons.
Its a matter for Santanders own commercial judgment who it lends to, and what criteria it 
will apply in order to determine whether or not an applicant is eligible for a mortgage. I dont 
have any power to tell Santander what criteria to apply, or what policies the bank should 
have in place to assess mortgage applications.
The mortgage was applied for through an intermediary. On Santanders intermediaries 
website there is a list of questions relating to eligibility of the applicant for a mortgage with 
Santander. One of these questions relates specifically to the information which Santander 
later discovered in the public domain. 
I dont know if Mr Hs mortgage broker asked him this specific question. However, I think its 
likely that if Mr H had been asked that question and it had been correctly answered, the 
application would not have proceeded any further at that point, because it would have been 
apparent that Mr H didnt pass the eligibility criteria for the mortgage. It wasnt until 
Santander ran its own check that the information was discovered. This was information 
unrelated to Mr Hs work in the field of mental health, but which was relevant to whether or 
not Santander wanted to offer a mortgage to Mr H.
Im not persuaded by Mr Hs argument that if he had a more common name, Santander 
wouldnt have been able to find out this information. I agree that Mr H has a fairly unique 
name, which meant that the adverse information about him was easily found online. I note 
Mr Hs suggestion that it would have been easier for someone with a more common name to 
avoid such adverse and material information coming to light. But I dont find that Santanders 
actions are discriminatory. Santander is entitled to make whatever enquiries it considers 
appropriate when looking at a mortgage application  including information in the public 
domain. I find the banks actions in this respect were legitimate and reasonable.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied Santander was entitled to withdraw the mortgage offer 
once this information was known. The mortgage terms and conditions allow Santander to do 
this.
I agree that Santander could have run this check before the mortgage offer was issued, and 
that Mr H was caused inconvenience as a result of the offer being issued then almost 
immediately withdrawn. I think £100 compensation is appropriate here. Ive noted what Mr H 
has said about the impact on him, but we dont award damages in the way that a court 
would. In all the circumstances, Im satisfied that £100 is proportionate and reasonable 
compensation. We arent a regulator and so although Mr H wants the compensation to act 
as a deterrent to Santander, our role isnt to punish businesses or impose policies on them.
I appreciate Mr H feels very strongly that Santander has treated him unfairly. However, for 
the reasons given above, other than Santander not carrying out the check sooner, Im not 
persuaded Santander has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement I direct 
Santander UK Plc to pay Mr H compensation of £100 for distress and inconvenience. I make 
no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman