DRN-3019700
The complaint
Mrs R and Mr R complain that Godiva Mortgages Limited didnt reduce the interest rate of 
their mortgage when the Bank of England base rate reduced in March 2020  even though it 
had put the rate up when base rate rose in the past. They say the mortgage was mis-sold 
because it was presented as a variable rate that could go up or down, but in practice only 
ever goes up.
What happened
Mrs R and Mr R have a buy to let mortgage with Godiva. In 2016, they took its Flexx interest 
rate. This is a managed variable rate which is set by Godiva  it doesnt directly track any 
external benchmark such as base rate.
When the Bank of England increased base rate by 0.25% in 2017, and again by the same 
amount in 2018, Godiva decided to increase its Flexx rate by the same amount.
But when the Bank of England reduced the base rate by 0.5% at the start of the coronavirus 
pandemic lockdown in March 2020, Godiva did not reduce the Flexx rate.
Mrs R and Mr R complained. They said that Godiva had increased the rate in the past and 
should have reduced it. They said the rate had been sold as a variable rate  not as one that 
would only increase. And they said that the government and the Bank of England had said 
the base rate cut was designed to help individuals and businesses. The government asked 
landlords to act sympathetically to tenants facing difficulties because of the pandemic  they 
had accepted a reduced rent, but had not received any assistance from Godiva in turn. They 
wanted the rate of their mortgage reduced, and the overpayments refunded.
Godiva said that it had faced challenges itself  with borrowers facing financial difficulty and 
requesting payment deferrals. It had to decide where to concentrate its resources. It 
considered the Flexx product to offer good value, so it had decided to focus on customers 
paying higher variable rates within its range  it reduced the rates on those mortgages rather 
than on the Flexx product. 
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint, so Mrs R and Mr R asked for it 
to be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my view there are two key questions that have to be answered in deciding this complaint  
did Godiva have the power to decide not to pass on the base rate cut; and did it act fairly in 
making that decision.
Mrs R and Mr Rs mortgage is on the Flexx rate. When they took the rate out in 2016, they 
were given a mortgage offer which said it was:
A variable rate, currently 2.06%, which is managed by Godiva Mortgages Limited and 
is set independently of its Standard Variable Rate and the Bank of England Base 
Rate, to the end of the mortgage term.
The mortgage conditions say:
We can change the applicable interest rate for any of the following reasons (which 
may relate to circumstances existing at the time or those which are expected to apply 
in the near future):
(i) To respond to changes in the Bank of England (Base) Rate, or mortgage or 
investment rates generally
There are then a series of other factors that Godiva can take into account when setting the 
interest rate.
The mortgage offer therefore makes clear that the Flexx rate is not tied to, linked to, or 
tracking base rate. And the terms and conditions say that Godiva can  not must  change 
the rate to respond to changes in base rate. This means that while base rate is a relevant 
factor in Godivas decisions, it doesnt have to change the rate when base rate changes.
Im therefore satisfied that Godiva was acting in line with the power given it in the mortgage 
offer and terms and conditions  both when it increased the Flexx rate in 2017 and 2018, 
and when it chose not to do so in 2020.
Ive then gone on to think about whether it was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
that it chose not to do so in 2020.
I bear in mind that while the Flexx rate had changed with base rate in 2017 and 2018, the 
documents are clear enough for Mrs R and Mr R to understand that they shouldnt have a 
general expectation that it would always do so. A variable rate is one that can vary, not one 
that must vary.
As the terms and conditions make clear, base rate is only one of the factors for Godiva to 
consider. The start of the covid-19 pandemic was an exceptional situation for virtually 
everyone  including both borrowers and mortgage lenders.
At that time there was great uncertainty about what would happen, how long it would go on 
for and the economic impact. Like all mortgage lenders, Godiva was faced with the risk that 
large numbers of its borrowers might not be able to pay their mortgage and ask for payment 
deferrals. I dont think its decisions to pass on the base rate increases in 2017 and 2018 
should be taken to be a binding precedent in these circumstances. 
And while the base rate was reduced to help consumers and the wider economy, it was 
important for Godiva to consider its own position. It decided to strike a balance between 
passing on the base rate cut to its customers  while protecting its position at a time when its 
own income was also facing challenge. The balance it decided to take was to pass on the 
base rate cut to borrowers paying higher interest rates, but not to do so for borrowers on 
lower interest rates.
While I appreciate that Mrs R and Mr R would rather that the base rate cut was passed on to 
their mortgage too, I think this was a reasonable position for Godiva to take.In saying that, I bear in mind that there were no barriers to Mrs R and Mr R reducing their 
interest rate in other ways  such as an early repayment charge. They were able, without 
paying significant exit costs, to take a new fixed interest rate with Godiva, or move their 
mortgage to another lender to take advantage of lower rates elsewhere. And I also bear in 
mind that even after the base rate reduction wasnt passed on, the Flexx rate remained 
competitive in the buy to let market  especially given the extra flexible features it comes 
with. So Godivas decision did not leave them trapped or paying a significantly higher rate 
than borrowers generally.
I appreciate that Mrs R and Mr R wanted to act as responsible landlords supporting their 
tenant, and agreed to accept lower rent for a time. And they were hoping for support from 
their lender in turn. Support was available in the form of payment deferrals, but Mrs R and 
Mr R chose not to take one. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think I can fairly uphold this complaint. I think Godiva 
acted reasonably in deciding that it could only pass on the rate cut to some customers and 
deciding to prioritise those on higher rates. It made other forms of support available to Mrs R 
and Mr R, and didnt stand in the way of them moving their mortgage elsewhere if thats what 
they preferred to do.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman