DRN-4018733
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with several aspects of the service hes received from Lloyds Bank PLC.
What happened
Mr W has raised several complaints with Lloyds and has referred four of these complaints to
this service having received referral rights from Lloyds for those four complaints.
The first of these complaints was raised on 29 June 2022 as Mr W was unhappy that Lloyds
had placed a block on his debit and credit cards. Lloyds recorded this complaint under their
reference ending 0938 and resolved this complaint on 29 June by apologising to Mr W for
what had happened and by making a payment of £100 to him as compensation for any upset
or inconvenience he may have incurred.
Mr W complained to Lloyds again the next day, on 30 June 2022, as he was unhappy that
his cards were again blocked having previously been told that all account blocks had been
removed. Mr W was also concerned that his credit card details may have been given to an
unauthorised third party by Lloyds.
This complaint was recorded by Lloyds under their reference ending 7441. Lloyds responded
to this complaint by confirming to Mr W that they hadnt given his credit card details to any
third parties and by apologising to Mr W for the late unblocking of his cards, which Lloyds
confirmed had now been done. Lloyds also made a payment of £140 to Mr W as
compensation for the trouble hed incurred and paid a further £10 to cover Mr Ws parking
costs incurred for having had to come into branch.
Mr W raised a further complaint on 29 July 2022 and was recorded by Lloyds under
reference ending 7691. This complaint surrounded Mr Ws dissatisfaction at the service hed
received during a visit Lloyds branch, as well with the long hold times Mr W had
experienced when trying to contact Lloyds fraud department after that visit. Lloyds
responded to this complaint by apologising to Mr W for what had happened and by making a
payment of £150 to him for any distress or inconvenience he may have incurred as well as a
further payment of £36 to cover Mr Ws associated telephone call costs.
The fourth complaint was recorded by Lloyds on 27 August 2022 under their reference
ending 4168. This complaint centred on Mr Ws dissatisfaction that Lloyds had attempted to
take a direct debit payment one day earlier than they should have done, which had resulted
in the attempted payment being rejected for insufficient funds. Lloyds responded to this
complaint by confirming that theyd tried to take the direct debit on the day theyd said they
would as per Mr Ws relevant account statement, and so didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr W wasnt satisfied with Lloyds responses to these four complaints, and so referred them
to this service. One of our investigators looked at these complaints but felt that Lloyds
responses already represented fair and reasonable resolutions to the complaints and so
didnt feel that any further action from Lloyds was merited. Mr W remained dissatisfied, so
the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 9 February 2023 as follows:
Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit 
here to declare that Lloyds have acted in a non-regulatory or unlaw way - such 
declarations would be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make. 
Instead, this service is an informal dispute resolution service with a remit focussed on 
fairness of outcome as considered from an impartial perspective.
Its also important to confirm that this service can only consider complaints that the 
business being complained about has already had the opportunity to formally 
respond to  in line with the complaint response timeframes by which this service 
must abide. Further information about the parameters within which this service must 
operate can be found in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook.
Im aware that Mr W has several other complaints with Lloyds that are presently 
ongoing and for which he hasnt yet received formal responses from Lloyds for. I 
cant consider those other ongoing complaints here  for the reason explained above 
 and so confirm that this review will be concerned only with the four complaints 
described in the preceding section. Mr W may be entitled to bring those other 
ongoing complaints to this service at a later time.
Finally, I note that Mr W has made several detailed submissions to this service both 
before and after our investigator issued their view of this complaint. Id like to thank 
Mr W for these submissions, and I can confirm that Ive read and considered all 
correspondence and documents provided by both Mr W and Lloyds. However, I must 
note that I wont be responding in this letter to every individual point that Mr W has 
made, but instead will focus on what I feel are the key aspects of these complaints  
in line with the remit of this service as an informal dispute resolution service, as 
explained above.
Regarding the four complaints that are under consideration here, I will deal with each 
of these complaints in turn.
Complaint reference ending 0938
On 28 June 2022, an authorised third party tried to fraudulently access Mr Ws credit 
card account. This led to Mr Ws accounts being blocked as a fraud prevention 
measure by Lloyds, and a text message was sent to Mr W by Lloyds asking him to 
contact them.
Mr W telephoned Lloyds in response to that text message later that same day. And, 
after spending considerable time discussing the matter with Lloyds, Mr W was told 
that the attempted fraud had been prevented and that his accounts were now all 
unblocked and could be used by him. However, when Mr W then tried to use his 
accounts again the next day  on 29 June 2022  he found that they were still 
blocked. Mr W wasnt happy about this and went into Lloyds branch, at which time 
he raised this first complaint.The member of staff that Mr W spoke with in branch apologised to Mr W for what had
happened and assured Mr W that his accounts were now all unblocked. The staff 
member also agreed to informally resolve Mr Ws complaint by paying him £100 as 
compensation for the upset and inconvenience Mr W had incurred in having to come 
into branch that day and for the length of time that hed been there.
As will be seen, the issues that Mr W experienced regarding the blocking of his 
accounts didnt end here. But Lloyds opened a new complaint to deal with the further 
issues that Mr W would experience. And so, regarding this specific complaint  
reference ending 0938  Im satisfied that the £100 compensation amount was paid 
to Mr W solely for the trouble and upset he incurred surrounding his discovering that 
his accounts hadnt been unblocked, as hed been told they had been by Lloyds 
fraud department the previous day.
This £100 compensation paid to Mr W for the upset and inconvenience he 
experienced on 29 June 2022 seems fair and reasonable to me, and Im satisfied that 
it does represent a fair resolution to this complaint  which as explained, technically 
ended on 29 June 2022. As such, I wont be upholding this aspect of Mr Ws overall 
complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any further action in this regard.
Complaint reference ending 7441
As alluded to above, while Lloyds closed the previous complaint on 29 June 2022, 
and compensated Mr W for his trouble and upset up to that time, this wasnt the end 
of Mr Ws continuing issues.
Indeed, the very next day, on 30 June 2022, Mr W went into Lloyds branch once 
again as his accounts were all still blocked, and because he hadnt been able to 
make any progress when telephoning Lloyds about this.
Lloyds recorded this continuing complaint as a new complaint  reference ending 
7441  and Lloyds system notes from Mr Ws visit record how upset Mr W was at not 
being able to access any of his money for three days and with the many hours hed 
already spent either on the telephone with Lloyds or in branch trying to resolve this 
issue.
While Mr W was in branch, the staff member he spoke with contacted Lloyds fraud 
team who confirmed, again, that all the account blocks had now been removed from 
Mr Ws accounts. The staff member also agreed to pay additional compensation to 
Mr W of £140, as well as a further £10 to cover Mr Ws parking costs that day.
Unfortunately, once again, this wasnt the end of the difficulties that Mr W 
encountered, and Mr W continued to experience issues with his accounts being 
blocked following this date. The reasons for this included that when Lloyds provided 
replacement cards to Mr W, they placed information about one of these new cards in 
the electronic wallet which the
unauthorised third-party that had initially attempted to fraudulently access Mr Ws 
accounts had compromised, which led to that unauthorised third-party making further 
attempts to commit fraud, which in turn led to Mr Ws accounts being blocked again.
When considering this complaint, matters are confused by the fact that Lloyds appear 
to have reopened both this complaint, and the earlier complaint  reference ending 
0938  with further notes being added to both complaint reports. Its understandable 
then, given that Lloyds appear to have reviewed this reopened complaint under two 
separate complaint reference numbers, how Mr W may have become frustrated with what he perceived as poor and inconsistent service from Lloyds in regard to the 
issues he was encountering.
It's also notable that Lloyds issued a formal response to this complaint  reference 
ending 7441  on 23 August 2022. This response confirms the award of £140 
compensation and £10 costs that Mr W received when he went into branch on 30 
July. But the date of this complaint response  23 August  is over three weeks after 
Lloyds awarded this compensation and costs amount to Mr W, and so cant be 
reasonably be felt of as being in consideration of any of the further issues that Mr W 
experienced after 30 July and up to the date of that letter.
But Mr W did experience further issues after 30 July and during the period up to 23 
August 2022, when Lloyds issued their letter in response to his complaint. And Im 
satisfied Mr W also experiences further and continuing trouble and distress because 
of these ongoing issues for which he should fairly be compensated for by Lloyds.
As such, I will be provisionally instructing Lloyds to pay further compensation in 
regard to this complaint, and I will return to this point later in this letter.
Complaint reference ending 7691
This complaint relates to the service that Mr W received during a visit to Lloyds 
branch. Specifically, because of the ongoing issues that Mr W had experienced 
regarding the other complaints described above, hed previously spoken with the 
branch manager who had told Mr W to come back to her if he had any further issues.
However, when Mr W went into branch and asked to speak with the manager about 
another instance of his card being declined, he was asked by branch staff to sit and 
wait and told that the manager would see him shortly. But the manager then left the 
building without speaking with Mr W, despite Mr W having waited for approximately 
30 minutes. And when Mr W asked Lloyds branch staff about this, he was told that 
the branch manager had left for the day.
Additionally, Mr W then waited in branch for over an hour for someone to assist him, 
but none of the branch staff present approached him or asked if he needed help.
In their response to this complaint, Lloyds have acknowledged that the service Mr W
received when in branch that day wasnt to an acceptable standard, and theyve 
apologised to Mr W for this and made a payment of £150 to him as compensation for 
the distress and frustration he incurred, as well as a further payment of £36 to cover 
the cost of the subsequent phone calls Mr W had to make to Lloyds because his 
issue wasnt addressed and dealt with that day.
Lloyds response here seems reasonable to me, and I feel that the apology and the
payments of £150 compensation and £36 costs already represents a fair resolution to 
this specific complaint. As such, I wont be instructing Lloyds to take any further 
action in this regard.
Complaint reference ending 7691
Mr W raised this complaint because he felt Lloyds had taken a direct debit payment 
one day earlier than they should  on the 18th, when Mr W believed the payment 
should have been taken on the 19th  which resulted in the payment being returned 
for insufficient funds.I can appreciate how Mr W may have believed that the payment would be taken on 
the 19th, given that most  but not all  prior payments had been taken on the 19th of 
the month. However, the direct debit payment was set to be taken on the date as 
advised by Lloyds to Mr W on the credit account statement from the prior month. 
And, in this instance, the account statement clearly states that the direct debit for the 
month in question would be applied for on the 18th.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that Lloyds didnt apply for the direct debit on the incorrect 
date as Mr W contends, and as such I wont be upholding this aspect of Mr Ws 
complaint.
Conclusions
Its clear that Mr W has experienced an ongoing issue regarding the blocking of his 
accounts that has caused him significant inconvenience and distress, both in regard 
to his not being able to access the money in his accounts and in how Lloyds have 
responded to his complaints about the issue.
Lloyds have, to a degree, acknowledged the issues that Mr W has encountered, and 
theyve apologised to Mr W for them and have paid compensation and costs totalling 
£286 across the two complaints that deal with this aspect of Mr Ws complaint  
references ending 0938 and 7441.
But, as alluded to above, I feel that this combined compensation and costs amount 
can only be considered as being in regard to Mr Ws experiences up to and including 
30 July 2022, by which date hed already been offered the totality of that £286 
amount, and so cant be thought of as being in consideration of the ongoing issues 
and frustrations that Mr W continued to experience after that date, and up to the date 
of Lloyds complaint response on 23 August 2022.
Additionally, Im satisfied that the further inconvenience and upset that Mr W did 
experience in that approximately three-week period was significant, given Mr Ws 
own testimony to that effect and the notes that are unfortunately split between Lloyds 
two complaint refence numbers, as previously explained.
It's difficult to arrive at a fair further compensation amount for this continuing trouble 
and upset, but after careful consideration my provisional instructions here will be that 
Lloyds must make a further payment of £450 to Mr W, which I feel would provide fair 
compensation to Mr W for the totality of the trouble and upset he incurred up to 23 
August 2022  including in consideration of any further telephone costs that Mr W 
may have incurred that werent included in the £36 he was awarded by Lloyds in 
complaint reference ending 7691.
In arriving at this amount, Ive considered the impact of what happened on Mr W, as 
well as the compensation and costs that hes already received. Ive also taken 
account of the general framework which this service considers when deciding 
compensation amounts for distress and inconvenience, further details of which can 
be found on this services website.
Ive also made specific reference here to the date of Lloyds response to this aspect 
of Mr Ws complaint  23 August 2022. Ive done this because Im aware that Mr W 
has further, ongoing complaints with Lloyds, and because I feel that any further 
related upset and inconvenience that Mr W has potentially experienced following the 
issuance of Lloyds complaint response letter on 23 August 2022 should reasonably 
be considered as a part of any ongoing further related complaint that Mr W may have and shouldnt be considered as a part of the four specific complaints dealt with in this 
review.
This instruction of a further £450 compensation will be my only provisional instruction 
to Lloyds. This is because Im satisfied that Lloyds have already fairly responded to 
Mr Ws complaint about the service he received in branch, and that Mr Ws complaint 
about the date that Lloyds applied for a direct debit payment shouldnt be upheld.
Neither Mr W nor Lloyds have raised any objections to my provisional decision. As such, I 
see no reason not to issue a final decision upholding this complaint in Mr Ws favour on the 
basis explained above. And I therefore confirm that I do uphold this complaint on that basis 
accordingly.
Putting things right
Lloyds must make a further payment of £450 to Mr W.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman