DRN-3812095
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Moneybarn No.1 Limited incorrectly reported missed payments on his 
credit file.
What happened
On 6 May 2017, Mr M was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement 
with Moneybarn. He paid a deposit of £400 and the agreement was for £6,595 over 60 
months; with monthly repayments of £271.17.
Mr M started missing payments in July 2017, with direct debits not being paid and charges 
and fees being applied. Mr M also made some manual payments for less than the 
contractual amount. This meant that, in February 2019 when Mr M started to make regular 
payments by direct debit, hed built up an arrears balance. In September 2019 this stood at 
£1,012.38  the equivalent to almost four monthly payments - and Mr M then started to clear 
this balance by paying an additional £30 a month. The agreement was cleared in full in July 
2022.
Mr M complained to Moneybarn that hed not received any notice of any arrears, or that 
theyd ever told him they would report any missed payments on his account  he said that 
hed maintained payments to the agreement since 2019, so no arrears should be reported.
Moneybarn explained that, while Mr M was in arrears with his agreement, theyd reported his 
arrears to the credit reference agencies, which was something they were legally required to 
do. And, because of this, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong.
Mr M wasnt happy with Moneybarns response, and he brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation. 
Our investigator said that Mr Ms account had been in arrears, and Moneybarn were required 
to report the arrears even if Mr M was making his normal monthly payment. And he hadnt 
seen anything to suggest the arrears figure being reported was incorrect. So, he didnt think 
that Moneybarn had done anything wrong. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He said that Moneybarn never told him that his credit 
file would be marked as missed payments while he was still making payments. He didnt 
think theyd been honest or transparent with him and theyd damaged his credit by doing so.
Because Mr M didnt agree with the investigator, hes asked for an ombudsman to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr M was supplied with a vehicle under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it. 
Before I go any further, I think it would be useful for me to explain how arrears should be 
reported by the credit reference agencies. The credit reference agencies should report the 
amount in arrears, and not whether any specific payment has been made. Although in some 
instances, this will be the same. 
This means that the total amount of arrears is calculated, and this should be expressed as 
the number of payments the arrears are equivalent to. For example, in Mr Ms case, if the 
total arrears were between £271.17 (the value of one payment) and £542.34 (the value of 
two payments), then the credit reference agencies should report this as a 1, meaning the 
account is more than one month but less than two months in arrears. And the 1 doesnt 
necessarily mean that the latest payment has been missed.
So, where there is an amount in arrears that equates to a number of months payments, and 
those arrears are being slowly reduced over the term of the agreement, then the number of 
months in arrears being reported will slowly reduce until such time as the arrears have been 
repaid, and 0 months in arrears is reported. And, just because contractual payments are 
being made in the meantime (with or without any contribution to the outstanding arrears), 
this doesnt mean that the value of the arrears isnt reported.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, it doesnt seem to be disputed that Mr M was in arrears, 
due to difficulties in making the payments between July 2017 and February 2019. And Ive 
seen that Moneybarn sent him regular statements showing what was due, what had been 
paid, and what the shortfall (arrears) was. And they also sent him a Notice of Sums in 
Arrears every six months.
In addition to this, Ive seen that Moneybarn sent Mr M letters confirming his account was in 
arrears on 13 November 2018, 12 March 2019, and 19 December 2020. These letters all 
confirmed that we must report arrears to the relevant credit reference agencies, which could 
have an impact on your ability to obtain credit in the future.
Given this, Im satisfied that Moneybarn clearly told Mr M how much his arrears were on a 
number of separate occasions, and that they would be reporting the arrears to the credit 
reference agencies. I also think its reasonable for someone to expect that the conduct of 
their finance agreement, and any arrears, is reported to the credit reference agencies.
As such, I dont think Moneybarn did anything wrong by reporting Mr Ms arrears to the credit 
reference agencies. And I havent seen anything that shows me that Moneybarn incorrectly 
reported the amount of arrears to the credit reference agencies. Because of this, I wont be 
asking Moneybarn to change what has been reported.However, Ive also seen a copy of what is actually being reported by one of the credit 
reference agencies (the screenshot provided by Mr M doesnt make it clear which particular 
agency it is). And this shows that the arrears arent being reported in the traditional way Id 
expect i.e. a number to show how many months in arrears the account is, as explained 
above. Instead, this agency is reporting a tick when the account is up to date, and a cross 
when it isnt. It also says that a cross relates to a missed payment.
As such, I can understand why Mr M believes Moneybarn are reporting missed payments 
when he was actually making payments of more than the contractual monthly payment from 
September 2019 onwards. But this is an issue with how this particular agency are reflecting 
the information theyve been provided with, not with the information thats been provided. 
And Ive not seen anything to show me that the agencies who report in the traditional 
numerical way are reporting the information in the same way as this agency. Given this, and 
that Moneybarn arent responsible for how the credit reference agencies display the data 
theyve been provided with, this is something Mr M will need to raise with the agency in 
question.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Moneybarn No.1 Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman