DRN-3961455
The complaint
Mrs L complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) havent paid enough 
for her car after she claimed on her car insurance policy. She also complains about the poor 
service and delays in processing the claim.  
What happened
Mrs L insured her car with AA. The car was damaged in an accident and she claimed on the 
policy. AA accepted the claim and declared that the car was a total loss. Its final offer in 
settlement of the claim was £14,427, which it said was the market value of the car at the 
time of the accident.
Mrs L didnt accept this and complained to AA. She said to replace her car would cost more 
than the amount offered. She also complained about the time taken to deal with the claim. 
She said she had to chase AA on numerous occasions and although she made the claim on 
10 May 2022, she wasnt made a settlement offer until 29 June 2022.
AA accepted the poor service provided and initially offered compensation of £50, this was 
later increased to £150 plus compensation for any call charges she may have incurred. But 
AA didnt think it had valued Mrs Ls car incorrectly so didnt uphold that part of her 
complaint. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She found that 
AA had used two motor valuation guides, so she looked at the value produced by other 
guides as well as considering the optional extras mentioned by Mrs L. When doing this she 
found that AAs valuation was within the range of all the guides, so she didnt think AA had 
valued the car unreasonably. She also felt AAs offer of compensation for the poor service 
and delays was fair. 
Mrs L disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ls policy say that if AA deem her car a total loss, they will 
pay her the market value. The policy defines market value as the cost of replacing the 
Insured Car with one of the same make, model, age, mileage, specification and condition at 
the date of accident or loss.
Our service doesnt value cars. Instead we check to see that the insurers valuation is fair 
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do this we tend to 
use motor valuation guides. I usually find these persuasive as theyre based on nationwide 
research of likely sales prices. We think the trade guides are generally more persuasive in 
indicating the likely selling price of a car rather than adverts for similar cars, as the adverts 
give an advertised price, rather than a selling price.
The valuation guides used by AA provided values of £14,290 and £14,595. I understand  
Mrs L has said her car is worth between £14,990 and £15,499 after looking at cars for sale 
and speaking with a local dealership. Mrs L has highlighted that her car had a number of 
optional extras. However, Im not persuaded that means AA have acted unfairly when they 
valued her car.
I say this because AA have valued Mrs Ls car at £14,427 and used two trade guides. When 
weve used the other valuation guides we have access to, AAs valuation is still within the 
range of the guides. The valuation guides also take into account the mileage and 
specification a car has when producing a value. 
Mrs L also felt her optional extras werent reflected in the settlement offered. However, Im 
satisfied AAs approach hasnt disadvantaged Mrs L. I say this as when our investigator 
requested a bespoke valuation from one of the trade guides, she was advised that due to the 
age of the car, the optional extras dont impact its value. I dont find this to be unusual as the 
added value associated with optional extras can depreciate over time. So, while I appreciate 
Mrs L feels strongly that AA havent valued her car fairly, especially given the optional 
extras, I dont agree. Ultimately, Im satisfied AAs valuation of Mrs Ls car is fair and 
reasonable. So, I dont think it needs to offer any more towards the car value. 
There is no dispute Mrs L was provided poor service and the settlement of the claim took 
longer than it should, and I can understand this will have been frustrating for her. Ive thought 
about how long AA took to deal with Mrs Ls claim. I can see there was an initial delay in 
getting the car to an approved garage and then some confusion on the hirer of the courtesy 
car  although the latter was swiftly resolved by Mrs L, and she was provided a courtesy car. 
There was a subsequent delay because Mrs L and AA werent able to agree on an 
authorised repairer due to lead times of getting cars into repairers, but this was out of its 
control. Once the car was passed on to the authorised repairer and estimate was provided to 
AA on 25 May 2022. The estimate was reviewed by AA on 2 June 2022 and as the car was 
likely to be deemed a total loss, AA have told us this process should have taken seven to ten 
days to resolve. But a further delay meant Mrs L wasnt provided a settlement figure until   
29 June 2022. So overall the delay amounted to about three to four weeks. And it was clear 
that Mrs L was the one having to do a lot of the chasing to get updates. 
AA made an initial offer of £50 compensation, but it has now offered Mrs L £150 
compensation plus the costs of any calls she has needed to make in chasing the claim 
should she provide AA with evidence of this. Im satisfied this offer is fair compensation and 
in line with our general approach in these circumstances.  
In light of all this, I dont think AA needs to do anything more than its already offered to do.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, my final decision is that the settlement offer of £14,427 
made to Mrs L is fair. AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited should pay Mrs L:
£14,427 in settlement of the claim, and
£150 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused and reimbursement for any call charges shes incurred (should she provide it with evidence of these 
charges).   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman