DRN-1530266
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold them 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In August 2001, Mr and Mrs S took out a five-year loan for £5,000. The loan refinanced a 
loan theyd taken out the previous month in a BoS branch. They were sold a regular 
premium PPI policy to protect the repayments on this new loan. It covered Mr S for up to 
twelve months if he became unemployed and up to sixty months if he was unable to work 
because of an accident or sickness. The policy also provided life cover for Mr S over the 
term of the loan.
It should be noted that the repayments on the previous loan - which this new loan refinanced 
 were also protected by a PPI policy. But this earlier PPI policy was paid for by a single 
premium which was added to the previous loan and would therefore have had interest 
charged on it. I understand that BoS has already fully compensated Mr and Mrs S for the 
mis-sale of this earlier single premium PPI policy to them. And this compensation payment 
has included an amount to reflect the fact that some of the cost of this single premium policy 
was effectively rolled into the new loan, resulting in interest being charged on it.
So, for the avoidance of doubt, this decision only considers whether the regular premium 
policy attached to the new loan was mis-sold by BoS. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs S case. Having done so, Ive decided not 
to uphold the complaint for reasons that Ill now explain.
Mr and Mrs S say that the PPI policy on their loan wasnt discussed with them and they 
didnt agree to purchase it.
BoS has provided a copy of the loan agreement which Mr and Mrs S signed at the time. This 
has a section on it dealing with PPI. And I can see that a pre-printed cross has been placed 
in a Yes box next to the question: Do you want Personal loan Repayments Insurance? 
Theres an equally prominent No box that could have been crossed. From what I know 
about BoS normal sales process, I think its most likely that PPI was discussed with them. I 
think the cross would then have been entered on BoS loan system after Mr and Mrs S had agreed to take out the policy. If Mr and Mrs S hadnt agreed to the PPI, I think they would 
have queried why a cross had been placed in this box before signing the agreement.
BoS has also provided a copy of a loan application form which Mr and Mrs S signed in 
May 2001, when originally applying for the loan which this one refinanced. And I can see that 
in the section dealing with PPI on this form Mr S has signed in the box provided to confirm 
he wanted this cover.
So, having carefully considered all the information and testimony available to me, I think its 
most likely that Mr and Mrs S wanted the protection PPI gave them. And I think they actively 
decided to take out the regular premium PPI policy on their new loan, knowing they could 
choose not to do so. But this sale happened a very long time ago, so I can understand why 
they may not recall this now.
BoS says it recommended the PPI policy to Mr and Mrs S. And Ive taken this to be the case, 
because this means BoS had to check whether it was suitable for their needs. I dont know 
how BoS did this. But from what I know of their circumstances at the time, I cant see any 
reason why it wouldnt have been suitable. I say this because:
 
Mr S appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
 
 Mr S says he was entitled to full sick pay from his employer for six months. And 
Mr and Mr S say they also had some savings they could have used. So they dont 
think they needed the protection which the PPI policy gave them. But this policy 
would have paid out for much longer than Mr S sick pay would have lasted. And it 
would have meant that they could have used their sick pay and savings for other 
essential expenditure at what would likely to have been a difficult time for them. So I 
still think that they would have valued the extra security which the policy gave them.
 
The cost of the policy was £10.04 a month. And I havent seen anything to make me 
think that this would have been unaffordable for Mr and Mrs S. And as the premiums 
were paid monthly, it could have been cancelled by them if it no longer met their 
needs.
 
BoS also needed to give Mr and Mrs S enough information for them to decide if they wanted 
to buy the policy. I think its quite possibly the case that the information which BoS gave to 
Mr and Mrs S could have been better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont 
think the policy was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs S, I dont think better information about it 
would have changed their minds about buying it. I think theyd still have thought the policy 
gave them useful cover at an affordable cost.
Ive carefully considered all the reasons Mr and Mrs S have given for disagreeing with our 
adjudicators view. But these havent changed my mind about not upholding their complaint. 
This has included what theyve said about BoS upholding their complaints about other PPI 
polices sold to them. As I have said earlier, the PPI policies which BoS has already agreed 
to uphold and compensate them for were single premium policies, with different terms and 
conditions to the one which is the subject of this complaint. In any case, each complaint 
about the mis-sale of PPI needs to be considered by this service on its own merits. So the fact that BoS has upheld Mr and Mrs S complaints about other PPI policies isnt something 
which has - or indeed should - influence my final decision on this complaint.
So, taking everything into account, I dont think Mr and Mrs S have lost out by anything that 
BoS may have done wrong when it sold them this PPI policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im not upholding this complaint against Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman