DRN-3446565
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG declined a claim he made on his travel
insurance policy.
What happened
On 11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be a
pandemic. Mr B went on holiday to an island Ill refer to as T on 13 March 2020. Shortly
after Mr B arrived in T the island went into lockdown in response to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr B says that he returned home prior to the islands airport closing on 21 March 2020. The
Foreign and Commonwealth Development Office (FCDO) didnt advise UK nationals to
return home until 23 March 2020.
Mr B claimed on his travel insurance policy for the cost of flights home and his unused 
accommodation. The claim was declined on the basis that there was no cover under the 
policy for cutting short a trip in such circumstances. Unhappy, Mr B complained to our 
service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt
think that the circumstances were covered under the policy terms and conditions. He
explained that he could only apply the terms and conditions which were in force at the time,
not terms and conditions which had since been amended by URV.
Mr B didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. He said the key point
was that the policy wording had been updated and that they were forced to leave T due to
the closure of the airspace. 
In April 2022 I issued my provisional decision. I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that URV has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy say under the curtailment section:
Section B3  Curtailment / Loss of Holiday
For each insured-person this insurance will pay
for your proportionthat you have paid or agreed to pay and that you cannot
recover from any other source following your necessary curtailment of your trip
due to:
i) the death, injury or illness of:
 you or a travelling companion with whom you are travelling;
 a close relative who lives in your home country;
 a close business associate who lives in your home country;
 a friend who lives abroad and with whom you were intending to stay;
ii) you, a travelling companion or close relative who is travelling with you being
required in your home country for jury service or as a witness in a Court of Law,
or
iii) you, a travelling companion or close relative who is travelling with you being
called back by the Police after your home, or the home in your home country
of your travelling companion or close relative, or usual place of business in
your home country, having suffered from burglary, serious fire, storm or flood.
The policy terms and conditions also contain a general exclusion on page six which 
says there is no cover for:
Delay, confiscation, detention, requisition, damage, destruction or any prohibitive
regulations by Customs or other government officials or authorities of any country.
Did URV unfairly decline Mr Bs claim?
Im not intending to uphold Mr Bs complaint because:
Mr Bs trip wasnt cut short for any of the above reasons. This means his claim 
isnt covered under the terms and conditions of his policy
Ive also looked at the remaining sections of Mr Bs insurance policy, but I dont 
think he held any cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances he found 
himself in. Mr B didnt purchase super duper cover for Journey Disruption and, 
in any event, at that point in time the FCDO hadnt advised citizens to come 
home. Whilst I appreciate that Mr B made a sensible decision to return home 
before the airport shut, its unfortunately not something thats covered by the 
policy. Ive also considered the Travel Risks section of the policy but that only 
covers Mr B to continue his holiday in the event of an outbreak of infectious 
disease. Thats not what happened as Mr B came home. He didnt continue his 
holiday as he couldnt move to alternative accommodation
Mr B has referred me to updated policy terms which were issued after his own 
policy. He says that this is a key point. Insurers often update their terms and 
conditions. Thats standard industry practice and many insurers updated their 
terms in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. The relevant terms are those 
which form the contract of insurance between Mr B and URV. So, I dont agree 
the updated terms are relevant to Mr Bs complaintIn any event I also think that the general exclusion Ive outlined above applies in 
the circumstances of this case. The main reason Mr B returned home was due 
to the lockdown in T which included widespread restrictions on movement and 
activity. So, not only are the reasons for the curtailment of Mr Bs holiday not 
covered as listed, insured events under the policy, I think its likely the exclusion 
Ive quoted above would apply to the circumstances of Mr Bs claim anyway
I understand that Mr B will be disappointed with my decision and I understand 
why he made the decision to return home when he did. But, unfortunately, travel 
insurance policies dont cover every eventuality and the circumstances Mr B 
found himself in arent covered by the terms of this policy.
URV said that it didnt have anything further to add. Mr B said that he was very disappointed 
that his travel insurance policy didnt support his claim. In summary, he said that they had no 
choice but to come home as the airport and airspace were going to shut. He said that it 
would have been foolhardy to carry on with the holiday and that had they stayed in T they 
would have exceeded the maximum stay set out in the policy. He told us that they had 
friends who stayed in T and were unable to get back to the UK until July 2020. Mr B also 
explained that their home in the UK would have been left empty and at risk, so they made 
the right decision. 
So, I now need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the further information and arguments Mr B has put forward Im not 
upholding his complaint. I have a great deal of empathy with the circumstances in which 
Mr B found himself and the reasons for him returning home when he did. I can entirely 
understand that he was worried about getting stuck abroad and his home being empty. 
Ive taken into account that Mr B says that had they stayed abroad in T theyd have been at 
risk of staying beyond the 35 day time limit on the policy. However, this doesnt impact on 
the reasons why I think this complaint shouldnt be upheld. As I outlined in my provisional 
decision the reasons Mr Bs holiday was cut short was not a specified insured event and I 
remain persuaded that the exclusion relating to prohibitive regulations applies in the 
circumstances of this case. Thats because T went into lockdown and I think URV can fairly 
rely on the exclusion I set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman