DRN-3292386
The complaint
B complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) has unfairly handled a claim for loss of rent 
under a Property Owners Select insurance policy.
Any reference to B or Allianz includes respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
B owns a property that is insured by Allianz. This was purchased in 2016. Prior to this 
I understand the property had been unoccupied for around five years.
The property was leased in 2019 to a tenant Ill refer to as Person A. 
During 2019 it was discovered the property had been converted to a cannabis farm. 
The police attended the property and arrested the tenant.
B made a claim to Allianz for malicious damage by Person A which was accepted.
B also made a claim for loss of rent, but this was declined by Allianz. It said the loss 
of rent is payable to the extent that it is a consequence of damage. But in this 
instance, the rent stopped as the tenant was arrested.
B complained, saying it didnt accept the purported arrest was the reason why rent 
ceased. And instead rent stopped because the property was left badly damaged and 
could not be re-rented after discovery.
One of our investigators looked into what happened and upheld the complaint. She 
said Allianz had acted unfairly by not covering the loss of rent claim. She said B was 
insured for loss of rent, and the property couldnt be rented due to the extent of 
damage caused by an insured event which it had accepted liability for.
So, she said it should pay the loss of rent claim between the period of loss and three 
months after the cash settlement for repairs was given, to account for the time it 
would take to repair. And she said it should pay 8% interest on top.
B replied to say the extent of repairs would take 9  12 months to complete after 
receipt of funds.
Allianz responded to say it disagreed with the assessment. It said to see whether the 
customer is truly losing rent as a result of damage, it had considered the specific 
property and its letting potential. Allianz said in most cases it sees, if a property were 
put onto the market it would easily achieve monthly rental payments  and therefore 
it would agree its insured is making a loss. But it believed this property was different, 
because the history of the property shows that if it were put onto the lettings market, 
it would unlikely achieve any interest.
Allianz highlighted only two parties showed interest in leasing the building across an 
eight-year period prior to the recent lease. And it provided some commentary from a 
discussion it had with lettings agent that it said showed the property would unlikely 
have been re-let during the claim period.
Allianz also said the property was not a standard commercial property and wouldnt 
have been easily let given restrictions around its use. It said if B was able to provide 
confirmation that the property wouldve have readily been let or a tenant was lined up 
then it would reconsider.
The investigator didnt change her mind, so the complaint was passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision.
I issued my provisional thoughts on 19 January 2022 explaining why I didnt intend to uphold 
the complaint. Ive included an extract of these findings below.
Bs policy covers it for loss of rent. This cover is defined as:
If property or any part of any property used by the Insured at the Premises for the 
purpose of the Business suffers Damage during the Period of Insurance other than 
by an excluded cause, and in consequence the Business carried on by the Insured at 
the Premises be interrupted or interfered with, the Insurer will pay the Insured as 
indemnity the amount of the loss at the time of the Damage resulting from such 
interruption or interference in respect of each item specified in the Schedule
Underneath this, under the heading Basis of Settlement this goes on to say the 
Insurer will pay in respect of each item:
the loss of Rent being the actual amount by which the rent during the Indemnity 
Period falls short of the Rent which but for the Damage would have been received by 
the Insured
Put simply, this means a claim for loss of rent will cover the loss the policyholder 
wouldve received, if the damage in question hadnt occurred. This is in keeping with 
what Id expect to see in a policy of this nature.
There appears to be no dispute that the property has been damaged. But Allianz 
argues that B hasnt suffered a loss in regards to the rent due to the specific 
circumstances of this claim.
B has argued that Person A didnt stop paying rent as they were arrested, and in fact 
they were not charged for any offences relating to the cannabis farm. And instead, 
the rent had stopped due to the condition of the property and extent of the damage.
In this instance, I find it difficult to see that the condition of the property wouldve had 
any bearing on Person As intention or ability to pay the rent  in light of their 
contribution to events. So, I think its fair to look further at whether there was any 
wider interest in the property.
I cant ignore that the property in question was unoccupied for a very long time. And 
seemingly the interest to the property was indeed limited. Allianz has provided 
comments from its meeting with a letting agent that describe the history of the 
property, and from what Ive seen no other parties showed interest on similar terms 
that Person A did. There was reference to a party looking to take the property with a 
long rent-free period  which doesnt suggest interest on the level B has suggested.
I also cannot overlook that Person As interests were not to rent the property on the 
agreed terms, and instead were of a nefarious nature. So, without any evidence to 
suggest parties wouldve agreed to rent the property  and on similar terms  I can 
see why Allianz reached its conclusion to decline the claim.I acknowledge that past interest in the property alone may not be an entirely accurate 
indicator as to whether a property may have interest presently. However, Ive been 
given nothing to suggest the market for this particular type of property has changed 
or that Allianzs observations are inaccurate.
Allianz has said it is willing to reconsider the matter if B is able to provide evidence it 
would have still been able to let the property  if not for the damage. I think this is 
reasonable in the circumstances and should it have any such evidence, Id 
encourage it to share this with Allianz and this Service.
As a result, Im minded to agree with Allianz that B would not have received the 
rental income it seeks to claim for, even if the property was repaired and able to be 
rented. And therefore, Im satisfied Allianz has fairly declined this claim in line with 
the policy terms.
I gave both parties an opportunity to respond by 2 February 2022. This date has now passed 
and neither party has responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive been provided with no new arguments or evidence to consider. So, I see no reason 
to depart from my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman