DRN-4025020
The complaint
Mr T complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) increased his monthly bank account fee 
without prior notification. 
What happened
Mr T says he held a reward style bank account with Barclays which originally had a monthly 
£3 fee, however over time the fee increased to £4 per month (pm) and £5 per month without 
him being notified. Mr T also feels he hasnt been informed of the changes to the benefits 
and rewards for this type of account and has only received a modest net reward over the 
time he has held the bank account.
Mr T says Barclays should have informed him he wasnt benefiting from the type of bank 
account he held with them. Mr T wants Barclays to refund the excess fees he has been 
charged over this time and pay him the missing reward payments, given he was never given 
any notice of any changes. 
Barclays says Mr T received the correct monthly rewards for the qualifying transactions on 
the bank account and it had communicated the account fee increases, two months prior to 
any changes. 
Mr T wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Barclays had followed the correct process when it applied the bank account 
fee increases and criteria changes. The investigator says Barclays had provided sufficient 
evidence to show it advised Mr T of these changes to the bank account.
Mr T didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr T to notice his reward bank account 
fees had increased over the years he held it, without any obvious benefit to him. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider whether Barclays had acted unfairly when it 
increased the bank account fees when it did and if it had made clear to Mr T of any changes 
to the rewards, and fees relating to the account. 
Mr Ts complaint centres around the fact he never received any advice or notification from 
Barclays of the changes in the monthly fees and benefits relating to the reward style bank 
account he held with them. Mr T also felt Barclays should have let him know he wasnt 
benefitting from holding this type of bank account. 
While I understand the points Mr T makes here, Im not fully persuaded by his argument. I 
say this because Barclays have provided this service with a copy of an email in May 2019 
informing Mr T of the increase in the fees from £3pm to £4pm, effective from August 2019 
and changes to the benefits. Similarly, Barclays also provided this service with an email 
dated February 2022 that it sent to Mr T informing him of the increased fees from £4pm to 
£5pm effective from April 2022. 
In addition, I have seen a copy of an email sent to Mr T in late August 2022 advising him he 
was paying more in fees than he was receiving in benefits, which is what I would expect 
here. There are also screen shot notes provided to this service that indicate such 
notifications were sent to Mr Ts bank account app. 
Although Mr T says he never received these notifications and Im not sure why that may 
have been, it is clear that Barclays sent these, and I cant hold it responsible for any reason 
why Mr T may not have received them. Its also worth mentioning here Mr T would have had 
access to his bank account statements, which would have shown the monthly increases in 
the fees over this period, so he would have had the opportunity to have questioned this with 
Barclays much sooner than he did.  
Here, I can only make my decision based on the evidence provided to me, and on balance 
Im satisfied Barclays did pre notify Mr T of the bank account fee increase and benefit 
changes in good time. With that in mind I cant say Barclays have unfairly charged the fees 
when it did, for the reasons I have already given.
While Mr T will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Barclays.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman