DRN-2322957
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with how Easi-Drive Limited managed the repairs to his car following a road 
traffic accident.
What happened
Mr B was involved in a non-fault road traffic accident in November 2018. Easi-Drive, an 
accident management company (AMC), were instructed to manage the repairs to Mr Bs car 
so he didnt have to pay his insurance excess.
Mr B said there were delays in his car being repaired. He wasnt happy with the repairs, and 
he said further damage had been caused to his car while it was being repaired. Hes said his 
car was taken back to the original garage twice, and then to other garages. But the repairs 
were either not completed, or the repair work done wasnt to a satisfactory standard.
Mr B has said that paperwork has been lost, that hed needed a new battery because his car 
had been left for so long the existing battery went flat, and that the structure of the car is 
twisted so things like the headlights didnt fit properly. So hes brought a new car, because 
he didnt feel safe driving the one that was involved in the accident.
Mr B complained about how Easi-Drive managed the repairs to his car. Easi-Drive said 
thered been a delay in getting his car repaired by the second garage, and they said they 
couldve handled things better. So they offered Mr B £200 compensation for the stress and 
inconvenience theyd caused. Mr B didnt accept this, and he brought his complaint to the 
Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service) for investigation.
Our investigator said Easi-Drive were responsible for managing the claim, but not for the 
quality of repairs themselves. So these couldnt be considered. She said Easi-Drive took Mr 
Bs concerns seriously and arranged for his car to be inspected. They also arranged for a 
different garage to repair the car because Mr B wasnt happy with the first one. So she 
thought Easi-Drive had acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances, and she didnt think 
they needed to do anything more.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators view. He said he thought Easi-Drive were insurance 
approved, so he cant understand why we cant fully look into them. He also feels they 
shouldnt have sent his car to another garage when the second one refused to carry out any 
work  his car shouldve been written off. So hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision on his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and while I appreciate this will be a disappointment to Mr B; Ive reached 
the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Up until 31 March 2019, AMCs were regulated by the Claims Management Regulator. And 
complaints about AMCs were dealt with by the Legal Ombudsman. On 1 April 2019 the 
regulation of AMCs switched to the Financial Conduct Authority, and complaints moved to 
the Claims Management Ombudsman. Because the events Mr B is complaining about took 
place before this change in regulation, my decision is based on the approach the Claims 
Management Regulator and Legal Ombudsman wouldve taken. 
The Legal Ombudsman didnt consider an AMC responsible for the repairs carried out on a 
car  this was the responsibility of the garage. And, unless the garage was owned and 
operated by the AMC (which isnt the case in this instance), the Legal Ombudsman would 
only expect the AMC to make the garage aware of any issues with the repairs. They wouldnt 
expect the AMC to be able to force the garage to carry out any work.
From what Ive seen, once instructed, Easi-Drive arranged to have Mr Bs car inspected. 
This inspection took place on 26 November 2018. The independent engineer who inspected 
the car said it was repairable, and listed the work that needed doing. So Easi-Drive arranged 
for these repairs to take place.
Mr B was unhappy with the quality of repairs, and said his car had suffered further damage 
while at the garage. So Easi-Drive arranged for a post-repair inspection to be carried out by 
an different independent engineer. This engineers report, dated 17 January 2019, said 
some rectification work needed to be done. And Easi-Drive arranged for the original garage 
to do this work.
When the rectification work had been done, Mr B remained unhappy with the quality of the 
repairs. So Easi-Drive arranged for the second engineer to reinspect the car. I havent seen 
this report, but its not disputed the engineer said the car still hadnt been fully repaired. The 
engineer also said the car was repairable, and didnt need to be written off.
Mr B didnt want the car to go back to the original repairers, and Easi-Drive asked him to 
provide his own estimate for the required work. But he wasnt able to find anyone to carry out 
the work, so Easi-Drive arrange for a different garage to do the repairs. There was a delay in 
Easi-Drive arranging for this. But when the car was returned to Mr B he was still unhappy 
with the repairs. So Easi-Drive arranged for the second engineer to do another post-repai 
inspection. This report, dated 24 May 2019, said no rectification work has been carried out 
since our previous inspection. As I understand it, following this, Mr B was paid £350 cash-
in-lieu of the repairs. But he doesnt feel this was enough to have the car repaired fully.
Having reviewed everything, Im satsisfied it was reasonable for Easi-Drive to rely on the 
independent engineers report to say what was wrong with Mr Bs car; and whether it was 
repairable or needed to be written off. The engineer is the expert in this matter, not Easi-
Drive. And, while Easi-Drive have said they could done things quicker, I also think they acted 
reasonably, and in line with how the Legal Ombudsman wouldve expected them to act, 
when dealing with Mr Bs concerns about the repairs.
Easi-Drive arent responsible for the repairs themselves, so I wouldnt have expected them 
to do anything differently. And I wont be asking them to do anything more. Its now for Mr B 
to decide whether to accept the £200 compensation offered by Easi-Drive or not.
My final decisionFor the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Easi-Drive Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman