DRN-4300448
The complaint
Ms F and Mr H complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wouldnt refund 
money they lost in a scam.
What happened
What Ms F and Mr H say:
Ms F and Mr H had a joint current account with NatWest. In 2016, they were introduced to 
an investment scheme by someone they knew, who was said to have been an investor for 
four years and had made good returns. Ms F and Mr H did some due diligence and found 
nothing untoward about the scheme - for example, there wasnt anything on the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) register. The owner of the business and his son were ex-
policemen. So, Ms F and Mr H went ahead and invested £45,000  paid from their joint 
account with NatWest  as follows:
Date Transaction Amount
11 April 2016 Faster Online Payment £5,000
26 April 2016 Faster Online Payment £10,000
11 July 2016 Faster Online Payment £10,000
29 July 2016 Faster Online Payment £10,000
23 December 2016 Faster Online Payment £10,000
Total loss £45,000
The investment scheme proved to be a Ponzi type fraud which came to light in 2019. It was 
reported that 5,000 people had lost £70 million. The company was wound up by order of the 
court, and a liquidator was appointed in 2019.
Ms F and Mr H lost all their savings. They contacted NatWest in July 2022. 
They said that NatWest shouldve done more to protect them and asked why they were 
making the large payments. If the bank had questioned them, they said they would likely 
have been alerted to the fraudulent scheme and not made the payments. They also said 
NatWest didnt properly investigate what had happened and were slow to deal with their 
complaint.
What NatWest said:
Ms F and Mr H complained to NatWest in July 2022. NatWest said the payments were made 
before the introduction of the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code), and 
therefore couldnt be considered within that guidance. They looked at the claim on a best 
endeavours basis and contacted the receiving bank, but no funds remained to be paid back.
NatWest said they did stop certain customer transactions but couldnt say what the formula 
was that identifies such a payment - as this was confidential.
NatWest apologised for not dealing with Ms F and Mr Hs complaint as quickly as they 
should have and for that, paid compensation of £200.
Our investigation so far:
Ms F and Mr H brought their complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He said 
NatWest shouldve stopped the payments and questioned Ms F and Mr H about them. But 
even if they had, he was persuaded that they wouldve gone ahead anyway  as theyd been 
introduced to the scheme by a colleague who had already made money and had been 
investing for some time. Ms F and Mr H had also found nothing negative about the scheme 
when they did their research. And because the owners of the scheme were ex  policemen, 
that would also have also given Ms F and Mr H some comfort.
NatWest had tried to get the money back, but no funds remained with the receiving bank. 
Ms F and Mr H didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at their complaint  and so it 
has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Ms F and Mr H have lost money in a cruel scam. Its not in question 
that they authorised and consented to the payments in this case. So although Ms F and Mr 
H didnt intend for the money to go to a scammer, they are presumed to be liable for the loss 
in the first instance. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. In April 2016, there were some circumstances where a 
bank should have taken additional steps before processing a payment to help protect 
customers from the possibility of financial harm. For example, there were some guidelines 
which should have been followed when older or vulnerable customers asked to make 
unusually large cash withdrawals or where someone appeared to be telling them what to do.
In recent years, there has been an increase in sophisticated fraud and scams, leading to 
greater expectations of banks in terms of its role in preventing fraud. This started with a 
super complaint in September 2016. For example, the British Standards Institutes 
Protecting Customers from financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of 
Practice was published in October 2017. This recognised that banks should look to identify 
and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of character transactions - that 
could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. 
It was later  that the expectations of banks were increased: with the Banking Protocol in 
2018; and the Financial Conduct Authoritys Banking Conduct of Business Sourcebook S 
5.1.10A (R) (since 13 January 2018) & 5.1.10B (G) (since 19 December 2018).And the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, effective from 28 May 2019, was 
set up to provide protection for customers who fall victim to Authorised Push Payment (APP) 
scams, and also to reduce the occurrence of APP fraud.
In other words  the obligations of banks to protect customers from fraud when these 
payments were made (between April 2016 and December 2016) were far less than later.
Bearing all of this in mind, I need to decide whether NatWest acted fairly and reasonably in 
its dealings with Ms F and Mr H when they requested the payments - based on the 
expectations of banks in 2016. 
Having done so, Im not persuaded NatWest should refund Ms F and Mr H the amount they 
lost. 
I looked at how the joint account operated. I can see there were some previous large 
payments leading up to the scam. For example:
- November 2015 - £2,000 payment
- December 2015 - £7,500; £2,000 payments
- January 2016 - £2,000; £6,407 payments
- February 2016 - £2,000 payment
- March 2016 - £2,000 payment
Bearing in mind the guidance under which NatWest were operating to at the time  I dont 
think its reasonable that the payments relating to the scam were flagged as needing more 
examination by NatWest. 
And also - theres a balance to be struck: NatWest had obligations to be alert to fraud and 
scams and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant be involved in every 
transaction as this would cause unnecessary disruption to legitimate payments. In this case, 
I think NatWest acted reasonably in processing the payments.
Our investigator said that even if NatWest had flagged the payments and questioned Ms F 
and Mr H about them, they wouldve gone ahead anyway. I accept that they dispute that, 
and I make no comment about whether they would have gone ahead or not  as my decision 
is based on the fact that I dont think its reasonable to expect NatWest to have questioned 
the payments in any case, for the reasons Ive described.
Recovery:
We expect firms to attempt to recover funds from recipient banks when a scam takes
place. I looked at whether NatWest took the necessary steps in contacting the bank that 
received the funds  in an effort to recover the lost funds. NatWest have said they contacted 
the recent bank and no finds remained to be paid back  and given the passage of time, and 
the fact that a liquidator was appointed in 2019, Im not surprised at that.
Im sorry Ms F and Mr H have had to contact us in these circumstances. I accept theyve  
been the victim of a cruel scam, but I cant reasonably hold NatWest responsible for their 
loss here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F and Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman