DRN-4136012
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Santander UK Plc registered a marker against him at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
In spring 2020, Mr B received a series of payments from another individual, which were 
found to be the proceeds of fraud. Mr B acted quickly to move the money on, using cash 
withdrawals, bank transfers, and some card spending.
Mr B told Santander that this was money his friend owed him, though he couldnt provide 
any evidence of lending the money. Santander pointed out that while Mr B had paid this 
friend in the past, those amounts were far less than what this person was sending Mr B. 
Santander closed Mr Bs account and registered a marker against him at CIFAS.
In 2022, Mr B discovered the marker and came to our service. He now says the funds were 
profits from selling t-shirts. He and his friend had had the t-shirts printed in a store, then ran 
a social media account, where he spoke with customers directly and received payments for 
the goods. Mr B said they may have got some orders wrong, so customers may have made 
fraud claims when their items didnt arrive. He said hed since lost access to the social media 
account and didnt keep any record of having the t-shirts printed, so he couldnt evidence this 
story either.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained Mr B had received fraudulent funds, passed them on quickly, had not provided any 
evidence he was entitled to the money, and had given contradictory testimony.
Mr B didnt agree. He insisted hed been truthful. He pointed out that Santander hadnt told 
him about the CIFAS marker at the time. The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to register this marker, Santander were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Mr B had done something wrong. They did need to have reasonable grounds to 
believe that hed misused his account, which went beyond a suspicion or concern, and which 
had appropriate supporting evidence. Having carefully considered everything that both sides 
have said and provided, I think Santander did have sufficient grounds to register this marker. 
Ill explain why.
Mr B received money which has been confirmed to be the proceeds of fraud. Mr B then 
acted very quickly indeed to forward the money on  often paying it out within just minutes or 
even seconds of receiving it. This meant that the money couldnt be recovered once the 
fraud was reported. This would be most unusual behaviour if the funds were just money 
Mr B was owed or his profits from selling t-shirts  he would have no good reason to move it 
on so quickly. But it fits very well with the behaviour Id expect if Mr B was either a participant 
in the fraud or was willingly acting as a money mule. 
Mr B told Santander he moved the money on quickly because he doesnt keep money in his 
bank account, he only keeps it in cash. But I can see thats not the case, as before this 
incident he frequently kept a healthy balance in his account.
Mr B told Santander that this was money his friend owed him. But he couldnt provide any 
evidence of lending the friend this money. While Mr B had made payments to that friend in 
the past, those payments were just a fraction of the money he received. Mr B said this was 
because he lent the money in cash. But even if we add up all of Mr Bs cash withdrawals 
from before this incident, and assume that he gave every single cash withdrawal to his 
friend, theyre still only a fraction of the money he received. So I dont find this explanation to 
be likely or plausible.
Mr B then told our service that the money was from selling t-shirts. But if that were the case, 
he should be able to evidence this quite straightforwardly. For example, with invoices or 
receipts from the printing shop he used, or other evidence of paying the printing shop, 
messages with customers, proof of posting goods, and so on. Yet Mr B has not been able to 
provide any evidence at all that he ever made or sold these t-shirts, let alone that they were 
the source of these funds. Mr B said the incident was too long ago for him to still have 
evidence, but it wasnt that long ago. And he told Santander at the time that the money was 
from a debt his friend owed him  he didnt mention selling any t-shirts. It wouldnt make 
sense for Mr B to tell Santander his first story if he couldve evidenced that the money was 
from legitimate sales at the time. And again, the payments were officially reported as 
resulting from fraud, not from the legitimate sale of clothes. I dont find Mr Bs second 
explanation to be likely or plausible either.
Im afraid I do also need to point out that Mr B has told Santander and our service two 
substantially different versions of events. So I cannot reasonably rely on his testimony  it 
has been too inconsistent and contradictory.
I note that a previous bank also closed Mr Bs account for misusing his facility, some time 
before this incident. They chose not to register a CIFAS marker, and this is only a more 
minor point. But it does indicate that this was not an isolated incident. 
In summary, Mr B received funds which have been confirmed as fraudulent. He acted 
quickly to move these on, such that they couldnt be recovered. Hes not been able to 
evidence he was entitled to this money, even when such evidence should be straightforward 
to provide. His testimony has been contradictory and implausible. And the way he used his 
account is consistent with the actions of a willing money mule or a participant in the fraud. 
So it seems reasonable that Santander closed the account and registered a marker at 
CIFAS. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mr B 
to receive. But given the evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to 
reasonably reach any other conclusion.Lastly, I understand Mr B may be unhappy that Santander didnt tell him they were going to 
register the marker. But they didnt have to tell him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman