DRN-3712073
The complaint
Mr E complains that the value of his home insurance claim increased because of Aviva 
Insurance Limited (Aviva)s delays, which has resulted in increased premiums.
What happened
Aviva accepted Mr Es claim for water damage. Mr E said there were some delays handling 
the claim which he believed increased the overall claim value. He asked Aviva whether the 
claim value would make a difference to his premium. Aviva said the value wouldnt affect his 
premium.
At renewal, Mr Es premium had gone up by just over £40. He complained to Aviva. Aviva 
looked into his complaint and explained that the premium had gone up in line with risk, as 
expected year on year, and wasn't due to any single factor.
Mr E remained unhappy and looked online for other quotes. Some insurers wouldnt quote, 
and others offered policies at a different premium depending on whether he input the value 
of the claim. Mr E believed Aviva had caused the value of his claim to be higher than it 
shouldve been and, in turn, caused his premium to increase. He brought his complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the claim itself may have caused the 
premium increase, but the evidence didnt support Mr Es belief that the claim value 
mattered. Our investigator noted that some of the quotes Mr E provided were lower than 
Avivas quote, so he didnt think Mr E had lost out because of Avivas advice.
Mr E didnt agree, although he didnt provide any further information. As a resolution to his 
complaint, Mr E would like Aviva to honour (refund) any price difference between his 
premium and a cheaper policy.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr E will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. 
For clarity, I wont be looking at the issues our investigator has already told Mr E are outside 
our jurisdiction. My decision is about Mr Es complaint that Aviva told him his premium 
wouldnt be affected by the claim value.
The reasons for my decision are as follows:
Aviva confirmed the claim itself would affect premiums, but the value of the claim 
wouldnt.
The calculation Aviva provided to Mr E and this service demonstrate that the 
premium wouldve increased anyway.
Mr Es quotes from other insurers show lower premiums when based on a lower 
claim value, but theres no evidence that the quotes were lower only because of the 
claim value.
Aviva correctly said its policy price wouldnt be affected by the claim value  it cant 
be held responsible for other insurers assessment of risk.
Theres no evidence that Mr E suffered a financial loss directly and only because of 
Avivas confirmation that its premium wouldnt be affected by the claim value.
For these reasons, Im not persuaded that the information Aviva gave to Mr E caused him 
any direct financial loss or inconvenience. Therefore, theres nothing for Aviva to put right 
here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman