DRN-2796175
The complaint
Ms F complains Wesleyan Financial Services Ltd mis-sold her income protection cover.
What happened
Ms F took out a series of income protection policies, because she wanted to be covered in 
the event that she was unable to work due to illness or injury. And she took additional 
policies as time went on, due to increases in her earnings. 
Ms F was advised on her income protection cover by a representative of Wesleyan in 2006 
and again in 2008. And she took out additional cover on Wesleyans recommendations.
In 2010 Ms F approached the same representative of Wesleyan shed been advised by in 
2008. She received advice about her income protection cover and as a result, cancelled one 
of her policies and took out another. At this time, that representative had left Wesleyan and 
was employed by a different company which I will refer to as S. However Ms F said she 
wasnt made aware of this change, and thought she was still dealing with a representative of 
Wesleyan.
In 2018, Ms F approached an Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) and all of her income 
protection policies were reviewed. As a result, she became concerned that the policy she 
took out in 2010 had been mis-sold. 
Wesleyan said the representative Ms F had dealt with left the company in May 2010, so any 
advice she received from him after this time, was not connected to Wesleyan. And so it 
wasnt responsible for the sale of the policies Ms F took out in August 2010, via S. Ms F 
went on to raise a complaint with S about this.
Ms Fs IFA said her income protection policies would not have paid as much as she had 
expected in the event of a claim. She was told Wesleyan would have proportionately paid a 
claim based on the benefits being received from cover held elsewhere. And Ms F said she 
had been paying into policies for many years, which would not perform in the way she 
excepted. She complained to Wesleyan about the information she had been given when her 
policies were sold. 
Wesleyan said it had reviewed the advice and recommendations provided to Ms F, and said 
it had acted correctly. 
Unhappy with Wesleyans response, Ms F brought her complaint to this service. 
An investigator here looked into what and happened. And said they didnt think Wesleyan 
had done anything wrong. They were satisfied by Wesleyans explanations of the way the 
policies Ms F held would work alongside each other, in the event of a claim. And didnt think 
any of the cover Wesleyan recommended had been mis-sold. 
Ms F disagreed with the investigators view in part. In summary she said:
Wesleyan hadnt previously confirmed that it would not reduce cover based on benefits 
received from other policies;
she wanted to see evidence that the other provider had agreed not to reduce cover as a 
result of benefits received under other policies; 
she said she and her financial advisers had been provided with conflicting information 
about the way the policies would work, by Wesleyan in 2018; and
compensation should be paid for the confusion and distress caused by this incorrect 
information  as a result of this, she had cancelled one of her policies, and due to 
changes in her circumstances, would be unable to take out another.
Wesleyan made no further comments on the investigators view. And in response to Ms Fs 
concerns about information provided in 2018, it said it would investigate this issue as a 
separate complaint. 
As Ms F didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should set out that Ms F has also brought a complaint about policies sold to her by a 
different company  S  and this is being handled separately. 
Ms F has raised a new complaint about information Wesleyan provided to her and to her 
financial adviser in 2018. And Wesleyan has treated this as a separate complaint. So I wont 
be reviewing what happened at that time as part of this decision. 
Ms F had in the past complained to Wesleyan about a professional expenses policy. And 
Wesleyan provided a final response to Ms Fs complaint about this policy in 2008. Our 
investigator explained they didnt think this complaint was within our jurisdiction, due to the 
time that had passed since Wesleyan issued its response. This issue appears not to be in 
dispute, so I dont think I need to make a finding here. 
The focus of this decision will be the sale of income protection policies to Ms F, by 
Wesleyan, between 2006 and 2008.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that as Wesleyan provided advice, it had a 
responsibility to ensure that the policies were suitable for Ms F when it sold them to her. This 
means it had a duty to consider Ms Fs individuals needs and circumstances, and based on 
this information, make a recommendation of what would be most suitable. Wesleyan also 
needed to present information in a clear, fair and non-misleading way.
Having considered this, together with all of the evidence provided, I dont think Wesleyan 
has acted unfairly. And Ill explain why. 
Wesleyan sold income protection policies to Ms F in February 2006 and October 2008. Ive 
looked at the evidence from the time of the sales, and Ive considered whether I think the 
recommendations were appropriate based on the demands and needs Ms F had set out at 
the time. Having done so, its my view that none of the policies were mis-sold at the time. I say this 
because Ive found the recommendations made to have been suitable and in line with the 
amount of cover Ms F wanted and the deferred periods she had discussed. The evidence 
shows Wesleyan had recommended Ms F take out two different policies to reach the level of 
cover she wanted in 2008. And Im satisfied that this was reasonable in the circumstances.
Ms F raised concerns that she was over-insured, meaning that she wouldnt have received 
the benefits she expected from the policies she was paying for, in the event of a claim. She 
is concerned that Wesleyan and the providers of her other policies would have deducted the 
amount of benefit being received elsewhere, effectively cancelling out some of her cover. 
Based on the information Ive been provided around Ms Fs earnings at the time and the 
benefits payable under each policy, I dont think it was the case that she was over-insured. 
Ms Fs earnings were high enough that I believe she would have qualified for the full benefits 
of the recommended policies at the time. 
And, Wesleyan has said the following in explanation of how it would handle a claim where 
the consumer is over-insured.
In the event of a claim where the customer is over-insured and both insurers 
adopted their respective maximum benefit conditions deducting each others benefit 
then the customer would receive nothing.
So in this instance, both insurers will agree a shared liability calculation whereby 
each pays a proportion of their benefit up to whichever insurer has the most 
generous maximum benefit condition.
 
Ms F has questioned whether this would have been the case in the event of a claim, and has 
asked to see a written agreement on this issue between Wesleyan and the other provider. 
Wesleyan hasnt provided any evidence of a written agreement that it would pay Ms Fs 
claims in this way. However, I dont think that automatically means it wouldnt have acted in 
the way its set out. And as no claims were made against Ms Fs policy up until it was 
cancelled and replaced with another policy in 2010, the situation of proportional settlement 
didnt occur. So Im not persuaded that Wesleyans advice around the two policies Ms F took 
out in 2008 was incorrect, or the products unsuitable. 
I appreciate Ms F has also complained about information provided by Wesleyan in 2018, and 
how this impacted her decision to cancel one of her policies. However, thats not something 
Ive been able to consider within this decision. And Ms F has been made aware of her right 
to refer the outcome of that complaint to this service.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Wesleyan Financial Services Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman