DRN-2972125
The complaint
Mr S complains that Experian Limited didnt update his electoral roll information and that this
had a negative impact on his finances.  
What happened
In October 2019, Mr S contacted Experian to ask it to update his electoral roll information.
Experian told him that it hadnt received an update from the council so it couldnt amend his
record.
Mr S says that other credit reference agencies (CRAs) updated his address in early
November 2019. But Experian continued to publish an out of date address until the second
week of January 2020.
Mr S wanted Experian to put a notice of correction on his credit file. Experian offered a
redrafted version. When Mr S disagreed with the redraft, Experian said it would send his
original version to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) but then failed to do so.
Mr S says that as a result of Experian not updating his address until early 2020, he missed
out on the opportunity to buy a house as he couldnt obtain a mortgage.
The investigator asked Experian to pay £100 in recognition of its failure to pass Mr Ss draft
to the ICO. Experian agreed to do this, but Mr S didnt accept the proposed outcome.
After considering everything, I was minded to uphold Mr Ss complaint so I issued a 
provisional decision on 15 July 2021.
In summary, I explained that Id looked at Experians website for details of how and when an 
individuals electoral details should appear on their credit report. This usually happens within 
30 days of registering to vote. However, there is an exception to this timetable if an individual 
registers to vote between August and November  as was the case with Mr S. This is 
because local councils dont update the electoral roll during the annual canvas, so Experian 
doesnt receive the data. Experian says that if an individual has registered during this time 
their electoral details should appear on their report from 1 December.
The reason why I thought Experian should pay more compensation than it had previously 
agreed was because I didnt consider it took reasonable steps to ensure the data it
held was correct. 
Mr S had explained to Experian that because of the possibility of a snap election, his council 
had continued to publish and distribute monthly amendments to usual stakeholders. Mr S 
gave Experian evidence that his address had changed. And he noted that two other CRAs 
added his electoral registrations in mid-October 2019.
Although Experian said it checked the electoral roll information and couldnt find Mr Ss
updated details, I didnt have any evidence to suggest that it went further than this.
Mr S said that the reason why Experian didnt have the update was because of an
administrative oversight on its part. I didnt consider its my role to tell Experian how to run its
business. But Mr S gave Experian a detailed explanation about why the usual annual canvas
exception didnt apply. And Mr S provided confirmation from the council that he was on the
voters roll. Based on this, I considered Experian shouldve reasonably carried out more
investigations to establish whether it was possible to update Mr Ss address. This couldve
involved approaching the council on Mr Ss behalf.
Mr S found the whole experience distressing and time consuming. He tried to explain the 
situation to Experian on several occasions and was frustrated to get the same response 
each time. I could see that Mr S was concerned about the impact the situation was having 
on his ability to obtain a mortgage.
Experian already agreed to pay Mr S £100 for not referring his notice of correction to the ICO 
as it had agreed to. I consider it fair to require Experian to pay Mr S an additional £150 
compensation for the frustration and inconvenience caused to him when it didnt do more to 
try and update his electoral roll information in the three-month period before January 2020.
In thinking about an appropriate level of compensation, I asked Mr S for evidence of any 
financial loss. Mr S has given this service an email chain between him and his mortgage 
advisor. Mr Ss advisor says that he tried to get a mortgage decision in principle, but it was
unsuccessful.
I didnt have enough evidence to conclude that the only reason why Mr S was turned down
was because his electoral roll details hadnt been updated by Experian. Mr S couldnt say he
wouldve bought a house at the time. Or what the difference in mortgage costs wouldve 
been. This meant I didnt consider it reasonable to require Experian to compensate Mr S for 
any costs relating to his failed mortgage application.
I appreciated that Mr Ss concern in bringing his complaint to us isnt purely financial. He 
wanted Experian to apologise and improve its customer service and IT systems. I couldnt 
require Experian to make changes to its processes. And I couldnt penalise it for any failings. 
I just needed to decide whether and how Experian should put things right. 
In the circumstances, I thought Experian should pay Mr S £250 compensation for
the overall distress and inconvenience caused to him. For the avoidance of doubt, this
included the £100 already offered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S and Experian responded to my provisional decision. Mr S made several comments. 
Experian doesnt accept my provisional decision.
Experian says that it wasnt at fault for the missing electoral roll information as the council 
didnt provide it. It says the delay was due to the council and not Experian. 
Experian still agrees to pay Mr S for its delay submitting the notice of correction to the ICO, 
but it doesnt agree to pay a further £150. 
Mr S remains concerned about the behaviour of Experian. He points out that the council contacted Experian to explain that it hadnt paid its annual subscription and that this is the 
reason why Experian didnt receive the electronic update. 
As Mr S has maintained throughout this complaint, his focus isnt compensation. He wants 
Experian to recognise the impact of its actions on him and other people. As I said in my 
provisional decision, I can only look at Mr Ss individual complaint and I cant direct Experian 
to change the way it operates its business. I also cant penalise Experian for any of Mr Ss 
concerns about the way it handles data more generally.
Im still satisfied that Experian couldve done more to fulfil its obligation to report Mr Ss data 
accurately. I understand that Experian didnt receive the update from the council, but I dont 
think its for me to make a finding on why this was the case. 
My decision to uphold this complaint is because I consider Experian shouldve taken further 
action when Mr S explained the situation about the electoral roll update. Its for the impact of 
this failure to act and the impact that has had on Mr S that Im requiring Experian to pay 
more compensation. For the same reasons as I set out in my provisional decision, I cant 
reasonably require Experian to compensate Mr S for the not securing a mortgage. But this 
isnt to detract from Mr Ss frustration at still being in rented accommodation with house 
prices higher than before.
I appreciate that Mr S would always have preferred it if Experian had updated his credit file 
earlier and apologised but I hope that the award of additional compensation goes some way 
to putting things right for Mr S.
Putting things right
Experian Limited should pay Mr S £250. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint. In full and final settlement, I require Experian 
Limited to pay the compensation outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman