DRN-3997564
The complaint
Mr B complains that FirstRand Bank Limited, trading as Motonovo Finance (Motonovo), 
irresponsibly granted him a hire purchase agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In November 2016, Mr B acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
Motonovo. Mr B was required to make 58 monthly repayments of £151.92 with a final 
payment due of £310.92. The total repayable under the agreement was £9,673.
Mr B got into difficulty with meeting the monthly agreement within a few months of taking out 
the agreement. The agreement was settled in February 2022.
Mr B says that Motonovo didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable and he was already in debt. Motonovo 
didnt agree. It said that it carried out a thorough assessment which included estimating 
Mr Bs income and carrying out credit checks. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought Motonovo ought to have 
realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Mr B.
As Motonovo didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Motonovo will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
First, Ive seen that Motonovo has asked for copies of the bank statements we have relied 
on, highlighting our findings on each statement. They have said this would help it review its 
investigation. From what Ive seen, however, these are the same statements that Mr B 
provided to Motonovo when it was looking into his complaint. When giving his view on the 
complaint, I think our adjudicator set out enough information about what hed seen in the 
bank statements that led to him upholding this complaint. So I dont agree that its necessary 
for us to carry out the further exercise that has been requested by Motonovo. I say this 
particularly given that our finding was reached on what appears to be broadly the same 
information to which Motonovo has already had access. 
Before granting the credit, Ive seen that Motonovo found out about Mr Bs occupation. But I 
cant see that it took steps to verify his income from his job before approving the finance. I 
dont think that obtaining statistical information about what Mr Bs salary was likely to have 
been was enough to properly establish his income at the time. I say this especially having 
taken into account the overall size of the borrowing, the monthly repayments and the term of 
the agreement. I therefore think it would have been proportionate for Motonovo to have done 
more to verify Mr Bs income as part of its enquires in order to ensure the agreement was 
affordable.
Ive also seen that Motonovo recorded that Mr B was living at home with his parents. But 
Motonovo didnt ask Mr B about his expenditure. Although it had completed a credit check, 
this wont have given a full account of what Mr Bs regular living expenses were. Also, it 
would not necessarily have included details about the short-term borrowing Mr B had been 
taking out. Without knowing more about Mr Bs regular committed expenditure, I dont think 
Motonovo would have gained a reasonable understanding as to whether the agreement was 
affordable or not. It therefore didnt complete proportionate checks
I cant be sure exactly what Motonovo would have found out had it carried out better, more 
proportionate checks. But if it had asked, in the absence of anything else, I think it would be 
reasonable to place significant weight on the information contained in his bank statements 
as to what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed the same three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision 
as our adjudicator. Also, and as already mentioned, I have had the opportunity to consider 
Mr Bs bank statements going back to July 2016 and up until January 2017. Throughout the 
months leading up to the agreement, Mr B was for the most part using almost all of the 
overdraft made available to him on his current account. Like our adjudicator, Ive also seen 
that in addition to his regular monthly outgoings, Mr B was borrowing heavily from several 
high cost lenders. Ive noted in particular that in August 2016 Mr B was making total 
repayments to these lenders of around £1,500 per month and in September 2016 those 
payments were around £1,100. Ive also seen that in September October 2016 Mr B was 
making use of online gambling sites, contributing to a worsening of his already deteriorating 
financial situation. 
I think all this demonstrates that Mr B was struggling financially in the run up to taking out the 
agreement and was taking on a level of borrowing that would leave him with very little, if any, 
disposable income once hed met his existing committed expenditure. I am therefore 
satisfied that he didnt have enough disposable income to afford the additional borrowing. 
Motonovo therefore didnt act fairly by approving the finance.
Putting things right - what Motonovo needs to do
As I dont think Motonovo ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to
be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Mr B should therefore only 
have to pay the original cash price of the car, being £6,400. Anything Mr B has paid in 
excess of that amount should be refunded as an overpayment. 
To settle Mr Bs complaint Motonovo should do the following:
Refund any payments Mr B has made in excess of £6,400, representing the original 
cash price of the car. It should add 8% simple interest per year* from the date of 
each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file regarding the 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Motonovo to take off tax from this interest. Motonovo 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr B asks for one.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct FirstRand Bank Limited, trading as Motonovo Finance, to 
put things right in the manner set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman