DRN-3676978
The complaint
The estate of Mrs B complain that Armstrong Watson Financial Planning Limited (Armstrong 
Watson), mis-sold an Enterprise Investment Scheme.
What happened
In 2010 Armstrong Watson advised the late Mrs B to invest £200,000 into an Octopus 
Eureka Enterprise Investment Scheme (OEIS), for the purpose of inheritance tax relief. In 
2011, Armstrong Watson recommended further investment of £40,000. When Mrs B passed 
away in 2016, the estate was only able to withdraw £38,000. The remaining £94,000 was 
illiquid. The estate maintain that significant capital losses were sustained. Since the 
complaint has been with our service, some additional payment have been made from the 
investment. 
The estate maintain that Mrs B was risk averse, was unaware of the risk of illiquidity of 
capital after her passing and had wanted to retain access to her funds during her lifetime. 
Armstrong Watson say that the recommendations were suitable for Mrs Bs needs as they 
met her objectives of inheritance tax relief and income provision. They maintain that the risks 
were properly explained at the time and it was Mrs Bs choice to proceed with investments 
despite her cautious attitude to risk to gain tax advantages. Armstrong Watson highlighted 
that Mrs Bs daughter attended meetings when the proposals were discussed.
Our investigator considered the complaint. She thought Mrs B had capacity to withstand 
capital losses, having a further £270,000 in cash, £100,000 in NS&I bonds and £630,000 in 
other investments. As to objectives, our investigator thought that the OEIS did provide 
income tax relief and inheritance tax relief, so this was partially in line with Mrs Bs 
objectives. However, our investigator was not persuaded that the investment was in line with 
Mrs Bs attitude to risk. Mrs B had limited investment experience and was a cautious 
investor. Our investigator was not satisfied that the high-risk nature of the OEIS had been 
explained to her. Mrs B had wanted to retain access to her funds and it wasnt clear that the 
illiquid nature of the investment was understood and it did not meet her objectives for funds 
to pass to her family on her death. Our investigator concluded that Mrs B was exposed to 
more risk than she wanted to take. To put things right, our investigator recommended that 
the estate be compensated for the return the capital sums would have achieved had they 
been invested in half in the FTSE Total Income Return and half in fixed rate bonds, less any 
tax relief received.
Armstrong Watson didnt agree with the view, they maintained that the recommendations 
were suitable for Mrs B. Mrs B chose to take higher risk to gain tax advantages and her 
daughter attended meetings with her. That Mrs B sought similar advice in 2011 was 
indicative of her understanding of the risks. Armstrong Watson say that the 50/50 benchmark  
gave an element of investment above Mrs Bs attitude to risk. Considering the tax relief and 
funds paid out from the scheme, the estate did not sustain a loss. Armstrong Watson 
maintain that a fair assessment would require a comparison between the actual position the 
estate finds itself in and the position it would have been in but for the investment. Credit 
should be given for the IHT liability that would have been incurred on the whole estate but for 
the EIS. Armstrong Watson calculated the value of the estate using the comparator figures 
but as the investment was in an EIS at the time of death, they deducted 40% to reflect 
inheritance tax liability and maintained that this should be reflected in any compensation 
payment.
The estate of Mrs B accepted that credit should be given for actual tax relief received but not 
for the notional figure on the benchmarked value. The parties have attempted to negotiate 
without success.
Our investigator wrote a further view in which she endorsed some figures. The parties still 
disagreed so the matter came to me for a decision. I considered all the available evidence 
and arguments to decide what was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint. I issued a provisional decision on 9 March 2023, provisionally upholding the 
complaint.
I considered the information about Mrs Bs circumstances. Mrs B was 86 years of age at the 
time advice was given in 2010. Mrs B held over £1,200,000 in assets, a large proportion of 
which was held in cash following a house sale. She had an annual income of over £82,000. 
Her objective was to reduce the amount of inheritance tax payable on her estate. Mrs Bs 
attitude to risk was described as very low on assessment. The recommendation letters also 
showed that Mrs B was looking to keep control of her assets and receive an income from 
them. This was the principal reason for rejecting the alternative option of gifting.
Armstrong Watson made two recommendations, £300,000 into a discounted gift trust, which 
did not form the basis of the complaint and £200,000 into the OEIS, which formed the basis 
of the complaint.
The OEIS was recommended as it would provide inheritance tax relief if held for two years 
by the date of death. 20% income tax relief was available if the investment was held for at 
least three years. It was noted that the recommendation was outside Mrs Bs attitude to risk. 
Later the suitability report went on to states,  the EIS is completely based on growth assets 
and is a high-risk investment strategy . .  It has been recommended purely as a Tax planning 
strategy . . The adviser recorded that Mrs B was comfortable with the recommendation as it 
met her Inheritance Tax Mitigation.
I thought it was clear that the investment was considerably outside Mrs Bs attitude to risk. 
And I noted that was also in the context of the discounted gift trust described as being 
outside Mrs Bs comfort zone. I was not persuaded that it was made clear to Mrs B that she 
was placing all of £200,000 at high risk. There was nothing within the suitability report to say 
that Mrs B stood to lose all her capital if the investment failed. Rather, the letter said the 
investment would lead to a £80,000 saving on inheritance tax, but this assumed the capital 
sum would retain its value. Neither was it made clear that the funds would become illiquid 
and would be tied into the investment for at least four years, if not longer. That was a 
material risk factor and relevant consideration, as it was clear that Mrs B wanted to retain 
access to her funds. Further, I was not persuaded that it was made clear that the inheritance 
tax relief would be lost if Mrs B passed away within two years of investment. 
I was also persuaded by the testimony of Mrs Bs daughter who attended the meetings with 
the adviser. She recalled that the level of risk exposure was not made clear, Mrs B explained 
that she was risk averse and the focus of the meetings was on tax breaks. It was not 
explained that funds risked being tied up for years. The focus on tax relief over and above 
risk was also consistent with a tax planning report, which Mrs B had received from 
Armstrong Watson in February 2010. The report said there were some issues or risk to 
address highlighted the tax efficiencies with an EIS, said to be to reduce risk as far as 
possible and preserve the value of tax reliefs without seeking substantial growth in the investment. Further, notes in financial planning questionnaire, dated February 2010, again 
focused on tax relief but no mention was made of increased risk exposure.
As to the 2011 recommendation Armstrong Watson advised Mrs B to invest another 
£150,000 into inheritance tax efficient schemes, namely £110,000 into an inheritance tax 
service product (about which no complaint has been made) and an additional £40,000 into 
the OEIS. 
Save that Mrs B was older and now held £200,000 in high risk investments, I considered that 
her circumstances were broadly the same as at 2011. Again, Armstrong Watson recorded 
that Mrs B had a very cautious attitude to risk and her objectives were inheritance tax and 
income tax efficiency. The report did state that the OEIS was a high-risk strategy but I was 
not persuaded it was made clear to Mrs B that she stood to lose all her capital if the 
investment failed. Rather, the letter focused on tax relief, stating the investment would lead 
to a £16,000 saving on inheritance tax, which was misleading as it assumed the capital sum 
would retain its value. The report also said that by investing £40,000, Mrs B would meet 
achieve tax relief of £12,000 that would meet her tax liability of 2011/2012. In my view, it was 
not made clear that the funds would become illiquid once invested and would be tied into the 
investment for at least four years, if not longer. That was a material risk factor and a relevant 
consideration, as it was clear that Mrs B wanted to retain access to her funds and give 
access to her capital to her beneficiaries. Again, I was also persuaded by the testimony of 
Mrs Bs daughter who attended the meetings with the adviser. She recalled that the level of 
risk exposure and risk of long-time illiquidity was not made clear.
Whilst more risks were embedded in appendices to the suitability reports, there was nothing 
to show they were clearly explained to Mrs B at the time, nor did they form part of the 
reasoning in the core recommendations. I was persuaded that it was more likely than not 
that Mrs B would have relied upon what she was told in the meetings and, as I set out 
above, I considered that the daughters recollections were likely to be accurate and were 
consistent with the notes from the time, which didnt address the risks. 
On balance, I was not persuaded that potential tax reliefs were more important to Mrs B than 
the risk to her capital. So, overall and on balance, I was not persuaded that the 
recommendation was suitable for her. Also, if the high risk of capital loss and risk of longer 
term illiquid had been made clear, I was not persuaded that Mrs B would have invested in 
the OEIS. Whilst Mrs B had capacity for loss, it was clear that her focus was on preserving 
her inheritance and passing as much of her estate as possible to her family. The adviser 
appeared to give no consideration to the alternative option of Mrs B retaining funds on 
deposit and the estate paying inheritance tax.
In light of these findings, I thought it was fair and reasonable for Armstrong Watson to put 
things right.
I was mindful that had it not been for the unsuitable advice, Mrs B/the estate wouldnt have 
had the benefit of any tax relief received and the estate wouldnt have whatever value (if 
any) the EIS now had. 
I was not persuaded that Mrs B would have invested in the EIS, which meant any tax relief 
already received would need to be off-set. As the benchmark I selected would not have been 
in a tax efficient wrapper, I concluded that Armstrong Watson should not be deducting any 
further tax. The redress recommended, effectively unwound the investment as if it wasnt 
made and a comparator investment was made instead. I directed Armstrong Watson to 
calculate the redress in line with the methodology and to provide clear calculations for the 
estate, to set expectations, I explained that this was in line with our usual process. I considered that it would be for the estate to declare any outstanding inheritance tax liability 
and it was a matter for the executors to take tax advice if they wished to do so. 
I recommended that Armstrong Watson pay the difference between the fair and actual value, 
where the fair value would be the average return from fixed rate bonds from the time the 
investment started to date of my decision, taking into account any withdrawals. If the funds 
remained illiquid, the actual value could be assumed as zero but credit would also have to 
be given for any tax relief available to Mrs B and the estate. Either Armstrong Watson could 
take ownership of the investment or if that was not possible, they could request an 
undertaking from the estate to repay any amount it might receive from the investment in the 
future.
 
Both parties have now responded to my provisional decision.
The estate agree with the merits findings, however, they maintain that Mrs B had a higher 
risk appetite, such that a 50/50 benchmark would be appropriate or a return in line with a 
Rathbones investment or investment in agricultural land holdings. The estate say it is fair 
that credit should be given for only a percentage of tax relief received. They maintain that all 
trail commission and fees received by Armstrong Watson from Octopus should be refunded 
to the estate and likewise the cost of advice should be repaid. The estate maintain that all 
costs for legal advice should be covered by Armstrong Watson and it is inappropriate for 
them to undertake the calculations. 
Armstrong Watson have said nothing further about the merits. They broadly agree with the 
benchmark and method of calculation but say credit should be given for all inheritance tax 
that would have been payable but for the EIS. They say the redress places the estate back 
in a financially better position because the estate have had the benefit of the EIS without the 
risk. They maintain that a 40% deduction should be made from any final award.
Ive now reviewed all the information provided and have reached a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties havent provided any further comments or evidence in respect of my findings on 
the merits. Accordingly, I uphold the complaint for the same reasons set out in my 
provisional decision and above.
There is ongoing disagreement as to the redress payable. First, to be clear, my decision puts 
the parties into the position as if the EIS had not been made. Whilst I have noted the 
comments from the estate as to other investments Mrs B could have made, I have made my 
decision based upon the information available at the time of assessment of her attitude to 
risk. The documents from the time record that Mrs B had a very low appetite for risk. As I 
explained in my provisional decision, I am not able to say precisely now how Mrs B would 
have invested but I consider that she would have invested differently. A fixed rate bond 
benchmark would be in line with her attitude to risk and it remains my view that it is a fair and 
reasonable comparator.
It is then appropriate for credit to be given for any withdrawals and any tax relief received. As 
explained in the provisional decision, it is for the estate to provide evidence of the tax relief 
availed of and to provide that to Armstrong Watson. If, no such information is provided, 
Armstrong Watson are entitled to deduct tax relief at the marginal rate of tax.I do not agree with the submissions of Armstrong Watson, that the decision gives the estate 
the benefit of an EIS without the risk. I also do not agree with the estates view that a 
percentage of the tax relief received should be deducted.
The redress puts the estate in the position as if a different investment was made. The 
options available as to whether Armstrong Watson takes ownership of the EIS are set out in 
the methodology. As I have clearly stated the redress assumes no tax efficient wrapper was 
used because if appropriate advice had been given, I consider that an EIS would not have 
been recommended. I have directed that the estate must give credit for any tax relief 
received to date, that includes giving credit for any applicable inheritance tax relief received 
to date. The balance is payable to the estate; liability for any additional inheritance tax on 
that balance falls to the estate to pay. It is for the estate to deal with any tax liability with 
HMRC. It is not for Armstrong Watson to deduct/withhold it.
I appreciate that the estate wishes the advice costs to be covered, but as I have explained 
advice was sought for tax efficient investments generally and advice would have been 
sought in any event, so it remains my view that it is not fair and reasonable to ask Armstrong 
Watson to refund the cost of advice. Further, no new information has been provided about 
legal fees. It remains my view that some fees would have been incurred in any event, so I 
make no separate award.
I note the comments about refunding trail commission and fees paid by the EIS provider. 
The redress unwinds the advice, to put the estate in the position as if the investment had not 
been made, so the estate will not lose out. It would not be appropriate to award these figures 
in addition to the redress set out. I remind he parties that this service provides a dispute 
resolution service only, it has no regulatory or punitive powers, which are matters for the 
regulator. It not part of this services function to penalise a business.
Finally, in line with our usual process, it is Armstrong Watson to provide calculations in a 
simple format to the estate, which they have agreed to do.
Putting things right
For the reasons given in my provisional decision and above, it is my view that it is fair and 
reasonable for Armstrong Watson to put things right as follows:
Given the information Ive considered, I think Mrs B would have invested differently. Ive 
considered what I think is fair and reasonable given his circumstances and objectives when 
she invested. Armstrong Watson must: 
 Compare the performance of the investment with that of the benchmark shown below and 
pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the investment. If the actual 
value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. 
 Armstrong Watson should also pay interest as set out below. 
Investment 
nameStatus benchmark from (start 
date)To  (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Octopus EIS Still exists in 
part, but 
illiquidAverage 
rate from 
fixed rate Date of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
date of bonds decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
being notified 
of 
acceptance)
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If at the end 
date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be surrendered or readily sold on the 
open market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the 
actual value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided the estate agrees to Armstrong 
Watson taking ownership of the investment, if it wished to. If it is not possible for Armstrong 
Watson to take ownership, then it can request an undertaking from the estate that it repays 
to Armstrong Watson any amount it might receive from the investment in future. 
Armstrong Watson may also add to the actual value any available tax reliefs Mrs B and the 
estate have received to date by virtue of making the investment. They may ask for evidence 
of this, or assume all available reliefs have been availed at Mrs Bs marginal rate of tax.
For ease Armstrong Watson can calculate the value of the available relief and add it to the 
actual value as one figure at the end.
fair value 
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. 
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Armstrong 
Watson should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by 
the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Armstrong Watson totals all those 
payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of 
deducting periodically. If any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a 
portfolio and left uninvested, they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, 
and not periodically.
why is this remedy suitable? 
I decided on this method of compensation because: The contemporaneous risk assessment identified Mrs B as having a very low risk 
appetite. The average rate for fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone 
who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to 
pay compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend that 
Armstrong Watson pays the balance.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated as set out above. My final decision is that Armstrong Watson should 
pay the amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £160,000 (including 
distress or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest on the balance as set out 
above. Armstrong Watson should provide details of its calculations to the estate in a clear, 
simple format.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation 
exceeds £160,000, I recommend that Armstrong Watson pay the balance plus any interest 
on the balance as set out above.
If Armstrong Watson does not pay the recommended amount, then any investment 
currently illiquid should be retained by the estate. This is until any future benefit that he may 
receive from the investment together with the compensation paid by Armstrong Watson 
(excluding any interest) equates to the full fair compensation as set out above.
Armstrong Watson may request an undertaking from the estate that either it repays to 
Armstrong Watson any amount it may receive from the investment thereafter, or if possible 
transfers the investment to Armstrong Watson at that point.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind Armstrong 
Watson. It is unlikely that the estate can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the 
balance. The estate may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman