DRN-2670588
The complaint
Mr M complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling and proposed settlement of a 
claim under his residential property owners insurance. 
What happened
Mr M had a Residential Property Owners Insurance policy underwritten by Aviva, which 
covered property that he owned and rented out to tenants.
He made a claim when he discovered damage to a property after hed evicted the tenants. 
Mr M says his relationship with the tenants wasnt an entirely happy one and that the 
damage to his property was caused maliciously by them just before they left.
There were some delays in the handling of the claim. Aviva accepted responsibility for those 
delays and paid Mr M £300 in compensation.
Mr M had repairs carried out at the property, which cost almost £9,000, before Aviva had 
inspected the property or agreed a settlement of the claim.
Mr Ms claim was for the almost £9,000 to cover the repairs and for loss of rent during the 
time the repairs were being carried out and the property wasnt let. Mr M said this amounted 
to four months.
Aviva said the damage to the property couldnt be put down wholly to malicious damage 
caused by the previous tenants. They said it was impossible to establish  after the repairs 
had been carried out  what damage was caused by the tenants, what was gradual damage 
and what may have been caused by intruders whilst the property was empty.
On that basis, they offered to pay 50% of the almost £9,000 repair costs to settle the claim.
They also said that Mr M wasnt entitled to claim for loss of rent. This was because the 
address wasnt occupied immediately before the period in which the repairs were carried out 
and because Mr M had no proof that he had a tenant lined up to move in after the previous 
tenants had left. 
Mr M wasnt happy with this and made a complaint to Aviva. And when their stance didnt 
change, he brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and thought Avivas offer to pay 50% of the cost of the repairs 
was fair and reasonable. However, she also thought Aviva should pay Mr M three months 
loss of rent.
Aviva disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. They maintain that the 
loss of rent isnt covered by the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva responded to our investigators last view on this case to say they didnt agree, so at 
that point the case was referred to me for a final decision. Mr M hadnt yet responded to our 
investigators view, but I think its fair to assume that he still thinks Aviva should pay the 
whole cost of the repairs (almost £9,000) as well as loss of rent.
Ill deal with the cost of repairs first. In short, Im satisfied that Avivas offer to meet half the 
cost is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that the property was in a bit of a state after the previous tenants left. 
Mr M has provided photographs which clearly show extensive damage.
However, there are three possible causes of that damage. One, malicious damage by the 
previous tenants. Two, gradual damage, possibly caused in part by neglect on the part of the 
previous tenants. And three, damage caused by intruders into the property after the previous 
tenants had left.
The fact that intruders may have caused some of the damage is evidenced by an email Mr M 
sent to his letting agents in late June 2019 - several weeks after the previous tenants had 
moved out. This said:
Ive been informed that number XX back French doors are broken from previous 
tenant and people are going in and out of there Can you give me details of a 
person who can get them secured?...
When Avivas loss adjustors visited the property in December 2019, they were also told by 
the contractor who carried out the repairs that there were clear signs of damage caused by 
the previous tenants and/or others who may have gained access to the property and been 
up to all kinds. 
Mr Ms policy contains a clause that says Aviva will not pay for repairs of damage to 
unoccupied buildings caused by malicious persons other than thieves. Theres also a 
condition in the policy that the policyholder must take all reasonable precautions to prevent 
damage to the property.
Im satisfied those elements of the policy mean that Aviva will not cover damage caused by 
persons entering the property to vandalise it, particularly if the property hasnt been secured. 
And it seems from Mr Ms email to the letting agent that the property was left unsecured for 
several weeks.
Mr M might say that he didnt know the back doors to the property werent secure, but I dont 
think its unreasonable to suggest that he, or his agents, should have checked the security of 
the property soon after the previous tenants left.
I also note, at this point, that theres a condition in the policy which says the policyholder 
must inform the police immediately of any damage caused by malicious persons. I dont 
think theres any dispute that Mr M didnt do this when he discovered the damage and didnt 
in fact contact the Police until several months later.
Bearing in mind that Mr M went ahead with the repairs before Aviva had a chance to inspect 
the property  which may have allowed them to make a more informed decision about what 
damage was the result of which cause  I cant see that Aviva had any choice but to make 
an assumption about the causes of the damage. I understand that Mr M may have been frustrated by the delays - which Aviva have admitted 
 but I also dont see any evidence that he chased up his claim before instructing the 
contractor to carry out the repairs. And that means Aviva couldnt  despite Mr Ms 
photographs  make a reliable assessment of the damage and the likely causes.
I also note that Aviva asked Mr M to provide a breakdown of the invoice for the repairs, so 
they could see exactly what work was carried out - and at what cost for each element. He 
hasnt provided that, so theres simply an invoice for almost £9,000. 
Taking all of that into account, Im satisfied that Avivas offer to cover 50% of the cost of the 
repairs is fair and reasonable. Its not possible at this point to say what damage was caused 
maliciously by the previous tenants (which is covered), what damage was the result of longer 
term neglect (which isnt covered) and what damage was caused by intruders (which also 
isnt covered). But Im satisfied theres evidence that all of those factors may have played a 
part.
Ill turn now to the issue of loss of rent.
Aviva appear to have declined this part of the claim for two main reasons, as set out in their 
loss adjustors claim notes. First, they say the address wasnt lived in when the incident (the 
insured event which caused the damage) occurred. And second, they say theres no 
evidence Mr M had a new tenant lined up to move in as and when the previous tenants left.
I think its important to set out exactly what the policy says about loss of rent. Under the 
heading Revenue Protection, the following paragraph sets out the cover provided:
We will indemnify You if Your building can not be lived in or if access is 
denied as a result of Damage insured in respect of:
1(a) Loss of rent You should have received but have lost.
There arent any caveats, qualifying statements or further definitions after that paragraph 
which would have any relevance in this case.
So, Im satisfied Aviva should cover any loss of rent Mr M should have received in the 
relevant period if the damage which prevented the property being occupied was damage 
insured.
As Ive set out above, there are three possible broad causes of the damage to Mr Ms 
property. Two (neglect, intruders) which mean the damage is not damage insured and one 
 malicious damage by the previous tenants  which mean the damage is damage insured.
Because Aviva have offered to cover half of the cost of the repairs, it seems to me that they 
cant deny that the property wasnt let during the relevant period at least in part because of 
damage which was insured. And that damage  in and of itself  meant the property couldnt 
be let (whether there as other damage or not).
So, Im satisfied the property couldnt be let because of Damage insured.
That means, I think, that this boils down to whether Mr M lost rent he should have received.
In my view, thats a slightly ambiguous phrase in the policy. I think you could quite 
reasonably read that clause in one of two ways. 
Theres a more liberal reading which would say Mr M had a property, he would have rented it out (as he had before and as he did immediately after the repairs were completed) and so 
he has lost rent he should have received.
The stricter interpretation might suggest that rent Mr M should have received means rent 
hed already agreed with a particular individual  either an existing tenant (before the insured 
damage occurred) or a future tenant who had already signed up to move in - and would have 
done so, but for the occurrence of the insured damage.
That stricter reading appears to be what Avivas loss adjustors are getting at when, in their 
report, they say Aviva shouldnt cover any lost rent unless and until Mr M provides proof that 
the property was lived in at the time of the insured event (and its pretty clear it wasnt) 
and/or he had a tenant lined up to move in and pay rent (who was prevented from doing so 
by the insured damage). 
Im not going to suggest it would be completely unjustified to read the relevant policy term in 
that way. And I also suspect that Aviva intended the policy term to say that.
But I am satisfied that the term is ambiguous and could be read in the other way and given a 
much more liberal interpretation.
We tend to take the view that where an insurance policy term is ambiguous, we should 
usually give the benefit of any doubt to the customer rather than the insurer. 
The insurer is the expert in insurance, the customer is not. And the customer cant be 
expected to read specific meanings into unclear or ambiguous policy terms simply because 
thats what the insurer intended to say. We also have to bear in mind that the insurer wrote 
the policy, not the customer. 
Taking all of that into account, I am going to instruct Aviva to cover Mr Ms loss of rent for the 
relevant period. I dont think it would have been unreasonable for Mr M to assume, when he 
bought the policy  based on its wording  that he would be covered for loss of rent in the 
circumstances which in fact came about. The next question being  what is the relevant 
period?
Mr Ms previous tenants moved out at the end of May 2019 according to Mr M. The 
agreement with the new tenant took effect from 12 September 2019. Thats three months 
and 12 days. 
The tenancy agreement suggests Mr M struck an agreement with the new tenant so that 
they carried out certain works at the property in lieu of two months rent. These works 
including redecorating the property, mowing the lawn, clearing gutters and tidying up waste. 
Theres nothing to suggest that these tasks were to address malicious damage caused by 
the previous tenants. So, I dont think Aviva should cover any loss of rent for that period.  
Putting things right
Mr M asked for four months lost rent in his claim. I cant see thats justified. Given that there 
would have been a turnaround time between the previous tenants leaving and a new tenant 
arriving  even if the property had been left in good order  its my view that Aviva should 
cover three months lost rent. The rental agreement shows that the rent paid per month by 
Mr Ms new tenant is £525.
The total cost of the repairs to the property was £8,850. Aviva offered to pay half of those 
costs  which amounts to £4,425. Theres a £1,000 excess on the policy, so the net payment 
to settle this part of the claim would be £3,425. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part.
Aviva Insurance Limited must:
pay half the cost of the repairs to Mr Ms property, less the £1,000 excess, as theyd 
previously agreed to do (this amounts to a net payment of £3,425); and
pay Mr M £1,575 to cover lost rent for the relevant period. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman