DRN-3637644
The complaint
Mr H complains about the advice given by Futures Assured Ltd (FAL) to transfer the 
benefits he held in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. The 
BSPS was a defined benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme. He says the advice was 
unsuitable for him.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Hs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Hs employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and agreed steps carried out shortly after.
On 18 September 2017, the BSPS provided Mr H with a summary of the transfer value of his 
scheme benefits. The letter explained the value had been updated as a result of the steps of 
the RAA being carried out. It said that Mr Hs benefits had a cash equivalent transfer value 
(CETV) of £296,469.12. And in October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to 
choose letter which gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the 
PPF, move to the BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. 
In the meantime, on 26 September 2017, Mr H asked FAL for advice about his BSPS 
pension.
FAL completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Hs circumstances and objectives. 
It recorded that he was 45, employed full time, he was co-habiting with his partner and had 
two children aged 19 and 22. Mr H and his partner owned their home with an outstanding 
mortgage of approximately £27,000. Their combined income exceeded their outgoings by 
over £1,000 each month. They had savings of roughly £28,500. And in addition to the 
benefits held in the BSPS, Mr H was also a member of his employers new defined 
contribution (DC) pension scheme, with he and his employer making contributions 
equivalent to 12% of his salary. 
The fact-find noted that Mr H was in good health. But I can see he also informed FAL hed 
had an operation approximately three years earlier.
FAL recorded that Mr H was interested in retiring at age 55 and was thinking of transferring 
his pension because he wanted flexibility so he could decide how much income to take and 
when. It also said he was interested in lump sum death benefits to provide for his partner 
and he wanted control of the pension and to break ties with his employer because the BSPS 
was going to move to the PPF.
FAL also carried out an assessment of Mr Hs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be a 4 on a 
scale of 1 to 8, which it described as Mr H being prepared to accept the risk of losing a 
modest amount of your money.  It has since referred to this representing a low to balanced 
attitude to risk.
Application forms to enable the transfer to take place were signed on 9 November 2017. But 
a written summary of FALs advice wasnt provided until 15 November 2017.
This written summary, or suitability report, said FAL advised Mr H to transfer his pension 
benefits into a personal pension and invest in the providers managed fund. It said that 
Mr Hs main priority was to alleviate the worry that hed been caused in relation to his 
pension benefits. It said hed lost trust in his employer and was sceptical about the BSPS2. It 
also said that while Mr H did not intend to retire until 67, he planned to stop working for his 
current employer at age 55 and set up a business. FAL said he wanted to take the tax-free 
cash (TFC) and to be able to do so without having to start taking his pension benefits. So, 
he wanted flexibility in how his pension could be drawn. It said he also wanted to take 
advantage of the CETV being offered, and secure alternative death benefits to provide for 
his family. It also said that Mr H and his partner expected to need an income of £2,300 per 
month in retirement.
It noted that the critical yield  how much a new pension would need to grow by each year in 
order to allow Mr H to purchase equivalent benefits to those the DB scheme guaranteed  
was high and unlikely to be achieved. But it said Mr H did not intend to purchase an annuity. 
And it felt growth to allow the pension to be used sustainably was possible.
So, based on Mr Hs objectives, his circumstances and his attitude to risk, FAL said it felt a 
transfer was suitable as it would meet his needs and the advantages of the transfer 
outweighed the disadvantages. The suitability report also noted that it had been agreed, 
subsequent to the transfer, FAL would provide ongoing servicing and advice to Mr H in 
relation to the pension, at a cost.
The transfer went ahead in line with FALs recommendation.
Mr H complained in 2021 to FAL about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said he had 
gone into the discussion thinking that transferring to have control of his pension was 
potentially a good idea. But he didnt think the advice overall had been in his best interests 
and said that his objective of retiring at 55 to start a business had been overstated. 
FAL didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said it felt the advice was suitable as it met Mr Hs 
stated objectives by removing the worry of the pension remaining tied to his employer and 
potentially having to enter the PPF, gave him access to a likely higher TFC sum at age 55 
and the flexibility to delay drawing an income, thus avoiding unnecessary tax, and provided 
more appropriate death benefits for his circumstances  which it felt was appropriate 
particularly given his health condition that had required an operation.
Mr H referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and said 
FAL should compensate Mr H for any loss the transfer had led to as well as pay £300 for the 
distress caused. She thought Mr H was always likely to receive overall pension benefits of a 
lower value as a result of transferring. And she didnt think any of the other reasons for 
transferring were strong enough to justify the transfer or Mr H accepting this reduction in 
benefits  noting in particular that Mr H had said he had no definitive plans to set up a 
business at age 55. So, she didnt think a transfer was in Mr Hs best interests and believed, 
if he had been correctly advised, Mr H wouldve transferred his benefits to the BSPS2.FAL disagreed. It said that starting a business at age 55 was a definitive objective of Mr Hs, 
based on the information from the time. And the transfer allowed him to meet this and his 
other objectives. So, it still considered the advice to have been suitable.
FAL also said the BSPS2 was not certain to proceed at the time and so it didnt think using 
this as the basis for redress was fair. And FAL also argued any losses since it had stopped 
providing ongoing servicing should not be apportioned to it.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred for 
a final decision by an ombudsman.
In August 2022 the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), launched a 
consultation on changes to its DB transfer redress guidance. So, the Investigator wrote to 
Mr H to advise him of the FCAs proposed changes which were due to come into effect in 
April 2023 and to give him the option to have any redress due to him calculated under the 
then current guidance or to wait for the new rules to come into effect. Mr H indicated he 
would like redress calculated under the guidance in place at the time. But the Investigator 
explained that if the complaint hadnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time the 
new rules came into effect, he expected FAL to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and guidance in any event.
FAL later said it estimated Mr H had not incurred a loss. So, although it didnt agree with the 
Investigators opinion, it offered to pay £300 for the distress caused, as recommended, in full 
and final settlement of the complaint. And therefore, said it didnt require an ombudsmans 
decision. 
Mr H did not however accept the offer of £300 and confirmed he still wanted an ombudsman 
to review his complaint. So, Im now providing a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of FAL's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, FAL should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Hs 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
FAL carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Hs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr H was 45 at the time of the advice and FAL said he wanted to use his retirement benefits, 
at least partially, from age 55.  The critical yield required to match the benefits Mr H was 
estimated to be entitled to under the BSPS2 at age 55 was 5.91% if he took a full pension 
and 3.68% if he took TFC and a reduced pension. The critical yield to match the benefits 
estimated to be available through the PPF at age 55 was quoted as 6.29% per year if Mr H 
took a full pension and 5.98% per year if he took TFC and a reduced pension.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 3.7% per year for 9 full years to retirement  which would be the case if Mr H retired at 
age 55. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged 
since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection 
rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Hs 
low to balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in 
Mr H giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at 
best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. And here, given the lowest critical yield 
was 3.68%, I think Mr H was always unlikely to receive benefits of greater overall value than 
the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. And he 
seems likely to have received benefits of a lower overall value, as a result of transferring, in 
comparison the PPF. And indeed, the suitability report acknowledged that the critical yield 
was high and unlikely to be achieved on a sustained basis.
FAL has said that analysis of the critical yields is not relevant as its advice was based on 
Mr H taking TFC at 55 but then not drawing a pension until age 67, which the critical yield 
isnt a like for like comparison for. The suitability report said it estimated if a modest growth 
rate of 4.73% were achieved each year, this would enable Mr H to draw the income he needed from the plan, which when combined with his state pension and other retirement 
provisions, would meet his needs beyond his average life expectancy. And the suitability 
report also said FAL estimated that if he achieved growth of 5.12%, hed likely to be able to 
meet his needs from the plan alone. And FAL said it thought these rates could be achievable 
and referenced, amongst other things, the past performance of the recommended plan.
Firstly, I dont agree with FAL that an analysis of the critical yields is not a relevant 
consideration. The regulator required this to be calculated and considered when giving 
pension transfer advice. And the critical yields are a very useful indicator of the value of the 
benefits the DB scheme provides  which FAL said in its suitability report. So, I do think an 
analysis of the critical yield is a relevant consideration here.
Turning to what FAL has said about the growth rates it estimated Mr H would need to 
achieve, I note the calculations supporting this werent included with the suitability report or 
provided. So, it isnt clear whether these estimates accounted for the ongoing fees under the 
new pension plan (0.9% per year  provider and FAL combined). Because if not, the growth 
that would need to be achieved would have been higher than stated. But either way, I dont 
agree that level of growth was necessarily modest, and Im not sure either of the rates 
stated were achievable.
As FAL is aware, and indeed as the suitability report noted, past performance is no 
guarantee for future performance. And so, I consider the discount rates and the regulators 
standard projections to be more realistic in this regard in the long term rather than projecting 
historic returns forward, particularly over such a long period of time.
As Ive already discussed, the discount rates, in my view, give a useful indication of the level 
of growth that was likely to be achievable to a typical investor. The discount rate for 9 years 
to retirement at the point of the advice was 3.7%. So, with this, the regulators standard 
projections and Mr Hs attitude to risk in mind, achieving either of the two rates of growth 
FAL referenced as being needed over that period of time doesnt appear likely. 
The discount rate for 21 years to retirement  so the growth likely to be achievable by Mr H 
to age 67  was 4.5%. This is closer to the rates FAL referenced. But still indicates that 
achieving those levels of growth consistently was unlikely. And had there been any 
significant falls in the market, it suggests Mr H may have been left with less than he needed.
So, from a financial viability perspective, I dont think a transfer out of the DB scheme 
appears to have been in Mr Hs best interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only 
consideration when giving transfer advice, as FAL has argued in this case. There might be 
other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower 
benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
FAL says Mr H wanted flexibility as he wanted to take TFC at age 55 and use the funds to 
start a business after he left his current employer, while not intending to draw a pension until 
age 67. Mr H says these plans were overstated by FAL and he had no firm plans to do this.
FAL says it relied on what Mr H said at the time it gave advice. And the information Ive seen 
refers to FAL understanding Mr H was confident he could start a business and turn a profit 
promptly. But FAL didnt carry out any further analysis of how realistic this was. Mr H had 
worked for his employer for over twenty years at the time of the advice and I havent seen 
anything that suggests he had any significant experience of running a business. There was 
also nothing recorded about how much Mr H was likely to actually need to start a business 
or what the anticipated income from this was likely to be. Yet FALs advice seems to have been based on him earning enough from this business to meet his income needs 
immediately and an income from his pension from age 55 being unnecessary and likely to 
create a tax liability.
FAL may well argue that a lot of this information was unknown and couldnt be estimated 
because this wasnt going to happen for almost ten years. But I think for that very reason, it 
is unlikely that Mr Hs plans around this were definitive. I dont doubt Mr H was interested in 
potentially retiring from his existing job at age 55 and starting something new as he phased 
into retirement. I think most consumers, when asked, would like to do something similar. But 
this was almost ten years away at the time that Mr H spoke to FAL. And on balance, I dont 
think this was anything more than a potential aspiration at that time 
And in any event, I dont think Mr H necessarily needed flexibility to potentially achieve this 
aspiration.
Mr H couldve taken benefits early under either the PPF or the BSPS2, including drawing 
TFC. FAL has said it believed Mr H was likely to be able to take more TFC following a 
transfer. But again, there doesnt appear to have been a discussion about how much he 
would actually need. And the amounts available under either the BSPS2 or PPF were still 
substantial. And Mr H would by then have also built-up benefits in the DC scheme he had 
joined through his employer while the consultation was ongoing. Which couldve been 
access flexibly.
It is true that if Mr H took retirement benefits under the BSPS2 or the PPF from age 55 he 
couldnt do so flexibly. Hed be required to start drawing an annual income. But that income 
wouldve been guaranteed for the rest of Mr Hs life and wouldve escalated while in 
payment. 
FAL says that this income wouldve been surplus to Mr Hs requirements until age 67 and 
wouldve likely resulted in him incurring additional income tax  because he intended to 
continue working. But again, this seems to have been based on the assumption that Mr H 
would immediately receive enough income from a new business venture to meet his needs, 
with no analysis of how likely this was. And I think the guaranteed income from his pension 
would in fact have been a useful reassurance and couldve been used to supplement his 
income, from age 55, had he in fact looked to take this course of action.
And FAL said, in its response to Mr Hs complaint, that if Mr H took benefits under the 
BSPS2 from age 55, the income this would provide by age 67, in addition to he and his 
partners state pension and his partners occupational pension, wouldve been enough to 
meet their stated income needs of £2,300 per month. And that seems to have been before 
even accounting for any benefits that could be drawn from the new DC scheme Mr H had 
joined through his employer.
And if Mr H later had reason to transfer out of his DB scheme, I understand that this 
wouldve been allowed under BSPS2. And he couldve done so closer to retirement. FAL has 
said that the CETV may have been lower in the future, and Mr H wanted to avoid this 
uncertainty. But again, I dont think he needed to transfer when he was advised to. 
Taking all of this into account, I dont think Mr H had a need for flexibility when the transfer 
was recommended. He was over 9 years from potentially being able to take his retirement 
benefits. And I dont think his plans were finalised. And in any event, it appears he couldve 
still met his aspirations by retaining his DB scheme benefits. So, I dont think it was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr H to give up his guaranteed benefits when he did  
particularly given this was an irreversible decision and he was always likely to receive 
benefits of a lower overall value by doing so. Death benefits
Mr H and his partner were not married, so FAL noted shed have had to evidence she was 
entitled to the spouses pension under the scheme rules and may not have qualified, based 
on the fact her earnings exceeded Mr Hs. In which case she would not have benefited from 
the spouses pension. FAL also said Mr H wanted to be able to leave the pension to his 
children. So, because of this he wanted alternative death benefits. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr H. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr H might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr H about what was best for his retirement provisions. Because a pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. 
Mr H was not married at the time of the advice. But he and his partner couldve later gotten 
married. In which case the spouses pension  a guaranteed amount payable for life which 
escalated  couldve been very useful if Mr H predeceased his partner. It doesnt appear that 
FAL enquired about whether this may happen, but I havent seen anything to suggest that it 
had been ruled out. 
The CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump sum. But the 
sum remaining on death following a transfer, as well as being dependent on investment 
performance, wouldve also been reduced by any income Mr H drew in his lifetime. So, the 
pension may not have provided the legacy that Mr H may have thought it would  particularly 
if he lived a long life. I acknowledge that Mr H had a health condition for which hed had an 
operation and appears to have had concerns about how this may impact his life expectancy. 
But Mr H not reaching his life expectancy was only a possibility and it was also possible that 
he would exceed this, in which case Mr H would need his pension to last longer. In any 
event, FAL should not have encouraged Mr H to prioritise the potential for alternative death 
benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
The DC scheme Mr H was a member of would also have already provided some alternative 
death benefits, in the event he passed away before his partner.
The suitability report said FAL had considered life insurance as an alternative way of 
improving death benefits. But it said that the cost of this was circa £400 per month, which 
was not an expense Mr H wanted to take on. The income and expenditure information 
recorded suggested that Mr H could afford the premium mentioned. And I think itd have 
been reasonable for FAL to have addressed this in more detail than it did.
I note though that the whole of life insurance quotations FAL has provided to our service, to 
support that this was considered at the time, were based on a cover level of £500,000  
significantly in excess of the transfer value of the pension fund. For the avoidance of doubt, I 
dont think basing a life insurance quote on the transfer value wouldve been appropriate 
either  as this essentially assumed that he would pass away on day one following the 
transfer, and that isnt realistic. But I think the starting point ought to have been to ask Mr H 
how much he would ideally like to leave to his dependents. And I cant see that this was 
done. And if it had been, a more realistic level of cover, with a premium that was more 
acceptable to Mr H, mightve been a reasonable alternative.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr H. Control and concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
FAL says that Mr H wanted control over his pension as the situation with the BSPS had 
caused him significant worry. It says he wanted that worry to be resolved and because of a 
loss of trust with his employer was sceptical about the BSPS2. So, therefore he was keen to 
transfer. And it says this meant that a transfer was suitable as it addressed these concerns.
Mr H has acknowledged that he went into the discussions with FAL thinking about 
transferring, and that his concerns about the scheme were behind this.
But I think Mr Hs desire for direct control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr H 
was not an experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the 
knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his own. And as part of 
recommendation, FAL said it would continue to provide ongoing servicing and advice. So, I 
dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr H  it was simply a consequence of 
transferring away from the DB scheme.
Its also been suggested that, because of a loss of trust, Mr H wanted a clean break from 
his employer. But at the same time, he still worked for the same employer. And hadnt 
suggested he intended to find alternative employment until significantly later in his life. He 
was also a member of the new defined contribution pension scheme his employer provided. 
So, he wasnt going to truly achieve a clean break by transferring, as he would remain tied 
to the employer in other respects.
I dont doubt Mr H, like many of his colleagues, was concerned about his pension. His 
employer had been consulting on its plans for the scheme for some time. There had been a 
great deal of uncertainty. And there had been a number of important updates in the weeks 
before Mr H spoke to FAL in relation to the RAA, the BSPS2 being established and transfer 
valuations being updated. And between him first speaking to FAL and it providing him 
advice, Mr H had been told hed to need to make an important and significant choice about 
his pension  which I doubt is something hed done or contemplated before. 
Mr H had likely heard negative things about what could happen, including entry into the PPF. 
He was likely unhappy with how things had turned out and he mayve been sceptical of how 
his employer would handle things moving forward. But that was why it was even more 
important for FAL to give Mr H an objective picture and recommend what was in his best 
interests.
Contrary to what FAL argues, at the time it spoke to Mr H, I think it was pretty clear to the 
parties that the BSPS2 was likely to go ahead. As Ive said, the restructuring of BSPS had 
been ongoing for a significant amount of time by that point, the RAA had been agreed and 
the separation of the BSPS from Mr Hs employer completed on 11 September 2017, after 
the employer made a lump sum payment of £550million into the BSPS. This had also 
enabled the provision of improved transfer value quotations  as received by Mr H before he 
took advice. Mr H also received his time to choose pack  with joining the new scheme one 
of the options  prior to the advice process being completed. And details of the new scheme 
were set out in that pack  and taken into account by FAL. So, based on what had happened 
to that point, I think the relevant parties, not least the trustees, were confident the BSPS2 
would go ahead. 
The BSPS2 shouldve alleviated some of the concerns Mr H mightve had about the scheme 
moving to the PPF  particularly if FAL had done more to explain the significant distinction 
between Mr Hs employer and the trustees of the BSPS2. And, while Mr Hs experiences 
with the BSPS to that point mightve made him sceptical, there wasnt anything at the time to 
suggest that the BSPS2 would experience the same troubles the BSPS had. But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that FAL shouldve 
reassured Mr H that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. The 
income available to Mr H through the PPF, while a reduction on what hed have been due 
under the BSPS, was still guaranteed and not subject to investment risk. He could still take 
benefits under the PPF earlier than the normal retirement age of the BSPS, including taking 
TFC. And he was unlikely to improve on the pension benefits the PPF wouldve provided by 
transferring out. So, I dont think that any concerns Mr H mightve had about the PPF 
shouldve led to FAL recommending he transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Suitability of investments
FAL recommended that Mr H invest his personal pension using the pension providers 
managed funds. As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB 
scheme wasnt suitable for Mr H, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the 
investment recommendation. This is because Mr H should, in my view, have been advised 
not to transfer so the investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given. 
FAL has said that it shouldnt be responsible for any losses stemming from those 
investments after it ceased servicing the pension on Mr Hs behalf. But again, the 
investments would not have arisen at all were it not for FALs advice. So, I dont agree that 
its responsibility for loss stemming from its advice ceased when it ended its agreement with 
Mr H.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for alternative death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr H. But FAL 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr H might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to understand Mr Hs circumstances, separate his concerns stemming from the 
consultation and his unconfirmed plans for a retirement from his genuine needs and 
recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr H was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. And this action was irreversible. By 
transferring, Mr H was very likely to obtain lower retirement benefits and, in my view, there 
were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this, as there 
were other ways to address his objectives, if they turned out to be more than aspirational. 
So, I think FAL shouldve advised Mr H not to transfer.
Mr H had over 9 years before he reached the age at which hed indicated he might like to 
retire. Although again I think his plans were unconfirmed. So, while he indicated he was 
interested in retiring early I dont think he could say with certainty what his needs in 
retirement would likely be. So, I don't think that it would've been in his interest to accept the 
reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF. I say this because 
while it is true the PPF wouldve provided a more favourable reduction for very early 
retirement, because his plans were not confirmed, there was no guarantee the reduction he 
accepted would end up being offset by this more favourable reduction. And by opting into the 
BSPS2, Mr H wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his 
retirement age if he needed to. The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was 
also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think if FAL had correctly advised him 
against transferring Mr H wouldve opted into the BSPS2. And I dont agree with FAL that it 
is unreasonable to base redress on this  given, in the circumstances, it is what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened had there been no error.Of course, I have to consider whether Mr H would've gone ahead with a transfer anyway, 
against FAL's advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr H wouldve insisted on 
transferring, against FALs advice. I say this because Mr H was an inexperienced investor 
with a low to balanced attitude to risk. This pension accounted for the majority of his private 
retirement provisions. So, if FAL had provided him with clear advice against transferring, 
explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Hs concerns about the consultation or the PPF, or the potential 
appeal of alternative death benefits, control or flexibility were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought 
out, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. And if FAL had explained that 
Mr H was always unlikely to exceed the guaranteed benefits available to him by transferring, 
I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr H would have insisted on 
transferring.
In light of the above, I think FAL should compensate Mr H for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
FAL has said that Mr H will benefit from the flexibility of the personal pension even though 
Ive found the advice to be unsuitable. So, has implied it thinks this is unfair. It is evident that 
Mr H will benefit from flexibility by virtue of the position he is in now, but that has only arisen 
because of the unsuitable advice. And ultimately the regulator has set out what it deems to 
be appropriate redress to put right instances of unsuitable defined benefit pension transfer 
advice. And I see no reason to depart from this in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our Investigator recommended that FAL also pay Mr H £300 for the distress caused by the 
unsuitable advice. Mr H has indicated he doesnt think this reflects the upset hes been 
caused by FAL, in his view, taking advantage of him when it gave advice. But an award for 
any distress caused isnt intended to address the advice itself or financial loss stemming 
from this. And our role isnt to fine or punish businesses, so such awards are not intended to 
be punitive.
I dont doubt that Mr H has been caused distress and concern by finding out more recently 
when making his complaint the advice may not have been suitable  particularly given the 
circumstances and uncertainty under which he first asked for this advice. And Im conscious 
this recent upset wouldnt have happened but for the unsuitable advice. But, while this was 
no doubt upsetting, I dont think the advice caused ongoing distress in the period between it 
being given and Mr H raising his complaint. And, in the circumstances, I think the award the 
Investigator recommended in respect of the distress Mr H has incurred is fair. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr H, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr H would most 
likely have opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given. 
FAL must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
FAL should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr H and our Service upon completion of the calculation.
For clarity, Mr H has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Hs 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, FAL should:
calculate and offer Mr H redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr H before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr H receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr H accepts FALs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr H for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Hs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr H as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, FAL may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Hs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, FAL should pay Mr H £300 for the distress caused by the disruption to his 
retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Futures Assured Ltd to 
pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Futures Assured Ltd pays Mr H the balance.
If Mr H accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Futures Assured Ltd.My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman