DRN-4198591
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Santander UK Plc discriminated against him and failed to make 
reasonable adjustments for his disability in respect of an issue he had about earning interest 
on his account.
What happened
Mr Z complained to Santander, and ultimately to the Financial Ombudsman Service, about 
the fact that he had stopped earning interest on his account because he no longer had two 
active direct debits on the account. This was in breach of the terms and conditions of the 
account. The complaint was dealt with, and an Ombudsmans decision was issued. Mr Z 
accepted the decision and Santander paid him a sum of compensation.
In the course of dealing with that complaint Mr Z alleged that he had told Santander of 
difficulties he was having with his sight which made it difficult for him to read his statements 
online. He expected Santander to monitor his account and advise him when one of his direct 
debits was cancelled, so he could transfer another direct debit to the account.
On review by our Investigator, she considered Mr Zs complaint that Santander discriminated 
against him given the problems he experienced. She didnt think that it had, nor that it had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
Mr Z didnt agree, and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must emphasise first of all that in this decision I am looking solely at the issue Mr Z has 
raised, about Santander failing to make reasonable adjustments in respect of his disability 
namely his difficulties with his sight. I cant revisit the issues over the direct debits except 
where Mr Z alleges that Santander should have managed his account after he told it of his 
difficulties so as to warn him that he would not be earning interest on the account.
Mr Z has complained that Santander has failed to make reasonable adjustments for him, to 
account for his disability, in this case, his sight difficulties. This is a matter covered by the 
Equality Act 2010, and only a Court could make a decision that a business has breached 
that Act. Ive taken that Act into account when deciding this complaint, as it is relevant law, 
but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable. If Mr Z is 
particularly seeking a decision that Santander has breached the Equality Act 2010, then he 
would need to go to Court.
In considering whether Santander acted fairly, I must look first of all at what Santander was 
actually told by Mr Z about his sight difficulties. His representative stated:
When Mr Zs problems were increasing he informed Santander that he could no longer 
manage his account online. Santander offered the option of telephone banking. This enabled 
Mr Z to check that the amounts in the account met the requirements of the 1,2,3 account.
Mr Z considers that the Bank could have alerted him by telephone that there had been 
issues with his Direct Debits so that he could have taken steps to resolve the issue. 
Santander were made aware of his sight problems, and indeed had enabled telephone 
contact to take place to manage aspects of the account.
It also said:
Further he considers that the issue has been implicit throughout as he had reported his 
sight difficulties, before he had the actual diagnosis, when he arranged the telephone 
contact.
However Santander said:
Having reviewed the available calls from the time as well as historic complaints made by 
yourself there is no evidence to suggest you have raised issues regarding your sight to 
Santander prior to your decision to terminate your relationship with us.
I accept that Mr Z has had problems with his sight, indeed he has told our Investigator about 
the treatment he is getting. From his calls to us it appears that this was a problem which he 
only became, understandably, gradually aware of. So, although I accept that he may have 
asked to arrange telephone banking, Im not persuaded that it was likely that any separate 
issue about his sight was raised with Santander.
Even if Santander had been made aware of Mr Zs sight problems, I dont think it would have 
been reasonable to expect it to monitor his account for issues like a direct debit being 
cancelled. It will have procedures in place to be alert to fraud, but, with the number of 
accounts it has, it would simply not be possible to monitor each customers account, in the 
way that Mr Z expected. He would have been aware about what was needed to keep his 
account earning interest and he did have telephone banking set up.
So while I understand that Mr Z expected Santander to take action to monitor his account I 
dont think it would have been reasonable to expect it to do so. And while I cant make a 
specific finding about whether or not Santander complied with the Equality Act, I do think it 
acted fairly and reasonably on the specific issue this decision is concerned with.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman