DRN-3907203
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the quality of a new car that was supplied through a hire agreement 
with Close Brothers Limited (CBL). Mrs M was also unhappy with the delays to the repair of 
the car.
Mrs M has been represented on this complaint. But to keep things simple Ill only refer to Mrs 
M in my decision.
What happened
In July 2021, Mrs M acquired a new car using a hire agreement with CBL. Mrs M made an 
initial payment of £223.60 which left 35 monthly payments of £223.60.
Mrs M said that a fault occurred within the first month of being supplied the car, which 
caused certain functions to crash. Mrs M said the car required a software update to fix the 
issues and there was a lot of going back and forth with the dealer to arrange this.
A number of bookings were cancelled, and a timeline of events from the dealer confirmed 
that Mrs M was told that the software update wasnt yet available for her car. The timeline 
also confirmed that incorrect vehicle information was keyed into the system which meant the 
software update was incorrectly showing as unavailable. Mrs M says this error resulted in 
delays in getting the car fixed and so she raised a complaint with the dealer.
In June 2022, the dealer provided their final response to Mrs Ms complaint, which they didnt 
uphold. The dealer explained that the issue with the car wasnt safety related and didnt limit 
its usage. They also said they didnt have control over repairs carried out on their contracted 
vehicles but were supportive in rectifying the issues once theyd been identified.
Mrs M said that in settlement of the complaint, the dealer initially offered to refund to her two 
months rentals but have since withdrawn their offer. Mrs M has asked for three months 
rentals to be refunded to reflect the usage of the car being about half of the agreed mileage. 
Mrs M referred her complaint to our service for investigation. Although the complaint was 
brought against the dealer, who is also the credit broker, our investigator set the complaint 
up against CBL. Our investigator explained that under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA), 
the finance company is responsible for complaints about the satisfactory quality of a vehicle.
CBL didnt provide a final response to Mrs Ms complaint and didnt provide their busines file 
to our investigator. So, having considered all the information provided by the dealer and Mrs 
M, our investigator recommended the complaint should not be upheld. Our investigator felt 
there wasnt any evidence which showed the car was faulty when it was supplied to Mrs M or 
that the dealer had used incorrect details when applying the system update.
Unhappy with our investigators outcome, Mrs M has asked for her complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. 
Following my initial review of this case, I wrote to both parties to let them know that I was 
minded to say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, however, and that I thought the 
dealership had acted fairly in how they resolved the issue. I invited both parties to provide 
further comments.
CBL didnt provide any further comments, however Mrs M responded to say that a central 
part of her complaint was that CBL had retracted their offer of compensation to her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs M complains about a hire agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts like this is 
a regulated activity, so Im satisfied we can consider Mrs Ms complaint about CBL. CBL is 
also the supplier of the goods under this agreement and is responsible for a complaint about 
their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
My starting point is that CBL supplied Mrs M with a brand-new car. With this in mind, I think 
its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the level of quality to be superior to that 
of a used car with higher mileage; so I think a reasonable person would expect it could be 
used free from any issues for a considerable period of time.
From the information provided Im persuaded there was a fault with the cars interior display. 
Although Ive seen no diagnostics or specialist reports, this is confirmed by the dealer in their 
final response having reviewed their service records. Having considered the car had a fault, 
Ive considered whether it was of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. 
The dealer confirmed in an email to our investigator that, although the agreement was 
signed in December 2020, the car was delivered to Mrs M in July 2021. Their timeline of 
events confirm they were notified of the issues with the car in March 2022. Mrs M also 
confirms this in her complaint form.
Ive thought about the fact that the issue would have been present for a period of months 
prior to the fix in March 2022 which means its likely to have begun within a few months from 
supply. I also acknowledge the issue may have been intermittent to start with, however, in consideration of the car being brand-new, I dont think a reasonable person would consider a 
faulty display to be of satisfactory quality. So, for the reasons given Im persuaded the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs M.  
Under the CRA if goods are not of satisfactory quality they do not conform to the contract. 
Section 19 of the CRA sets out certain remedies available to the consumer for goods that do 
not conform. And one of the remedies is the right to repair. The timeline of events show that 
the software update was successfully applied on 28 March 2022, and that Mrs M confirmed 
this two days later. As the issues were successfully resolved within a month of it being 
reported to the dealer, Im satisfied that CBL fulfilled their responsibilities under the CRA.
On her complaint form Mrs M says she was unable to use the car for the first six months due 
to the issues, however during a phone call with our investigator in August 2022, Mrs M said 
the car was pretty much unusable for around three months whilst they waited for the 
software update. I acknowledge the difference in durations given by Mrs M, however, Im 
satisfied from the information provided that there was a period of impaired usage prior to the 
update being applied. 
Mrs M said in settlement of the complaint she wants to be credited with three months rentals 
totalling £679.86. Having considered the issues were fixed within a month of it being 
reported to the dealer, I dont think that would be fair in the circumstances.
The dealer has confirmed the issues were related to a software update which successfully 
resolved the issue when it was applied. The dealer also said the usage of the car wasnt 
limited prior to the update and no safety concerns were presented. Mrs M didnt report any 
issues with the mechanical performance of the car. Mrs M said the issues were relating to 
the radio, phone and satnav. So, all things considered, Im persuaded by what the dealer 
has said about the car being usable. Im also satisfied the car was able to be safely driven 
throughout. The hire agreement confirms the total mileage allowance for the duration of the 
agreement is 15,000, so I think its likely that Mrs M would be able to use the allowance 
available to her within the remaining term of her agreement. 
In their summary of the complaint, the dealer confirmed that the initial delays to the software 
update was due to incorrect vehicle information being used. Mrs M said three appointments 
had been cancelled before the repair was carried out. And I recognise the frustration this 
would have caused Mrs M. I acknowledge the issues were apparent for a period of time prior 
to the dealer becoming involved, however Ive considered that the issues were raised to the 
dealer in March 2022 and resolved in the same month. From the evidence provided, Im not 
persuaded that any delays caused by the dealer were significant or resulted in any 
substantial inconvenience to Mrs M. In addition, the dealer confirmed the manufacturer 
made an offer to Mrs M of £150 in compensation which in the circumstances, I think is 
reasonable. 
Mrs M says that she was initially offered two months rentals as a form of compensation by 
the dealer. However, from the information provided, Ive not seen any evidence that the offer 
was made, for example in the form of an email or in CBLs final response. I recognise Mrs M 
feels strongly about this, and although Im not saying this didnt happen, as Ive concluded 
that CBL fulfilled their responsibilities under the CRA I dont require CBL to take any further 
action in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
Having considered everything along with whats fair and reasonable, I dont uphold Mrs Ms 
complaint against Close Brothers Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman