DRN-3082736
The complaint
Mr H has complained that CIS General Insurance Limited (CIS) has declined his claim and 
voided his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H took out a motor insurance policy with CIS in March 2019. He collided with a parked 
vehicle in June 2019. Mr H made a claim on his policy and CIS considered the vehicle to be 
a write-off. CIS identified concerns regarding the claim however and it referred the matter to 
a firm of solicitors to complete further investigations. This included taking statements from Mr 
H and his passenger and inspections of the vehicles involved.
In April 2020, the firm of solicitors wrote to Mr H and said there was a lack of basic 
information provided about the incident and concluded that the incident didnt occur as 
stated, if at all, and CIS declined the claim. The policy was also subsequently avoided.
Mr H complained to this service and our investigator concluded that CIS had reasonably
investigated the claim and considered the evidence before making its decision to decline the 
claim. Our investigator thought that CIS had reasonable concerns about the credibility of 
statements from Mr H and his passenger in view of discrepancies between them. 
 
Mr H remains dissatisfied with the outcome of his complaint and the matter has therefore 
been referred to me to make a decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is not to decide whos at fault for a particular accident, but to consider whether CIS 
acted in a fair and reasonable manner. This is both in relation to its investigation and the 
decision to avoid the policy in the light of its policy terms and conditions. In summary, I cant 
say that CIS has acted unfairly or unreasonably in avoiding Mr Hs policy. Ill explain why.
The starting point is for me to consider the motor insurance policy. Its terms and conditions 
state as follows; You must not act in a fraudulent manner. You, any authorised driver, or any 
person acting for you must not make false or exaggerated claims. If you, any authorised 
driver, or anyone acting for you makes a claim knowing any part of it to be false or 
exaggerated, the insurer will not pay the claim and the insurer will cancel your policy. The 
insurer shall be entitled to recover from you the amount of any claim already paid under the 
policy during the period of insurance.
If the insurer cancels your policy on the grounds of fraudulent activity, they will keep any 
premium you have paid and may inform the police of the circumstances.
CIS has explained its process to validate claims and to carry out enquiries and 
investigations. It considered that Mr and his passenger had provided wholly inconsistent 
evidence. It was; not satisfied that any of the parties involved have given an account of a 
genuine collision. It also stated; Basic information, which one would reasonably expect to 
have been consistent when interviewing two persons said to have been travelling within the 
same vehicle when it was involved in an accident, could not be provided. The discrepancies 
included, (but were not limited to) the time and location of the alleged accident and post-
accident activity, along with other key elements of the evidence you provided.
When a policyholder makes a claim, its up to the policyholder to demonstrate that an event
which is insured under the policy has happened. I consider that its appropriate for CIS to 
have carried out full investigations in order to be satisfied that a vehicle has been damaged 
in the way the Mr H said it did. Such investigations can inevitably take some time to 
complete properly.
I note that Mr H offered his explanation for a difference between his statement and that of his 
passenger. He has not explained all discrepancies however. The two accounts of the time 
and date of the incident, what happened at the time and what happened after the accident 
differ. Im satisfied that CIS didnt act unfairly or unreasonably in avoiding Mr Hs policy, in 
view of the extent of the discrepancies and Mr Hs limited explanation. Having avoided 
(annulled) the policy there is no longer a claim to consider.
I agree with our investigators view that basic information around the incident such as the 
date, time and what happened afterwards should be more consistent when two people were 
claimed to be together when the collision took place.
In situations where the damage that has been caused is inconsistent with the description
of events given by a policyholder, we wouldnt consider an insurer declining to settle a claim 
to be unfair or unreasonable.
I consider that CIS were also entitled to take into account further inconsistencies in Mr Hs 
evidence. For instance, I note that the damage to Mr Hs vehicle was inspected by CISs 
engineer who said the moderate damage was consistent with a moderate impact. Mr H 
reported a heavy impact and injuries. CIS also considered that Mr Hs account of his use of 
the cars hand brake when he saw the parked was unconvincing. Finally, I note that Mr H 
was involved in a subsequent accident in the same vehicle where again there was damage 
to the front of the car.
I conclude that CIS carried out reasonable investigations and didnt unfairly avoid Mr Hs 
policy. It had reasonable concerns about the information which Mr H provided regarding the 
damage to his car and how it happened. I also consider that it wasnt unreasonable that 
investigations took some time to conclude. I think CIS has reached a reasonable decision to 
avoid Mr Hs policy on the grounds that its given and applying the fraud clause within the 
policy.
Finally, Im satisfied that it was not unfair or unreasonable for CIS to have arranged storage 
of the car until the investigations had concluded and to then recover this from CIS if Mr H so 
wished.
I understand that this will come as a disappointment to Mr H. I dont think it would be 
reasonable to ask CIS to do anything else however.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against CIS General 
Insurance Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman