DRN-2866565
The complaint
Mr W complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited has overcharged  
him through  the annual  management  charges  it has applied  to his ISA investments.
What happened
Mr W held two ISA accounts with Hargreaves Lansdown. In 2008, changes were made to 
the ISA rules, which impacted Mr Ws investments. The main change being that Mr Ws 
existing PEP would now be changed to an ISA product. This resulted in Mr W holding two 
ISA investments. 
The two ISAs were invested separately and essentially ran as two products. This continued 
for a number of years until in August 2020, Mr W noticed from his statements how much he 
was paying in annual management charges for each ISA. Mr W discovered that due to the 
tiered charging structure Hargreaves Lansdown applied to the balances of his investments, 
he was paying more in charges than he would do if his ISA holdings were merged into one 
ISA. 
Mr W raised a complaint with Hargreaves Lansdown as he was unhappy that he was paying 
higher charges on his ISAs than he should be. He said it was never explained to him why his 
investments were separated or that he could have merged the investments. 
Hargreaves Lansdown responded to the complaint. It said ISA products arent automatically 
merged. It gave examples of why some customers may want to keep products separate, for 
reasons such as having different investment strategies and income distributions. It also 
mentioned that Mr W was receiving loyalty rebates in his PEP ISA that he would lose if he 
merged his accounts. It said Mr W had received investment reports for several years, 
showing the investments as separate accounts and he could have requested a merger if 
thats what he wanted. 
As Mr W remained unhappy with the response, he referred his complaint to this service for 
independent review. One of our investigators looked into things. She didnt recommend the 
complaint should be upheld. She said Hargreaves Lansdown had provided clear information 
about the changes to PEPs in 2008  and gave information about the ability to merge ISA 
accounts or leave them separate. She also mentioned that information was provided in 2014 
to Mr W to explain new charges  and it was made clear that charges would be applied to 
each account. She also noted the documentation sent in 2014 provided details on 
consolidating accounts. 
Mr W didnt accept the investigators view  and ask for an ombudsman to reach a decision. 
He said he doesnt recall receiving any information giving him a choice about whether he 
held his ISAs separately or merged. He said there had never been a reason why he would 
want separate accounts. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint, Ive looked at whether there is evidence of failings in the way 
Hargreaves Lansdown has administered Mr Ws ISA accounts  causing him a loss. Having 
done so, I havent found reason to uphold the complaint, Ill explain why. 
Mr Ws concerns centre around the amount he is paying in charges for his ISA products. He 
says that by holding the accounts separately he is paying more in charges than he needs to. 
He says he was unaware that he could merge his ISAs into one account and the options 
were never made clear. 
There is some evidence that Hargreaves Lansdown did inform Mr W that he had a choice 
whether to hold his ISA accounts separately or merge them. Hargreaves Lansdown says it 
wrote to Mr W in 2008 when the ISA rules changes to explain that his existing PEP would be 
changed to a new ISA product. It has provided a sample of the letter it sent and also copies 
of its contact records to show that it sent the letter to Mr W. This letter does provide 
information to explain ISA accounts could be consolidated and how a customer could 
request that. 
Hargreaves Lansdown has also provided a copy of an update it sent to Mr W in 2014, which 
it says it was obliged to send (following a regulatory rule change) to explain a change in its 
fee structure. This included information to say that each product is administered and charged 
separately. It also introduced a tiered fee structured that was linked to the balance held in an 
account. Again, it has provided a copy of its contact records to support that this information 
was sent to Mr W.    
Mr W says he doesnt recall being given information to say his account could be merged. So, 
Ive considered the balance of evidence to decide what I think is most likely. Hargreaves 
Lansdown has been able to provide contact records as well as copies of the letters sent. 
While I accept and acknowledge that Mr W doesnt remember seeing this information, I think 
the balance of evidence supports that Hargreaves Lansdown did do enough to inform him 
that he had a choice about how he held his investments. So, Im satisfied Hargreaves 
Lansdown didnt mislead Mr W in this respect. 
In order to reach a conclusion that Hargreaves Lansdowns actions (or lack of) led to Mr W 
suffering a financial loss, I would to need to find that it treated him unfairly and identify 
failings that caused the loss. Hargreaves Lansdown has provided an explanation why it 
didnt automatically merge accounts, which was essentially because it had identified there 
were reasons why some customers would prefer to keep their investments separate. Bearing 
in mind my finding above about Mr W being given information about available options, I think 
this is a reasonable position to take. I dont think Mr W was being treated unfairly by his 
investments being kept separate until an instruction to consolidate was made. While Mr W 
assumed he was required to keep his ISAs separate, I havent found that this was as a result 
of information that Hargreaves Lansdown provided to him. I also havent seen that Mr W was 
provided with any advice or recommendation by Hargreaves Lansdown to keep his ISAs 
separate. 
It appears Mr W became more aware of the extent of the charges being applied to his two 
ISAs when the format of statements change more recently (following further regulatory 
changes). While this highlighted to Mr W that by holding his ISAs separately he was 
incurring more charges than he would if he consolidated them, I dont agree that this means 
that Hargreaves Lansdown are at fault for this. Im not persuaded that the evidence indicates 
that Hargreaves Lansdown have sought to keep Mr Ws ISAs separate in order to generate 
charges. In conclusion, I havent found that Hargreaves Lansdown is at fault for Mr Ws ISAs 
being held separately or the losses he has described. My final decision
For the reasons Ive provided above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman