DRN-2920071
The complaint
Mr F has complained about the market value settlement Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited paid when he made a claim under his car insurance policy. He believes it should 
have applied its new for old term.
What happened
Mr Fs car was involved in an incident and he made a claim to his insurer, Admiral. His car 
was six months old at the time of the incident. 
Admiral said it would settle Mr Fs claim as a total loss  so it didnt repair Mr Fs car. Mr Fs 
policy with Admiral has a term which says it will provide a new vehicle replacement if his car 
is less than a year old. But it says if it cannot replace it with one of the same model and 
specification, Admiral will pay the market value instead. 
The model of Mr Fs car had been discontinued and so it wasnt possible to provide a 
replacement. Mr F had found a car with a slightly higher specification and told Admiral he 
was happy to pay the difference. But Admiral paid the market value for Mr Fs car and said 
this was correct and in line with the policy. 
Mr F asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator explained our approach to these 
types of complaints. Where there is no longer a model and specification available for a car 
under a year old, we dont think it is fair for an insurer to pay the market value instead. We 
think a fairer approach is to pay either the purchase price the consumer paid for the new car 
 or the last known list price for it. 
The investigator recommended Admiral pay Mr F the difference as it had already paid Mr F 
the market value for his car. 
Admiral didnt agree. It says the policy clearly says it will pay the market value if the same 
model and specification of the new car isnt available. So Admiral wants an ombudsman to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold it. 
Admirals policy says:
New vehicle replacement
If your vehicle is less than 12 months old and it is
 stolen and unrecovered
 damaged and the cost of repair is more than 59% of the current UK list price 
(including VAT).
We will replace your vehicle with one of the same model and specification We will 
only replace your vehicle if:
 you are the first registered keeper
 the original purchase invoice is available
 It was originally purchased within the territorial limits
 it was purchased under an agreement where ownership was passed to you
 anyone with a financial interest agrees to settle the claim in this way.
If you do not want us to replace your vehicle, or a vehicle of the same model and 
specification is not available from UK stock, the most we will pay is the market value.
I think Admirals policy is clear. However, we look at what is fair and reasonable in each case 
as well as taking into account what the policy says. I dont think its fair to Mr F to be paid 
less than he would have been paid to replace his car had a new replacement one been 
available. Sometimes an insurer may offer the next model up in the range and we are likely 
to consider this to be fair. I understand Mr F was able to find a replacement car at the time 
with a higher specification and offered to pay the difference. 
Mr F bought his car new for £12,525 six months before the incident. The market value 
Admiral paid was £9,530. The difference in the settlement amount by choosing to settle Mr 
Fs claim this way was considerable. So in these circumstances, I think the fairest outcome 
is for Admiral to increase the settlement it paid to either £12,525 or the last list price for Mr 
Fs car if known. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited to increase the total loss settlement it paid Mr F for his 
car to either £12,525, or the last list price if available. 
Admiral should pay interest on the difference from the date of Mr Fs claim to the date it pays 
him at a rate of 8% simple interest a year. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman