DRN-4402350
The complaint
Mr F complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) failed to protect him from 
being the victim of fraud.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr F has explained that last summer he found information about investing in 
cryptocurrencies online. When Mr F followed a link, he was taken to a website that gave 
information about the level of returns he could expect if he invested via a trading platform. 
Mr F says the information provided was professional and included details of celebrities whod 
invested and made significant profits. Mr F has explained he was contacted by an account 
manager and persuaded to open an account with a business Ill call C that allows consumers 
to purchase Bitcoin. Mr F says that what appeared to be a trading platform was also set up 
for him.
Mr F set up an account with C and on 22 August 2022 instructed a payment online for 
£1,000. NatWests systems picked up the payment as being unusual and it was held for 
further checks.
Mr F spoke with NatWest and gave some basic information about the proposed payment. 
Mr F confirmed hed instructed the payment to an account in his name with C with the 
intention of investing in cryptocurrencies. NatWest asked Mr F some questions surrounding 
why hed opened an account with C and the investment he intended to make. Mr F said hed 
done some research online and decided to open an account with C. Mr F was asked to 
provide some identification and associated evidence of his account with C which he did a 
short time later.
Mr F called NatWest back and spoke with another agent. During the call, Mr Fs documents 
were checked and signed off. The agent asked Mr F some questions concerning the 
investment he intended to make. The agent provided a fraud warning and said NatWest was 
aware of an increased level of cryptocurrency related scams and that Mr F should be careful 
and make sure investments were of his own doing. The agent added that Mr Fs account 
appeared fine and when Mr F confirmed he wanted to proceed, authorised the payment of 
£1,000 to C.
Once the funds were received in his account with C, Mr Fs explained that fraudsters took 
control of his computer and transferred them to a crypto wallet. Mr F thought the wallet 
belonged to him and has explained that his trading account he appeared to have updated 
with the fraudsters quickly showing it had received the Bitcoin transferred.
Mr F was persuaded to make further payments of £3,000 on 28 August 2022, £1,350 on 14 
October 2022 and £2,500 on 28 October 2022. In total Mr F transferred £7,850 thinking he 
was making genuine investments in cryptocurrency.
Mr F has explained that a short time later he asked the account manager to withdraw the 
funds and was sent various emails confirming that was possible. But after several failed 
requests, Mr Fs funds werent sent to him and he realised hed fallen victim to scammers.
On 4 November 2022 Mr F reported his concerns to NatWest and asked it for help 
recovering his money. But when NatWest looked at Mr Fs claim it declined to issue a refund 
and said hed sent the funds to an account in his own name. Mr F went on to raise a 
complaint with NatWest and it issued a final response. NatWest said it was unable to raise a 
scam claim as Mr F had sent money to his own account with C. NatWest added it had 
stopped Mr Fs first payment on 22 August 2022 for further checks which he completed. 
NatWest said the following payments Mr F made were assessed on a risk basis but not 
identified as being suspicious so werent stopped.
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Fs complaint. They thought NatWest had taken 
reasonable steps when stopping the first payment Mr F tried to make. The investigator didnt 
think NatWest had acted unfairly by approving the subsequent payments Mr F made and 
didnt ask it to take any further action. Mr F asked to appeal and said NatWest had failed to 
follow industry guidelines, regulation and legislation designed to protect consumers from 
fraud. Mr F added that hed complied with NatWests request for documents and trusted it to 
carry out safeguarding checks to ensure it protected his interests. Mr F said that whilst some 
warnings had been provided, they were generic in nature and not specific to his 
circumstances or the payments he was making. As Mr F asked to appeal, his complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
All parties agree that Mr F authorised the payments to his account with C from his NatWest 
account. Mr F made the payments using his online banking and mobile banking facilities. 
Even though Mr F was the victim of a scam, he didnt intend the payments to go to a 
fraudster. The payments were authorised under the Payment Services Regulations. That 
means NatWest had an obligation to follow Mr Fs payment instructions and he is presumed 
liable in the first instance. But thats not the end of the story.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider NatWest should 
have:
- been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various risks, 
including fraud and scams, money laundering and the financing of terrorism
- had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that is customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer- in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to protect its customer from the 
possibility of fraud
NatWest has argued the payments Mr F made were transferred to his own account with C 
then converted to Bitcoin and transferred, so the loss didnt occur from its account. But 
cryptocurrency scams often involve money passing through more than one account and they 
were not uncommon during this time. I think NatWest wouldve been aware of this. The FCA 
and Action Fraud published warnings about cryptocurrency scams in 2018. By the summer 
of 2022, when Mr F instructed the disputed payments, I think NatWest ought to have had 
time to digest these warnings and put mechanisms in place to help detect and prevent this 
type of fraud. So, although Mr Fs losses have not arisen from the initial transfers, Im 
satisfied they ought to have been within the scope of NatWests understanding of this type of 
scam and foreseeable to it. And Im satisfied NatWest can be held responsible for the loss if 
it could have prevented the scam by asking Mr F some further questions.
NatWest picked up the first payment Mr F made to C on 22 August 2022 and contacted him. 
Mr F went on to speak with two agents at NatWest before the payment was approved. 
During the calls with Mr F, he was asked about the circumstances under which hed decided 
to make the payment and what the purpose was. Mr F was open and upfront, explaining that 
hed found information online and decided to invest in cryptocurrencies. Whilst I appreciate 
the agents Mr F spoke with provided some generic information and warnings about scams, I 
havent been persuaded they went far enough. Ill explain why.
During the first call, the agent checked whether Mr F had set up his account with C 
personally. Mr F added that hed recently opened a digital wallet to receive the
cryptocurrency he was hoping to purchase for investment purposes. The agent went on to 
ask Mr F to supply evidence of his identity and the account he holds with C. But given Mr F 
has specifically confirmed he was intending to invest in cryptocurrency, Id have expected 
NatWests agent to have asked more detailed and probing questions to help identify whether 
the investment was genuine.
Mr F called NatWest back once he sent his documents. During the second call, the agent did 
raise some questions with Mr F. But I felt the questions were generic in nature and lacked 
any real information that Mr F couldve used to help him identify whether he was a victim of 
scammers. The agent Mr F spoke with said he should be careful, that his investments should 
be of his own doing and that third parties are known to be committing fraudulent activity. But 
there was no specific guidance provided and very little time spent providing warnings. 
Having listened to the call, I also note the agent used phrases like to be honest, your 
account looks fine as far as I can see and just for your information, Im sure you already 
know which in my view made light of the potential for fraud.
Given the industry guidance issued by the FCA and Action Fraud, Id have expected detailed 
and targeted questions to have been put to Mr F that couldve helped him identify the 
situation as fraud. Im not persuaded it was reasonable to assume Mr F wouldve already 
known about the risks as this was the first time hed tried to invest in this way. Had NatWest 
asked probing questions I think it wouldve most likely identified some typical features of 
cryptocurrency scams so couldve provided meaningful advice to Mr F. On balance, I think 
an intervention of that nature would most likely have made the difference and caused Mr F to 
either carry out additional research or decline to proceed altogether.
If NatWest had gone further, as I think it should have, my view is that it would most likely 
have been clear to the bank and Mr F that there was a risk of financial harm and the scam 
wouldve unfolded without any payments being made. In addition, NatWest couldve declined to make the payments altogether based on the information it received if Mr F still wanted to 
go ahead despite its warnings. And, given the circumstances of Mr Fs case, I think it 
wouldve been reasonable to do so.
I accept NatWest has to find a balance in the extent to which it intervenes in payments, 
against the risk of unduly inconveniencing or dealing with legitimate payment requests. I 
wouldnt expect NatWest to have interrogated Mr F. I also understand that the main 
perpetrator here is the fraudster. But overall, I think appropriate and probing questions 
should reasonably have been asked. And Im satisfied that if they had been Mr F wouldnt 
have wanted to go ahead or, if he did, NatWest wouldve declined to make the payments. In 
either scenario, I think the scam wouldve been prevented and Mr F wouldnt have lost 
£7,850 to the fraudsters.
I think its fair to add that after the first payment was approved, no further transfers were held 
by NatWest for additional checks. My view is that NatWest missed an important opportunity 
to ask probing questions to Mr F on 22 August 2022. Had it done so, Im satisfied its more 
likely than not that none of Mr Fs payments to the scammers wouldve been made. So I 
intend to tell NatWest to refund all four payments Mr F made to C.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. Both Mr F and NatWest confirmed they were 
willing to proceed in line with my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have confirmed theyre willing to proceed and no new information has been 
provided I see no reason to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I 
still think Mr Fs case should be upheld, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint and direct National Westminster Bank Plc to 
settle by refunding payments totalling £7,850 plus interest of 8% from the date of each 
payment to the date of settlement. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman