DRN-2810862
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wouldnt reimburse her money that she lost because
of a scam.
What happened
In March 2020, Miss S was messaged by someone identifying themselves as her company
CEO who asked her to purchase some gift cards on behalf of the business so that they could
be given to clients. Miss S believed that the messages that she was receiving were genuine,
so she purchased gift cards totalling approximately £2,000 and sent the gift card codes to
the scammer via the messaging portal.
It was only later that Miss S realised that she had been the victim of a scam and contacted
the gift provider and Monzo Bank to request that the purchase payments be reimbursed. The
gift card provider agreed to reimburse approximately half the amount that Miss S had spent,
and Miss S had hoped that Monzo Bank would agree to reimburse the remaining £1,000.
But Monzo Bank didnt think they should bear the cost of reimbursing Miss S here, so they
declined Miss Ss request. Miss S wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Monzo Bank looked at Miss Ss complaint, but they felt that they had allowed transactions
that Miss S had authorised and wanted to make and so they didnt feel that they had done
anything wrong and so shouldnt be asked to bear the cost of the loss that had been
incurred. So, they didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss S wasnt satisfied with Monzo Banks response, so she referred her complaint to this
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that Miss Ss purchases
of the gift cards were transactions that Monzo Bank should have recognised as being
suspicious, and that if Monzo Bank had asked Miss S about these transactions before
allowing them then it was likely that it would have been realised that this was a scam. So,
they recommended that the complaint should be upheld, and that Monzo Bank should
reimburse the outstanding £1,000 to Miss S.
Monzo Bank disagreed with the view put forward by our investigator, so the matter was
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 7 April 2021, in which I stated as follows:
Its clear that Miss S has been the victim of a sophisticated scam here, and I 
sympathise with the position that she finds herself in. Miss S believed that she was 
acting under the instruction of her company CEO, and so she made the gift card 
purchases in good faith such that they were transactions that were authorised by 
herself.
The question I have to consider is whether its fair and reasonable to instruct Monzo 
Bank to reimburse Miss S and so to bear the cost for the money that has been lost 
here.
Given that the transactions in question were authorised by Miss S - as explained 
above  in order to make such an instruction, I would need to be satisfied both that 
Monzo Bank should have recognised that the purchases that Miss S were making 
were potentially of concern so that they should have prevented Miss S from making 
the transactions before speaking to her about them, and also that any conversation 
that they had with Miss S would have demonstrated that Miss S was in fact in the 
process of being scammed.
Ultimately, Im not satisfied either that Monzo Bank should have prevented these
transactions from taking place, or that it would have been discovered that a scam 
was taking place if they had spoken to Miss S about them.
I say this because the gift cards were all purchased by Miss S in person from her 
local supermarket using her Monzo Bank debit card. This means its difficult to argue 
that Monzo Bank should have had any concerns about the parties involved in the 
transactions, such as might have been the case had, for instance, the transactions 
been made online and to an overseas or recently formed company.
And Im not convinced that Monzo Bank should have placed a hold on these 
transactions because of the number of the transactions or the fact that Miss S took 
her account balance to zero, and this is because purchases such as these are 
transactions that Miss S can reasonably make  and indeed, Miss S was personally 
making these transactions.
Monzo Bank have explained to this service the transaction monitoring isnt designed 
to flag and prevent unusual card spending, and this is because it wouldnt be 
possible to do this without flagging and stopping an unacceptable level of legitimate 
payments which would lead to similarly unacceptable levels of customers being 
wrongly prevented from making perfectly legitimate transactions. This seems 
reasonable to me, especially considering that other fraud prevention measures exist 
for debit cards, such as chip and pin. Although these measures can be circumvented 
if the card holder authorises what they believe to be genuine transactions, as was the 
case here.
So, while I sympathise with Miss S, I dont feel that Monzo Bank should have stopped 
the transactions from taking place, and because of this I dont feel that it would be fair 
to instruct Monzo Bank to bear the cost of these transactions and reimburse the 
£1,000 that Miss S has been unable to recover.
I also must note that, even had Monzo Bank contacted Miss S about these 
transactions, Im not convinced that Miss S wouldnt have been able to explain these 
transactions to Monzo Bank such that they would have agreed to allow the 
transactions to take place.
I say this because of the sophisticated nature of this scam, including that Miss S was
convinced herself that she was acting on the request of her CEO, and I feel that Miss 
S would have been able to provide a convincing explanation to Monzo Bank as to 
why these transactions were being made.And there are also other elements of what happened here, including Miss S talking to
another company director who confirmed to her that the CEO had some tasks that he
wanted Miss to take care of, which contributed to Miss S believing that she was 
acting at the request of her CEO. And because of this I feel that it is more likely than 
not, on balance, that Miss S would have assured Monzo Bank that she wanted these 
transactions to be allowed to continue.
All of which means that I provisionally wont be upholding this complaint or asking 
Monzo Bank to take any action at this time.
In my provisional decision I gave both Miss S and Monzo Bank until 7 May 2021 to make 
any comments or raise any objections that they might have with my provisional decision. 
Monzo Bank didnt comment, while Miss S expressed her disappointment at my provisional 
decision and raised several objections.
Miss S stated that she strongly believes that Monzo Bank should have questioned the 
unusual activity of the transactions and contacted her to ascertain what the transactions 
were for. However, as stated in my provisional decision, Monzo Bank have explained that 
transaction monitoring isnt designed to flag and prevent unusual card spending  such as 
these transactions were  and this is because it wouldnt be possible to do this without 
erroneously flagging and stopping an unacceptable level of legitimate customer transactions. 
And, as also stated in my provisional decision, Im satisfied with Monzo Banks explanation 
and position here.
Its also the case that Miss S was purchasing the gift cards in person at high street 
supermarkets. I feel this point is significant as it would be unusual for a bank to prevent a 
person from buying items in person at such a well-known store. Miss S has expressed her 
disagreement with this point, stating that the transactions were of such an unusual nature 
that they should have been recognised as such by Monzo Bank and prevented accordingly.
I dont share Miss Ss viewpoint on this matter, and I wouldnt necessarily expect a bank to 
prevent a customer from making a large transaction in person at a well-known supermarket, 
even if that bank had a system in place to monitor and prevent in-person card transactions, 
which as explained above, Monzo Bank do not.
Finally, Miss S has stated that if the transactions had been prevented, and if she was 
challenged as to why she was making these transactions, that she would have realised that 
a potential fraud was taking place and that she would have checked with her company 
whether they had in fact asked her to purchase these gift cards.
I can appreciate that Miss S feels strongly about this point, but its one that shes making 
with the benefit of hindsight. Given that Miss S believed shed been instructed to purchase 
the gift cards by her CEO and had been given a plausible reason as to why these gift cards 
were needed, along with the coincidence of another company director telling her that her 
CEO had some unspecified tasks for her, I feel that its more likely than not, on balance, that 
Miss S would have explained the position as she believed it at the time to whomever 
challenged her about these transactions and requested that the transactions be allowed to 
go ahead.
Ultimately, having taken on board Miss Ss objections, Im still not convinced that Monzo 
Bank have committed any form of error or omission such that they should be asked to 
reimburse Miss S and effectively bear the cost of the loss that has been incurred here.  I say this because the nature of the scam was such that Miss S made transactions that fell 
outside of the parameters that I would reasonably have expected Monzo Bank to monitor 
and take preventative action upon, for the reasons explained above.
That isnt to say that I dont continue to sympathise with Miss S here  I certainly do  but it 
remains the case that I dont feel that I can fairly or reasonably instruct Monzo Bank to 
reimburse Miss S, because I dont feel that Monzo Bank have acted improperly here such 
that they should be held responsible for this loss.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Miss S was wanting, but it follows from this that 
my final decision will be that I wont be upholding this complaint and that I also wont be 
asking Monzo Bank to take any further action at this time. I hope that Miss S can 
understand, given everything I have explained in both my provisional decision and above, 
why I have made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman