DRN-3472177
The complaint
Ms P has complained Santander Consumer (UK) plc didnt remove data from her credit 
record resulting from a fraudulent hire purchase agreement. This meant she lost out on a 
favourable interest rate for her proposed mortgage.
What happened
In August 2020 Ms P discovered someone had taken out a hire purchase agreement in her 
name with Santander. As well as the dealer contacting Santander, Ms P also phoned them 
to confirm shed not taken out this agreement.
Ms P was looking to purchase a property and take out a mortgage. She got a mortgage 
illustration on 15 December 2020. Her broker advised her this was unlikely to proceed as her 
credit report showed adverse information about her finances.
Ms P contacted Santander again to complain theyd not removed data from her credit record. 
Santander admitted their error. They offered Ms P compensation of £500 which they 
increased to £750 the following month.
Ms P is looking for the difference she is having to pay for the mortgage she ended up taking 
out. She believes she is paying an additional £30 a month over a five-year period because of 
Santanders error. Shes brought her complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator didnt believe Santander needed to do anything more. There was no 
evidence to show Ms P had received a mortgage offer at the lower interest rate. She didnt 
believe she could fairly ask Santander to pay Ms P further compensation. 
Ms P was unhappy with this outcome. Shes asked an ombudsman to consider her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so. Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Firstly, theres no dispute Santander made a mistake. They didnt remove details of a 
fraudulent hire purchase agreement from Ms Ps credit record. The issue is whether they 
have paid her sufficient compensation.
Ive reviewed Ms Ps credit record for the time she was originally looking to buy a property. 
This shows a default for a mobile agreement (from 2015) and that she was supposedly in 
arrears for a hire purchase agreement nobody disputes she didnt take out.
Ive also considered the mortgage illustration of 15 December and evidence provided by the 
mortgage provider. They confirmed the illustration was just that. Theres no evidence Ms P 
was ever in receipt of a mortgage offer at the lower interest rate. They also confirmed 
interest rates were increased on 17 December so, in all likelihood, any eventual mortgage 
offer to Ms P  regardless of what her credit record indicated  would always have been at 
the higher rate.
Id have required clear evidence that any mortgage offer Ms P had received failed because 
she was supposedly in arrears for a hire purchase agreement. I dont have that evidence. I 
appreciate Ms P has confirmed what she was told by her mortgage broker  that there was 
no point in pursuing a mortgage offer. But Ive balanced this with the evidence from her 
mortgage provider as above.
I also note part of Ms Ps original complaint was that Santanders processes were 
inadequate to identify the original fraudulent application. Its not my role to tell businesses 
what their security processes should be, but I can look at the impact of those processes on 
an individual.
In Ms Ps case, I believe the £750 Santander gave Ms P includes appropriate compensation 
for this original error too.
Overall, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask Santander to provide further 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Ms Ps complaint against 
Santander Consumer (UK) plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn1
Ombudsman