DRN-3488510
The complaint
Mr F complains about the relationship fees he was charged by Citibank UK Limited.
In summary, he says he wasnt aware of the new fees coming into force, and they were too
high.
To put things right, Mr F would like a refund of the fees along with compensation for distress
and inconvenience caused.
What happened
In late April 2022, I issued my provisional decision, a copy of which is stated below and 
forms part of my final decision. In the decision I said:  
provisionally Im not going to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr F says, Im unable to safely
say that Citibank behaved unreasonably by introducing changes to its terms and conditions
and consequently charging fees for the use of its account.
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much
recognise Mr Fs strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided detailed submissions
to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as
much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My
role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr F and Citibank and reach what I think is an
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide,
based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
I appreciate that fees didnt apply when Mr F first opened his account in 2000. However,
Citibank is entitled, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement, to
introduce changes to its terms and conditions. Its not for us to tell Citibank how to run its
affairs, providing it has notified its customers of any changes. So, in this instance I cant say
that Citibank has done anything wrong by introducing fees to its account.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Citibank gave any undertaking that its terms and conditions
would remain the same. Despite what Mr F says, I dont think Citibank has done anything
wrong by not obtaining his consent before implementing these changes, because it wasnt
obliged to. Im satisfied that the business acted reasonably by notifying Mr F in good time
and providing the relevant literature.
I appreciate what Mr F says about fees being too high, but Citibanks entitled to set fees for
the use of its account. In this instance I think the onus was on Mr F to look for a new account
if he was unhappy with paying the monthly fee. Unless an issue was raised by him, as he
maintained the account for which fees had been introduced, Citibank was entitled to charge
fees in line with its terms and conditions.
Based on what Citibank says, on balance Im satisfied that it notified Mr F in writing at least
two months before the changes were introduced in January 2018, giving him enough time to
decide whether (or not) to move his money elsewhere or stay and fulfil the conditions that
would enable him to keep his money in the same account for free.
Its possible that Mr F didnt receive the letter with the terms and conditions, however Im not
aware of there being an issue with the post. But even if there was an issue, I still cant hold
Citibank responsible for the actions of a third-party postal service.
The November 2017 notice aside, I think its unlikely that Mr F wouldnt have received a
single bank statement showing the fee deductions since they were introduced in 2018. So
even if he hadnt received the notice, he ought reasonably to have been aware of the
deductions being made.
Its possible that Mr F may not have read the original notice and/or any of the statements
sent over the years  and thats why he didnt know about the fees  but I cant blame
Citibank for this.
On balance, I accept that Mr F probably wouldve chosen to withdraw his money if hed been
aware of the fees, but I cant blame Citibank for him not checking his account until 2021,
when he discovered that his account balance was zero.
I appreciate Mr F feels that Citibank shouldve closed his account, and put his money into a
new account, on the assumption that he was unlikely to agree to the fees. But in the
circumstances, unlike introducing changes to its terms and conditions, I dont think Citibank
could generally do that without his authority.
Besides, the fees wouldve only been applied if the conditions werent met, as opposed to
automatically applying from a specific date. So, Mr F still had the option to remain with
Citibank, and not pay any fees providing he met the criteria.
I note the terms and conditions for his specific account made clear the following:
Your average monthly balance will be calculated to include balances from any Offshore
Bond you hold with us (referred to as Investment Linked Life Insurance Products" in our
terms and conditions). This means any balance from these Investments will be Included
when calculating if a Relationship Fee is payable based on your average monthly balance
3. Relationship fee
3.1 You will not be charged a relationship fee for any month for which you:
(a) credit your Account with a minimum of £3,500 and have a minimum of two Direct Debits
paid from your Account; or
(b) have an average monthly balance of £35,000 (or currency equivalent) or more as
described in Condition 3.3 of these Account Specific Terms and Conditions.
I appreciate that Citibank has offered to pay Mr F £75 compensation as a gesture of
goodwill, plus a further USD75 for being a longstanding customer, which I would expect it topay.
Citibank could offer to refund the entire fees charged if it chooses to. But in the
circumstances, its not something I can ask it to do, because in my opinion it hasnt done
anything wrong.
I gave the parties an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision and provide any 
further submissions they wished me to consider before I considered my final decision. 
Mr F responded but didnt accept my provisional decision. In summary, he made the 
following submissions: 
Theres no proof that communication regarding the changes to fees were sent or 
received by him. Citibank should provide proof of the means by which the information 
was sent and tracked. 
No attempt was made to ensure he received or read the documents. 
Proof of receipt wouldve allowed Citibank to know whether he had received the 
notice before imposing fees. To charge fees without him knowing, especially in 
relation to an inactive account is unreasonable. 
No relationship services were being provided for the fees charged which were 
disproportionate in maintaining/servicing the account. Citibank should confirm the net 
costs attributable to maintaining the account. 
The payment of £75 as a gesture of goodwill is just a token gesture, in respect of 
£614 charged. 
Given that there was no account activity, its unreasonable that theres implied 
agreement of acceptance of the new fees. 
According to the general terms and conditions for Citibank current accounts and 
savings accounts, his account shouldve been treated as dormant due to inactivity for 
a period of 360 days. 
Alternatively, even if the account had been active at a single point, the maximum fees 
payable would be for 15 months amounting to £225.
Electronic access to the account was suspended following inactivity, which is why he 
had to request new access rights. As such electronic notifications couldnt have been 
received.  
In the circumstances, he is entitled to compensation for distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Citibank also responded and accepted my provisional decision. In short it said that if Mr F 
wanted to accept its initial offer it should provide his bank account details so that it could 
transfer the payment. 
At my request, Citibank provided further clarification in relation to the Mr Fs response to my 
provisional decision. In summary, it said:
It has a tracker confirming all email communication it sends, so it has proof that it 
sent emails to Mr F. In doing so, Citibank met the regulatory obligation by providing 
the two month notice via email.   
Its the clients responsibility to open communication. It tracks email comms, and if 
they bounce back, it re-sends the communication by post. None of Mr Fs emails 
bounced back and there was no change to his email address.  
The fees were applied for maintaining the account. However, Mr F didnt meet the 
criteria for the free service and thats why he was charged. 
Compensation as a gesture of goodwill was offered. It wasnt an admission of liability 
and wasnt a refund of the fees paid The fees were applied based on the account criteria, not account activity. As shown 
in its email Mr F contacted it in 2017 and requested that it remove the dormant 
marker. Mr F also contacted it to get a new card and pin.  If he hadnt removed the 
dormant marker, he wouldnt have been charged fees.  
Through my suggestion, the investigator sought Mr Fs views with (particular) reference to 
the account activation and removal of the dormant marker. In summary, he said:
He doesnt disagree that the account was re-activated in 2017 and that it shouldve 
been dormant prior to that. So, he doesnt think that fees prior to that shouldve been 
applied. 
He maintains he wasnt told about the fees charged. 
Whilst he was aware of the money in his account, he wasnt aware of the fees and 
only became aware when he discovered he had no money left. 
Hes never used any of the services. 
Because he didnt use the card for 360 days the account shouldve fell dormant 
again. 
The next day, Mr F supplied a digital copy of his bank statement, showing that £15 a month 
had been withdrawn between (and including) July 2017 and December 2017. 
Because the new fees started in January 2018, I asked Citibank for an explanation. I said 
that if the information supplied by Mr F was correct I would be minded to partially uphold the 
complaint and order the business to refund the fees (incorrectly) taken in 2017  totalling 
£90  plus pay another £75 for any loss of interest and the distress and inconvenience 
caused, in addition to the £75 and USD75 already offered/paid by Citibank. 
Through our investigator, I was told that Citibank agreed with my decision to uphold the 
complaint and award redress as suggested. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, considering the responses from the parties, my provisional decision not to 
uphold this complaint has changed. Im now going to partially uphold this complaint. 
In other words, the 2017 bank statement recently provided by Mr F in response to my 
provisional decision has persuaded me to change my decision. Therefore, Citibank should 
refund the fees charged - in this instance on six occasions in 2017  before the new terms 
and conditions were implemented in January 2018. Citibank should also pay Mr F £75 
compensation for any lost interest, and distress and inconvenience caused.  
The above notwithstanding, the other key points remain the same, and have been 
considered by me, in my provisional decision. In other words, Im still unable to safely
say that Citibank behaved unreasonably by introducing changes to its terms and conditions
and consequently, charging Mr F fees - for the use of its account  from January 2018.
Its because of this reason, and because Citibank has been notified and agrees with my 
proposed uphold and redress payment that I dont consider another provisional decision is 
needed. A financial business isnt generally required to track correspondence it sends to customers 
and there is no obligation for it to ensure that customers read it either. Its generally the 
responsibility of the customer to read any correspondence, including any changes to the 
terms and conditions. 
In this instance despite Mr F suggesting that he didnt receive the email, Citibank has 
provided evidence to show that the email titled Changes to our Terms and Conditions was 
sent to Mr F in November 2017 but wasnt opened. I note two other emails sent in March and 
May relating to a branch closure notification and how to manage your account respectively 
also werent opened. 
Based on what Citibank says, on balance Im satisfied that it notified Mr F in writing  via 
email  at least two months before the changes were introduced in January 2018 and the 
email was received  giving him enough time to decide whether (or not) to move his money 
elsewhere or stay and fulfil the conditions that would enable him to keep his money in the 
same account for free. 
Despite what Mr F says, in the circumstances Im unable to say Citibank behaved 
unreasonably. Because the emails didnt bounce back, and there was no change to Mr Fs 
email address, I cant blame Citibank for not checking to see if Mr F had read the email 
and/or sending the same information in the post.  
 
In the circumstances, and despite my partial uphold of the complaint, Citibank isnt obliged to 
provide a breakdown of the net cost to maintain Mr Fs account and I dont need this 
(potentially) commercially sensitive information in order to make a final decision in this case. 
As Ive explained in my provisional decision, Citibank is entitled to charge a fee for the use of 
its account as well as set the rate, and thats not something I can blame it for. However, on 
balance I dont think Citibank is entitled to charge fees before the new terms and conditions 
were implemented, and thats why Ive partially upheld the complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that Citibank charged a fee for the 
use of its account from January 2018, and Mr F didnt meet the criteria to receive this service 
for free. 
The above notwithstanding, despite what Mr F suggests about how he shouldve been 
treated in respect of his account, on balance, Im unable to agree. Based on what Citibank 
says, I note in January 2017 Mr F contacted Citibank and removed the dormant marker 
from his account (he also requested a card and pin) and thats why his account was re-
activated and treated as such going forward.  
The above would suggest that his account was previously dormant  probably as a result of 
having had no activity since 2014  and based on what Citibank says it wouldnt have 
attracted any fees following changes to the terms and conditions had it been left that way. 
This is probably why Citibank now concedes that any fees taken from Mr Fs account in 2017 
was done so in error. 
But as a result of Mr Fs actions the account was re-activated and treated as active 
thereafter even though there was no money coming in or out of it  Mr F still had the means 
to instantly access his account and/or spend his money. In other words, Mr Fs funds were 
ready and available to use if he wanted to, unlike a dormant account where the money is 
likely to be ringfenced and cant be accessed in the same way. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that the terms and conditions referred to by Mr F  which 
incidentally are from September 2019  are unlikely to apply in this instance where the dormant marker has been removed. In the circumstances I cant say that Citibank behaved 
unreasonably by applying charges  following (notified) changes to its terms and conditions 
in 2017  for the use of its account. The charges therefore only applied from January 2018, 
when the new fees came into effect, and not prior to this point.  
In my opinion, and on balance, in the circumstances Im satisfied that Mr Fs account was 
likely to be live (rather than dormant), whether or not any transactions were carried out  
because the dormant marker was removed. And Mr F had a valid card and pin that he could 
use to access/spend his money. 
I note there was an issue accessing funds in November 2019. Despite what Mr F says this 
wasnt because of his account not being used, it was due to a change in the card scheme 
and consequently he was given a new card and pin. 
I appreciate Mr F might be unhappy that Ive changed my decision but still havent given him 
everything that he wants. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im not going to ask Citibank to 
do anything other than pay redress as set out below. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and give Mr F what he wants.
Putting things right
Citibank UK Limited should pay Mr F redress as follows:
1. Refund the fees erroneously taken in 2017 amounting to £90. 
2. Pay £75 compensation for any lost interest, distress and inconvenience caused. 
3. In addition to the above, pay £75 and USD$75, if it hasnt done so already.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I partially uphold this 
complaint. 
Citibank UK Limited should pay Mr F redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman