DRN-3966367
The complaint
Mr and Ms T complain about the way that AWP P&C SA has handled a medical expenses 
claim they made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2022, Mr and Ms T flew abroad. Unfortunately, Mr T became unwell and sought 
medical attention on 17 April 2022. He was diagnosed with a kidney stone, which needed 
urgent surgery. Mr and Ms T tried to contact AWPs medical assistance line, so that the 
surgical costs could be authorised, but it took them some time and they needed to ask for 
help from their travel agent. When AWP did set up Mr Ts claim, it failed to pass on 
information about his condition to its medical team. This meant that there was a further delay 
in AWP approving Mr Ts treatment. 
AWP authorised the costs of Mr Ts surgery on 18 April 2022 and the surgery was carried 
out on that day. Mr and Ms T met the costs of Mr Ts medical expenses and made a claim to 
AWP for reimbursement of them.
In June 2022, AWP asked Ms T to provide a copy of her original booking confirmation, 
setting out details of her outbound and return flights. Ms T responded to AWPs email, but it 
doesnt appear that she provided the flight information.
Mr and Ms T were unhappy with the way AWP had handled their claim and they were 
unhappy that their expenses hadnt been reimbursed. So they complained to AWP. 
However, AWP didnt respond within the regulators complaint handling timeframes. Mr and 
Ms T therefore asked us to look into their complaint.
AWP went on to issue its final response to Mr and Ms Ts complaint. It acknowledged that its 
assistance team had provided Mr and Ms T with poor service and so it offered them 
compensation of £250 to reflect this. 
Mr and Ms T provided our investigator with a copy of their flight itinerary. They also let the 
investigator know that they would accept compensation of £250 if their claim was also paid. 
Ultimately, our investigator considered that AWP did now have enough information to settle 
the claim and so he asked AWP repeatedly if it was prepared to do so. However, despite 
chases, AWP didnt provide a substantive response to our investigator. So the complaints 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think AWP has treated Mr and Ms T fairly and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr and Ms Ts policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide whether 
AWP treated Mr and Ms T fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Ms Ts policy, as these form the 
basis of their contract with AWP. Mr T needed hospital treatment and so I think the relevant 
section of the policy is Section A  emergency medical expenses. This section of the policy 
says that if a policyholder becomes ill, AWP will pay the normal and necessary receipted 
expenses of emergency medical or surgical treatment incurred outside your home country.
The policy also makes it clear that policyholders are required to tell AWP immediately about 
any serious illness abroad if they have to go into hospital because of illness. In this case, 
AWP accepts that Mr and Ms T did try and contact its medical assistance team on 17 April 
2022, so it could authorise Mr Ts treatment. Unfortunately, they experienced delays in 
getting through. And even when a claim was set-up, AWP acknowledges that the relevant 
information wasnt passed to the medical team as soon as it couldve been. It also agrees 
that if this had happened, Mr Ts treatment is likely to have been approved more quickly than 
it was.
Mr and Ms T have provided both this service and AWP with medical reports which show that 
Mr T attended the hospitals emergency department with pain of three days duration. He 
was diagnosed with a kidney stone. The reports also show that Mr T was admitted to the 
hospital on 18 April 2022 for emergency treatment. On the face of things then, the medical 
evidence indicates that Mr Ts medical expenses do fall within the scope of policy cover. Ive 
seen no medical evidence which indicates that his condition could reasonably be treated as 
pre-existing.
Ive seen a copy of an email AWPs claims team sent to Ms T on 8 June 2022, which 
requested further information  including evidence of her original flight details. I think it was 
reasonable for AWP to request this information from Mr and Ms T, to establish that their trip 
did fall with the policy trip length limits. Unfortunately, despite responding to the email, Ms T 
didnt provide AWP with this evidence at that point, so it says it wasnt in a position to assess 
the claim further. 
Mr and Ms T have now sent us a copy of their flight itinerary, which shows that their planned 
trip was of eight days duration. As such then, this clearly falls comfortably within the policy 
trip length limits. Our investigator has sent AWP a copy of the itinerary.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied AWP now has all of the information it requires in order 
to settle this claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. It clearly has 
the medical reports, along with evidence of the costs Mr and Ms T incurred. On that basis, it 
must now proceed to settle this claim. However, in the specific circumstances of this 
complaint, Im not directing AWP to add interest to the settlement. Thats because I dont 
think AWP was in a position to settle the claim until it received a copy of Mr and Ms Ts flight 
itinerary from our investigator. And it also appears that Mr and Ms T are happy to accept the 
settlement of the claim to resolve their complaint.
As Ive set out above, AWP accepts it didnt handle Mr and Ms Ts medical assistance claim 
as well as it shouldve done. Had it done so, its possible Mr Ts surgery could have been 
authorised earlier (although I cant say with certainty that it couldve been carried out sooner 
than it was). Mr and Ms T were also put to additional frustration and inconvenience in trying 
to contact AWP, at an already upsetting time. So I think its fair and reasonable for AWP to 
pay compensation to reflect the unnecessary trouble and upset it caused them. AWP has 
offered Mr and Ms T £250, which they have now accepted. As such then, I now direct AWP 
to pay Mr and Ms T £250 compensation, in addition to the settlement of their claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct AWP P&C SA to settle Mr and Ms Ts claim, in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
I also direct AWP to pay Mr and Ms T £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman