DRN-2458131
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a PPI policy to protect their mortgage repayments in 1994.
They recall the sale took place in a meeting. The policy was in Mr Hs sole name and gave 
him accident, sickness and unemployment cover. They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs H
disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, I have reached my decision based on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, what I think is most likely given the available evidence and what 
we know about how Lloyds sold PPI at the time. Lloyds cant provide the policy document, 
so I have relied on one from the nearest available date. It also no longer has details of the 
benefit level, so it is assumed this was the value of Mr and Mrs Hs monthly mortgage 
repayment.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed
it here. 
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs H say they were told they had to take PPI to get the mortgage. Thats the only 
reason they took it out, they were forced to - at no point was it made clear that the PPI was 
optional. Lloyds disputes this. 
I cant know what was said in the meeting and Lloyds no longer has the paperwork from the 
sale, but thats not surprising given how long ago it was. Ive thought carefully about Mr and 
Mrs Hs comments, but I also have to take into account how long ago the sale was and how 
that might affect what they recall. Overall, without stronger evidence showing Lloyds didnt 
make it clear the PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs H didnt agree to take it out for Mr H, I 
cant fairly uphold the complaint on this point. I havent found enough other evidence to 
support their recollection that they were pressured.
Lloyds recommended the PPI for Mr H to Mr and Mrs H, so it had to check that the PPI was
right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it
was. Mr H thinks he would have been entitled to between two- and four-weeks half pay if he 
was sick, plus statutory sick pay, but the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to his work 
benefits and for up to 12 months. It also gave him up to 12 months redundancy cover. They 
said they had a small amount of savings, but the PPI would have allowed them to use these 
for other living expenses whilst Mr H wasnt working, or to keep them intact for their future 
needs.
Mr and Mrs Hs debt was secured on their home. So the impact of not keeping up the 
repayments could have been serious for them. Overall, given they had limited other means, I 
think the PPI would have been useful for Mr and Mrs H if Mr H was sick, had an accident or 
lost his job.
Mr and Mrs H say they were given no information on the PPI. I agree its possible Lloyds 
didnt give Mr and Mrs H all the information they needed before deciding to buy PPI. I dont 
know when the cost was made clear, but it was reasonably priced for the likely benefit it 
offered. Their representative says the PPI wasnt necessary and the money wouldve been 
better put to household bills. But Ive explained above why I think they had a need for the 
cover, and from what Ive seen it was apparently affordable. I dont know that the bank 
pointed out the main things the PPI didnt cover. But Mr H doesnt appear to have been 
affected by any of the main exclusions. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
wouldve changed their mind about buying it.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative said Mr H was self-employed in later life, so the policy was 
then void and this wasnt mentioned to him during the sale. But it would have been Mr Hs 
responsibility to disclose any change in circumstances to the insurer during the life of the 
policy. And its not correct that his change in employment status made the policy void. This 
policy covered both employed and self-employed people and didnt make it any harder for 
those who were self-employed to make a successful claim. 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell
Mr and Mrs H, that was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank plc does not have to pay back all of the
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission and profit
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman