DRN-3685918
The complaint
A company Ill call D has complained that its restaurant insurance policy was unfairly voided 
(treated as though it had never been in place) by QIC Europe Ltd.
Mrs A, a director of D, has brought the complaint on Ds behalf.
What happened
D leases premises that were used as a restaurant.
Trading ceased in March 2020 as a result of the first lockdown. 
D made a claim to another insurer for its business interruption loss. That claim wasnt settled 
until January 2022.
Mrs A said the intention was to reopen the restaurant but D wasnt in a position to do that 
until it received the settlement of its business interruption claim.
D insured its business contents with QIC. In September 2020 the policy was renewed until 
September 2022. On renewal Mrs A confirmed on behalf of D that the business traded all 
year round.
In September 2021 Mrs A noticed that wastewater was getting into the premises. D made a 
claim to QIC for damage to its equipment.
After investigation QIC said if it had known the premises hadnt been operating as a 
restaurant, it wouldnt have offered to renew the policy. It voided the policy and returned the 
premium to D.
D brought its complaint to us. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought QIC was entitled to avoid 
the policy on the basis that D wasnt trading when the policy had been taken out. 
D asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic, the Governments related actions and the later water 
damage had an impact on Ds business. But I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain 
why.
As D is a commercial policyholder, it has a duty under the Insurance Act 2015 (the Act) to 
make a fair presentation of the risk to the insurer when taking out or renewing a policy. This 
means it has to disclose either:
everything it knows, or ought to know, that would influence the judgement of an 
insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and if so, on what terms; or
enough information to put an insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries 
about potentially material circumstances.
There are some exceptions. For example, the policyholder doesnt have to disclose 
something if the insurer already knows (or should reasonably know) about it.
Ive considered whether in this instance D made a fair presentation of the risk it was asking 
QIC to cover. Its understandable that QIC would want to know if D was no longer trading as 
a restaurant from the premises as that in my view was fundamental to the nature of the risk 
insured. It was a restaurant policy and so if the premises were not being used for that 
purpose, that would change the nature of the risk materially.
When D took out the policy in September 2020, it was provided with a Schedule containing a 
Statement of Fact document. This explained on the first page that D should check the 
information in the Statement of Fact and tell it or its broker immediately if any details were or 
might be incorrect. It went on to warn that:
If you fail to make a fair representation this could invalidate all or part of the Policy and/or 
the Insurer may refuse to pay your claim or reduce the settlement amount, depending on the 
circumstances.
I think QIC made it clear to D that the information in the Statement of Fact was important and 
if any of the details were incorrect, D should tell QIC. And it gave clear information about the 
duty to make a fair presentation of the risk and the impact of not doing so. The policy also 
required the policyholder to tell QIC as soon as reasonably practicable during the policy term 
of any change in circumstances which might reasonably be considered by the insurer to be 
material to the risk.
The details in the Statement of Fact included the following:
Main trade   Restaurant
How many years has the Business been trading 5+ years
Does the Business trade all year round Yes
Mrs A has told us that the business was only temporarily closed. She said it was fully 
stocked and equipped. The staff were furloughed until October 2021. As part of her claim 
she told QIC in December 2021:
I had interested parties viewing the property as I was about to sublet it and begin employed 
work, to provide income until my business interruption claim with another insurer was 
settled.
I can understand the difficult position she was in. But Im satisfied QIC was not told that the 
restaurant was not trading in September 2020 and that D did not make a fair presentation of 
the risk to it. That being the case, QIC has certain remedies provided that the 
misrepresentation is what the Act describes as a qualifying breach. For it to be a qualifying breach, the insurer has to show that it would have offered the policy on different terms or not 
at all if the policyholder hadnt made the misrepresentation. I can see that QICs underwriters 
have confirmed that if they had known the business would not be trading for a period longer 
than three months with no known date as to when it would restart trading, they would not 
have accepted the risk. So, Im satisfied Ds breach of the duty under the Act was a 
qualifying one.
The remedy available to an insurer under the Act depends on whether the qualifying breach 
neither deliberate nor reckless. QIC hasnt said the misrepresentation was deliberate or 
reckless and by refunding the premium to D it has treated the misrepresentation as careless. 
I think this is fair in the circumstances.
In conclusion, it seems to me that D failed to make a fair presentation of the risk to QIC by 
not telling QIC it wasnt trading. If D had disclosed that it wouldnt be trading for longer than 
three months with no known date as to when it would restart trading, QIC wouldnt have 
offered cover. Therefore, Im satisfied there was a qualifying breach under the Act and QIC 
was entitled to avoid the policy. That means QIC didnt have to deal with Ds claim. As the 
Act follows our long-established approach to commercial misrepresentation cases, I think 
following the Act produces a fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing to D. But, having considered the matter 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require QIC to reinstate the policy and pay its claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman