DRN-2057036
The complaint
Mr T (represented by his partner Mrs T) complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited 
(Haven) settled a claim against him without his knowledge. He also complains that the cost 
of the claim has been over exaggerated.
What happened
Mr T has a taxi policy with Haven. In October 2019 he lightly impacted a parked vehicle 
whilst picking up a customer. He exchanged details with the vehicle owner but there was no 
follow up contact between them. Mr T didnt contact Haven at the time.
In December 2019 Haven received notification of a claim against Mr T from the third-party 
insurer, along with an invoice for the repairs that had already been carried out. No 
circumstances were provided. Haven contacted the third-party insurer and Mr T for full 
details. Mr T accepted full liability for the incident and reported that there had been no 
damage to his vehicle.
Mr T then asked whether he could pay the costs of the claim himself. Haven set out the 
outlay as per the invoice it had received and told Mr T that it had already authorised payment 
of this invoice. 
At this point Mrs T as Mr Ts representative complained. She was very unhappy that Haven 
had just agreed to pay the invoice and said the repairs couldve been completed for one-third 
of the cost in the invoice. Mrs T said shed shown a photo of the scuff mark that was caused 
as a result of the impact to two main dealers and both garages told her the cost of repair 
paid by Haven was too high. She also questioned whether unrelated damage had been 
included. Mrs T was unhappy with the service provided by Haven and its refusal to give her 
a proper breakdown of the costs it had paid to the third-party insurer. She said Havens 
actions contravened consumer protection regulation and The 2015 Insurance Act. She said 
Haven should never have paid this invoice without seeing the damage, and she questioned 
what the alleged witness had said to support the claim.
An investigator in our service reviewed this complaint. The investigator said that in the 
circumstances Haven had acted fairly and reasonably and it hadnt done anything wrong. 
But Mrs T didn't agree. She said that when Haven contacted Mr T, the vehicle had already 
been repaired, and Haven was only going through the motions. She again raised concern 
over the cost of the repairs, and she said the witness statement was false. Mrs T also 
questions the legality of carrying out repairs without the consent of the person responsible 
for the bill, and she questioned the engineering qualifications of our investigator. Mr and Mrs 
T remain unhappy and so the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
As a starting point, Ive looked at what the terms and conditions of Mr Ts policy say. In the 
very first section you see, marked in bold and highlighted in a separate red box a section 
entitled What to do in the event of an accident. This sets out the steps you need to take if 
you are involved in an accident/incident. Underneath this box, again highlighted in red text it 
says: 
any accident/incident which may give rise to a claim on this policy must be reported to us 
within 24 hours.
Further to this, within the policy itself is a section entitled Claims notification and co-
operation. This section again sets out that you must report any claim, accident or loss, 
regardless of fault within 24 hours. It says: 
if you fail to assist with our enquiries, or report a claim within 24 hours, we may refuse to 
settle your claim except as required by the Road Traffic Acts. 
This section of the policy also says: 
we are entitled to take over any third party claim against you (or any person claiming under 
this policy) and to conduct the defence or settlement of any such third party claim in your 
name or the name of any person claiming under this policy.
The Road Traffic Act requires Haven to deal with any third-party claim as appropriate. In this 
instance Mr T was involved in an incident, albeit a very minor one. He correctly swapped 
details with the third-party, but crucially, he didnt tell his insurer Haven about the incident. A 
number of weeks later, Haven received a repair invoice from a third-party insurer for an 
incident of which it had no knowledge, and where repairs had already been carried out by 
the third-party insurer under the third-parties comprehensive cover. Haven contacted Mr T 
who admitted full liability. So as per its responsibilities under the Road Traffic Act, Haven 
raised a payment for the invoice.
There is a very valid reason as to why Haven set out so clearly in its terms and conditions as 
to why it wants to know about any claims, accidents or losses within 24 hours. And that is so 
it can then choose to defend the claim, or at least investigate the costs it might be liable for, 
if liability is admitted.  
I know Mr and Mrs T feel strongly about the third partys costs. Theyve also said theyre 
appalled by this Services lack of concern about the cost of these specific repairs and 
whether additional damage has been included. But what Im considering is whether Haven 
acted reasonably in the circumstances by paying the repairs as per the invoice. Haven 
sought evidence from the third-party insurer before agreeing to pay. Im satisfied it was 
reasonable to rely on the Audatex report it received, which was from the time of the accident 
and included both a breakdown of the repairs and a photograph of the damage. It doesnt 
appear there was anything further available likely to challenge/outweigh this at the time. So, 
Haven correctly paid the outlay as it was left with no option but to do so.
I appreciate Mrs T has knowledge from the motor industry and has told us that she 
approached a number of garages who advised her that the costs were high. And this might 
be correct. But unfortunately, because Mr T didnt follow the steps as set out, or report the 
incident to Haven as required by the policy terms and conditions, Havens hands were tied 
when it was told about the claim and when the invoice was provided for payment. The 
vehicle had been repaired, and Haven never had the opportunity to inspect the third-party 
vehicle or negotiate the repair costs. And this is solely down to Mr T not reporting the incident to Haven when it happened. Further to this, Haven are entitled to take over any 
third-party claim, as per the term from the policy Ive set out above. So, Im satisfied Haven 
has acted appropriately, and paid the invoice submitted as set out in the policy terms and 
conditions.
Mr and Mrs T have also raised some other issues. They say the third-party vehicle was 
repaired without Mr Ts knowledge, and that Haven were just going through the motions of 
the claim. And I agree. But Haven didnt do anything wrong here. It had no knowledge of 
either the incident nor the repair. It was Mr Ts responsibility to let Haven know about the 
claim, so it could act accordingly. But he didnt, so Haven had no control as to when the 
third-party vehicle was repaired. 
Mr T also questioned whether the cost of the claim would increase his premium going 
forward. And I just want to reiterate what he was told by Haven. And that is that its more 
likely to be the fault claim that is now on his record that will impact his future premiums as 
opposed to the cost of repairs made in this claim. 
Mr and Mrs T have also questioned the witness statement. Theyve said its false. But I note 
that Mr T admitted liability when contacted by Haven. And this means the witness statement 
doesnt matter. The fact that Mr T has admitted liability supersedes any witness statements 
that may be available. Mr and Mrs T also raise the question about whether it was legal to 
carry out the repairs without the consent of the person responsible. But these repairs were 
carried out by the third-party insurer in its responsibility via its contract of insurance with the 
third-party. So, Haven had no control over this. The only way Haven couldve had any 
control over the repairs was if Mr T had reported the incident. But unfortunately, Mr T didnt 
do this at the time. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs T are going to be disappointed with the outcome in this decision. 
But Haven were placed in a position where it had no choice but to pay the claim as 
submitted through no fault of its own. So, I dont believe Haven has done anything wrong by 
paying this claim.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman