DRN-4082238
The complaint
Mr M on behalf of P (a limited company) complains that Barclays Bank Plc has treated it 
unfairly in relation to information it has recorded against it. 
While this is Ps complaint, for ease of read I will mostly refer to its representative and 
director, Mr M.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on Ps complaint. I invited both parties to let me have any 
further evidence and comments by 13 April 2023. I have set out below what I said. 
What happened
P applied for a commercial credit card on 6 May 2021 however the application was declined. 
He looked into this and noted there was a marker recorded with CIFAS (a national fraud 
prevention database). He got that marker removed in July 2021. But noted that Barclays had 
also recorded a Refer marker with National Hunter (another fraud prevention database) as 
a result of the credit card application P had made.
Mr M tried to get this marker removed because he didnt think it should have been put there 
however he says that Barclays wouldnt engage with him. He says that what was a fairly 
straight forward matter became bigger than it needed to, causing hardship both for him 
personally and P. He told Barclays that a re-examination of his credit file and CIFAS records 
should now highlight the marker was a mistake as everything else was pristine. 
Barclays said that another application could be submitted in six-months but an appeal in 
relation to the original application was now out of time. Mr M escalated this as a complaint 
because he didnt think this resolved things insofar as the marker was concerned. He also 
referred the complaint to us and explained hed been the victim of identity fraud in the past 
and connected to that had been an adverse fraud marker with CIFAS that had been put 
there in 2019.
Barclays said that it had declined Ps application and recorded the marker with National 
Hunter based on the category 6 marker (a misuse of facility) that its searches had returned. 
So, it didnt believe it had made an error. It said Mr M had told it that the category 6 marker 
was a mistake, but it hadnt seen anything to support this. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and recommended it be upheld. In 
summary, he said, Barclays should remove the marker it had placed with National Hunter 
because hed seen evidence that the marker with CIFAS was a protective registration. He 
said this and other evidence supplied by Mr M supported he had been the victim of identity 
fraud where a category 6 marker had been placed previously but shouldnt have been. He 
sent Barclays a copy of this information to review and recommended it review the approach 
it had taken. But he told P he wouldnt be awarding any compensation because it hadnt 
been declined for credit because of the marker on National Hunter.
Mr M responded to say that while Barclays may remove the marker against P, he was 
concerned that it wouldnt do so against him personally and the record had named him as 
Ps director. 
The investigator explained that in removing the entry against P he was satisfied this would 
remove the whole record, including reference to Mr M as a director. Mr M didnt accept this, 
including some of the other observations the investigator had made. He said, P hadnt 
applied for further credit for fear of being declined because of Barclays entry. This was a 
consequence of its actions and a detriment which needed to be considered when assessing 
the complaint and compensation.
Our investigator didnt change his mind  he didnt think any inconvenience P experienced 
was material to warrant an award of compensation. He went onto explain that Mr Ms own 
complaint wasnt within the scope of our jurisdiction because P was the eligible complainant 
under our rules and not Mr M. Mr M disagreed  he said this situation with Barclays had 
affected him personally. 
P asked that the case be passed to an ombudsman for review. 
Barclays didnt respond to the investigators view.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ps complaint 
In its submissions to us Barclays said that it declined Ps application because of a category 6 
marker. Ive reviewed the CIFAS report Mr M has provided from July 2021 and the filing 
related to a protective registration made on 22 October 2019. The relevant extract on the 
report goes onto say this:
Protective registration  victims of a fraud or crime who suffer the loss or theft of personal 
identification details may seek to have their identification details registered with Cifas or this 
could be registered by organisations following a data breach. Protective Registrations are 
not records of actual or attempted fraud, but act as a precautionary measures for individuals 
who believe their identity details are at risk. 
Mr M also provided information from a third partys legal department from August 2021 
confirming it had previously recorded a category 6 marker back in 2019, but acknowledged it 
shouldnt have and that Mr P had placed a protective registration around the same time 
because hed been a victim rather than perpetrator in relation to what had happened. This 
information was also sent to Barclays. 
Having reviewed things, I asked Barclays a number of months ago to provide some further 
information but despite multiple chasers and escalations, it hasnt responded. Nor did it 
choose to respond to the investigator opinion letter. This is extremely disappointing and adds 
weight to Ps testimony on the inconvenience it experienced in trying to get this matter 
resolved, without proper engagement from the bank. Based on the available evidence, I 
agree with the view our investigator took, which is Im not persuaded theres a valid and 
proper basis for the bank to maintain the marker with National Hunter and so it should be 
remove. It follows that I intend to require Barclays to take steps to delete this record in its 
entirety. But I will also require it to pay compensation to P for the inconvenience caused and 
I will say more about this below. Ive considered what Mr M has said about the impact this had on P. He says that the 
business was effectively paralysed, meaning it was too scared to apply for credit for fear of 
being rejected. I can, in certain circumstances, require a bank to pay compensation for 
actual or prospective loss. But to do so I need to be satisfied not just that such losses were 
possible, but that they were reasonably likely to be incurred. Looking at what has been 
provided in this respect, I find theres insufficient evidence in support of such a claim. 
P is a legal entity rather than a natural person. As such, it cant suffer distress. Nevertheless, 
it can be caused inconvenience by the banks actions. And thats whats happened here. 
Having looked at everything, I can see that the original issue and Barclays lack of 
engagement to resolve this once further information was provided has exacerbated the initial 
inconvenience caused to P. Barclays should have listened to what P was saying and looked 
at the marker - it had several opportunities to review its approach to this. Having weighed 
things up, I intend to require Barclays to pay £400 for the impact this has had. I think this 
would be a fair and reasonable way to resolve the complaint in addition to the deletion.
I provisionally decided that I would uphold Ps complaint and require Barclays to: 
- delete in its entirely the marker on the National Hunter database in relation to P; and 
- pay P £400 for the inconvenience caused.
Mr M responded on behalf of P to say that he didnt have anything material to add though he 
would like a letter from Barclays to confirm it had dealt with the marker on National Hunter 
and he was happy for me to only consider Ps complaint. 
Barclays responded to say that it accepted my provisional decision. It said it had added an 
entry to say clear rather than  suspicious and it would pay the compensation to P by 
cheque if P could provide an address for it. I asked Barclays why it couldnt delete the record 
and only mark it as clear. It said, it didnt have capability to delete a record with National 
Hunter though its fraud department could raise this in specific circumstances. Overall, it 
didnt think the entry as it stood now, as clear and as a genuine application would cause P 
any problems as a result of Barclays actions. 
It said it would pay the £400 compensation to P if an address could be provided. 
In addition to this, Barclays mentioned there was another entry on National Hunter though 
not one it had recorded. I asked our investigator to let Mr M know about this. Mr M 
responded to say that he didnt believe there was a separate entry by another business. 
Rather, the entry Barclays had recorded against P, referenced him as director so these were 
two entries/submissions.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings on Ps complaint 
For the avoidance of doubt my final findings here only relate to Ps complaint. 
Barclays mentioned there was another entry but not one it had recorded. I arranged for this 
information to be passed to Mr M so that he could look into this separately if he so wished. 
Mr M says that he doesnt believe there is another entry by someone else. Hes pointed to the National Hunter entry he obtained at the start of his complaint and feels this is two 
entries and both by Barclays. I have reviewed the information.  The entry comprises two 
pages (1 of 2 and 2 of 2) but is a single submission relating to a single applicant, P. Barclays 
has also confirmed this. 
Moving on, I remain of the view that Barclays failed to treat P fairly once it was presented 
with further information. Given neither party has provided anything persuasive to dispute my 
provisional conclusions on Ps complaint, I adopt my provisional decision in full as part of this 
final decision. Though I do need to address how Barclays should put things right. 
I appreciate Barclays has taken steps to mark the entry as clear of any fraud markers but I 
had required it be deleted in order to resolve the complaint and I havent changed my mind 
on that. Ive not seen anything persuasive to say its impossible to delete the record and as 
such thats what I will be requiring. Any initial adverse information loaded with CIFAS that 
Barclays said it relied on shouldnt have been there according to the third-party evidence I 
considered. So, I think looking at all the circumstances, its reasonable Barclays deletes the 
National Hunter marker in order to bring this complaint to a satisfactory resolution thats fair.  
P has requested a letter to confirm the actions Barclays will take in relation to National 
Hunter. Theres no reason why Barclays cant send P a letter confirming what steps its 
taken in relation to National Hunter as part of the overall settlement to resolve the complaint 
(as directed and once this has been carried out). Our investigator will also provide Barclays 
with an address of where to send P its cheque.
In closing, this now brings to an end what our service can do to assist P. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank Plc to:
- delete the whole submission it made on the National Hunter database in relation to P; 
- send P a letter to confirm the steps its taken in relation to the deletion on National Hunter; 
and 
- pay P £400 for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman