DRN-2809676
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct), trading as very, 
didnt explain how interest would be charged on her account balance.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Shop Direct, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Fs account explained:
BNPL (Buy Now Pay Later) allows you to delay paying for certain transactions for up to 12 
calendar months.
With BNPL, interest is calculated from date of order, compounded every 28 days during
the delayed payment period (so you are charged interest on interest) and will be applied
to your account as a lump sum immediately after the delayed payment period ends. This
lump sum will attract further interest going forwards, meaning you will be charged
interest on interest.
You can avoid paying any interest on your BNPL transaction by paying off the full cost of
the transaction before the end of the delayed payment period.
Mrs Fs account statements reminded her of the interest that would be due. Each monthly 
statement included a line that said, you can avoid the interest on this Buy Now Pay Later 
Item estimated at £430.19 by paying the balance by 27 March 20120.
And, in February 2020, the statement explained your delayed payment period is ending 
soon. Estimated interest for the entire delayed payment period is £430.19 and you can 
avoid interest by paying the balance.
So, I think Shop Direct were very clear about what interest would be applied and when it 
would be due.
But when Mrs F chatted with them on line I think the information they provided was 
misleading. The agent gave inaccurate information, telling Mrs F that interest is added 
based on the balance remaining.
I understand Mrs F would like Shop Direct to waive all of the interest to reflect the misleading 
information she was given but I dont think that would be fair. I think Shop Direct had, until 
that point, been very clear about the interest that would be due.
Putting things right
In the circumstances I think Shop Direct should pay Mrs F £150 to compensate her for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the misleading information given by their agent but 
Im not asking them to waive any interest due as I think that liability had been made clear in 
the terms and in their subsequent account statements.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited to pay Mrs F £150 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience 
shes been caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman