DRN-4123767
The complaint
Mrs A and Miss A say money was stolen from their savings account and complain that 
Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) wont refund it.
What happened
Mrs A and Miss A hold a savings account with Nationwide which has a passbook. The 
passbook is updated each time it is presented in branch, with any transactions that have 
been made since it was last presented. Mrs A and Miss A say that during the Covid 
pandemic, they were told by Nationwide to use their banking app as they wouldnt be able to 
take the passbook into a branch  which they did.
In December 2021, they checked their savings account balance on the banking app and say 
it was just over £50,000. However, when they took the passbook into a Nationwide branch 
the next day to update it, a number of debits were added to the book which they say they 
didnt make, and which dropped the balance by nearly £5,000. Mrs A and Miss A believe the 
money debited from their account was taken by Nationwide in error.
Mrs A and Miss A reported the issue to Nationwide, who declined to refund them saying the 
transactions were genuine transfers to another account that had been completed since 
theyd last updated their passbook. 
Mrs A and Miss A werent happy with Nationwides response, so they brought a complaint to 
our service. As part of their complaint to us, Mrs A and Miss A also complained that 
Nationwide hadnt provided any evidence or findings as a result of their investigation. They 
also werent happy with how Nationwide dealt with them, saying they were uncaring and 
lacked any concern about the anxiety theyd experienced.
An investigator looked into Mrs A and Miss As complaint but didnt uphold it, saying they 
thought the transactions were genuine. They explained that the transactions showed on the 
bank account statement and had happened over a four week period.
Mrs A and Miss A disagreed with the investigators opinion suggesting that Nationwide were 
complicit in the funds that had been removed from their savings account.
As the case couldnt be resolved it was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Having reviewed the bank statements for Mrs A and Miss As savings account, I can see that 
on 6 September 2021 it had a balance of £50,300. Between 6 September 2021 and 30 
December 2021, there were 12 transfers out of the savings account to another Nationwide 
account which totalled £5,003.14. This meant that on 30 December 2021, the savings 
account balance was £45,396.86. 
I appreciate that Mrs A and Miss A are adamant that when they checked the account 
balance the day prior to the passbook being updated it showed a higher balance than their 
bank statement suggests. However, based on what Ive seen, Im not satisfied that any funds 
have been removed from their account in error. 
Im unable to verify what balance they saw, and its possible that there couldve been an 
error in the banking app, however that doesnt mean Mrs A and Miss A are entitled to be 
refunded for genuine transactions that have been made on the account. And, I havent seen 
anything that suggests funds were debited from their account when the passbook was 
updated or immediately prior to it being updated. From what Ive seen Im satisfied that the 
transfers made out of the account occurred between 6 September and 30 December, so I 
cant agree that Nationwide have made an error.
Its also important to note that the transfers Mrs A and Miss A are disputing, were made to 
an existing payee. Funds were transferred out of this joint savings to the same 
account/payee the month prior to these disputed transactions, and also multiple times after 
the disputed transactions. Based on this, I think its most likely that these transfers were 
made by one of the account signatories, so I cant fairly ask Nationwide to refund them.
Mrs A and Miss A are upset that Nationwide didnt share any evidence with them following 
the investigation into their fraud claim. However, the information that Ive relied on in 
reaching my answer, is shown on the bank account statements which Mrs A and Miss A 
have access to. I havent seen anything that suggests Nationwide have relied on information 
that they shouldve shared with Mrs A or Miss A, or information that was needed for Mrs A or 
Miss A to challenge the outcome Nationwide reached.
Mrs A and Miss A have also raised concerns about how Nationwide has dealt with them in 
relation to the disputed transactions, saying they experienced an unexpected shock when 
the passbook was updated and the balance was significantly lower than they expected. They 
feel the branch staff werent sympathetic and didnt care about the distress they 
experienced. As I cant see that Nationwide has made any error in the updating of their 
passbook, I cant fairly hold them responsible for the distress Mrs A and Miss A experienced 
in this situation. I wouldve expected Nationwide to be emphatic to Mrs A and Miss A, which I 
felt they were when Mrs A and Miss A rang to log their complaint. Im sorry if Mrs A and  
Miss A arent happy with how Nationwide handled the situation, but Im not satisfied that I 
can fairly make a compensation award in these circumstances.
I realise that Mrs A and Miss A are going to be very disappointed with the answer Ive 
reached, but I cant see that Nationwide has made an error in updating their passbook or 
that I can fairly ask Nationwide to refund them for the transactions theyre disputing.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Miss A 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman