DRN-3458317
The complaint
Mr A complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a curtailment claim he 
made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 8 July 2021, Mr A booked a trip abroad to a country Ill call J. He and another family 
member were due to fly from the UK to another country from where they were due to take a 
connecting flight on to J. On 9 July 2021, Mr A took out a single trip travel insurance policy 
through a broker to cover the holiday.
Mr A and his travelling companion were able to take the first leg of their outbound flight from 
the UK as planned on 17 July 2021. However, they were denied boarding onto the second 
leg of their flight to J. Thats because they didnt have the correct Covid-19 test required by 
the airline. So Mr A and his family member had to cut short their trip and return to the UK 
several days earlier than theyd planned. Mr A made a claim on the travel insurance policy 
for the costs associated with the curtailment of the holiday.
Great Lakes turned down Mr As claim. It said the circumstances werent covered by the 
curtailment section of the policy. And while the policy did provide some cover for claims 
caused by Covid-19, there was no cover for claims caused by the denial of boarding due to a 
policyholder not having the right Covid-19 test. 
Mr A was unhappy with Great Lakes decision. He said he mightve had a temperature over 
38 degrees, which meant he mightve been covered under the Covid-19 section of the policy. 
So he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr As complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that Mr As 
claim was covered by any of the policy terms. He also thought that the policy specifically 
excluded cover for Mr As situation. And he didnt think there was any evidence to suggest 
that Mr A had had a temperature or that hed been suffering from Covid-19. So he felt itd 
been fair for Great Lakes to turn down Mr As claim.
Mr A disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr A, I think it was fair for Great Lakes to turn 
down his claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr As policy and the circumstances of his claim, to decide whether Great Lakes 
treated him fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr As policy, as these form the basis of his 
contract with Great Lakes. As Mr As trip had already begun at the time he was denied 
boarding on to the second leg of his flight, I think it was reasonable for Great Lakes to 
conclude that the trip had been curtailed. This means I think Great Lakes was entitled to 
consider the claim under the Cutting Short your Trip and Trip Interruption section of the 
policy. This section sets out the specific, defined events Great Lakes covers in the event a 
policyholder has to cut short their trip. These are:
Cutting short your trip
a) an unforeseen illness, injury or death of you, a close relative, travelling companion or 
any person with whom you have arranged to stay during the trip.
b) you or any person with whom you plan to travel being called up for Jury Service or
being summoned as a witness in a Court of Law (other than in a professional, or 
advisory capacity).
c) accidental damage, burglary, flooding or fire affecting your home, occurring during 
your trip, when the loss relating to your home is in excess of £1,500 or your presence 
is required by the Police in connection with such events.
Trip Interruption
a) the death, imminent demise, or hospitalisation due to serious accident or illness, of a 
close relative;
b) accidental damage, burglary, flooding or fire affecting your home during your trip, 
when the loss relating to your home is in excess of £1,500 or your presence is 
required by the Police in connection with such events.
Mr A told Great Lakes that his trip had had to be cut short because hed been denied 
boarding for the second leg of his flight to J, as he didnt have the right Covid-19 test. This 
isnt something which is covered by the curtailment and trip interruption section of the policy. 
So I dont think Great Lakes acted unfairly when it concluded that Mr As claim wasnt 
covered by this section of the contract.
The policy does include a specific Covid-19 section, which provides extended cover for 
claims caused by Covid-19 in certain, defined situations. Great Lakes has provided Covid-19 
cover for a policyholder cutting short their trip as a result of:
a)  the death as a result of COVID-19, of a close relative or a member of your 
household living in the United Kingdom.
b) the hospitalisation as a result of COVID-19 for treatment with mechanical ventilation, 
of a close relative or a member of your household living in the United Kingdom.
c) you are unable to continue with a pre-booked excursion following your self-isolation 
as ordered by a relevant Government authority due to contracting COVID-19.
I think that Great Lakes has clearly set out the extended Covid-19 curtailment cover offered 
by the contract. And its clear that Mr A didnt cut short his trip for any of the circumstances 
Great Lakes has chosen to cover under this section of the policy. 
The extended cancellation provisions state that Great Lakes will cover the following:
you are denied boarding on your pre-booked outbound travel due to you contracting COVID-
19, or having a confirmed temperature above 38 degrees Celsius.
As Mr As trip wasnt cancelled, I dont think this clause could fairly be applied to his claim. 
But even if this term did apply to curtailment claims, whilst Mr A has speculated that he may 
have had a temperature of over 38 degrees at the time of boarding, theres no available medical evidence to support this or to show that he had Covid-19. Instead, based on what 
Mr A told Great Lakes when he first made the claim, it seems he was denied boarding 
because he hadnt had the relevant Covid-19 test. As such then, I dont think it was unfair for 
Great Lakes to conclude that Mr As claim wasnt covered by the Covid-19 section of the 
policy either.
Id add too that the policy also sets out a list of specific things which Great Lakes has chosen 
not to cover. One of these is:
Claims arising from, or related to any coronavirus including but not limited to COVID-19, or 
any related/mutated form of the virus unless specifically listed as covered by this policy.
In this case, Mr As claim was related to Covid-19, but as Ive set out above, it wasnt 
covered by either the curtailment section of the policy or the Covid-19 section. So I think this 
exclusion clause could also fairly be applied to the circumstances of Mr As claim. And 
having carefully considered the remaining sections of the policy, I dont think there is any 
section which covers the situation Mr A found himself in.
Overall then, whilst I sympathise with Mr As position, as I appreciate hes been left out of 
pocket, I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could direct Great Lakes 
to pay this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman