DRN-3543542
The complaint
Ms R complains that Society of Lloyds (SOL) has unfairly handled a subsidence claim 
under her buildings insurance policy.
Any reference to Ms R or SOL includes any respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this claim is well known to all parties. So, Ive summarised events.
Ms R holds buildings insurance with SOL. In October 2019 she reported subsidence 
damage to SOL, and it appointed agents to investigate.
A report from November 2019 confirmed subsidence and recommended further 
investigations. These were carried out, and vegetation was removed in March 2020. 
Shortly after, the Covid-19 pandemic lockdown began.
Around October 2020, Ms R appointed her own expert who said the most appropriate 
repair method for the property would be underpinning.
Ms R raised several complaints throughout the claim. Following some back and forth, 
SOL agreed to remove one of its agents from the claim. And it appointed new agents 
to oversee the claim going forward and consider the evidence presented by Ms R. 
SOL said the level of inspection was proportionate to the circumstances but agreed it 
had taken longer than expected, awarding £50 in compensation.
The complaint came to our Service. Ms R said SOL should underpin her property. It 
should also settle various costs for tree removal and a pathway. She also wanted her 
excess removed and to premiums to be refunded, and said the premiums should be 
frozen at the cost prior to the claim as compensation for its mistakes.
Our Investigator looked into what happened and upheld the complaint. She outlined 
she could only consider up until the events of October 2020. 
oRepairs - she felt it was fair for SOL to appoint a new agent to consider the 
best method of repair following receipt of Ms Rs expert opinion conflicting 
with its own.
oClaim costs, excess and premiums  she said SOL should review invoices for 
tree removal and pathway in line with its policy. She said a policy excess and 
premiums were payable in the event of a valid claim  so applied in these 
circumstances. And that insurance premiums may be affected by a claim. 
oClaims handling  she said it appeared SOL took too long to establish the 
cause of the subsidence and take action. So, she was satisfied SOL had 
caused unnecessary delays. She considered the impact on Ms R directly, and 
said it should award £350 in total compensation.
Ms R disagreed providing a detailed response. She said the impact of SOLs poor 
handling hadnt been fully considered, taking into account Ms R had to use her own 
savings for works earlier in the claim and having to pay higher premiums. She asked 
for higher compensation for the impact and said this Service should consider the 
claim in its entirety beyond October 2020.
SOL also disagreed, providing further details of events within the claim timeline and 
position on costs. It said the removal of trees wasnt covered by the policy as it was a 
preventative measure not caused by the damage, and it said its loss adjuster would 
assess if the pathway was caused by subsidence.
Our Investigator looked again, reiterating the timeframe she could consider. 
oClaim costs - She said the removal of the trees appeared necessary in 
achieving an effective and lasting repair, so SOL should consider the invoice 
in line with the remaining policy terms. And it was fair for SOLs adjuster to 
consider how the pathway was damaged before determining if these costs 
were covered.
oClaims handling  the Investigator listed a detailed timeline of events between 
October 2019 and October 2020 and said she felt the progress was 
reasonable. So, she wasnt asking it to do anything further.
Ms R requested the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman, so it has been 
passed to me. Ms R has also provided more recent details of the claim since it has 
been with this Service, and the impact of it not being resolved.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
At the time Ms R brought her complaint to this Service, the claim was ongoing. As our 
Investigator has outlined, under this complaint reference I will consider the events between 
October 2019 and October 2020 in light of the date she complained to SOL. 
While I understand Ms R would prefer for us to consider everything that has happened since, 
this simply isnt possible. So, if Ms R would like this Service to consider the events that 
followed, she would first need to bring the complaint to SOL.
Repairs
SOL has accepted the subsidence claim for Ms Rs property. Here, the remaining 
dispute is how to put things right. Ms Rs expert has put forward that the property 
should be underpinned. SOLs previous expert had said that removing vegetation 
would stabilise the property.
SOL agreed to reconsider the type of repair in light of the evidence Ms R presented. 
And it said it would instruct another expert to provide an opinion in light of the 
conflicting views. I think this is reasonable. I say this as underpinning a property may 
be a solution that brings stability to the property, but it may not be the only way of 
achieving this and it is an expensive method. 
Insurers consider costs when deciding how to repair or settle a claim. And this in 
itself isnt unfair, and I dont think its unreasonable to expect insurers to be prudent 
when making this kind of decision. However, in handling a claim and considering 
costs an insurer cannot lose sight of its obligations under the policy  and this is to 
ensure an effective and lasting repair. 
So, in these circumstances and based on the information SOL had at the time, Im satisfied its decision to appoint another expert to review the claim was reasonable.
Claim costs, excess and premiums 
SOL has an obligation to provide an effective and lasting repair. In this case, it seems 
theres no dispute that the trees were removed to try to achieve stability. When 
handling a claim of this nature, an insurer wont be able to complete an effective and 
lasting repair without stopping the current subsidence movement first.
This means, if the implicated vegetation that was causing the subsidence wasnt 
repaired, the repairs wouldnt be effective or lasting as movement would still be 
occurring. So, in this instance, Id expect SOL to have paid for the removal of the 
implicated vegetation, so it could then repair the damage to the property. So, I direct 
SOL to consider the invoice for vegetation works in line with the policy terms. 
SOL agreed to consider the pathway and said it would need to determine if the 
damage (and in turn, the repairs) were related to subsidence or if tree roots had lifted 
the pathway. Ive been given no expert opinion from Ms R or elsewhere that satisfies 
me this was caused by subsidence  so I think the steps SOL has taken to assess 
this before agreeing to pay any related costs is reasonable.
A policy excess is the first part of a claim that the consumer has to pay. This is part 
and parcel of an insurance claim of this nature. So, Im satisfied its fair for SOL to 
charge this.
Ms R has suggested SOL should refund premiums due to the poor service shes 
received. And that it should reduce premiums charged to reflect its mistakes in 
compensation. I disagree for the reasons given in this decision.
As our Investigator has outlined, it doesnt appear a concern about the cost of policy 
premiums was raised with SOL. So, if Ms R believes her premiums have been 
unfairly priced, I will leave this with her to raise with SOL in the first instance. I would 
comment that premiums will often increase following a claim  which may reflect an 
insurers increased risk. 
Claims handling
After Ms R contacted SOL to make a claim in October 2019, it carried out an 
inspection within a reasonable time and in November 2019 said the most likely cause 
of the subsidence was vegetation. After Ms R gave authority for site investigations (in 
December 2019) these proceeded and in January 2020 it told her trees would need 
to be removed. 
Ms R wanted to hold off removing the trees until lab tests were received. These 
arrived in February 2020 and were shared with her following questions she raised in 
March 2020. In July 2020 Ms R told SOL the relevant trees had been removed. 
Following this, the works went to tender, and Ms R was told works would likely begin 
a few months after. There was some back and forth about which company Ms R 
wished to use to complete the works and in August 2020 she put forward an 
alternative contractor who could begin soon after. SOL agreed to this and the works 
commenced in September 2020.
I note Ms Rs representative has listed delays based on timeframes they believe SOL 
shouldve acted to  Ive taken this into account when considering this. But much of 
this appears based on their belief SOL shouldve underpinned from an early stage, 
which Ive explained I dont think was necessary.
Taking it all into account, Im satisfied SOL mostly acted within a reasonable timeframe and kept Ms R updated across this time - particularly against the backdrop 
of the Covid-19 restrictions. I recognise in places service couldve been better, but 
Im satisfied the £50 in compensation SOL has already awarded is proportionate to 
any service issues experienced and its direct impact on Ms R. 
So, Im not going to make any direction for delays or service as I dont think there 
were any that would justify or necessitate a further compensatory award.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im upholding this complaint.
I direct Society of Lloyd's to reconsider the invoice for vegetation works in line with the 
remaining policy terms. If this is settled, it should award 8% simple interest on top of this 
payment from the date of the invoice until it is paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman