DRN-3371684
The complaint
Mr C complains about the extension of his hire agreement with RCI Financial Services 
Limited (RCI). He says a care package should have been included in that extension and he 
also complains about the addition of a charge for brake sensors.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr C, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Im not persuaded RCI have done anything wrong here. The initial agreement and the 
extension to that agreement were on the same terms but the care package was never 
financed through the hire agreement and neither were any brake sensors.
It therefore wouldnt be fair to hold RCI responsible for any loss of cover or concerns over 
the sensors. Thats something Mr C would need to take up with the dealer who appear to 
have organised those separately.
I can see that there were delays in the business responding to Mr Cs complaint, but I dont 
think hes suffered financially as a result. Had the business explained that he wouldnt 
continue to benefit from the care package when they agreed to extend his finance I think it's 
likely Mr C would have paid separately for an extension to that package. And as the 
business have been willing to cancel any damage charges he would not have needed to rely 
on that package and hes therefore been inadvertently spared the cost.
Mr C has raised some further issues that are not matters RCI have been alerted to. Its only 
fair that they are allowed an opportunity to respond to any concerns Mr C has so hell need 
to refer any further complaints to RCI first. If he remains dissatisfied with their response he 
may be able to escalate those complaints, at a later stage, to this service.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman