DRN-2903267
The complaint
Mrs F has complained about National House-Building Councils (NHBCs) handling of a 
claim she made under her NHBC Buildmark warranty for defects with the waterproofing at 
a property she owns.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in March 2021, an extract of which is 
attached and forms part of this final decision. I set out the background to Mrs Fs 
complaint in my provisional decision, so I wont repeat that information here.
In my provisional decision, I said I was intending to uphold Mrs Fs complaint, in part. I was 
minded to direct NHBC to recalculate its cash settlement offer in line with the costs 
supplied by Mrs Fs chartered surveyor  with the exception of the below costs which I said 
it should amend to reflect the next highest cost quoted by NHBC or its contractors:
Replacement woodwork not already accounted for in its schedule (kitchen 
and bathroom units, internal doors etc)
Costs for the works to radiators
Costs for the temporary fencing
The supply and fit of rigid board underlay
The extra allowance to remove the stairs during waterproofing
I said the cost of the waterproofing works should be based on the independent 
contractors quote.
I said NHBC should also add £1,000 for building regulation, and £170 for COVID 
measures in line with its improved offer. And that it should add 10% to the total amount as 
a contingency for unforeseen costs/works required. It should also be prepared to 
reconsider this amount, subject to evidence proving that it was materially insufficient to 
complete the works required.
I said NHBC may limit its settlement to 37.5% for the common parts areas.
Were this to result in a lower offer than that already made by NHBC, I said it should 
honour its original offer instead.
I also said NHBC should increase the total compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused Mrs F to £3,000.
I asked both sides to provide any further comments or evidence they wanted me to 
review before I reached my final decision.
Both sides responded with further comments and evidence for me to consider. To 
briefly summarise the key points raised:
NHBC
Accepted the additional £1,000 compensation
Agreed to recalculate its settlement offer in line with my provisional decision
Didnt agree that it should be required to pay both a 10% contingency and be 
prepared to consider additional works over and above that amount. It said the 
10% contingency could leave Mrs F with a cash surplus if it was more than 
sufficient to cover the additional works. It said it would agree to either a 
contingency amount, or to consider additional works required over and above 
the settlement amount.
Mrs F
Mrs F said she is the only party who bears no responsibility for the issues at 
the property. My provisional decision is unfair as it leaves her without enough 
funds to complete all the necessary repairs and having to rely on the builder to 
cover his share.
NHBC should cover all of the works in order to deliver a lasting and effective 
repair, and then seek to recover its costs from the builder as it has the funds 
and power to do so.
Im incorrect to suggest that the other two flats in the building dont have 
NHBC warranties.
There were several issues with NHBCs scope of works which demonstrate that it 
shouldnt be relied on, such as its failure to price for the correct tiles or the 
removal of electrics.
NHBCs scope of works includes several miscalculations or incorrect 
applications of the 37.5% common parts reduction.
The photos Ive relied on are out of date.
Its unfair to rely on NHBCs costs for the tanking works because the works will 
likely have to be carried out in two stages  flat then common parts  but the 
quote assumes the works can be done together. Also, the quote is lower than 
those provided by her contractor and chartered surveyor and is three years old 
and so likely out of date.
Mrs F believes that VAT is a fixed percentage which will be payable on all the 
works, so theres no fair justification for allowing NHBC to withhold it from the 
initial settlement amount.
Mrs F told NHBC that the flat had previously been rented in 2016, but it 
conveniently hasnt been able to obtain those call recordings. Had it have 
updated its records then the builder wouldnt have become obstructive and the 
claim could have progressed more quickly.
Due to NHBC incorrectly supporting the builders assertion that the bathroom 
was to blame for the issues, they had to spend money unnecessarily on retiling 
the bathroom.
The compensation suggested in my provisional decision is nowhere near 
sufficient to cover Mrs Fs financial losses or the distress and inconvenience she 
has experienced.Mrs F also provided further evidence from her chartered surveyor offering additional 
comment on some of his figures. She also provided evidence from local estate agents to 
show that she had looked into renting the property during the life of the claim and that 
those agents agree the property was unlettable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered all of the additional evidence and arguments provided by both 
sides. Where Ive reached a finding that differs from my provisional decision, I have already 
shared this with both parties and considered their responses before moving forward with 
this final decision.
Mrs F has raised many arguments and asked many questions as part of her response to 
my provisional decision. I dont intend to answer or respond to them all individually. Instead, 
as I did in my provisional decision, Ill focus on what I believe to be the key points relevant 
to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this complaint. This isnt 
intended to be a discourtesy to Mrs F, rather it reflects the informal nature of our service 
and my role within it.
As I see it, the key points I need to answer in this final decision remain broadly the same 
as those addressed in my provisional decision. Namely:
The scope of works to be completed and the cost
Loss of rent, loss of use and alternative accommodation
Delays and compensation
However, unlike in my provisional decision, I will consider the scope of works to 
be completed and the cost under several subsections:
Contingency amount
Common parts
Disputed items on scope of works
VAT
Cash settlement to be paid
Contingency amount
In response to my provisional decision, NHBC said there would be no merit in directing it 
to pay a contingency sum and to also expect it to consider works over and above that 
sum. It has since indicated that it would be prepared to consider amounts over and above 
the contingency sum if Mrs F first provides a full breakdown of what the contingency sum 
has been used for.
However, Id clarify that the reason I suggested the contingency amount is because I think 
its likely that there will be some additional claim related damage discovered once the 
works commence, and I dont think it would be fair for Mrs F to have to bare any of the 
costs which ought to be covered under her claim simply because NHBC has elected to 
cash settle. I appreciate there is a possibility that the contingency may be more than 
sufficient, but equally there is a possibility that it will be less so. Its for this reason that I 
remain of the view that NHBC should be prepared to consider paying further costs if Mrs F can evidence that the contingency sum was insufficient to cover the additional claim related 
costs she has to pay.
I think NHBCs position that it would require a full breakdown of what the contingency 
sum was used for before considering costs over and above that amount is fair and 
reasonable.
Common parts
Mrs F remains of the view that its unfair for NHBC to limit the settlement amount to only 
cover 37.5% of the works required to the common parts. She says the defect in common 
parts is contributing to the damage to her flat, and so no lasting and effective repair can 
be achieved without completing 100% of the works to both the flat and the common parts.
Mrs F has again referred to a similar decision issued by our service on a complaint with 
broadly similar circumstances. She says this decision shows that the most important 
consideration should be achieving a lasting and effective repair. She says its unfair that 
the precedent set by this decision is ignored.
As I explained in my provisional decision, our service looks at each case on its 
own individual merits  as opposed to considering alleged precedent set by 
decisions on complaints with similar, although not exactly the same, 
circumstances.
In this case, there are three flats in Mrs Fs building  her own ground floor flat, and two 
first floor flats. These flats are owned by the NHBC registered builder. In my provisional 
decision I said these flats did not have NHBC policies attached to them. Mrs F has argued 
thats incorrect and has supplied evidence that the builder did obtain policies for these 
flats.
Ive thought carefully about the additional evidence and arguments supplied by Mrs F here. 
I think it would be helpful to explain that NHBC Buildmark warranties are typically 
purchased by a builder when constructing a new build. The bulk of the protection offered by 
the warranty is designed to pass from the builder to the first buyer, following completion of 
their purchase of the property. A builder cannot retain the property/properties and claim 
under section 3 against defects in his own work. Its for this reason that while I accept there 
are, in theory, two policies covering the upstairs flats, they are not active as neither flat has 
been purchased from the original builder. This means NHBC is unable to cover all of the 
works to the common parts under the three combined warranties.
Based on the evidence in this case I accept that a defect exists (both in Mrs Fs flat and in 
the communal hallway) and that it has caused damage. This is something that is covered 
by Mrs Fs warranty and this isnt disputed by NHBC. But NHBCs policy is clear about how 
it may handle claims for common parts issues, as I highlighted in my provisional decision. 
That is, that it will only cover the warranty holder for their proportion of liability for the state 
of repair of the common parts.
Mrs F has argued that it would be fairer for NHBC to complete 100% of the works and then 
seek to recover its costs from the builder. Otherwise she says she may be forced to carry 
out works to the flat in isolation, which will likely result in the damage reoccurring which 
NHBC would then refuse to cover again. She says she has no way of ensuring that the 
builder will complete his part of the works without having to incur further legal expenses.
In my view any potential dispute, over the remaining costs, for repairs to the common parts 
essentially boils down to a civil matter between Mrs F and the builder  ie a leaseholder and her freeholder. The Buildmark warranty does not provide cover for legal expenses to 
fund civil disputes between leaseholders and their freeholders. NHBC has also pointed out 
that in 2018 the builder confirmed he was prepared to cover his share of the damage to the 
common parts as well as any further reasonable costs he would be responsible for. He only 
disputed his liability for damage to Mrs Fs flat  which he said was caused by her 
alterations to the shower. NHBC says there is no evidence to suggest the builders position 
on this aspect has changed.
Ultimately, I dont think NHBC has a responsibility under the policy to do more than what it 
is offering to do  pay a cash settlement equal to the cost of 100% of the repairs to Mrs Fs 
flat and her proportion (37.5%) of repairs to the common parts. Thats because this will be 
sufficient to deliver a lasting and effective repair, subject to the builder (freeholder) covering 
his share of the common parts repairs. I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to direct 
NHBC to cover the builders liability when this isnt something it is required to do under the 
terms of the policy.
It follows that my finding here is the same as I reached in my provisional decision  that 
its fair for NHBC to limit the settlement for the common parts to 37.5% of the total costs 
of repairs to that area.
Disputed items on scope of works
Mrs F has raised several points of concern about my directed settlement. She says I 
have wrongly placed equal weight on the quotes of her chartered surveyor and those of 
NHBC and its contractors.
I should clarify here that rather than placing equal weight on the chartered surveyors 
costs with any of NHBCs individual quotes, it was the weight of the other three quotes 
together that persuaded me that some of the chartered surveyors costs were too high. 
Despite this, my provisional finding was that, for the majority of the cost items, it was fair 
for NHBC to base its settlement amount on the costs supplied by Mrs Fs chartered 
surveyor rather than on those of itself or its contractors.
The only exceptions to this were where the chartered surveyor costs were significantly out 
of line with the other three quotes  for example the costs of architrave which were over 
five times higher than the nearest alternative. In my view this discrepancy was too great to 
merely reflect an expected difference in two contractors pricing methods. So, instead, for 
these items, I suggested that NHBC should instead apply the next highest figure from the 
three alternative quotes, which were all broadly in line.
Following the responses to my provisional decision, Mrs F has recently provided a further 
builders quote, costed against NHBCs scope of works. The quote is from her Brothers 
building company. Mrs F says her Brother is the most likely contractor to actually complete 
the work, so I should place additional weight on the costs he has quoted and recalculate 
the settlement on this basis.
I note that, like with the chartered surveyors quote, some items on this new quote are 
priced significantly higher than the three quotes provided by NHBC, whereas the majority of 
the figures are broadly in line. I also note that the new quote suggests an allowance is 
needed for site supervision and a labourer.
NHBC doesnt agree that it would be fair for me to base anything on this new quote. It says 
that because the builder is Mrs Fs Brother, his quote cannot be considered as 
independent. It also questions why if Mrs Fs intention was to always use her Brothers firm, she first approached two different companies for quotes and is only now providing a new 
quote at this late stage. NHBCs view is that Mrs F is only introducing this new quote now to 
try and obtain the highest amounts for each item of work.
Ive carefully considered the information provided by both sides, including the new quote 
provided by Mrs F. I dont agree that simply because the new quote has been produced 
by Mrs Fs Brother, that means its unreasonable for me to place any weight on that 
quote.
After all, NHBCs quotes are from firms it has a pre-existing relationship with too. However, 
I also dont agree that this new quote should supersede the detailed costing exercise which 
has already been undertaken either.
When reaching my provisional decision, I compared and considered four detailed 
quotes/costings, and explained at some length, why Id come to the conclusions I had. 
The new information provided by Mrs F hasnt changed my thoughts here. Having 
carefully considered the new information, its reinforced my view that the method set out 
in my provisional decision, based on the detailed costs and quotes I had compared, will 
deliver a fair and reasonable settlement in the circumstances of this complaint.
This means I wont be amending any of the individual figures which factor into the 
overall settlement, based on the new quote from Mrs Fs Brother.
However, in response to my provisional decision, Mrs Fs chartered surveyor did 
provide some additional comments on some of the costs I had questioned. Ive 
considered his responses, and whether they should impact certain costs, below.
Replacement woodwork  Its likely that these will have been damaged by 
damp conditions in the property
I accepted this was a possibility in my provisional decision. But there is currently no 
persuasive evidence that it has suffered damage, so it wouldnt be fair to award Mrs F 
the money to replace these items until this is established. This is why I suggested that 
NHBC should be prepared to consider covering the costs of additional claim related 
damage over and above the 10% contingency amount  should Mrs F be able to 
evidence that it is required. I remain of the view that this is fair.
Radiators  whilst NHBC rates are consistent they equate to an operative for 
one hour per radiator which seems light.
I can see that the NHBC figures do appear to amount to one hour per radiator and I can 
see that this might not be sufficient to remove and drain then subsequently rehang, refill 
and test a radiator. That said, the chartered surveyors costs are over ten times the highest 
alternative figure, and nothing in his additional comments has helped me to reconcile such 
a significant discrepancy. I cant see how ten hours per radiator would be necessary.
As I understand it, the radiators could all be removed in one go, and later rehung etc in 
one go. This means the system would only need to be drained once and refilled once, 
which would save some time. But this work will require two visits from the appropriate 
tradesperson, one to remove and one to refit. Taking all of this into account, I think a more 
reasonable cost per radiator would be £120.36. This amounts to three hours per radiator 
at the next highest quote of the four I have considered.
Costs for temporary fencing - panels are £20 to buy an allowance for delivery, 
erection, maintenance and removal is the basis for my calculation. NHBC 
rates of£10 seem light. £20 per panel for labour costs to erect, maintain, adapt 
throughout the 12 weeks amounts to £1,440.
The figure quoted above is over £1,000 less than included on the initial costs supplied by 
the chartered surveyor and is twice as high as the highest alternative quote. However, with 
the additional commentary from the chartered surveyor I have been able to complete some 
additional research. From what Ive seen, £20 per panel does seem a more reasonable 
price than £10. So, I think NHBC should amend its settlement for this item to £1,440.
Supply and fit of rigid board underlay  on review the figures supplied by 
NHBC appear adequate.
The chartered surveyors initial quote for this item was over three times higher than the 
closest alternative. Considering this alongside the new comments, I stand by my 
provisional finding. NHBC should pay the next highest cost from the three alternative 
quotes (its own, and the two additional contractors it obtained quotes from).
Extra allowance to remove stairs during waterproofing  initial allowance should 
be sufficient as the upstairs flats arent occupied, this wasnt made apparent 
originally.
Like the chartered surveyor, I was under the impression that the upstairs flats were 
occupied by tenants. In any event, the chartered surveyor accepts that the amounts quoted 
by NHBC and its contractors are sufficient. So, for this item, NHBC should pay the cost 
from the next highest quote.
Site supervision  agrees a full-time supervisor isnt needed but consideration for 
the role of supervision is needed. Whilst the work falls outside of CDM 
regulations, the management and supervision allowance in the costs should not 
be zero. A working foreman would be the most cost-effective solution. His time 
should be split between his own works and time spent providing supervision. Two 
hours per day spent on supervision seems realistic. Therefore, he would 
recommend an allowance of £40 per hour, which equates to £400 per week for 
site supervision  a total allowance of
£4,800, based on the 12 weeks the works are estimated to take.
NHBCs view here is that all contractors are required to have basic health and safety 
training. It says for the purposes of a site of this size all that is required from a health and 
safety perspective is someone who can call the emergency services as and when 
required. It says as long as the workforce are fully qualified, no further person is required. 
NHBC states that considering Mrs Fs concerns about COVID, instructing a third person to 
project manage what it describes as a two-man job would be counterproductive to the 
proposed goal of protecting the health and safety of the workers.
Its not part of my role as ombudsman to make any independent determination on whether 
site supervision is required for a building site based on its size or the complexity of the 
works required. Rather, I make my decision based on the available evidence from those 
who are qualified.
It seems all parties now agree that there is no need for a standalone supervisor and that 
these duties should be completed by somebody already on site. What isnt clear to me is 
why having someone operate as a both a contractor and supervisor simultaneously 
would result in additional costs to Mrs F. The chartered surveyor suggests that the 
supervisor is likely to spend two hours per day carrying out supervisory responsibilities. 
But he hasnt shared any specifics about what these responsibilities should entail and why theyd be necessary for these particular works at this particular site.
According to NHBC there will only need to be two workers on site. And it has highlighted 
the most basic qualification required for site staff includes basic health and safety training 
which will be sufficient to meet the requirements of the Health and Safety at Work Act for 
this particular site. Taking the above into account, and in the absence of any specific 
details of what the supervision aspects would entail, Im not persuaded that one of the 
contractors required on site would reasonably need to spend several hours per day 
carrying out supervisory duties.
Based on all the evidence and arguments provided, Im still not persuaded that it would 
be fair or reasonable to award additional costs for site supervision.
COVID measures  NHBCs figure of £170 isnt sufficient. The HSE recommends 
FFP3 masks which cost around £60 for 10 masks. The use of 20 masks per week 
is not unrealistic. Add to this a reasonable amount for sanitizer and surface wipes 
and a cost of £1,440 for the 12-week duration of the works does not seem 
unreasonable.
In addition, the Construction Leadership Council published the Site Operating 
Procedures which were updated on 7 January 2021 to reflect government 
guidance regarding working safely on construction sites. These include travelling 
to work separately. In order to implement this guidance contractors cannot work 
as efficiently as before. Whilst these costs are difficult to quantify, he would 
suggest the loss of two-man days per week. Based on an estimated rate of £250 
per man day this equates to £6,000 for the duration of the works.
NHBC says that HSE does not make any recommendations for FFP3 facemasks and 
from what Ive seen, I agree. The HSE website states:
PPE for protection against coronavirus is generally only required for certain 
healthcare activities. In a non-clinical setting, there is no need to provide 
different PPE than you would normally have provided before the pandemic 
started.
And the Site Operating Procedures referred to by the chartered surveyor states:
Coronavirus (COVID-19) needs to be managed through social distancing, 
hygiene and the hierarchy of control and not through the use of PPE
Workplaces should not encourage the precautionary use of extra PPE to 
protect against Coronavirus (COVID-19)
NHBC has broken down the £170 it offered, and provided supplier names for some of 
the items, which I have verified:
A hand station = £128.40 inc VAT
Extra refill = £6.35 inc VAT x2
Large tub of wipes 225 number = £9.59
Masks 100 number = £18.99
Total costs = £169.68 inc VAT
The above costs have been calculated by the person who drew up the scope of works. So, 
I think its likely he has correctly accounted for the length of the works he specified. Taking 
that all into account, on balance, I think £170 is sufficient to cover the costs of masks and 
cleaning as set out above.In terms of the potential cost of adhering to the Site Operating Procedures, the chartered 
surveyor has acknowledged that this is difficult to quantify. And NHBC has highlighted that 
works are unlikely to start immediately after payment of the settlement as negotiations will 
need to be undertaken with the builder. So, its possible that different restrictions, or even 
no restrictions, may apply at the time the works need to commence.
While I think its likely that some restrictions will remain in place, it is possible that the 
current Site Operating Procedures may not apply by the time the works commence. So, 
rather than directing NHBC to pay an estimated amount upfront, for costs Mrs F may not 
incur, I think it would be fairer for these potential costs to be covered by the contingency 
amount. And, should the contingency amount prove insufficient to cover all the additional, 
necessary, claim related costs, NHBC should consider further, reasonable, claim related 
costs subject to being provided with detailed evidence of what the contingency amount was 
used up on.
In addition to the above items, Mrs F has also disputed some further items on 
NHBCs scope of works:
Provision only for ceramic tiles in the bathroom despite the fact Mrs Fs tiles are 
real stone which are significantly more expensive.
NHBC says the photos arent clear enough for this to be established. Mrs F says this 
demonstrates NHBCs cynicism with regard to playing down costs as they have 
visited several times and physically removed the tiles.
Im unable to determine whether the tiles are real stone or not based on the photos. I agree 
that having visited the property and removed the tiles, that NHBC ought to know what 
material they are. But as it says it doesnt, whats important here is a fair way forward. So, 
subject to Mrs F providing detailed persuasive evidence that the tiles are real stone, 
together with a clear explanation of the associated increased cost, NHBC should increase 
the settlement amount to reflect this.
Provision required for likely damage to underfloor pipework following the 
breaking up of the screed
As this is a potential cost, as opposed to something definitely needed, it is what the 
contingency amount is designed to cover. And as Ive stated, should the contingency 
amount prove insufficient to cover all the costs which do become necessary, NHBC should 
consider these additional costs.
All electrics need removing for the tanking system to be installed
NHBC disputes that this work is required because the property has not been flooded. It 
says the materials such as faceplates and boxes can be removed, stored, cleaned and 
reused.
Mrs F doesnt agree, she says there is likely to be corrosion to items such as backing 
boxes which have been fixed to damp walls for several years.
Again, this is a potential cost and so can be covered by the contingency amount as above.
Use of liquid screed
NHBC says this isnt needed as a good tradesman can achieve a flat sand and cement 
screed floor. Mrs F says it was NHBCs choice not to carry out the works, so this should 
be left at the discretion of the contractor. She says use of liquid screed will improve the 
aesthetic finish of this work.Under the terms of the warranty, NHBC is entitled to decide how it settles a claim. In this 
case it says it cannot complete the works because the other two properties, and their share 
of the common parts, arent covered by active NHBC warranties. I dont think this is unfair 
or unreasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs F feels its unreasonable to rely on a scope of works drawn up by NHBC admin 
staff. NHBC says the scope was not drawn up by admin staff, but a specialist consultant 
and chartered engineer with specialist qualifications in waterproofing.
When considering what a fair cash settlement should cover, Im basing it on the works set 
out in NHBCs scope of works. This is because the scope of works sets out the works 
NHBC would carry out if it were completing the repairs. Im satisfied that the scope of works 
was drawn up by a suitably qualified person and that it includes the works required to 
deliver an effective and lasting repair.
So, on the basis that a flat finish can be achieved without the use of liquid screed, 
Im satisfied this isnt a cost NHBC needs to cover.
Fiberglass in the studwork
Now that it has been clarified where this is to be used, NHBC has stated that the 
bathroom walls, which back onto habitable areas, appear to be masonry. It says this 
means no insulation is needed as there is no cavity to fill. Based on this I think its 
reasonable for this cost not to be included in the settlement.
Celotex to be laid above the tanking which NHBC hasnt allowed for
NHBC says this isnt suitable for floor construction. It says its costs for the tanking are 
based on the independent contractors quote which allows for insulation in a wet 
environment.
Mrs F says that her contractor uses a different damp proofing specialist whose opinion 
obviously differs on the use of this material. She feels it would be unfair to exclude this 
cost as this effectively would mean she would be forced to use NHBCs damp proofing 
specialist to carry out the works.
Mrs F is free to use any damp proofing specialist she would like. What I need to decide is 
whether it is fair for NHBC to base its cash settlement for the damp proofing works on the 
design and quote provided by its damp proofing specialist. And I think it is. Just because 
Mrs Fs contractor prefers to use Celotex in the way described doesnt mean it is the only 
way to achieve the required result. Ultimately, Im satisfied that the detailed design and 
quote provided by the damp proofing contractor fairly reflects the works required to deliver 
a lasting and effective repair at a cost available to Mrs F. So, I think its fair and reasonable 
for NHBC to use these costs for the cash settlement.
Mrs F has also pointed out that the damp proofing quote is several years old. She says 
the costs should be uplifted to account for the increased costs in todays market. She 
says it is well documented that the cost of materials has increased by between 15% to 
80% over the past year.
NHBC has included a 17% uplift to the damp proofing quote as part of its schedule of works
 which it says is sufficient to cover the uplift. This amount was calculated by its 
chartered engineer who is also certified in waterproofing.
I have considered the news articles Mrs F has shared about the costs of building materials increasing. But there doesnt appear to be anything which specifically refers to the 
materials required for the damp proofing works. So, on balance, Im more persuaded by 
the opinion of NHBCs expert. That is, that the 17% uplift is sufficient to cover the 
increased cost for this year.
In terms of the increasing costs of materials required for the remainder of the works, Ive 
considered whether NHBC should include a further uplift on all materials. But Ive based 
the majority of my recommended settlement amount on the breakdown provided by Mr Cs 
chartered surveyor  which are based on 2021 prices. Similarly, the two additional quotes 
supplied by NHBC are based on 2021 rates too.
The news articles supplied by Mrs F suggest that materials have increased in price due to 
supply interruptions. And her Brothers quote suggested that an additional contingency 
would be required to account for potentially higher costs of materials. But neither the 
articles nor the comments from Mrs Fs Brother specifically show that Mrs F will be unable 
to complete the required works with the amounts calculated by her chartered surveyor or 
NHBC and its contractors. Afterall, the availability of materials may have changed again by 
the time the works are ready to commence. So, in the absence of persuasive evidence that 
the updated settlement amount will not be sufficient for the work to be completed, I dont 
think it would be fair or reasonable to direct NHBC to further uplift the costs on the scope of 
works which have been based on 2021 prices.
That said, should Mrs F be able to evidence to NHBC that she has been unable to 
complete the works due to an increase in the cost of materials  across the entire industry, 
not just with her chosen contractor  then I think it would be fair and reasonable for NHBC 
to give further consideration to this, at that stage.
No provision has been made for replacement kitchen units
I addressed this point in my provisional decision. As the kitchen units show no signs of 
visible damage it wont be known whether they require replacement until they are 
removed during the works.
I appreciate Mrs F and her chartered surveyors views that its likely the units have 
suffered damage. But this is a potential cost and so can be covered by the contingency 
amount. And as Ive stated above, should the contingency amount prove insufficient to 
cover all the costs which do become necessary, NHBC should consider these additional 
costs.
VAT
Mrs F feels strongly that its unfair for NHBC to be able to withhold the VAT element of his 
claim settlement until she provides invoices. She says VAT is a fixed amount and will be 
payable on all works, so she theres no justification for allowing the VAT element to be 
paid later. She says late payment of VAT could even affect the solvency of her chosen 
contractors.
NHBC has highlighted that it is standard practice for contractors to issue VAT invoices 
following completion of works and to allow 30 days for payment. It says one of the 
contractors Mrs F obtained a quote from confirms it works this way on its website. NHBC 
says that as the contractor Mrs F will use remains unknown the actual amount of VAT 
that will need to be paid is also unknown.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mrs F has said about this issue. But I remain of the 
view that it is fair and reasonable for NHBC to delay payment of VAT until it has been supplied with VAT invoices. This is because there is no guarantee that the contractor, or 
contractors, Mrs F elects to use will be VAT registered. There are numerous reasons why 
tradesman may not be registered, such as having a turnover below the threshold or being 
in their first year of trading.
NHBC does need to cover Mrs F for any VAT she is charged on the works required. But 
I consider that it is reasonable for NHBC to first verify the exact amounts of VAT Mrs F 
has been charged before paying this.
Cash settlement to be paid
NHBC recalculated its proposed settlement in line with my provisional decision. I shared 
these calculations with Mrs F and she highlighted several items where the amounts 
NHBC had allocated were not the highest from the four quotes provided. I reviewed these 
and noticed some items where NHBC hadnt applied the correct figure in line with the 
method I set out in my provisional decision. I also noted that for many of the items 
highlighted by Mrs F, NHBC had correctly followed the method I set out.
To reiterate here, the method set out in my provisional decision, for calculating a fair and 
reasonable settlement, was not for Mrs F to receive the highest amount from each of the 
quotes. I said it was reasonable to rely on the figures provided by her chartered surveyor, 
except where those figures were drastically different from the other three quotes. For 
these figures, I said NHBC should pay the next highest figure from the remaining three 
quotes. I remain of the view that this is a fair way of calculating the settlement in the 
particular circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs F also highlighted some items on NHBCs new calculations where the costs from her 
chartered surveyor, which had been used in line with my provisional findings, were 
drastically lower than the three alternative figures. These items applied mainly to 
plastering and tiling works. She suggested that for these items, she should receive the 
highest alternative figure.
I thought about Mrs Fs argument here. I agree that following the logic of my provisional 
findings, it would be reasonable not to rely on the chartered surveyors costs where they 
are significantly lower, the same way I havent when they are significantly higher. But I 
dont agree this means Mrs F should receive the highest alternative figure. Instead, for 
these items, I think NHBC should apply the lowest alternative figure from the three 
remaining quotes. This is because this figure will be the closest to the chartered surveyors 
figures, but more in line with the remaining quotes  which mirrors the approach of paying 
the highest alternative cost when the chartered surveyors figures are, in my view, too high.
Ive recalculated NHBCs quote in line with the above findings which differ from those in my 
provisional decision, such as the radiators, tiling, plaster and temporary fencing. Ive also 
edited several items where NHBC had used an incorrect figure and amended this in line 
with the method set out in my provisional decision. Having done so, the new settlement 
calculation amounts to £79,801.88 excluding VAT and £95,762.25 including VAT. I think 
this represents a fair and reasonable settlement amount in the circumstances of this claim 
and complaint.
Loss of rent and alternative accommodation
In my provisional decision I explained that Mrs Fs property hasnt been lived in for several 
years and that based on this, it wouldnt be reasonable to expect NHBC to pay for 
alternative accommodation during the period of the claim. Nothing either side has said in 
response has changed my mind here.I also said that loss of rent and loss of use are specifically excluded under the terms of the 
policy, but that I had considered whether it would be fair and reasonable to award some 
costs for the periods of unnecessary delay caused by NHBC. I explained that I hadnt seen 
any evidence that Mrs F had attempted to rent out the property since 2017 but been 
unable to due to the condition of property, so I wasnt minded to award any costs for loss 
of rent or loss of use.
In response to my provisional decision Mrs F has provided further evidence from her 
previous tenant and two local estate agents, to support her view that the property was 
uninhabitable and unlettable and to show that she had attempted to let the property 
during her claim.
Ive carefully considered this additional evidence provided by Mrs F. It appears that Mrs Fs 
tenant vacated her property in December 2017. The tenant has provided a statement citing 
the condition of the property as the main reason for vacating. Following this, it seems Mrs F 
approached a letting agent in March 2018 and was advised the property could be let, 
subject to repair works being completed first.
Mrs F says that this appraisal was based on visits in 2016 and the letting agent didnt visit 
the property again at that time. This means the comment about works needing to be 
completed would have been based on information provided by Mrs F, rather than a first- 
hand inspection. Mrs F says that a later inspection did take place around the same time, 
and that the letting agent confirmed the property couldnt be let. But she hasnt been able to 
provide any further evidence to support this.
In August 2018, NHBCs claims investigator completed a report on the condition of the 
property. Based on this, NHBC maintained that the property wasnt uninhabitable. It said 
the property didnt generate high humidity and there was no sign of fungus or rot. It said 
the peeling paint on the walls was not sufficient to mean the property was uninhabitable. 
NHBC also said it was reasonable to place more weight on this site visit to one from 2017 
as it had happened more recently.
In December 2018 it was confirmed the property was uninhabitable because the shower 
tray needed to be refitted. This had been removed during investigations in August 2018. 
Mrs F confirmed that she wanted the shower tray refitted in February 2019 and NHBC 
issued instructions for the works that same month. It appears works commenced in April 
2019 and were completed in May 2019.
The reason I have highlighted the sequence of events above is because, in my view, the 
primary period of delay that NHBC is solely responsible for is between September 2018 
and April 2019. This is the period where it had incorrectly led Mrs F to believe it would 
complete the remedial works.
Whether or not the damage to the property rendered it uninhabitable and unlettable is 
clearly disputed. But I dont think this is the key issue. I say this because, even if I were 
persuaded that the property was uninhabitable and unlettable, at the time NHBC caused 
significant delays, I would need to be satisfied that without NHBCs errors, Mrs F would 
have been able to complete the works and secure and place a tenant, before I would 
consider it fair to direct NHBC to cover losses which are specifically excluded by the policy.
In this case, Im not persuaded that NHBCs errors are the sole cause of Mrs F being 
unable to repair or re-let her property. I say this because there have been ongoing issues 
and disputes with the builder about his liability and, more importantly, the ongoing dispute 
with NHBC about its liability  namely whether it should have to cover 100% of the damage to the common parts. This issue has clearly been very important to Mrs F throughout her 
claim and complaint. So, taking everything into account, even if NHBC hadnt made the 
mistakes it has throughout the claim I dont think Mrs F would have been in a position to 
place a tenant and be in receipt of rent for the property. This is because I think the dispute 
over NHBCs liability would always have arisen and continued. And as I dont think NHBCs 
position on this point was wrong, I cant fairly hold it responsible for the delays that arose 
out of this particular dispute.
Taking everything into account, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to award Mrs F 
something which is specifically excluded by the policy in the particular circumstances of 
this complaint. This is because Im not satisfied that without NHBCs errors, she would 
most likely have been in a different position at the time.
Delays and compensation
Mrs F has stated that she told NHBC that the claim was being considered under the 
wrong section from the outset, rather than in February 2017 as NHBC has suggested. 
She says NHBC has failed to provide her with call recordings from the time and that she 
had a complaint about this upheld by the data protection regulator.
Mrs F argues that had the section of cover been updated immediately, she wouldnt have 
incurred the costs of several reports or, in her view, carried out unnecessary repairs to 
her bathroom. She also says that had everything happened as it should have, from the 
outset, the builder would likely never have become obstructive  which has led to further 
claim delays.
NHBC says there is no evidence to suggest that Mrs F disputed the section of cover prior 
to 2017. It says its call notes do not suggest this was discussed. It says it sent Mrs F 
information regarding the resolution service in August 2016 but received no further contact 
until November 2016  at which point the section of cover wasnt mentioned. NHBC has 
argued that its unlikely Mrs F would have carried out her own investigations if she always 
believed the claim was being looked at under the wrong section.
In addition to the arguments put forward above, Ive also considered the timeline of 
events supplied by Mrs F when she brought her complaint to our service. In this timeline, 
she specifically states that she disputed the section of cover in January/February 2017.
Based on everything Ive seen, I think its more likely than not that Mrs F didnt raise her 
concerns about the section of cover until early 2017. I also remain of the view that 
NHBC were not responsible for the fact that the claim was initially considered under the 
incorrect section. I say this because it was relying on information provided by Mrs Fs 
solicitor and because the builder accepted that section 2 was correct.
This means that in terms of compensation for issues around the section of cover, Im 
only considering the time it took from Mrs Fs notification in early 2017 to NHBC 
updating the claim to section 3 in August 2017.
I considered this when reaching my provisional decision and explained that while I agree 
NHBC could have acted more quickly to update the section of cover, I didnt think this 
would have materially affected the progression of the claim. I also explained that I thought 
the compensation paid by NHBC for this particular issue was sufficient.
Mrs F did obtain several reports, but these reports either predated the claim or were to do 
with the bathroom issues. And I dont agree with Mrs Fs assertion that the bathroom 
issues were misdiagnosed, as all the reports Ive seen support there was an issue which was likely contributing to the damage in her flat.
Ultimately, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to expect NHBC to cover the cost 
of reports or investigations into the bathroom issue or which predate its involvement in 
the claim.
Ive also reconsidered Mrs Fs argument that NHBC are responsible for the builder 
becoming obstructive. But as I highlighted in my provisional decision, I dont agree this is 
the case. I think issues with the builder were already materialising before NHBC became 
involved. For example, NHBC has pointed out that the builder failed to attend a meeting 
with Mrs F during her own investigations prior to NHBCs involvement and that he refused 
to share one of the reports he commissioned with Mrs F.
It seems to me that the builder didnt want to accept that his works were the cause of the 
damage to Mrs Fs flat. This was particularly true once he had a report citing the issues 
with Mrs Fs shower. I think this is the primary reason for the breakdown in the relation 
between the parties, not NHBCs missed meetings. So, Im satisfied that the portion of 
NHBCs compensation offer (£500 of the £3,000 total) fairly reflects the impact of the 
missed meeting, and the delay in updating the section of cover.
In terms of the remaining compensation, Mrs F doesnt feel that the additional £1,000 
recommended in my provisional decision is sufficient to reflect her losses or the 
frustration and time she has had to spend on her complaint.
Ive already covered Mrs Fs complaint about financial losses in the above section. So, 
in this section Im only considering compensation for distress and inconvenience.
In this case, Mrs F has been represented by her husband, Mr D. Mr D has been the main 
person corresponding with the parties, engaging contractors, reviewing calculations etc. 
Mr D is not a policyholder with NHBC, and as such, I am unable to consider 
compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused to him  only that caused to 
Mrs F.
In my provisional decision I explained why I wasnt intending to compensate for several 
periods of delay in the claim  as I didnt think they were solely the responsibility of NHBC. 
In addition, its worth highlighting that most claims will likely involve a certain level of 
inconvenience which is not anyone's fault. And in this case, there have also been the 
additional issues caused by the builder  which I dont think NHBC are responsible for. So, 
to clarify, the compensation I think NHBC should pay is to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience that Mrs F has suffered as a result of issues caused solely by NHBC.
So, my main considerations when reaching an amount of compensation are the delays 
(around six months) and loss of expectation NHBC caused when initially leading Mrs F to 
believe it would complete the works. Plus, the frustration and delays it caused when 
incorrectly limiting its initial settlement offer to one third of all of the works and making 
some other settlement calculation issues. Taking all of the above into account, I remain of 
the view that £2,500 compensation is enough to reflect the combined impact, to Mrs F, of 
NHBCs errors here.
It follows that I think £3,000 compensation, in total, is enough to fairly compensate Mrs F 
for the impact of all the errors caused solely by NHBC.
Putting things right
In order to put things right in the circumstances of this complaint, NHBC must:Settle Mrs Fs claim by paying £79,801.88 (exc VAT)  which accounts for 
100% of the damage to her flat and 37.5% of the damage to the common parts 
and is inclusive of a 10% contingency figure.
Subject to receipt of VAT invoices, cover the VAT Mrs F is charged on the 
claim related repairs
Consider any additional claim related costs, subject to Mrs F providing 
evidence of how the contingency amount was spent
Subject to further evidence being provided by Mrs F, uplift the cost of the 
tiles to reflect them being real stone
Pay a total of £3,000 compensation
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision (appended below), 
I uphold Mrs Fs complaint in part.
National House-Building Council must put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
Appendix
Copy of provisional decision
What happened
There has been extensive background to this complaint which I dont intend to repeat in 
full detail here. Instead, Ill summarise the key events most relevant to the outcome of Mrs 
Fs complaint.
There have been several businesses and individuals involved in the complaint  acting 
as representatives or agents of NHBC or Mrs F. For ease of reference Ill only refer to 
NHBC and Mrs F in this decision  even when referring to the actions or arguments of 
their representatives.
Mrs F purchased a ground floor flat in 2014. The property came with a 10-year 
structural defects warranty (Buildmark Policy) from NHBC.
Mrs F discovered damp issues, both in her property and in the communal hallway  which 
is an area the Buildmark policy would define as common parts. In 2015 she reported the 
issues to the builder  who is also the freeholder of the building and owner of the other two 
flats within it. But in 2016 Mrs F reported the issues to NHBC as they still hadnt been 
resolved by the builder.
NHBC initially dealt with the claim under section 2 of the warranty. This section is for 
claims raised in the first two years of cover and provides that responsibility for putting right 
any defects identified first rests with the builder. Under this section NHBC can offer a 
discretionary resolution service to help resolve disputes between the builder and 
policyholder.
Looking at the claim under section 2 involved liaising with the builder about putting right 
the issues. But Mrs F later evidenced that the correct section of the policy was section 3. Under section 3, there needs to be damage caused by a defect for a claim to covered. But 
where there is damage caused by a defect, responsibility for putting things right rests with 
NHBC  not the builder.
The confusion over the correct section of cover, along with some other service issues, 
caused significant delay to the progress of the claim. NHBC has accepted this and has 
offered a total of £2,000 compensation. NHBC has also accepted the claim is covered 
under section 3 of the warranty. But there have been disputes over the works to be 
included, the cost of these works, and whether costs for loss of rent and/or alternative 
accommodation should be covered.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Fs complaint. She explained that our service 
doesnt have the power to consider all of the issues brought by Mrs F. This was because 
NHBC had issued several final response letters more than six months before Mrs F brought 
her complaint to us, and because she didnt agree there were any exceptional 
circumstances for Mrs F not coming to us sooner. So, she said these points specifically 
couldnt be considered as they were outside our jurisdiction. But she said we did have the 
power to consider everything that NHBC covered in its final response letter from 17 
December 2018, and subsequent final response letters, as the complaints had been 
referred in time.
NHBC accepted our investigators view about the issues we could and couldnt consider 
but Mrs F didnt. I recently issued a separate decision on this element of Mrs Fs 
complaint. So, I wont revisit the details in this decision.
In terms of the merits of Mrs Fs complaint against NHBC which she said we could 
consider, our investigator thought:
NHBCs initial decision to consider the claim under section 2 was reasonable, in 
light of information supplied by Mrs Fs solicitor. But after Mrs F explained this 
was incorrect, it could have acted more quickly to accept the claim under section 
3.
NHBC had tried to engage with the builder and to progress the claim and werent 
responsible for all of the delays. She didnt agree that NHBC were responsible for 
the builder becoming obstructive.
The £2,000 compensation offered by NHBC was enough to fairly reflect the 
impact of the issues NHBC were responsible for.
The property wasnt occupied, so it wouldnt be reasonable to expect NHBC to 
cover the costs of alternative accommodation. And there is no cover for loss of 
rent under the terms of the policy.
NHBCs initial offer to settle only one third of the entire claim was unfair. Its 
reasonable to pay 37.5% of the value of the common parts claim, as that is all 
Mrs F is entitled to under her warranty as thats her share of responsibility 
determined by her lease. But NHBC should pay 100% of the claim for the defect 
related damage to Mrs Fs flat.
NHBC decided to cash settle, not Mrs F, so it wouldnt be fair for NHBC to base 
its settlement offer on the preferential rates offered by its panel of contractors. 
Any cash settlement should be based on the amount it would cost Mrs F to have 
the work done.The quote provided by Mrs F for the works wasnt sufficiently detailed for NHBC 
to calculate its cash settlement. But NHBC should consider a new quote from 
Mrs F for the damage to her flat and pay the amount it had agreed for the 
common parts as this was higher than the amount on Mrs Fs quote.
Mrs F didnt accept our investigators opinion. She feels that in order to deliver a lasting and 
effective repair, NHBC should pay 100% of the claim for both her flat and the common 
parts. She also remains of the view that NHBC should compensate her for loss of rent and 
for her council tax and utility costs. She also feels NHBC should provide alternative 
accommodation for the residents of all three flats while the works are carried out. Mrs F has 
provided two additional quotes for the repairs needed, one of which has been partly 
itemised against NHBCs schedule of works, so she says they should pay this cost.
NHBC accepted that any cash settlement should be equal to the amount it will cost Mrs F 
to have the works completed. It also accepted that it was wrong to initially limit its 
settlement to one third of the total costs. It has agreed with our investigators assessment, 
in principle, but remains unhappy with the quotes supplied by Mrs F  including the ones 
supplied following our investigators assessment.
So, because no agreement has been able to be reached, the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Mrs F has highlighted several concerns, my decision focuses only on the issues I 
consider to be material to the outcome of her complaint. But I have carefully considered 
the full timeline of events when reaching my decision.
Our services powers in relation to the issues we can and cant consider have already 
been addressed in my jurisdiction decision. So, I dont intend to revisit this here. Neither 
will I revisit, in detail, any of the issues no longer in dispute.
The issues that remain to be decided, and which Ill focus on, are:
The scope of works to be completed and the cost
Loss of rent, loss of use and alternative accommodation
Delays and compensation
For ease of reference Ill address each of these issues 
separately. The scope of works to be completed and the cost
Following the involvement of our service, NHBCs position is that it will pay Mrs F 100% of 
the costs to repair the damage (caused by the defect) in her flat and that it will pay 37.5% 
of the costs to repair the damage in the communal hallway (common parts). NHBC 
accepts that the amount it needs to pay should not be limited to the preferential rates 
available to it, but that it should pay the reasonable amount it will cost Mrs F to have the 
work done.
Mrs F doesnt agree that this approach is fair. She says that her flat is the only one 
effected by the defect with the waterproofing, and that the defect will need to be repaired in order for there to be a lasting and effective repair. In order to deliver this, Mrs F feels 
NHBC should cover 100% of the costs for the damage to the common parts.
Ive carefully considered Mrs Fs arguments about this point, including the copies of similar 
final decisions, issued by this service on other complaints, that shes asked me to consider. 
But I have to consider each complaint on its individual merits. And having done so, I dont 
think I can reasonably require NHBC to pay for 100% of the damage to the common parts 
in this case. Ill explain why.
The Buildmark policy booklet sets out, under each section of cover, NHBCs liability 
for common parts damage under each individual policy:
When your Home includes Common Parts, our liability for all claims relating to 
them (subject to the limit referred to in 1) above) will be limited to that portion of 
the total cost of doing all the work that has to be done in connection with those 
Common Parts that we decide it is reasonable to attribute to your Home.
So, in my view, the policy is clear that NHBC can limit its liability, under each individual 
policy, for that policyholders proportion of common parts costs. And both sides agree 
that Mrs Fs lease states she is responsible for 37.5% of the upkeep of the common 
parts.
The policy goes on to say that where a common parts claim is brought by one 
homeowner, NHBC may ask the other homeowners to bring a claim or proceed as if they 
had. But in this
case, the other two properties are not covered by NHBC warranties and so this 
isnt possible.
I appreciate the difficulty of situation Mrs F has found herself in, and I sympathise. But in 
this case, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for NHBC be held responsible for the 
cost of repairs which should reasonably be met by a third party. Particularly one who isnt 
covered by one of its policies. In this case, Mrs Fs warranty only entitles her to her share 
(37.5%) of the cost of repairs to the common parts. So, Im satisfied NHBCs position on 
this aspect of Mrs Fs claim is in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of her complaint.
Mrs F has also raised concerns about the accuracy of the scope of works produced by 
NHBC. She says NHBC have made so many mistakes throughout her claim, such as 
looking at the claim under the wrong section, incorrectly highlighting the bathroom as the 
issue and initially limiting its liability to one third of the costs for all the repairs. She also 
says that the person who drafted NHBCs scope of works has never been to the site. Based 
on this she feels its unreasonable to rely on NHBCs scope of works.
Ive considered Mrs Fs argument that the above issues should call into question the 
reliability of NHBCs scope of work. But I dont agree that the alleged mistakes/errors 
made by NHBC claim staff demonstrates that its technical claim specialists scope of 
works isnt adequate. As far as I can see, the scope of works has been drawn up by a 
qualified individual, using the technical plans and drawings of the building alongside many 
photographs of the damage. Its not unusual for work schedules to be designed in this 
way, and I dont agree that this suggests it will be unreliable.
Mrs F has provided two alternative quotes from contractors. But from what Ive seen, these 
dont suggest that there are significant omissions in NHBCs scope. The differences relate mainly to the cost of the works. Mrs F has also appointed a chartered surveyor to review 
NHBCs schedule of works and to provide his view on reasonable costs for the works. This 
again came in significantly higher than the costs suggested by NHBC. But the additional 
works quoted for were mainly provisional sums for works which might be needed, or for 
replacement of certain items which NHBC suggests could be reused. So, again, I dont 
think this suggests that NHBCs scope of works is fundamentally inadequate.
As I havent seen any persuasive evidence that NHBCs scope of works isnt sufficient to 
deliver a lasting and effective repair, I think its reasonable for me to use it as a basis for 
determining what a fair cash settlement should be in this case. But Ill address some of 
the specific discrepancies in more detail later on.
This leaves the final dispute regarding the works to be completed  the cost. Mrs F has 
provided two contractor quotes and a chartered surveyor breakdown of costs based on 
NHBCs scope. Each of these priced the works required at over £100,000- (not adjusted 
for 37.5% of common parts costs).
NHBCs initial costed scope came in at around £66,000 (inc VAT). This was then later 
increased to around £78,000 (inc VAT) before a deduction was made for the common 
parts share. Following our investigators assessment, NHBC agreed to consider further 
quotes provided by Mrs F. It asked that she get her contractors to add their own costs 
against its scope of works. Mrs Fs initial two quotes were not produced in this way. And in 
my view, they arent detailed enough for me to fairly conclude that they represent a fair 
reflection of the works required.
Because NHBC feels that the costs provided by Mrs F are excessive, it approached a 
further two contractors and asked them to provide quotes at the rate they would charge a 
private
individual  not the rates they would charge NHBC. These came in at around £69,000 and
£78,000 respectively (inc VAT), not adjusted for the common parts works.
Mrs F has highlighted that her chartered surveyor has produced his costs in line with the 
requirements of the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS). As a chartered 
surveyor, she argues that he is more highly qualified than the contractors used by NHBC 
and so feels that I should place more weight on his costs than on NHBCs.
Ive carefully considered all of the evidence and arguments put forward on this issue. I 
accept that a chartered surveyor is highly qualified in the pricing of building works. But so 
are contractors who routinely carry out pricing exercises as part of their business. I dont 
think I can reasonably ignore NHBCs quotes based purely on the fact that Mrs F engaged a 
chartered surveyor. Instead Ive been through each of the four quotes, (including the 
chartered surveyors costs) which have been costed against the scope of works, to identify 
and compare the items with the biggest cost discrepancies.
Firstly, its worth highlighting that Mrs Fs chartered surveyor has quoted for replacement of 
multiple items which NHBCs scope suggests can be reused. For example, internal doors 
and kitchen and bathroom units. Mrs F argues that due to the water ingress and damp 
issues these items will not be suitable for reuse. NHBC has explained that it has quoted for 
replacement of any wood which has been in direct contact with the floor or water damaged 
walls  as it accepts these will have been damaged. But it suggests that the kitchen units 
will stand on plastic feet and are unlikely to be in direct contact with the walls. It also says 
the internal doors have only been in direct contact with metal hinges, which are unable to 
transfer moisture.Ive thought carefully about the above and about Mrs Fs assertion that damp and rot will 
have damaged all of this woodwork. From what Ive seen of the photos of the property, 
while there is significant water damage to walls, paintwork skirting and architrave, I cant 
see that any of the aforementioned woodwork has been damaged. I also havent seen any 
photos of mould spores growing within the property or on any of this woodwork either.
I dont think it would be reasonable to expect NHBC to pay for the replacement of 
items which can be suitably reused. And based on the information available, Im not 
currently persuaded its been evidenced that the doors and kitchen units require 
replacement.
That said, were NHBC to be carrying out the works and further damage, caused by the 
defect, were to be discovered it would add these to the claim. And until some of this 
woodwork is removed its impossible to know for certain whether it has suffered damage. I 
raised this with NHBC, and it has agreed to add a contingency amount to its cash 
settlement offer, to account for potential additional costs. Ill revisit this later.
In terms of my comparison of the four quotes, there are differences between them in terms 
of the rates and overall price quoted for each item of work. But I think this is to be expected. 
I dont find it unusual that different companies would charge slightly different amounts for 
similar works or materials. I note that the costs from the chartered surveyor are more often 
higher than the three quotes provided by NHBC. However, all four are often within the 
same ball park. Where this is the case, I think its reasonable to rely on the higher costs 
quoted by Mrs Fs chartered surveyor. I say this because these are figures provided to Mrs 
F directly from a chartered surveyor who is based in her local area.
I dont doubt that the two additional quotes provided by NHBC are also reasonable or 
that they represent the rates these contractors would charge a private individual. But 
these companies are based in different areas of the UK and are providing their costs 
likely in the knowledge that they wont be asked to do the works. So, for the items where 
the costs are higher, but broadly similar, I think NHBC should meet the costs quoted for 
by Mrs Fs chartered surveyor.
This leaves the items where there remains, in my view, an excessively large discrepancy. 
For example, the cost for removing, storing and rehanging radiators, the cost of the 
temporary fencing, the cost of replacement underlay boards and the removal of the hallway 
stairs. In these examples, the costs quoted for on all three NHBC quotes, while different, 
are broadly similar. But the chartered surveyor costs are at least twice as high as the 
highest alternative and often five times higher or more. Im unable to reconcile such 
significant cost discrepancies without further explanation. So, based on the information I 
have, I dont think I can reasonably require NHBC to meet these costs. Instead, for the 
above items, I think it would be fair for NHBC to pay the highest cost quoted for them by its 
alternative contractors.
In addition to the costed scope of works, Mrs Fs chartered surveyor provided a second 
page of costs which were not broken down into the same level of detail as the scope. Many 
of these were provisional costs for things which might be needed, such as costs for 
unforeseen damp issues or utilities redirection. As there is currently no evidence that these 
items will definitely need to be paid for, I dont think it would be reasonable to include them 
in Mrs Fs cash settlement offer  at this stage. This is because doing so would result in 
betterment, or a cash surplus, should the costs not need to be paid. However, as 
mentioned previously, NHBC has agreed to include a contingency amount with its cash 
settlement to cover additional works which might be discovered when works commence. I think this is a fair and reasonable alternative, in principle. But I would expect NHBC to 
reconsider the contingency amount, if Mrs F was later able to fairly evidence that it proved 
to be materially insufficient to cover the cost of additional works which were required.
The chartered surveyors list of additional costs also included 12 weeks site management. 
NHBC has explained that the works required at Mrs Fs property are fairly straightforward. 
It says its costs include site supervision, which will be carried out by a working foreman to 
oversee the works while also working on the project. NHBC says a job of this size does not 
require a stand-alone foreman as it is neither large nor complex.
Ive thought carefully about this element of the complaint. As I understand it, its not 
unusual for a contractor working on a small site to also take on site supervision 
responsibilities. And I agree that the site isnt particularly large, or the works particularly 
complex in nature. So, based on the information currently available, Im not persuaded that 
it would be reasonable to award the additional costs for site management quoted for by Mrs 
Fs surveyor.
The chartered surveyors cost summary also included two separate items for COVID 
related costs, each totalling £5,000 respectively. The first related to health and safety 
measures and cleaning, and the second to additional time on site due to social distancing 
measures.
NHBC disputes these costs. It says the site, and job, are not particularly large so its likely 
that only a small number of contractors would need to be on site at any one time, meaning 
social distancing should not be an issue. It says theres no way of assessing those costs 
for reasonableness as they arent broken down. But it has agreed to add around £170 to 
its cash settlement, which it says is sufficient to cover masks and sanitation stations for 
the duration of the 12 weeks the works are due to take.
Based on the information available, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that NHBC 
should pay an additional £10,000 for COVID related measures which havent been 
quantified. So, Im currently of the opinion that its improved offer is fair. But Ill consider 
any additional information Mrs F can provide about these costs before reaching my final 
decision.
This leaves the matter of the cost of the damp proofing works. These were quoted for by 
an independent contractor, and their costs have been added to all three of the quotes 
provided by NHBC. This item amounts to around £19,000 (not adjusted for the common 
parts).
Mrs Fs initial quote also included prime cost sums (an estimate) for these works, 
split between the flat (around £18,000) and the common parts (around £5,000). And 
the chartered surveyor also suggested a prime cost sum of £25,000.
Ive considered that the prime cost sums estimated by Mrs Fs contractor and chartered 
surveyor are much more similar than the cost quoted by the independent contractor. But I 
also have to take into account that prime cost sums are estimates, whereas the quote is an 
actual quote. I also understand that the independent contractor was happy for its quote to 
be shared with Mrs F in the hopes that it would win the work. So, as the contractor was 
prepared to do the works for the amount quoted, I think its fair to conclude that it 
represents the reasonable costs to Mrs F of having this work completed.
So, to summarise, Im currently minded to decide that its reasonable for NHBC to limit its 
liability to 37.5% of the repair costs for the common parts. Im also satisfied that its 
reasonable to rely on its schedule of works as a basis for calculating the cash settlement. I think NHBC should meet the costs quoted for by Mrs Fs chartered surveyor for all items 
except:
Replacement woodwork not already accounted for in its schedule (kitchen 
units, bathroom units, internal doors etc)
Cost for works to radiators
Temporary fencing
Supply and fit of rigid board underlay
The extra allowance to remove the stairs during waterproofing
The waterproofing costs
For the above items, NHBC should instead pay the highest cost quoted by the contractors 
it obtained quotes from.
In addition, NHBC should add a 10% contingency cost in line with its offer. And it should be 
prepared to consider any evidence Mrs F may supply which fairly proves this amount was 
materially inadequate  once works have commenced. NHBC should also add the 
additional amounts it has offered for Building Regulation signoff and COVID costs.
Should this result in a lower settlement than that already offered by NHBC, I think NHBC 
should be prepared to honour its offer instead, so that Mrs F is not put in a worse 
position than we she was in before this provisional decision was given.
Mrs F has also asked that our service direct NHBC to pay any cash settlement in full 
upfront. But NHBCs position is that it will only pay the VAT element of the cash settlement 
once it receives invoices confirming the amount of VAT which has been paid. This is so that 
it can confirm the correct amount of VAT that Mrs F has actually paid. I think this approach 
fair and in line with how claims of this nature are usually settled.
Loss of rent and/or alternative accommodation
Mrs F would like NHBC to compensate her for loss of use of the property. She says the 
reason it has sat unused for as long as it has is because of the various mistakes NHBC 
has made with her claim. She feels the condition of the property makes it uninhabitable, 
and unlettable, so she feels NHBC should compensate her for loss of rent as well as 
council tax and utility expenses.
The terms of Mrs Fs warranty set out the cover it does and doesnt provide. The general 
exclusions and limitations states.
NHBC will not be liable for the following:

i. Any loss of enjoyment, loss of use, loss of income or business opportunity, 
inconvenience or distress, or any loss arising or cost incurred (or both) only 
indirectly, as a result of the events or circumstances that led to your claim or 
complaint.
Based on this, its clear that the policy doesnt provide cover for loss of rent or loss of use 
arising out of a valid claim. So, while I accept that Mrs F hasnt rented out her property 
during this period, I dont think it would be reasonable to expect NHBC to cover a 
potential loss arising from a claim which it specifically excludes under the terms of the 
policy.That said, I have considered whether NHBC ought to pay loss of rent/loss of use despite 
these being excluded, for the periods of unreasonable delay in the claim that NHBC is 
solely responsible for  on a fair and reasonable basis. But I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest that Mrs F was actively exploring the possibility to letting the property again, or that 
she was unable to do so during these periods of time because of the condition of the 
property. So, based on what Ive seen, I dont think I can fairly require NHBC to pay loss of 
rent or loss of use in these circumstances. However, I will go on to consider whether it 
should pay additional compensation for the impact of the delays its responsible for later in 
this decision.
The terms of the warranty also set out the circumstances where alternative 
accommodation would be covered under section 3. It states:
3) We will pay you any reasonable costs that you incur by prior agreement with 
us for removal, storage and appropriate alternative accommodation if it is 
necessary for anyone normally living in your Home to move out so that work can 
be done.
Based on this, its clear that Mrs Fs warranty will provide for the costs of alternative 
accommodation, but only for anyone normally living in the property. In this case, Mrs Fs 
property has been vacant for several years. So, I dont think I can reasonably conclude 
that NHBC should be paying for alternative accommodation in these circumstances.
Mrs F has highlighted that the works required will mean that the residents of all three 
properties in the building will require alternative accommodation. She would like NHBC 
to cover these costs as part of her claim.
As Ive already stated, Mrs Fs property isnt being lived in, and hasnt been for 
several years. So, it wouldnt be reasonable to expect NHBC to make payments for 
alternative accommodation.
The upstairs flats are let by the freeholder of the building, who is also the original builder. 
This means, as I covered earlier, that neither are covered by an active NHBC warranty. In 
these circumstances, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to expect NHBC to cover 
the cost of their alternative accommodation. I say this because neither of their flats, or their 
share of the common parts, are the responsibility of NHBC.
Delays and compensation
NHBC has already offered Mrs F £2,000 compensation for the impact of several issues. 
The first £500 was offered to compensate for NHBC failing to turn up at a site visit, and for 
the inconvenience caused by the claim initially being considered under the incorrect section 
of the policy.
NHBC has argued that it wasnt responsible for the fact it initially considered the claim 
under the wrong section. It says it looked at the claim under section 2 based on the date of 
completion, ie when Mrs F purchased the flat from the builder. It says the claim was raised 
within two years of this date, and the builder didnt dispute that the claim fell within his 
liability period either. It has also highlighted a letter from Mrs Fs solicitor in 2015 which 
said the property was unoccupied prior to her purchase.
Mrs F argued that her property had been occupied prior to her purchase and so that the 
date of completion should be amended to the date where NHBC agreed the property substantially agreed with its requirements. This was eventually evidenced, and NHBC 
amended the section of cover in August 2017.
NHBC has explained that this didnt make a difference to the progression of the claim. It 
says the builder was not complying with its instructions to carry our investigations under 
section 2  so NHBC had been carrying these out directly. It says this is what it would have 
been doing if it had accepted the claim under section 3 sooner. But it accepts there was 
some level of inconvenience caused and that it was partly responsible for this  which, 
along with its claim investigator failing to attend a meeting, is why NHBC has offered £500 
compensation.
Ive thought carefully about everything that happened here. I can see that NHBC was 
relying on information from Mrs Fs solicitor and the builder when initially looking at the 
claim under section 2. I do think NHBC could have done more to engage with Mrs Fs 
suggestion that the section of cover should be amended sooner than it did. But even if it 
had, I dont think this would have significantly impacted the progression of the claim as 
NHBC was already attempting complete the necessary investigations itself  which is what 
it would have been required to do under section 3.
Mrs F has complained that the reason the builder was refusing to carry out 
investigations was because of NHBCs poor claims handling, including its failure to 
attend a site visit. It says before this happened, the builder was cooperative.
I can see that the builder did initially cooperate and obtained a report on the cause of 
damp issues. But it seems to me that he wasnt open to engaging fully with the damp 
proofing issues after his report highlighted the issues with Mrs Fs shower  which werent 
linked to his own works. This was despite NHBC issuing several resolution reports stating 
further investigations were required and highlighting potential issues with the damp 
proofing. Ive also seen emails between Mrs F and the builder from before the missed site 
meeting which suggest he wasnt fully cooperative at that stage either.
I accept that NHBC failing to attend a meeting likely contributed to the breakdown of 
communications with the builder, but I dont agree that it was the sole or primary 
cause.
Instead, it seems to me that the builder simply did not want to accept that the damp 
issues were being caused by his work. So, taking into account everything that happened, 
I think
£500 is enough to fairly reflect the impact of NHBC failing to attend the meeting and 
not correcting the section of cover sooner.
NHBC updated the claim to a section 3 claim in August 2017. It continued to try and 
investigate the claim, but at this point it struggled to get cooperation from the builder. The 
builder seems to have failed to attend meetings which he had been invited to and put up 
notices in the communal areas denying NHBC permission to carry out investigations. 
NHBC continued to attempt to engage with the builder between August and October 2017. 
Around October 2017 it advised Mrs F that she may wish to obtain some legal advice. This 
was because neither Mrs F nor NHBC would be able to undertake works to the common 
parts without his consent as the freeholder.
Considering the above, I dont think I can reasonably hold NHBC responsible for the length 
of time spent attempting to get the builder to consent to allow investigations to conclude. 
So, I dont think any compensation should be paid for this period of delays.Following this, Mrs F entered into conversations with the builder for him to purchase her 
flat. She asked NHBC to put the claim on hold. In April 2018 these negotiations fell through 
and in May 2018 she asked NHBC to reopen her claim. As this period of delay was 
requested by Mrs F, I dont think any compensation for this time period is due.
Between May and August 2018 NHBC were again attempting to liaise with the builder to 
get his permission to complete its investigations. The investigation was able to take place 
in August 2018. The investigation report and claim acceptance were issued in
September 2018.
While I can appreciate Mrs Fs frustration with the time it took to reach the point of her 
claim being accepted under section 3, I dont think NHBC caused any unreasonable delays 
or that it should pay any further compensation, beyond the £500 already paid.
When it accepted the claim under section 3, NHBC initially indicated it would arrange to 
complete the remedial works. Mrs F was under the impression that this would be the case 
until April 2019 when NHBC explained it would need to cash settle the claim and limit its 
liability to one third of the total cost of repairs. NHBC accepts that its actions here caused 
a loss of expectation, frustration and around six months worth of delays. It has offered 
Mrs F
£1,500 compensation for this issue.
Ive thought carefully about whether the amount offered is sufficient to compensate for the 
impact of this issue. Ive also considered that NHBC made some mistakes in its handling of 
Mrs Fs claim beyond this point, such as incorrectly limiting its settlement offer to one third 
of the total cost of repairs for both the common parts and Mrs Fs flat or including all of the 
waterproofing costs as part of the common parts work initially. Each of these issues 
resulted in a lower offer than should have been made and caused understandable 
frustration to
Mrs F.
Mrs F has explained the level of stress this claim has caused and continues to cause. And 
while Ive already set out that I dont think NHBC are solely responsible for the issues Mrs 
F has experienced, I do think it has caused more unnecessary distress than it has currently 
compensated for. Having carefully considered everything that has happened, and the 
issues I think NHBC is responsible for, I think it should increase the total amount of 
compensation offered from £2,000 to £3,000.
Mrs F also feels that NHBC should reimburse her for the costs of reports she has had 
to obtain in order to progress her claim.
From what Ive seen, some of these reports either predate the claim being brought to 
NHBC, or relate to the issues with the shower room, which were caused by works carried 
out by Mrs F and not the defect covered by this claim. So, I dont think NHBC needs to 
reimburse these costs.
I have seen evidence to suggest that Mrs F was instructed by the builder to obtain her 
own report on the damp issues, when the claim was incorrectly being dealt with under 
section 2. NHBC later had to explain to the builder that it was for him to cover the costs of 
investigations, not Mrs F. But as I understand it, Mrs F did obtain a report on the issues at 
her own cost during this time, so Ive thought about whether NHBC ought reasonably to 
reimburse her for this. But as I explained earlier in this decision, I dont think NHBC was 
initially at fault for the claim being considered under the wrong section. So, as these 
reports were obtained prior to the dispute over the section of cover, I dont think it would be fair to expect NHBC to cover this cost either.
Adam Golding 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman