DRN-3713168
The complaint
Ms B and Mr R complain that they were mistakenly sold two joint life assurance policies 
(rather than one) alongside mortgage lending taken out with Cheltenham and Gloucester 
(C&G) in 1989, for which Lloyds Bank Plc now takes responsibility. 
What happened
Ms B and Mr R took out new mortgage lending through C&G in 1989. Alongside this, they 
agreed to take out a life assurance policy for the same 25-year term. In addition they took 
out a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy and home insurance through C&G. 
Ms B and Mr R originally complained to Lloyds in April 2020 about the sale of the PPI 
alongside their mortgage lending. 
Additionally, they complained about the sale of the accompanying protection policy, which 
was joint life cover. They thirdly complained about the prospect of two life policies running 
simultaneously. 
Lloyds issued various replies. It rejected this complaint in December 2021. It said the 
illustrations Ms B and Mr R had received were just for guidance. The breakdown on the 
mortgage documentation made clear that only one life policy was in existence. 
The complaint was referred to this service in August 2020, and eventually dealt with in 
several parts as the complaint progressed. 
The PPI complaint was pursued to a different ombudsman, who issued a final decision in 
March 2021. A second complaint was pursued regarding the compulsory nature of the life 
assurance policy and dealt with under a different complaint reference.  
This third complaint was restricted to Ms B and Mr Rs concerns that that their premiums did 
not add up after making a lump sum partial repayment in September 1990, and they could 
only conclude from this that they had been paying for two life assurance policies.   
An investigator from this service considered the complaint but she did not think it should 
succeed. 
She said the illustrations given to Ms B and Mr R at the time set out that the payment to the 
insurer was separate to any payments to C&G for the mortgage. And the mortgage lender 
could not have taken payments for the insurer. She was satisfied that they were separate 
and that the payments to Lloyds did not include the cost of life cover.  
Ms B and Mr R said they disagreed. They noted that even if the two companies were 
distinct, the correspondence said that for the purposes of the sale, C&G was an appointed 
representative of the insurer. They felt the context at the time was relevant and should not 
be discounted. 
Ms B and Mr R said that they wanted the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. Ms B 
also submitted many pages of written submissions. I have read these in full, though I will not 
be relaying them verbatim here. 
In summary, the key points were:
Lloyds claimed not to know the precise nature of the complaint;
their complaint concerns the lack of transparency about excessive insurance cover 
on the mortgage sold to them in 1989, arising from awareness of PPI mis-selling;
they now believe the life assurance was unnecessary;
the extra £20,000 they borrowed was merely for bridging finance for a short period;
they have provided evidence to show they both had suitable employee benefits and 
did not require the cover provided by the policies;
it was only during further investigation that it became apparent that there was a 
discrepancy in their mortgage payments  which they believe means they paid twice 
for their unwanted protection policies;
so, once the complaint was pursued it was this latter point that was addressed;
though several calls were taken with a Lloyds complaint handler, she had difficulty 
explaining matters and did not properly address the complaint;
as said previously, the insurer and C&G had a mutual interest in the sale of each 
others products;
they remain of the view that neither personal protection policies nor PPI were right for 
them and theyve had to pay some £25,000 in unwanted premiums;
the discrepancy in their mortgage repayments from September 1990 remains 
unexplained.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at all of the evidence for this complaint, I do not believe it should succeed. Ill 
explain the key points for reaching that conclusion below.  
In her comments following the view of our investigator, Ms B has revisited the entire history 
of the complaints, which have since been separated at this service. I understand why that is; 
but I am only able to look at the discrete matter being raised in the context of this complaint 
 which is the issue that Ms B and Mr R believe they have paid for their life cover twice from 
1990 to 2014. 
To confirm, a fourth separate complaint is being pursued by Ms B and Mr R about their 
mortgage value discrepancy for the same period  I will not be addressing that here. My 
findings will be restricted to the complaint matter clarified above. 
My findings, in summary, are:
there is an absence of evidence from the time of the mortgage sale, and the 
repayment made the following year;
for this reason, Lloyds cannot provide a complete breakdown of figures as they relate 
to the mortgage payments;
but I do not believe this is material to this complaint because the documentation 
breaks down the associated insurances separately from the mortgage repayment;
the insurer of the policy has no record whatsoever of any policy;
however, this is to be expected  the policy ended after its term expired in 2014;and the insurer destroys records of expired policies after six years in accordance with 
data protection laws;
I am not persuaded, on balance that an additional life cover policy was being taken 
by C&G for an assumed second policy;
I recognise that on making the mortgage overpayment in 1990, Ms B and Mr Rs total 
repayment reduced to £705, which was close to the quotation for the £60,000 
mortgage;
but the quotations (for example that of 18 September 1989 for £91,000) were 
illustrations of the amount of borrowing which was available to Ms B and Dr R to 
apply for with C&G;
the quotations set out the amounts they could borrow alongside other monthly costs 
of products, the cost of which varied depending on the amount requested;
the £91,000 example contained an assumed £54.86 per month for a life policy for the 
full mortgage;
however, as it was, the life assurance policy was set at £45,000 for a £27.21 
premium;
C&G worked in a tied capacity with the insurer, meaning that it recommended its life 
assurance for mortgage applicants;
but, they were distinct businesses and C&G could not pay the insurer directly or take 
premiums for policies on that basis;
nor did C&G offer life cover itself  it operated as a lender, not an insurer;
the documentation did set out a breakdown of the cost of the insurance, and the 
other associated PPI and home insurance premiums;
this was then combined to provide a cost of the mortgage figure;
the other two premiums were variable, but the life assurance premium was not;
and on the £80,000 mortgage quote the life assurance premium was very proximate 
to the actual policy taken out in 1989;
the difference of approximately 60p in the monthly premium from that quotation was 
because it assumed a lower sum assured of £44,000 not £45,000;
I appreciate Ms B continues to question a £36.32 differential in the mortgage 
payment once the lump sum overpayment of £20,000 was made in 1990;
but I do not agree that this figure denotes that a second life assurance policy was 
taken;
and I do not believe it likely that an additional policy would exist without some 
evidence of the nature of the cover, should either Ms B or Mr R have needed to make 
a claim;
it is my view that Ms B and Mr R held one mortgage protection plan with the insurer, 
which was policy number ending #965;
I do not believe that any differential in mortgage repayments (not withstanding that 
this point is the subject of a separate complaint) was because of the existence of a 
second, unconfirmed life assurance policy. 
My final decision
I appreciate my decision will be a disappointment for Ms B and Mr R. But for the reasons 
given, I cannot uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman