DRN-4002233
The complaint
Mr E complains about inconsistent information and delays when he applied to HSBC UK 
Bank Plc for a mortgage. He asks that all transcripts of his mortgage application are 
reviewed, and that HSBC pays compensation for the costs of an independent accountant.
What happened
Mr E is largely based overseas. He applied to HSBC for a mortgage to buy a property for his 
own use when staying in the United Kingdom. 
Mr E says he first contacted HSBC in March 2022 when he visited a branch. He says he was 
given incorrect information about whether he needed a bank account with HSBC to apply for 
a mortgage. HSBC issued a decision in principle (DIP) in May 2022. Mr E met with a 
mortgage adviser in early June 2022. HSBC said it couldnt proceed with his application. 
HSBC agreed to re-consider Mr Es application. It issued a second DIP in July 2022 for a 
lower loan amount, and referred Mr Es application to the underwriters. Mr Es income is 
from several sources, from overseas and in a non-sterling currency. The underwriters said 
Mr Es income was insufficient and they werent satisfied with the documents Mr E provided 
as proof of income. 
Mr E says his income is above HSBCs minimum. He says he spent considerable time, effort 
and expense on the application, without receiving a mortgage offer. He says HSBC failed to 
meet regulatory standards, and shouldnt claim to offer services to overseas customers if it 
isnt equipped to do so. 
Our investigator said HSBC applied its lending criteria correctly to Mr Es application. She 
said it didnt cause any unnecessary delays.
Mr E didnt agree. In summary, he said HSBC caused delays in making an appointment with 
its international team, something which it could have expedited. Mr E said the documents he 
provided clearly defined and showed sufficient income. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr Es frustration that HSBC didnt offer him a mortgage. But I dont think HSBC 
made an error. 
All lenders are entitled to develop their own lending criteria, and these vary between lenders 
depending on their business focus and risk appetite. Lending criteria are commercially 
sensitive and I wouldnt expect HSBC to share its criteria with Mr E. 
HSBC has criteria about what income it accepts for an affordability assessment and how 
income must be evidenced. Mr Es stated income was from several sources. Not all of it met 
HSBCs criteria or was supported by evidence acceptable to HSBC. This resulted in HSBC 
declining Mr Es application. 
I dont think HSBC caused any unnecessary delays when reviewing Mr Es application.
Mr E says he was told at a HSBC branch he needed an account with HSBC before applying 
for a mortgage. He says he travelled to the UK to open an account, before being told this 
wasnt necessary. Unfortunately, theres no record of the discussion Mr E had. As Mr E 
opened an account it seems he thought this was necessary. But without more evidence of 
the discussion, I dont think I can fairly find that HSBC gave Mr E incorrect information in 
response to a clear question, or if there was a misunderstanding. The matter was clarified 
when Mr E called in May 2022 about applying for a mortgage.
Mr E received a decision in principle on 20 May 2022. An appointment with a mortgage 
adviser was initially arranged for the end of May 2022. This was cancelled, possibly because 
Mr E hadnt uploaded the required documents. The appointment was re-arranged for 9 June 
2022. Mr E was told at that time his application couldnt proceed.
HSBC agreed to re-consider Mr Es application on the basis hed provide further information. 
This included financial statements for his overseas business which Mr E paid an accountant 
to prepare. When Mr E asked HSBC to re-consider his application, hed have known this 
would mean the application process would continue for longer and hed incur some costs. 
Having had his application declined initially, hed reasonably have known there was a risk 
the application might not be successful. This was the basis on which Mr E chose to go 
ahead. 
The adviser didnt call Mr E after the appointment as arranged, and Mr E had to call for an 
update. HSBC says it received further documents from Mr E by the end of July 2022, 
although these didnt meet all of its requirements. It declined the application and informed 
Mr E of this by 9 August 2022. 
There were times when matters could have moved on quicker, for instance if HSBC had 
been able to offer Mr E an appointment with a mortgage adviser on an earlier date. But thats 
not the same as finding that HSBC caused unreasonable delays. Mr E says there was a lot 
of confusion within HSBC about whether his application should be considered by its 
international team, and this is something it could have expedited. HSBCs records show the 
appointment on 9 June 2022 was with an adviser from its international mortgage team. If 
there was any confusion, I dont think this caused any delays. 
Overall, I think HSBC dealt with Mr Es application without unreasonable delays. It applied its 
lending criteria to the application. I know Mr E was disappointed, but I dont think HSBC 
made an error that would make it fair and reasonable to require it to pay compensation for 
the expenses he incurred. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Ruth StevensonOmbudsman