DRN-2543540
The complaint
Mr F and Ms V complain that Yorkshire Building Society mis-sold payment protection
insurance to them alongside a mortgage in 2006.
When they bought this cover, Yorkshire Building Society was trading as Chelsea Building
Society. To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Chelsea in this decision.
What happened
Mr F and Ms V were sold a regular premium PPI policy. That means they paid for the cover
every month. The cost of the policy was £13.31 a month. It started on 16 November 2006
and was cancelled with effect from 16 February 2007. Altogether, Mr F and Ms V paid 
£53.24 for this policy. The policy was set up for Mr F only to cover him for accident and 
sickness. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr F and Ms V didnt agree with
that decision. The matter was passed to me to make a decision. I initially thought the 
complaint should be upheld, but after receiving further information from Chelsea, my view 
was then that our adjudicator was right. I said:  
The first thing for me to determine is how PPI came to be sold to Mr F and Ms V. They told
us that they couldnt remember how the sale had taken place. Chelsea told the sale was on
the telephone and I have no reason to think that what it said on that point was incorrect. I
dont have a telephone recording, which isnt surprising given how long ago the cover was
sold. I wouldnt expect either party to keep those records for a such a long time. So I cant
know for sure what was said during that call. To help me decide whats likely to have
happened, Ive looked at what the parties told us and Ive also considered some
documentary evidence thats available from the time.
The first thing Ive considered is whether Mr F and Ms V would have known the cover was
optional and they didnt have to take it out if they didnt want it. I can see from the PPI
questionnaire that it was argued on behalf of Mr F and Ms V that the optional nature of the
cover was not made clear. But then I can see that in her direct response to our adjudicator,
Ms V said they were told the PPI was optional, but she and Mr F were encouraged to take it
out as the underwriters would look more favourably on the mortgage application if they did.
But then Ms V also said she didnt know she had a policy.
I accept that what Mr F and Ms V told us is what they honestly remember about the sale of
the cover. But I also have to bear in mind that its difficult to recall precisely what happened
over 14 years ago, which is when this cover was sold. Its not clear to me how well Mr F and
Ms V recall what happened during the sale. If they couldnt remember how the cover was
sold, Im not sure how they would remember they were told the underwriter would look
favourably on their application if they took PPI.
Ive also thought carefully about what Ms V told us in that they didnt know they had PPI. Ive
been given a copy of a written record of a call made by Mr F on 12 March 2007 in which he
contacted Chelsea to cancel the cover. A letter was also sent out to both Mr F and Ms V on
the same day to confirm the cancellation with effect from 16 February 2007. I appreciate Mr
F and Ms V dont now remember about the policy, but I think its most likely they knew about
it at the time. If they didnt, they wouldnt have known to cancel it.
When the PPI was sold, Chelsea had to give Mr F and Ms V enough information about the
cover so they could decide for themselves whether it was a good fit for their needs. In the
absence of a telephone recording, I cant know what they were told. Mr F and Ms V were
clear in their response to our adjudicator that the cost of the cover wasnt made clear to
them. And I accept it is possible that Chelsea didnt tell them everything it should have.
But that doesnt mean I can automatically uphold the complaint. I also have to consider
objectively what would have happened if Chelsea had given Mr F and Ms V all of the
information it should have done. To help me decide on that point, Ive looked at the terms
and conditions of the PPI. And Ive also thought about what Mr F and Ms V told us about
their circumstances at the relevant time.
The PPI was set up to cover Mr F only for accident and sickness. The mortgage repayments
would have been covered for up to 12 months if he couldnt work because of illness. As I
said above, Mr F was self-employed and I can see there was an additional requirement for
self-employed people in respect of sickness claims. Notably, in order to make a successful
claim for disability, Mr F would have had to show that his medical condition would have
stopped him from helping, managing or carrying out any part of the day to day running of his
business.
On the face of it, I think that condition could have made it more difficult for Mr F to claim on
the policy. But from what we know about how terms like this were usually applied by
insurers, I dont think it would have been more difficult to claim in practice. So I dont think it
would have affected the decision of Mr F and Ms V to take the policy out.
As he was self-employed, Mr F didnt have any sick pay, so I think PPI could have been
helpful if he was too unwell to work. Mr F and Ms V told us they had some savings they
could have used to pay their mortgage. But with a PPI policy, they could have used those
existing resources on their other essential expenditure at what would have no doubt been a
stressful time if Mr F was out of work.
I understand Mr F was in good health when the cover was sold. So I dont think he would
have been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. I must stress
that this loan was secured on Mr F and Ms Vs home and so the consequences if they fell
behind with the repayments could have resulted in them losing their property.
Taking all of these things into account, I cant reasonably say that Mr F and Ms V would
have acted differently even if Chelsea had told them everything it should have done.
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional view. Neither Chelsea nor those 
representing Mr F and Ms V responded. Mr F and Ms V did reply. They didnt agree with my 
provisional decision. In summary, they said: 
Chelsea did make it clear that the PPI was optional, but Mr F and Mrs V were 
encouraged to take it because they were told their application would be looked upon 
more favourably. They also said that they didnt know they had a PPI policy and so 
they couldnt have claimed; 
The policys costs were definitely not made clear at the point of sale and no 
paperwork was sent. Mr F and Ms V do not recall seeing any information on any 
documents/statements relating to their mortgage;Ms V was the main applicant and she had enough sickness entitlement to be able to 
manage the mortgage payments if she were off sick;
That I should consider whether any commission should be refunded.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.
I am grateful to Mr F and Ms V for the time they have taken to respond to my provisional 
decision and for the detailed points they made. I am sorry to disappoint them, but after 
considering this case again at length, I havent upheld it. Ill address the points Mr F and Ms 
V made below. 
I agree with Mr F and Ms V that the cost of the policy may well not have been made clear to 
them at the point of sale. But as I said in my provisional decision, I cant automatically uphold 
the complaint because of that. I have to look objectively at what they would have done if 
Chelsea had given them all of the information it should have done. Having done that, as I set 
out above, I think the policy could have been helpful if Mr F was out of work. By the nature of 
his self-employment, he didnt have any sickness cover if he couldnt work because of 
accident or illness. 
Mr F and Ms V argued that Ms V was the main applicant to the mortgage and would have 
been able to meet the repayments from her sick pay if she was off work. However, having 
considered the mortgage application form, no employment information had been entered in 
respect of Ms V. Although it was a joint mortgage application, it appears to have proceeded 
on Mr Fs income from self-employment alone. And I note that when the cover was cancelled 
in February 2007, the telephone note from that call states Chelsea was informed that Ms V 
was not employed at that time. 
I appreciate that what Mr F and Ms V told us in respect of being encouraged to take the PPI 
because their application would have been looked upon more favourably. I accept that what 
they told us is what they honestly now recall about the sale. But it is very difficult to 
remember precisely what happened such a long time ago. And there are some 
inconsistencies in what Mr F and Ms V recall. As set out above, I cant reasonably say what 
they remember about Ms Vs employment status is accurate. Similarly, Mr F and Ms V said 
they didnt receive any documentation about the PPI policy, but I can see that information 
was included as part of their mortgage offer document. They also cancelled the policy, so 
they must have known they had it at the time. Putting everything together, I cant find that 
their recollection is accurate on this point. 
I can see from the mortgage offer that the PPI was set out as an optional product and so I 
think its most likely that the person selling the cover presented it in that way. I also think Mr 
F and Ms V would have known they had the cover at the time  thats because they knew to 
cancel it shortly after it was opened, and it was set out on the mortgage offer. 
On that basis and for the reasons set out above, including in my provisional decision, I cant 
say PPI was mis-sold.
 
I have also considered what Mr F and Ms V said about commission. The mortgage was 
arranged after mortgage lending became regulated in October 2004  as such this was a regulated mortgage contract. That means the unfair relationship provisions about the non-
disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent applicable in this case. 
Having considered everything again at some length, Im sorry to disappoint Mr F and Ms V, 
but I dont uphold their complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Yorkshire Building Society doesnt have to take any further 
action in respect of it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Ms V to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman