DRN-1964356
The complaint
Miss M complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited (MFL), caused her significant anxiety 
when it contacted her about the arrears on her account. She says the level and frequency of 
contact caused her significant distress.
What happened
Miss M says she unhappy that MFL flooded her with texts, emails and letters about her 
arrears when she was on an agreed repayment plan. Miss M told us:
she took out a finance agreement when she purchased a car in November 2016;
she got behind with her repayments but MFL didnt put sufficient measures in place 
even though it knew she was vulnerable;
she contacted MFL whenever she fell behind with her repayments and agreed a 
repayment plan, but it continued to chase for the arrears causing her distress; and
every time she contacted MFL, its representatives were unaware of her situation and 
she had to explain her situation all over again.
Miss M says she was receiving letters, phone calls, texts and emails every day  MFL 
hounded her and caused her severe anxiety.
MFL rejected this complaint. It said it contacted Miss M on 9 December 2019 because it 
hadnt received a payment on 6 December 2019 as part of an agreed repayment plan. And it 
said this plan was agreed following previous discussions about her personal circumstances 
and an assessment of affordability.
MFL says it previously agreed to suspend SMS messages and emails as part of the 
repayment plan, but it says it told Miss M that she would continue to receive automated 
messages because shed not adhered to the agreed repayment plan. It says its satisfied its 
representatives acted responsibly and with empathy each time it contacted Miss M.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she thought it should be upheld. She 
explained that Miss M had told MFL about her financial difficulties and shed told it that this 
was outside her control; she was experiencing problems with income from a third party  
Universal Credit. And although MFL noted this on its systems, it carried on contacting 
Miss M relentlessly causing her anxiety and worry. Our investigator asked MFL to issue an 
apology to Miss M and pay her £200 in recognition of the worry and anxiety it had caused 
her.
MFL doesnt agree so the complaint comes to me to decide. It says its customer agreements 
permit it to contact a customer in the way that it did. It says Miss M didnt adhere to the 
repayment plan, so it sent her an SMS message and an email every two days and it doesnt 
think this is excessive.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly 
the same reasons.
When a consumer tells a business that theyre experiencing financial difficulty, we expect the 
business to act positively and sympathetically.
Im satisfied that MFL was aware of Miss Ms ongoing financial difficulties  it acknowledges 
it had conversations with her and set up repayment plans previously. And although Miss M 
didnt make her agreed payment on 6 December 2019, MFL knew the reasons for that  she 
was having problems with Universal Credit. And it made a note on its records that Miss M 
would contact it again on 3 January 2020 to discuss her payments and arrears.
But Ive noted that even after MFL was aware of Miss Ms circumstances, it continued to 
contact her relentlessly, and in a variety of methods; it issued default notices; it sent her 
SMS messages asking her to make contact to discuss her arrears; and it telephoned her 
using an automated dialling system. And when Miss M contacted it on 31 December, I can 
see it updated its records and noted she was vulnerable  but it continued to call her and 
send her SMS messages.
Taking all this into account, I dont think MFL was fair or reasonable in its dealings with 
Miss M  it didnt treat Miss M positively or sympathetically.
Putting things right
MFL caused Miss M increased anxiety, worry and distress. I think it should write a letter to 
Miss M to apologise and it should pay Miss M £200 in recognition of this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct MotoNovo Finance Limited to pay 
compensation as Ive detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Ombudsman