DRN-3136971
The complaint
Mr T complains that Lloyds Bank Plc wont refund payments he made through various 
channels as the result of a scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. Starting in 2013 Mr T made a series of 
payments to two merchants Ill refer to as S and L. He believed they were providing him 
with trading and investment opportunities. There were bank transfers made in August 2013 
to S. Then in 2014 there were both credit and debit card payments made to L. In total Mr T 
sent around £26,000. There were also credits of several thousand pounds received back into 
Mr Ts account in late 2014 from L. 
In December 2019 Mr T contacted Lloyds to dispute all the payments. In summary he said 
that both L and S had been operating a scam and were fraudulent. He didnt believe that 
Lloyds had done enough to protect him from financial harm through fraud. Lloyds response 
only focussed on the debit card payments. In summary they said that chargeback wasnt an 
option due to the time that had passed. And they didnt agree that they ought to provide a 
refund. The matter was referred to our service and Lloyds later responded in relation to the 
credit card payments. They again declined to offer a refund. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think we could consider all of it. 
And for what we could consider, she didnt think it should be upheld. In summary she said 
the complaint about the bank transfers in 2013 had been made too late. And she thought 
Lloyds had acted fairly in relation to the debit and credit card payments. Mr T doesnt accept 
this and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
Ive already issued a jurisdiction decision explaining that Mr Ts complaint about the bank 
transfers from 2013 was made too late. So, Ill now consider the merits that are within our 
jurisdiction.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback
Where chargeback is concerned Lloyds are bound by the card scheme operators rules. In 
this case Mr Ts debit card was Visa and his credit card was a Mastercard. Each scheme 
has its own different and distinct set of rules.  
The Visa chargeback rules are clear that the absolute maximum time allowed from the date 
of transaction for a claim to be raised is 540 days. As this had already passed (for all the 
debit card payments) by the time Lloyds were informed, I think their decision not to pursue a 
chargeback was reasonable. They can only act within the schemes rules and the time limits 
are clear. 
Similarly, the Mastercard scheme has a limit of 120 days from the date of each transaction. 
And this had already passed (for all the credit card payments) before Lloyds were informed. I 
think the fact that Lloyds didnt respond in relation to the credit card payments didnt make a 
difference as the time limit had already passed and a chargeback couldnt have been raised. 
Section 75
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) gives a debtor the right to pursue a like 
claim for breach of contract and/or misrepresentation against a creditor as he would have 
against the supplier of goods or services. For a claim of misrepresentation to be successful 
its necessary to show not just a false statement of fact but also that the statement induced 
Mr T into entering into an agreement. This is only potentially applicable to Mr Ts credit card 
payments. 
Mr T hasnt presented evidence to persuade me that L made a misrepresentation that 
induced him into entering into the agreement with them. Nor that they breached any contract 
he had with them. Ive not been able to find any information which suggests that (at the time) 
L were operating in a fraudulent manner. The fact that Mr T was able to receive some credits 
back to his account (albeit after some difficulties as I understand), makes that less likely to 
be the case. Mr Ts own testimony supports that he had access to a trading platform and the 
ability to make trades. Overall, I find that Mr T hasnt established a claim under section 75 for 
either breach of contract nor misrepresentation. 
As such I again dont think that Lloyds failure to initially consider a claim under Section 75 
made a difference. And when Lloyds did later consider this (once the complaint was with our 
service), I think the outcome they reached was fair and reasonable. 
Prevention
Mr T has made much of the fact that he believes the patterns of spending on both cards 
were indicative of fraud and that Lloyds ought to have done more at the time to protect him. 
Ive considered this but I dont agree. 
Firstly, there is limited evidence (beyond Mr Ts testimony) that at the material time L were 
operating a scam. As Ive mentioned above, his account was credited with several 
thousands of pounds, which doesnt support that this was the case. And whilst banks have 
long standing obligations to be alert to fraud and to act in their customers best interest. They 
have no obligation to provide investment advice or to guard against bad bargains. 
But for completeness, even if Im wrong and L were operating a scam, I dont think the 
activity on either account ought to have prompted Lloyds to have done more at the time to 
stop and question the payments. This is partly due to the dates the payments were made. 
The expectations of a bank / credit provider today (given the increase in fraud and scams in 
recent years) is rightly greater than it would have been in 2014. And whilst the obligations 
Lloyds have to be alert to fraud and to act in their customers best interests are longstanding, 
I dont think the pattern of spending on either card ought to have prompted intervention at 
the time. So, whilst Im of course sorry to hear Mr T lost so much money, I dont think this is 
something Lloyds could have prevented and so Im not going to tell them to do more to 
resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman