The complaint
Mr C complains that he was given misleading information by MBNA Limited about a 
promotional 0% interest rate offer.
To settle matters he'd like MBNA to honour the promotional rate and to change its 
promotions so that it's clear that the promotional period applies to purchases made within 60 
days from when an account is opened rather than when an account is applied for.
What happened
Mr C told us he applied for a MBNA credit card to take advantage of an introductory 
promotional rate of interest of 0% for 27 months on purchases made within the first 60 days.  
He discovered that MBNA applied standard interest to a purchase he made on 5 August 
2019 rather than the 0% interest he was expecting.   
He complained to MBNA about this but it didn't uphold his complaint. It said the promotional 
offer of 0% for 27 months only applied to purchases made within the first 60 days of account 
opening. It said it had correctly applied interest to the purchases made outside the 60 day 
window. As a gesture of goodwill it agreed to refund interest of £13.50 it applied to his 
account and it also agreed to apply a three month interest free waiver.
Mr C thinks the 60 day period should start from the date he says his credit card account was 
opened and the date of his first statement -- 18 June 2019. So he thinks the purchase he 
made on 5 August 2019 was within the 60 day window.
Unhappy with MBNA's response Mr C referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didn't recommend his complaint should be upheld.  Our investigator noted that the credit 
agreement signed by C says that the interest rate of 0% is fixed for the first 27 months from 
account opening and MBNA had confirmed to our service that Mr C's account was opened 
on 29 May 2019. Based on the account opening date, the 60 day window for purchases 
expired on 28 July 2019.
Our investigator therefore thought MBNA had correctly applied interest to Mr C's purchases 
made after 28 July 2019.
The investigator thought MBNA's refund of £13.50 interest together with the three month 
waiver of interest was fair in the circumstances.
Our investigator didn't think MBNA had misrepresented the promotional period because the 
credit agreement correctly stated that the 0% rate applies to purchases made within 60 days 
from the "account opening" date. 
DRN-1374647Mr C also provided a letter written to him by MBNA towards the end of October 2019. In this 
letter MBNA said that some of its earlier advertising hadn't made clear that the offer was only 
available on spending made within the first 60 days of account opening. Our investigator 
didn't think Mr C had lost out because in that letter MBNA agreed to offer the 0% 
promotional rate for 27 months on purchases already made by him as well as for purchases 
made within 30 days of the date of the letter - and this was the resolution he had wanted.
Mr C disagrees with the investigator's view. He feels he's lost out because he repaid the 
outstanding balance on his credit card and that meant he was unable to take advantage of 
the 27 month interest-free period. Our investigator noted that although Mr C thought the offer 
was of no benefit to him she couldn't agree this was due to an error by MBNA because his 
credit agreement clearly stated when the promotional period started.
Mr C has asked  for an ombudsman's decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must firstly explain that this service is not the regulator of the financial services industry - 
that's the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. This means that I can't tell MBNA how it 
should go about advertising or the wording it should use in its documents. What I can, and 
have looked at, is whether MBNA treated Mr C fairly. 
I realise that Mr C feels 60 day period should only have started from 18 June 2019 - being 
the date  when he says his account was opened and the date of his first statement. I can see 
why he might think that but that's not the same as saying MBNA misled him.
I say this because the credit card agreement makes clear that the 0% promotional period is 
fixed "for the first 27 months from either account opening or the date of your account 
transfer". MBNA confirmed to us that Mr C's account was auto-approved and opened  on 29 
May 2019 and during the application process Mr C ticked to confirm he agreed to the terms 
and conditions of the credit agreement on 29 May 2019. So I can't say MBNA made a 
mistake in treating this date as the account opening date.
As Mr C's account was opened by MBNA on 29 May 2019, the 60 day period within which 
Mr C had to make purchases to qualify for the 27 month interest free period expired on 28 
July 2019 and any further purchases after that date were subject to interest at 
MBNA's standard rate. I'm therefore satisfied that MBNA correctly applied interest to the 
purchase he made on 5 August 2019.
I've found that MBNA didn't make an error in applying interest to the purchase he made on 5 
August 2019, but I can see it nevertheless agreed to refund £13.50 interest it applied to his 
account and it also agreed to a 3 month interest  waiver to give him time to repay the 
amount, should he wish as a gesture of goodwill which I think was fair on MBNA's part.
I appreciate that by the time Mr C received MBNA's October 2019 letter he'd already repaid 
his outstanding credit card balance - and I can see why he feels he's missed out. However, I 
can't say this was due to any error on MBNA's part for the reasons I've explained above. In 
its final response letter MBNA gave Mr C a three month interest free waiver to give him time 
to repay his outstanding balance. It waas Mr C's decision to repay his outstanding balance 
when he did - and before the expiry of the three month extension MBNA had given him. I 
won't be asking MBNA to do anything further.My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2020.
Michelle Hayward
Ombudsman