DRN-1000671
 
The complaint
Miss S complains that Southern Rock Insurance Company cancelled her motor insurance 
policy whilst she was awaiting settlement of a claim against another driver. Miss S is 
represented in this matter by her boyfriend, Mr S. 
What happened
Miss S was involved in an incident with another driver and her car was deemed to be a total 
loss. She told Southern Rock that she would be dealing directly with the other drivers 
insurer. It recorded the claim as non-fault and closed it on its records. 
Miss S said it was understood that she would then add another car onto her policy. But after 
waiting for some time for this, Southern Rock notified Miss S that the policy would cancel. 
Miss S thought this was unfair as she was still awaiting settlement of her claim and couldnt 
yet buy a new car. She said the cancellation led to the loss of almost a complete years No 
Claims Bonus (NCB) and an increase in quotes for premiums for a new policy.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought 
Southern Rock had waited a reasonable amount of time for Miss S to replace her car before 
it cancelled the policy. Southern Rock had recorded the cancellation on internal records only 
so Miss S could explain this to new insurers. He thought Southern Rock had reasonably 
waived its cancellation fee to compensate Miss S for not making it clearer that it wouldnt 
keep the policy open indefinitely.
Miss Ss representative replied that Southern Rock should have made it clearer that the 
policy would be cancelled after three months. He said the claim had been settled very shortly 
afterwards and so Miss S was back on the road a month later. He asked for the complaint to 
be reviewed, so its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Southern Rocks decision to cancel Miss Ss policy has been an added 
stress on top of the accident and having to deal with the claim. But Im unable to uphold her 
complaint and Ill now explain why I think this. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Southern Rock said Miss S had told it she would be replacing her car soon. But it said it 
had no data from Miss Ss telematics device for three months and Miss S hadnt told it that 
shed replaced her car. So it cancelled Miss Ss policy after giving her a weeks notice. Ive looked at Miss Ss policy and I can see that if the insurer decides to cancel the policy, 
this would be with seven days notice. So I cant say that Southern Rock acted unreasonably 
on this point. 
Southern Rock said it would normally allow 14 days for a car to be replaced on a policy. The 
policy terms and conditions state one reason for cancellation is if cover can no longer be 
provided. Miss S hadnt had a car on cover for three months. So Southern Rock wasnt then 
insuring anything. I cant say it was wrong for Southern Rock to cancel the policy as there 
was no insurable risk. It expected Miss S to replace her car. I think 14 days is a usual 
amount of time to allow for this to be done. And Southern Rock had allowed Miss S much 
more time than this. 
So I think Southern Rock allowed Miss S a reasonable amount of time to replace her car. It 
wasnt responsible for the time it took the other insurer to settle the claim. Nor do I think it 
was responsible for Miss S being unable to buy the replacement she wanted and so delaying 
this. 
Mr S said he called Southern Rock and it declined to allow a few more weeks before 
cancellation. But I havent seen anything that would have persuaded Southern Rock that the 
payout was imminent. As it turned out, Miss S received her payout and replaced her car after 
another month had passed. I dont think it would be reasonable to expect Southern Rock to 
wait for a further month. 
I agree that Southern Rock could have made it clearer that it couldnt keep the policy active 
indefinitely. It refunded its £75 cancellation fee to acknowledge this. I think thats fair and 
reasonable as its what Id require in similar circumstances.
As the investigator has already explained, Southern Rock has recorded the cancellation only 
on its internal database. Its for Miss S to answer any questions future insurers ask about 
previous cancellations honestly. But in this case, she can explain the circumstances of her 
cancellation. This may reduce the quote for cover she receives, but I cant require that of any 
future insurer. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 25July2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman