DRN-3967025
The complaint
Mr M complains that Marsh Finance Ltd (Marsh Finance) gave him incorrect information 
regarding the outstanding balance on his finance agreement.
What happened
Mr M took out a hire purchase agreement with a third-party who Ill call C, in August 2017 
to acquire a used car.
For ease, Ill refer to both C and Marsh Finance Ltd as Marsh Finance throughout my 
decision.
In August 2022, Mr M contacted Marsh Finance by phone to request a settlement figure from 
them. Mr M said that he was told by Marsh Finance that he had a monthly payment of 
£430.75 leaving his account in August 2022, which meant he only had to pay an additional 
£95.86 by 16 September 2022. 
Marsh Finance then sent Mr M a settlement quote saying the final figure to pay was £526.61 
and Mr M said he paid what he thought was the remaining amount owed in early September 
2022.
Marsh Finance then sent Mr M a letter in October 2022 explaining that there was still 
£628.70 of arrears left to pay.
Mr M complained to Marsh Finance and they sent him a final response. Marsh Finance 
explained that during the call, they confirmed his settlement figure and confirmed there were 
arrears on his account of £317.78. Marsh Finance explained that arrears are not included in 
any current balance showing on the account. And as his September 2022 direct debit was 
returned, the arrears increased to £628.70.
Mr M paid the amount owed in October 2022 but he said the impact of paying it put him in 
hardship with making other payments.
Mr M then referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint. In summary, he said he listened to the call Mr M 
had with Marsh Finance and said that it was likely Mr M was left with the impression that the 
settlement figure included the arrears owed. He concluded that Marsh Finance should pay 
Mr M £100 compensation and also remove any negative information from Mr Ms credit file 
that has resulted specifically from the missed September 2022 direct debit.
Mr M responded and said he agreed with the investigators outcome.
Marsh Finance responded and said they disagreed with the investigators findings. They said 
they believed the settlement amount was clearly explained to Mr M, along with the arrears 
balance. They also said that they would expect Mr M to contact their collections department 
if he was ever in doubt of any remaining balance.
Our investigator explained this didnt change his opinion and so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint and Ill explain why below.
Although the agreement was with C, the evidence shows that Marsh Finance dealt with the 
complaint and administered the account on Cs behalf. And neither Marsh Finance nor C 
have disputed this. So Im satisfied I can consider Mr Ms complaint about Marsh Finance.
What I need to consider here is whether Marsh Finance gave Mr M incorrect information, 
and if so, what impact this had on him and what Marsh Finance should do to put things right.
Ive listened to the call Mr M held with Marsh Finance in August 2022. An advisor says that 
there are arrears on the account. So I appreciate why Marsh Finance believe they made this 
clear to Mr M.
But later in the call, the advisor gave a breakdown of the outstanding balance and what was 
owed. The advisor says that the outstanding balance does include the arrears. She explains 
that due to an upcoming monthly payment, the remaining balance left to pay would be 
£95.86. She also told Mr M she will send the figures discussed in writing to him.
I have seen a copy of the settlement letter that was sent to Mr M. It gives the outstanding 
balance on his account, as well as the rebate applied and the final settlement figure. This 
letter did not mention arrears on the account.
While the letter sent to Mr M didnt specifically say that £95.86 would be left to pay, 
considering this was sent after the conversation Mr M had with Marsh Finance, I think it was 
reasonable for Mr M to conclude that once his upcoming monthly payment was paid, then he 
would have only £95.86 remaining to pay. 
So Im satisfied Marsh Finance has given incorrect, or at the very least, unclear, information 
to Mr M.
While incorrect information was given, it doesnt follow that the arrears should be waived. Mr 
M is contractually obligated to pay these, and I think its fair and reasonable that he did so, 
despite the incorrect information. 
I now need to consider the impact Marsh Finances mistake has had on Mr M and whether 
they need to do anything to put things right.
Mr M has told our service that following clearing his outstanding debt with Marsh Finance, he 
struggled to make other payments. And, I can appreciate that having to pay an amount he 
wasnt expecting would have been a shock to Mr M. So, Im satisfied Mr M has been caused 
distress and inconvenience because of what Marsh Finance did wrong.
Considering everything here, Im satisfied Marsh Finance should pay Mr M £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Marsh Finance may have also reported adverse information on Mr Ms credit file in relation to this. Im satisfied if Marsh Finance gave him the correct information at the time, he likely 
would not have cancelled his direct debit and settled the balance earlier. So they should also 
remove any adverse information relating to this account that has been added since the 
phone call in August 2022.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Marsh Finance Ltd to put things 
right by doing the following:
Pay Mr M £100 for the inconvenience caused.
Remove any negative information about this agreement from Mr Ms credit file that 
has been added since the phone call he held with them in August 2022.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman