DRN-3359723
The complaint
Mr H complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited irresponsibly granted him a conditional sale 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In March 2016, Mr H acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Mr H was required to make 59 monthly repayments of £518. The total repayable 
under the agreement was £30,572.
Mr H says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included a credit search to assess Mr Hs credit 
worthiness and level of indebtedness. It said that it provided finance to customers who had 
experienced historical financial problems and that Mr Hs credit check showed a historic 
default however the amount of this and timing didnt raise concerns. It says Mr H provided 
copies of his recent payslips which were used to verify his earnings and that the repayments 
compared to his income fell within its lending criteria. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought Moneybarn ought to 
have realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Mr H.
Moneybarn didnt respond to our adjudicators view and this case has been passed to me for 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Before granting the finance, I think Moneybarn gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Mr H about his income. I say this because it received information about 
Mr Hs employment including payslips to verify his monthly income. 
Moneybarn has said that Mr H had a historic default recorded on his credit file, but this didnt 
raise concerns. It hasnt provided a copy of the credit check it completed. Ive therefore 
relied on a copy of the credit file supplied by Mr H. While this is a recent credit file and so 
wont contain certain information from the time, I think this gives a good indication of what 
Moneybarn would likely have seen. At the time of the application it shows Mr H had 
struggled to maintain his mortgage payments and while this account was up to date at the 
time of the application, he had missed a payment in December 2015 and on occasions 
throughout 2015. He was also three months in arrears with a utility provider and was making 
use of payday loans. I think this ought to have indicated that Mr H was likely to be struggling 
financially. It therefore would have been proportionate for Moneybarn to have got a more 
thorough understanding of Mr Hs financial circumstances before lending.
I think it would have been proportionate for Moneybarn to have verified Mr Hs financial 
circumstances. One way Moneybarn could have done this was by requesting copies of his 
bank statements. Ive reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the lending 
decision. 
The statements show that Mr H was struggling financially. He has provided evidence from 
two accounts. One account has his salary and child tax credit paid into it and is run with 
minimal funds as on the day income is received it is either used on expenses or transferred 
out to Mr Hs other account. Mr Hs other account shows the transfers and is used to cover 
his expenses including payments for housing costs, utilities, credit commitments, food and 
fuel. This account is continually in overdraft, incurring charges and has returned direct 
debits. Mr Hs statements also show he was making frequent use of payday loans. Clearly 
Mr H wasnt in a position to afford the repayments towards the new agreement without 
financial difficulty or having to borrow further. Had Moneybarn completed proportionate 
checks, I think its likely it would have discovered this too. It therefore didnt act fairly by 
approving the finance.
Putting things right
As I dont think Moneybarn ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to 
be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Mr H should therefore only 
have to pay the original cash price of the car, being £17,433. Anything Mr H has paid in 
excess of that amount should be refunded as an overpayment. 
To settle Mr Hs complaint Moneybarn should do the following:
Refund any payments Mr H has made in excess of £17,433, representing the original 
cash price of the car. It should add 8% simple interest per year* from the date of 
each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file regarding the 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneybarn to take off tax from this interest. Moneybarn 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr H asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to put things right in the manner 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman