DRN-1949012
The complaint
Mr M has complained about his home plumbing and drains insurer, British Gas Insurance 
Limited (BG), because it started work to clear a drain at his home but didnt manage to 
unblock it and when he claimed his excess payment back from his credit card BG threatened 
debt collection.
What happened
Mr M had a blocked rain water drain which (when not blocked) feeds water down from the 
roof and away from the house into a soakaway. He contacted BG, paid the policy excess on 
his credit card and it sent an operative to Mr Ms home. It was felt cutting equipment was 
needed to clear roots in the drain so a second appointment was made.
Mr M reports that during the second appointment the operative initially said work couldnt be 
completed because the drain was shared with a neighbour. Mr M said this wasnt true and 
the operative eventually agreed to try and clear the drain. However, the operative said the 
roots couldnt be cleared  Mr M felt this was because incorrect equipment was being used. 
Mr M was told the only other option for BG to complete a repair under the policy would be for 
a spot-dig of the garden to take place to gain access to the drain to allow it to be cleared. 
Mr M wasnt prepared to consider such an invasive option at that point  he felt BG should 
made a further attempt to cut the root out using better/more appropriate equipment. 
BG felt it had carried out the attempted unblocking reasonably, that it had done all it could. 
As BG wasnt prepared to do anymore non-invasive work and the repair remained 
incomplete Mr M asked his credit card company to refund the excess hed paid to BG. When 
the refund occurred BG began writing to Mr M asking for repayment of the excess and 
ultimately threatening debt collection activity. 
Mr M complained to this service. At which point BG said it would put on hold its attempts to 
reclaim the excess amount from Mr M. Mr M confirmed the drain was still blocked.
Our investigator noted that BG, as experts, had confirmed it had carried out the attempted 
unblocking as it always would, using equipment that is always used. She felt it was 
reasonable to rely on this evidence and noted that it just hadnt been possible to unblock the 
drain on this occasion but an alternative method had been suggested to try to complete the 
repair. However, given the policy definition of excess, which is the sum paid for completed 
repairs, and as the repairs were not currently complete, she did feel that BG should waive 
this charge.
BG did not object to the view. Mr M did. He said BG were not independent experts but hed 
be happy for an independent expert to attend and asses his drain. He provided further detail 
about the tool-heads BG had used and others he felt it should have used. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms policy does say that an excess is paid for completed repairs. It stands to reason that 
as, at this time, BG hasnt completed a repair, it cant fairly demand Mr M pay it an excess. 
I note Mr M has his money back (from his credit card provider) and that BG ceased its debt 
collection activity whilst this complaint progressed. It wont now be able to resume that 
activity.
BG are not independent experts. But they are the only experts which have commented on 
Mr Ms drain. We can only assess the evidence as its presented to us and we have no 
opposing expert evidence to contradict what BG has told us. If opposing evidence  from a 
similarly qualified expert  were to exist and I found each equally persuasive then I might 
have required an independent expert to be appointed to give a view on the best course of 
repair which would be binding on both parties. But the situation with the claim and complaint 
here doesnt warrant that. 
Mr M did send some detail to us about tool-heads. Whilst I understand why he thinks a saw 
blade should have been used by BG, BG, as the experts, have said they used the tools they 
would normally use and I have no reason to doubt that is the case. I cant see why BG would 
knowingly seek to use inefficient and inappropriate tools which would seem fated to fail and 
make any repair more expensive and extensive. Id also note though that Mr M said the 
operative told him that the spear blade it used wouldnt penetrate the roots. Whilst Mr M 
says he believed that was because it was the wrong equipment, the detail Mr M sent us 
shows that spear blades are to be used first to penetrate the roots and make room for the 
cutting (saw) blade. 
I do understand why Mr M doesnt want his lawn dug up. But I also know that insurers do not 
opt to complete invasive and expensive work unless it is felt there is no other option. Im 
satisfied that if BG felt the drain could be cleared without digging down and cutting into it, 
that is what it would have done. If, having reviewed my decision and his position Mr M would 
like BG to resume its claim activity by attending to dig down and cut into the drain then he 
should contact it direct to arrange that. 
For completeness, Ive seen discussion on this complaint about the soakaway (soakaways 
arent covered by the policy). But BG accepted the claim for Mr Ms blocked drain so 
I havent referred to the peripheral comments and discussions that have taken place 
regarding the soakaway. Im also aware that BG offered a solution to Mr M that wasnt 
covered by the policy. If he wants to discuss that with it further he is free to do so but 
I havent mentioned it here as here I am assessing BGs insurance activity in relation to the 
insurance policy.
Putting things right
As mentioned above, BG will not be able to resume its debt collection activity started when 
Mr M claimed his £60.00 excess payment back from his credit card because works had not 
been completed. Of course, if BG does eventually complete work to unblock Mr Ms drain 
and restore its flow, the parties can discuss again what is owed under the policy.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. I require British Gas Insurance Limited to provide the redress 
as set out above (putting things right).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Fiona RobinsonOmbudsman