DRN-3973193
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has handled a claim 
hes made on his buildings insurance policy following subsidence at his property.
What happened
Admiral is the underwriter of the policy i.e. its the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of Admirals nominated agent. As Admiral has accepted it is accountable for the 
actions of this agent, any reference to Admiral includes the agents actions.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties, so I have provided a summary 
here.
Mr H owns a property insured under a buildings insurance policy underwritten by 
Admiral. In 2019, the porch at the property experienced subsidence and Mr H made 
a claim on the policy.
He made a number of complaints about the way the claim was handled and Admiral 
issued a final response in July 2021 addressing his concerns. This complaint was 
raised with this Service but wasnt one we could consider as it had been raised 
outside the required timescales.
The claim continued, with various aspects of remedial works taking place. During 
these works, the alarm installed in the house was disconnected. Mr H was unhappy 
with the quality of some of the works, the time taken and the delays to the 
reinstallation of the alarm, so he complained again. 
Admiral awarded £500 compensation for the things it accepted it did wrong but Mr H 
didnt think this was a fair amount and wasnt happy that the flowers promised as an 
apology, hadnt been received. So, he raised a complaint with this Service. 
Our Investigator upheld the complaint and explained in the particular circumstances 
of this complaint, Admirals £500 award wasnt enough and it should pay Mr H an 
additional £200 and ensure the promised flowers were sent. Neither Mr H nor 
Admiral agreed so the complaint has come to me to reach an Ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our Investigator has explained we can consider the time period from July 2021  
after Admirals previous final response  until June 2022, when it issued its next final 
response. Mr H has confirmed the only outstanding work now is the reinstatement of 
the alarm. 
One of Mr Hs main concerns was the delay in the alarm being fixed. Hes explained 
that having a functioning alarm system is particularly important to him due to his 
wifes personal circumstances. It gives him peace of mind about her welfare. I think 
Admiral should have prioritised its reinstatement but it failed to do this. 
Having read his testimony carefully, Im satisfied the absence of a working alarm over 
the period of time in question has caused Mr H significant distress and 
inconvenience. 
Mr H says the remedial works took three times the initial estimate. I note from 
Admirals final response in June 2022, it was unsure of the exact timeline of works by 
its agent, but it accepted the work took too long. Its clear to me from the photos 
provided by Mr H some of the remedial work wasnt completed to an acceptable 
standard and Admiral acknowledges there were delays and return visits necessary to 
address snagging issues.  Overall, from what Ive seen from the evidence, I agree 
Admiral could - and should  have completed the work quicker than it did. 
Ill be keeping in mind what Ive said above when considering my direction to Admiral 
and the award I recommend.
Mr H has concerns that when he comes to sell the property, potential buyers will 
know theres been subsidence and this could affect its future saleability. But I cant 
hold the business responsible for this and Ive not seen evidence which persuades 
me the work Admiral has undertaken to resolve the subsidence is inadequate to 
address the problem.
I know Mr H wanted Admiral to waive the excess of £1,000 because of its poor 
service but this was the part of a claim he agreed to pay, in the event of subsidence, 
when he took out the insurance contract. So, I wont be asking Admiral to refund it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited to:
Either urgently instruct one of its contractors to reinstate the alarm or alternatively, 
provide a cash settlement so Mr H can pay his own contractor to do it. 
Pay Mr H £200 for the distress and inconvenience it caused him, in addition to the 
£500 its already paid.
Send the flowers it promised by way of an apology if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman