DRN-2703767
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Santander UK Plc would not allow her to withdraw cash or transfer 
funds from her savings account.
Mrs B is being represented by her son, who Ill refer to as Mr A. 
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 26 February 2021. The background 
and circumstances of the case and the reasons why I didnt uphold it were set out in that 
decision. I have reproduced the provisional decision in italics below:
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Santander UK Plc would not allow her to withdraw cash or transfer
funds from her savings account.
Mrs B is being represented by her son, who Ill refer to as Mr A.
What happened
In May 2020, Mrs B went into her local Santander branch on three separate occasions.
Its not in dispute that when Mrs B visited the branch, the UK Government had declared a
national pandemic in light of the overwhelming impact caused by COVID-19.
May 2020 is considered early in the pandemic. Santander has said it was providing a limited
service to its customers and only essential withdrawals were being permitted.
First Visit
On 5 May 2020 Mrs B attended the branch with Mr A. Mrs B explains her son requested to
withdraw £2,000 in cash from her savings account on her behalf due to her English being
limited. Santander initially authorised this. But Mr A then requested a large transfer from
Mrs Bs savings balance to his own account.
Santander suggests that carrying out the transfer would have used up most of Mrs Bs
account balance. So the cashier asked the reasons for the transfer and the responses
provided were inconsistent. When further questions were asked, Santander says it found
Mr A to be rude and aggressive. The cashier read out a scam script to Mrs B and did not
consider she understood what was being said. As the cashier was concerned, they alerted
the branch manager.
The branch manager asked Mrs B and Mr A questions about the intended withdrawals. The
bank suggests Mr A took over the conversation and responded with inconsistent reasons.
Santander also says Mr As tone started to become more aggressive.
Santander then declined both requests. It said they were unusual transactions for Mrs B, it
was concerned she didnt understand the scam script, it didnt think the reasons given were
plausible or that the transactions could be considered as essential.
Santander says Mr A was frustrated about the requests being declined. It recalls that Mr A
said he would come into branch every day and that hed hold Santander responsible if Mrs B
caught COVID-19. Santander says it told Mr A that he didnt need to come back every day
and that he would be putting his mothers health at risk should he decide to. Santander says
it reiterated it was only allowing essential withdrawals to take place in branch.
Second visit
The second visit took place on 6 May 2020. On this occasion Mrs B attended the branch with
her daughter in law, who wanted to know why the request to transfer funds to Mr A wasnt
being permitted. Mrs Bs daughter in law then requested a cash withdrawal of £5,000. At this
point, Mrs B and her daughter in law were taken into a side room and questioned again
about the reasons for the withdrawal request, but this time in Mrs Bs native language. Mrs B
was also told why Santander needed to know the purpose of the withdrawal.
Santander further explained that it wanted to protect Mrs B from becoming a victim of fraud.
Mrs B told the branch staff the withdrawal request was for kitchen building work. Santander
explained to Mrs B that there was a national lockdown and no building work was currently
being permitted. Mrs B told Santander that Mr A had asked her to withdraw the money to
ensure she had it ready for when the work could start. Santander says Mrs B did not have
any invoices detailing the planned renovation work.
Santander told Mrs B the withdrawal wasnt essential, but it would allow her to withdraw up
to £300.
Third visit
Mrs B returned to the branch on 7 May 2020, accompanied by Mr A. Mr A was unhappy with
how his mother had been treated. Santander has said that during this visit Mr A was
threatening towards the member of staff he had previously spoken to.
Santander again asked the reason for the withdrawal and suggests Mr A said it was to invest
in gold. Santander felt it had been provided with inconsistent reasons that it did not consider
to be plausible, so declined the request. Mr A says this led him to miss out on the investment
opportunity and potential profit.
Mr A also told Santander that he uses Mrs Bs card and PIN with her authority for
withdrawals and suggested he holds Power of Attorney (POA) to act on her behalf. 
Santander told him that a POA had not been registered with it and that he should provide the
documentation to the bank so he could then help Mrs B to manage her money. Santander
said Mr A became evasive.
Mr A has said the branch staff were talking about Mrs Bs account over the phone, but he
wasnt told exactly what was being discussed. He explains he was asked for Mrs Bs
passbook and it was reviewed at the back of the branch, which he feels is a General Data
Protection Regulation (GDPR) breach. Santander has explained that Mr A, whilst in branch,
contacted Santanders head office from his personal phone asking them to contact the
branch manager. When head office called, the branch manager asked for Mrs Bs passbook.Santander said the passbook was taken to a secure area where private so that the branch
manager could see the account number and load the details onto the system to help her
assist with the call. Once the call ended, the passbook was handed back to Mrs B.
Santander wasnt happy with how Mr A behaved and said his behaviour came across as
being both aggressive and coercive, so it called the Police. Mr A says Police presence was
uncalled for and that it was a waste of Police time.
Mrs B made a complaint about the service they had received and the refusal to allow
withdrawals and transactions on her account.
Santander investigated Mrs Bs concerns and found no error in the way the staff had dealt
with the matter in branch. It felt it had acted in line with UK banking regulations and pointed
out that the branch staff had acted out of concern.
Mrs B didnt agree so asked us to investigate.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Bs case. She was persuaded by what the bank
said about being concerned as Mrs B was well known to the branch staff and had not
needed to visit with anyone previously. She concluded the bank had acted fairly and
reasonably in the circumstances, so was unable to ask Santander to do anything more.
She said it was reasonable that the bank had security measures in place to protect both
Mrs Bs interests and the banks.
Mrs B didnt accept our investigators outcome and said:
- At the time of the event, the bank had no restrictions in place regarding withdrawing
money, so she should have been able to withdraw up to £5,000 over the counter
without pre-arrangement
- The transaction for £2,000 had initially been fully authorised, so she didnt
understand why it was then declined by the branch manager, despite Mr A explaining
the reason for the withdrawals
- The branch had committed a data breach and the branch manager had 
overreached her jurisdiction by declining the withdrawal and transfer requests. 
The Police did not need to be called as no laws had been broken
- Mrs B and Mr A were not taken into a private room to discuss any concerns and
customers were walking in and out of the branch, which they believed to be further
data protection breaches
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the account in question is in Mrs Bs sole name, Mr A is a third party and not eligible to
complain to us about the matter in his own right. If I decide that Santander has acted
incorrectly, I would only be able to make an award to recognise the impact those actions had
on Mrs B alone. I am unable to make an award of compensation to acknowledge the
distress, inconvenience and financial losses Mr A has described experiencing.In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account.
But that is not the end of the story:
- regulated firms like Santander are also required to conduct their business with due
skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to
the interests of its customers (Principle 6).
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken
proactive steps to:
- identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable
circumstances, including those at risk of financial exploitation (something recognised
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances);
- look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of 
character
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 Protecting Customers
from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
- in relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available.
This means that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a
bank should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated
fraud and scams in recent years - which banks are generally more familiar with than the
average customer.
Of particular relevance in this complaint is the Banking Protocol and the BBA publication
Safeguarding vulnerable customers. Banking best practice: advice for bank staff (which for
simplicity I will refer to as the BBA best practice note), so I have set out more information
about them below.
The Banking Protocol and BBA best practice note
The Banking Protocol is a multi-agency initiative between the Police, financial sector
organisations (including banks, building societies and the post office), and Trading
Standards aimed at identifying customers who are in the process of being defrauded and
implementing safeguarding procedures to prevent their repeat victimisation and further loss
of funds.The Banking Protocol was first launched in October 2016 and was in force in the branch
where Mrs B attempted to withdraw money. The general principles of the Banking Protocol  
for example to look out for unusual and out of character transactions, to ask questions and to 
escalate internally when in doubt, were long established as good practice in May 2020 when 
Mrs B attended the branch.
And whilst the Banking Protocol brought in a direct line of contact between the branch and
the local Police Force, it was still open for branch staff to contact the Police (or Trading
Standards), as the BBA best practice note explained.
Having set out the relevant considerations, I need to decide whether Santander acted fairly
and reasonably in not allowing Mrs B to withdraw cash or to transfer her funds to Mr A.
I can appreciate that this was an upsetting and serious situation for everyone involved. Mr A
has explained that he wasnt intentionally rude and aggressive, rather, he was very upset.
The recollections of events by both parties are at odds with each other. Where there is a
dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of probabilities  in
other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the evidence.
I believe Santander took the appropriate steps and acted fairly and reasonably in not
allowing Mrs B to withdraw the money or transfer the funds into Mr As account. I dont think
it was unreasonable for Santander to consider the situation to be unusual. I say this for the
following reasons:
- Mrs B was a well-known customer to the branch. Santander has explained that 
Mrs B had previously always attended the branch alone. Santander said Mrs B would 
come in, hand over her passbook to the cashier and withdraw a small amount of 
money. So, I can understand why Santander noticed a change in Mrs Bs typical 
behaviour when she attended branch with Mr A, followed by her daughter in law.
- The cash withdrawal and the transfer request would have significantly reduced
Mrs Bs account balance. Reducing her balance so significantly doesnt compare with
how Mrs B usually managed her account balance. So, I believe Santander were right
in perceiving this activity as unusual.
- When the branch asked Mrs B and Mr A about the reasons for the transactions,
Santander were provided with a range of inconsistent explanations, and this
undermined the plausibility of the reasons being provided.
- There are no records of Mr A having POA on Santanders system. Mr A is still not a
registered POA on Mrs Bs account.
As Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Santander should have been
on the look-out for unusual and out of character transactions. From looking at Mrs Bs
transaction history, I think the requests made were out of character and unusual for her.
Santander felt that the information it had at the time indicated that Mrs B could be in a
vulnerable position. It noted Mr A seemed to be taking control of the situation. The
recollections provided by the branch suggest the staff were concerned for Mrs B. The bank
has explained it wasnt able to satisfy itself that Mrs B understood the transactions that were
planned and it was because of their concern for her and desire to protect her they took the
decision to contact the Police. I dont think it was unreasonable for Santander to take further
steps as a result of identifying indicators that Mrs B was potentially at risk of financial harm.The pandemic situation
In March 2020, a pandemic was declared in the UK. Later that month, the regulator of the
financial services industry, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), published statements
setting out its expectations of banks and building societies. They were expected to keep
branches open where possible to support their customers, but also to take precautions to
keep staff and customers safe. The FCA urged customers only to visit branches where
absolutely necessary and to use other means of doing their banking where possible.
Santander has informed us of its guidance during this period. Its clear that staff were to
direct customers to other ways to bank without the need for face-to-face interaction. The
staff statements I have seen from Santander along with Mrs B and Mr As recollections lead
me to conclude that the staff followed this guidance when Mrs B visited.
I think Santander acted reasonably when declining Mrs Bs request to withdraw larger sums
of money during the pandemic, in line with the FCAs guidelines. I accept that each individual
customers circumstances are different, and it is hard to make a definitive list of what should
fairly be considered to be an essential transaction and what should not be. But I dont think it
is unreasonable for the bank to restrict large cash withdrawals when the usual cash supply is
not as readily available or when manual handling of notes and coins is being discouraged,
as it was at the early stages of the pandemic. This was Santanders approach to all its
customers, not just Mrs B. So, I dont think that, by allowing essential withdrawals only, staff
were being unreasonable with Mrs B.
Mr A has also said that not all of Santanders employees were wearing face masks. It is
important to note that this situation occurred in the first week that the branch reopened
during the height of the first pandemic lockdown. At that time, there was no legal
requirement to wear face coverings, however the branch has said some staff were opting to
do so as a precaution.
Mr A has also commented on not being taken into a private room when being questioned
about the withdrawals. Santander has said all conversations took place in a semiprivate
room and the digital banking area, where it was quiet. Santander has also explained that the
staff did not feel safe taking Mrs B and Mr A into a private room due to Mr As tone and body
language. Santander has added that no one was allowed in branch when the Police had
been called. Santander has explained customers were not allowed to walk and in out in the
usual manner and that the branch door was always manned to ensure this was adhered to.
And, on balance, I am persuaded by the banks version of events, because of the social
distancing guidelines set out for businesses to follow by HM Government that were in place
at the time. Ive not seen enough to say Santander handled Mrs Bs personal information
inappropriately.
Overall
In all the circumstances and given the background of the pandemic as Ive set out, I find
I cant fairly conclude that Santander treated Mrs B inappropriately.
I do appreciate there is a delicate balance to be struck. Mrs B is free to use her own money
as she wishes and when transactions are picked up for further checks, that inevitably causes
some degree of inconvenience. Its clear that emotions ran high on both sides and I dont
doubt this was a stressful experience for everyone involved.But I dont think Santander acted unfairly or made a mistake by refusing to make these
payments. Calling the Police in order to try and protect Mrs B was reasonable and whilst it
didnt amount to anything in the end, I do understand why the bank took this step as a
precautionary measure. It was not inappropriate for the bank to do so in all the
circumstances.
Santander also did the right thing by asking the relevant questions in order to understand
what the transactions were for and whether there were alternative ways to pay, in order to
establish whether the transactions were essential for Mrs B to need to make in the midst of
a global pandemic.
As a result, Im satisfied that Santander tried to act in Mrs Bs best interests and that it didnt
act unfairly by refusing to allow her to make the requested payments. As I dont think
Santander has done anything wrong, Im unable to order it to pay any compensation.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my provisional decision is that I dont intend to uphold
Mrs Bs complaint.
In my provisional decision I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or 
arguments that they wanted me to consider. 
Santander had nothing further to add, but Mr A remained of the view that Santander acted 
unfairly and unreasonably in the way it treated Mrs B. 
I have summarised the points raised by Mr A in his most recent submissions below: 
- Mr A pointed out the provisional decision stated that on 5 May 2020, Santander 
declined Mrs Bs request to withdraw £2,000 in cash from Mrs Bs savings account 
and declined to complete a large transfer from Mrs Bs savings balance to Mr As 
own account. Mr A said that wasnt correct and that Santander did allow Mrs B to 
withdraw £2,000 in cash. 
- Mr A said on the second visit which took place on 6 May 2020, the provisional 
decision stated that the conversation between Santander, Mrs B and her daughter in 
law took place in a side room. Mr A said this wasnt correct and that the conversation 
took place whilst Mrs B and her daughter in law were in the queue. 
- Mr A pointed out that on the second visit which took place on 6 May 2020, the 
provisional decision said that Mrs Bs daughter in law wanted to know why the 
request to transfer the funds to Mr A wasnt being permitted. Mr A said Mrs Bs 
daughter in law did not query this and a different conversation about how much 
money Mrs B required took place. 
- Mr A reiterated that during the time this situation took place, there were no 
restrictions in place as to how much money can be withdrawn. Mr A believes that the 
£5,000 cash over the counter limit applied and Mrs B was denied access to her own 
funds. Mr A also felt that Santander didnt need to know what renovation works had 
been planned and shouldnt have asked for invoices. Mr A said this was a private 
matter, which Santander shouldnt have concerned itself with.  
- Mr A also repeated his concerns about Santander calling the Police. Mr A said he 
was in the branch lawfully, and the constable was present for an hour and took no 
further action. Mr A said having the constable there made him and Mrs B look like criminals. Mr A also said calling the Police was a waste of tax payers money and 
Police resource. 
- Mr A has also referred to there being a General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) 
breach as he believes Mrs Bs account was being spoken about openly in the foyer, 
whilst customers were going and in out. 
- Mr A has also mentioned that he put in a request to Santander to release the call that 
took place between the branch and head office on 7 May 2020, when Mrs Bs 
passbook was requested. Mr A said he is yet to receive this.  
- Mr A said that whilst his Power of Attorney (POA) wasnt registered with the bank, he 
often supports Mrs B in managing her affairs. Mr A said that a verbal expression of a 
POA is permissible and can be made to suit the requirements at the time. 
- Mr A also disputed that he was rude or aggressive and said that this whole situation 
had left him and Mrs B highly frustrated. Mr A said he felt Mrs B hadnt been treated 
in line with the Nolan principles and that due to Santanders actions an opportunity to 
invest was missed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that this complaint shouldnt be upheld for the reasons 
set out in my provisional decision, which I have reproduced above, and which now forms 
part of this final decision. 
I understand Mr A and Mrs B are disappointed with my provisional findings and Ive carefully 
considered everything that was said in response. Whilst I acknowledge Mr B remains 
concerned with the situation, I do not consider his response to my provisional decision 
presented any material new evidence. 
However, I would still like to address some of Mr As recent submissions  in particular 
where he has referred to discrepancies. 
The first discrepancy Mr A mentioned related to what happened on 5 May 2020  this was 
during Mr A and Mrs Bs initial visit to the branch. The provisional decision stated that both 
requests were declined by Santander - this was the request to withdraw £2,000 in cash and 
the request to transfer a large amount of money from Mrs Bs savings account to Mr As own 
account. Mr A said Santander did allow Mrs B to withdraw £2,000 cash and only declined the 
transfer request. Santander has since said it did agree to the £2,000 cash withdrawal and 
only declined the request to transfer a large amount of money to Mr As account. I apologise 
for the misunderstanding, however when reconsidering the corrected piece of information, it 
does not change my findings. It remains the case that Santander can decline to make a 
payment altogether to help protect its customers from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud. 
I understand Mr A also feels strongly about where certain conversations took place in 
branch, what was discussed during those conversations and the restrictions that were in 
place at the time. It is clear that the recollections of events by both parties are at odds with 
each other, so where there is a dispute about what happened, I base my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened 
in the light of the evidence. In this situation whilst Santanders recollections are different to Mr As and Mr Bs, the key 
thing here is that both parties agree that a conversation took place on that day about Mrs Bs 
money. The location of the conversation does not impact the outcome that I have reached. 
I still think Santander is entitled to take proactive steps to look to identify and help prevent 
transactions  particularly unusual or out of character transactions  that could involve fraud 
or be the result of a scam. 
I understand Mr A doesnt agree there were restrictions in place about how much money a 
customer could withdraw over the counter in branch. But Santander has informed us of its 
guidance towards withdrawing money during this period, which I have explained in detail 
within the provisional decision. I am satisfied that there were restrictions in place and that 
Santander acted reasonably and in line with the FCAs guidelines when declining Mrs Bs 
request to withdraw larger sums of money during the pandemic. I dont think it is 
unreasonable for the bank to restrict large cash withdrawals in circumstances when the 
usual cash supply is not as readily available. I dont think that staff were being unreasonable 
or obstructive by only allowing essential withdrawals. 
Mr A feels Santanders actions and behaviours fell below ethical standards. He says that 
calling the Police wasnt necessary. But, as explained in my provisional decision, I consider 
that as a matter of good practice, Santander should have been on the look-out for unusual 
and out of character transactions. The Banking Protocol is an arrangement between banks 
and the Police that is designed to protect customers from fraud. A bank is often the first point 
of contact for someone who is about to fall victim to a fraud and the Banking Protocol sets 
out that bank staff are encouraged to contact the Police even if they arent sure about the 
situation its customer might be in. From looking at Mrs Bs transaction history, I think the 
requests made were out of character and unusual for her. The recollections provided by the 
branch suggest the staff were concerned for Mrs B. The bank has explained it wasnt able to 
satisfy itself that Mrs B understood the transactions that were planned, and it was because 
of its concern for her and desire to protect her they took the decision to contact the Police. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Santander to take further steps as a result of identifying 
indicators that Mrs B was potentially at risk of financial harm. 
Some of Mr As concerns are around the way Santander has handled Mrs Bs information. 
Hes referred to conversations in the foyer of the branch and also to a phone conversation 
between branch staff and head office. Santander does not accept that Mrs Bs personal data 
has been processed improperly. I havent seen anything which makes me think that 
Santander acted unfairly in what was no doubt a stressful situation for all involved. But its 
not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to consider whether there has been a 
breach of data protection law  thats a matter for the Information Commissioners Office to 
decide. 
Mr A has explained that he often supports his mother with her affairs as there is a language 
barrier. But I dont agree that this is the same as Mr A having the power to make decisions 
on Mrs Bs account akin to power of attorney. A power of attorney is a legal document which 
formally appoints an attorney to act on someones behalf. This is an important responsibility 
and the representative needs to be authorised by UK law to act in this capacity. I dont agree 
that Mr A is able to make a verbal power of attorney type request, nor do I consider that 
Santander should have accepted an instruction of that nature from him.  
I recognise that Mr A feels strongly about what happened. Hes referred to a loss of an 
investment opportunity as a result and considers that Mrs B has been treated poorly by the 
bank. I dont doubt that there were some unpleasant and unsettling interactions in the 
branch. But Santander has important obligations. One of its responsibilities is to, where 
possible, protect its customers from falling victim to financial harm. So Santander needs to 
proactively monitor its customers accounts and review proposed transactions. To do so, Santander may need to ask questions about the purpose of an intended payment, 
and it can refuse to make payments altogether. 
Whilst I understand how frustrating this must have been for Mr A and Mrs B, I am not able to 
recommend compensation for distress or financial losses when Santander hasnt acted 
incorrectly. From what I have seen, I do not consider that Santander treated Mrs B unfairly. 
As such, I make no order or award.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman