DRN-3313693
The complaint
Mr C complains because AXA PPP Healthcare Limited didnt give him five months free 
premiums for his private medical insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C held a private medical insurance policy, provided by AXA PPP, for many years. 
In April 2020, Mr C contacted AXA PPP to ask for his premiums to be waived. He said he 
couldnt access private medical treatment due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19, 
so he felt his policy was of no value to him. AXA PPP agreed to waive Mr Cs premiums for 
May 2020 and June 2020. 
In June 2020, Mr C contacted AXA PPP again and said, as his planned private medical 
treatment had been cancelled due to Covid-19, his premiums for March, April and July 2020 
should also be waived. AXA PPP said it could offer a premium waiver of one further month 
to Mr C, but the rest of the premiums would remain payable. 
Mr C didnt renew his policy at his September 2020 renewal date and complained to AXA 
PPP. AXA PPP said it had no control over the availability of private hospitals and, although 
policyholders may not have been able to attend private facilities for a portion of the year, 
they could still make use of their cover. AXA PPP said it was expecting a sharp increase in 
the number of claims which would need to be paid and the three months free premiums it 
had provided Mr C with was the maximum amount it could offer. In subsequent 
correspondence with Mr C, AXA PPP said any reduction in its overall claims costs in 2020 
compared to the previous year would be refunded in proportion to the premiums paid by Mr 
C. AXA said this would be calculated in 2022 and the calculations would be verified by an 
independent auditor. 
As Mr C remained unhappy, he brought the matter to the attention of our service. Mr C also 
subsequently raised concerns about a claim payment which AXA PPP said it had made 
under his policy in July 2020.
Our investigator looked into what had happened but said she didnt think AXA had acted 
unfairly in the circumstances  either in its handling of Mr Cs claim in July 2020 or by 
refusing to provide more than three months free premiums to Mr C. 
Mr C didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read the newspaper articles which Mr C has provided but these havent had an impact 
on my findings. When making my decision, I can only have regard to the individual 
circumstances of Mr Cs specific complaint and the contract he held with AXA PPP.   
Mr Cs policy didnt guarantee him immediate access to private healthcare. Instead, his 
policy provided for AXA PPP to pay for certain eligible healthcare which was covered under 
the policy. AXA PPP doesnt own or operate the private facilities which its members use, so 
it isnt responsible for the provision or availability of private hospitals, medical specialists 
and/or medical treatments. 
I understand the circumstances surrounding the Covid-19 pandemic were unprecedented 
and exceptional and were outside of Mr Cs control. But these circumstances, including the 
requisitioning of insurer-approved private facilities for use by the NHS, were also outside of 
AXA PPPs control. I think its clear that Mr Cs inability to access private treatment caused 
him some upset, but I cant fairly hold AXA PPP responsible for this. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy with AXA PPP set out what benefits would be 
provided in return for the premiums paid. Insurance policies are intended to cover the risk of 
an uncertain event (i.e. a claim) happened over the term of the contract. So, an insurer is 
entitled to keep the benefit of the premium paid to cover the risk of a claim happening during 
that time  even if no successful claim has been made under the policy. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy set out what his rights were in relation to 
cancelling his policy and receiving a refund of his premium. There was no term in the 
contract which entitled Mr C to a premium refund if he was unable to make use of all the 
services he expected to be available. I wouldnt ordinarily expect an insurer to refund 
premiums if medical treatment or medical services were unavailable or delayed due to 
circumstances outside of its control.
Im satisfied that Mr C benefitted from his policy during the time in which he says it was of no 
use to him. Based on the evidence Ive seen, Mr C made a successful claim under his policy, 
which was paid in July 2020. AXA PPP told us it gave Mr C an authorisation code on 4 
March 2020 and, as the claim was a continuation of a previous one, the same code that had 
been used previously was provided to Mr C again. AXA PPP has also provided evidence to 
show the doctor who Mr C saw in July 2020 was on its approved list of recognised 
specialists (despite what Mr C may otherwise have been told), and AXA PPP has provided a 
copy of a letter sent to Mr C in July 2020 referring to the claim and requesting an excess 
payment. I understand Mr C disputes some of these details, but they have no bearing on the 
outcome of his complaint about the free premiums. 
Its not correct to say that Mr C had no cover under his policy from April 2020. Mr C did have 
cover after April 2020 until his policy ended in September 2020, but AXA PPP waived his 
premiums for May and June 2020 at his request. And, even if AXA PPP hadnt paid Mr C a 
benefit during the period he says his policy was of no use to him, I think AXA PPP would still 
be entitled to receive and keep Mr Cs premiums under both the terms and conditions of his 
policy and general principles of insurance. I dont think its accurate to say Mr Cs policy was 
otherwise unusable from March 2020 onwards. It was still possible for AXA PPP to pre-
authorise medical treatment to be carried out at a later date and Mr C would also have had 
access to a range of virtual support services offered by AXA PPP if hed wished to use them. 
So, I dont think Mr C was entitled to any free premiums from AXA PPP under the terms and 
conditions of his contract with it. AXA PPP, like any commercial organisation, is entitled to 
make a profit. But it decided, at its discretion, to offer three months free premiums to Mr C. In 
addition, AXA said it will pass back any claims savings to its Mr C, with its review being 
independently overseen. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but I think AXA PPP acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances and I wont be directing it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman