DRN-4417480
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that National Savings and Investments (NSI) sent letters and a prize 
warrant addressed to a third party to their address and misled them about the amount of 
savings they had.
What happened
In November 2022 Mrs W wrote to NSI querying why she had received a £50 warrant. And 
NSI replied that, it had no accounts registered in respect of the number she quoted. 
Mr and Mrs W were obviously upset by this because they had substantial savings with NSI. 
Mr and Mrs W subsequently received correspondence addressed to a third party that they 
had no connection with. In a final response in December 2022, NSI reiterated that it had no 
open accounts in their names.
After Mrs W queried this, on 4 January 2023 NSI replied to advise that it did have accounts 
in their names and sent the full details of those accounts. It had previously only checked the 
reference number Mrs W had given, which was for a closed account. The £50 payment 
related to a previous complaint. As the third party seemed to have an account number that 
related to their accounts, Mrs W continued to query this and was concerned that their 
savings had been transferred into another persons name. They had also received redirected 
correspondence that had initially been sent to another unrelated third party. NSI assured 
Mrs W that that an account couldnt be transferred to another person and sent her a warrant 
for £500 compensation, which Mrs W says they have not received. 
Mrs W made a complaint to the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) following this. NSI 
provided a full explanation, that the third partys address had been mistakenly linked to 
Mr and Mrs Ws address in 2019 and the error had been repeated because someone in its 
office had mistakenly transposed the address again. It said it wouldnt happen again. With 
regard to Mr and Mrs Ws correspondence that had been sent to a different third party, NSI 
said this was the fault of the Royal Mail, as that third partys address wasnt on its records.
Unfortunately, and before its systems were updated, Mr and Mrs W received a prize warrant 
in the original third partys name in April 2023. NSI sent Mr and Mrs W a warrant for a further 
£100 compensation, explaining that it hadnt been able to update its system before the third 
party won a prize.
Our Investigator considered the matter and thought that NSIs actions in dealing with their 
errors and paying compensation were reasonable.
Mr Mrs W said they had further complaints, in that they had attempted to make further 
withdrawals but had not received any payments and that they had still not received the 
compensation.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision I am dealing with Mr and Mrs W's complaint about being given wrong 
information and about receiving letters and a prize warrant addressed to a third party. In 
respect of their complaints about further withdrawals, they will need to address these to NSI, 
although I note that our Investigator has helped them with this.
I can understand that Mr and Mrs W would have been shocked to receive letters from NSI 
advising them that it held no accounts for them. This was compounded by the fact that they 
received correspondence addressed to a third party which was a repetition of the error made 
in 2019. As they had substantial savings with NSI it must have been very worrying for them 
over the Christmas period.
I think that NSI has adequately explained its error, which must have been concerning to the 
third party as well. As NSI has now set out in full to Mr and Mrs W the various savings 
accounts they have with it and that they cant be transferred to other parties, I think they can 
be assured that their savings are still there and in their names. I understand that Mrs W says 
it affected their health. Nevertheless and taking that into consideration, I think the £500 
compensation NSI paid was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
Having said that, I see that after having assured Mr and Mrs W the error had been fixed, a 
prize warrant addressed to that third party was received by them. It has paid a further £100 
compensation because of this.. I know that Mr and Mrs W reported their concerns to the ICO 
before this later error. And if they wish to, they can report that further error, although the ICO 
doesnt award compensation to consumers. I think that the further compensation paid by NSI 
was fair and reasonable. At this stage I have to accept NSIs assurance that there will be no 
further repetition of the error.
Im disturbed to note that Mr and Mrs W have apparently not received the two compensation 
payments. As both warrants have now expired, assuming they still havent been received, 
NSI should reissue the warrants. As Mr and Mrs W cant use the telephone and dont want to 
do anything online they will have to be sent by post. I dont know if NSI has a facility for 
sending them by recorded delivery, but if it has, it should do so.
My final decision
National Savings and Investments has already agreed to pay Mr and Mrs W £600 
compensation.
So my decision is that National Savings and Investments should pay Mr and Mrs W £600.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2023. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman