DRN-2811635
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs W (The Executors) complain on behalf of the estate of the late Miss F, that 
Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) has not properly handled matters 
in its administrative dealings with the estate of Miss F and the Payment Protection Insurance 
(PPI) complaint made. The Executors are seeking adequate compensation for the distress, 
inconvenience and delays Barclays errors have caused.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint were set out clearly and in 
detail by the adjudicator in their assessment of the complaint. Because the facts are well 
known to both parties and it appears they are not disputed (the dispute is about how things 
should be resolved) Im not going to set out all of this detail again here.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary they said that they couldnt consider 
much of The Executors complaint points because they werent about a regulated financial 
services activity and so are outside of the Financial Ombudsman Services remit. For 
example The Executors have complained about:
the way Barclays bereavement team handled the administration of the late Miss Fs 
estate and the general experience they received from this department of the bank;
the way Barclays dealt with their subsequent complaint about this matter; and
Barclays data processing issues and concerns raised by The Executors about how 
their own data was processed. 
The adjudicator nevertheless sympathised with The Executors experience and passed on 
Barclays apology and acknowledgement that it had got things wrong. The adjudicator also 
set out in detail the payments Barclays had chosen to make to the estate in recognition of 
the poor service and inconvenience caused. In summary they said £650 had already been 
paid with £250 outstanding to be paid  so a total of £900.
In relation to the PPI mis-sale complaint, the adjudicator said the offer of compensation was 
fair. They said Barclays had calculated the redress correctly and that it was fair for Barclays 
to have deducted a successful claim payment made to the late Miss F in 2002. They said the 
£300 (£250 already paid with £50 to be paid) additional compensation from Barclays in 
recognition of the delays and inconvenience caused specifically in relation to the PPI aspect 
of the complaint was fair in the circumstances.
Finally the adjudicator said the PPI redress payment would be brought up to date and that 
Barclays had confirmed that the indemnity form it had asked The Executors to sign to make 
payment of the PPI redress wasnt needed as it held a copy of the Grant of Probate.
The Executors disagreed with the adjudicators findings for several reasons. I have read and 
considered all of the points made  but in summary they said:
it was wrong for the adjudicator to pass comment about some of the money Barclays 
awarded because it did not in fact relate to the regulated activity PPI element of the 
complaint;
it was unfair of Barclays to impose personal obligations and unfair terms on The 
Executors before it would release the PPI redress  it held back payment owing to 
the estate because of their non-compliance;
they believe Barclays is in breach of a regulated activity to process and handle data 
in compliance with the regulations at the time; and
they consider there has been material distress and inconvenience caused by 
Barclays errors and have referred to DISP 3.7.9, which says a cost award can be 
made. They ask whether the outstanding £250 is adequate remediation for the 
considerable stress and inconvenience caused and whether the full compensatory 
award is appropriate given the circumstances.
The complaint comes to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for broadly the same reasons as 
the adjudicator. My reasons are set out below.
I think its important for me to set out at the start that, while I understand and acknowledge 
much of The Executors disappointment and frustration with Barclays and the experience 
theyve had, many of the complaints points they have raised are not within my power to deal 
with. This is because many aspects of the complaint do not relate to a financial regulated 
activity as set out within the Dispute Resolution Rules in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) handbook  most relate to administration and/or issues about Barclays complaint 
handling. So it wouldnt be right for me  it would go beyond my powers - to engage with 
these points or express an opinion about what Barclays has or hasnt done to address them 
and put things right. 
I can see that while the adjudicator explained something similar to The Executors, theyve 
nevertheless tried to be helpful and given a detailed explanation about what happened and 
what Barclays has done or offered to do to put things right. Theyve also rightly passed on 
Barclays apology to The Executors for the poor service provided. I think the adjudicator has 
perhaps gone further than they should have by expressing an opinion about matters outside 
of our remit  but I think this was done with the best intentions. However Im not going to 
express an opinion on these things in this decision for the reasons Ive stated above.
Similarly I can see that The Executors have complained about the way Barclays has 
processed and handled personal data and say that it has failed to meet the necessary data 
standards and data processing requirements. And while I can consider issues relating to 
personal data including claims about data breaches, not only must it meet the definition of 
personal data i.e. data about a living individual, it must also be in the context of a regulated 
activity as I outlined above  for example in this case issues relating to the PPI mis-sale 
and/or redress.
But it seems to me that the crux of this element of the complaint is about the personal data 
of The Executors. As this complaint is about the estate of Miss F, this isnt something I can 
consider here. If The Executors wish to complain about the handling of their own personal 
data, this would need to be considered as a separate complaint  albeit The Executors should consider what I have said about this Service only being able to consider this type of 
issue in connection with a financial regulated activity. They can of course also ask the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to consider the matter further.
Turning to the aspect of the complaint I can consider and the PPI mis-sale and redress issue  
- it appears that the calculation of the PPI redress is no longer disputed. But for the sake of 
completeness Im satisfied that Barclays has calculated the offer correctly (it is fair for it to 
deduct the successful claim paid from the amount due as well as deduct basic tax from the 
interest element of the award.) Im satisfied it represents fair compensation for the mis-sold 
PPI.
 
I can see that Barclays has already awarded a total of £300 (£50 yet to be paid) for the 
inconvenience caused by delays at the outset of the complaint, and when it failed to give an 
explanation and provide further details to the estate of Miss F as to why it had deducted an 
amount for a claim the late Miss F made on the PPI policy. And in the circumstances I think 
this is fair  I dont consider there is anything more Barclays needs to do here.
There is one other matter that The Executors have referred to in their response to the 
adjudicators assessment, which I would like to expand on. And thats in relation to Barclays 
previous insistence on The Executors signing a personal indemnity form before it would 
release the PPI redress payment to the estate of Miss F. 
Barclays has recently confirmed that this was an error  it should not have insisted on the 
indemnity because it already held the Grant of Probate - so this is no longer required. I can 
see The Executors have argued that the wording of the indemnity constitutes unfair contract 
terms. But because Barclays has said the indemnity isnt required and The Executors 
havent and do not need to sign this document, the argument about the imposition of unfair 
and unenforceable terms falls away - it isnt important to the outcome of this complaint or 
something I need to consider further. 
I have nevertheless thought carefully about the length of time this particular matter has been 
outstanding and what, if any impact this has had on the estate of Miss F. As I see it the 
impact has been that the estate of Miss F has been denied the monies owed to it, so it has 
been inconvenienced. The Executors have said that the PPI redress payment is the only 
remaining outstanding item preventing the final accounts from being drawn up, so this would 
have happened sooner had things happened as they should have.
But Im mindful that Barclays has agreed to bring the offer up to date  it will add 8% simple 
interest to the date of payment. And this is designed to compensate the estate of Miss F for 
the time its been out of the money. So taking everything into account, I think this will fairly 
compensate the estate of Miss F for the delay caused by this matter.
 
Finally I can see that The Executors have spoken about the distress and inconvenience 
caused to them and the impact of the non-financial loss - the emotional toll it has taken. 
Theyve also referred to DISP 3.7.9 1 within our rules, which talks about making a cost award 
and have asked if the total payments Barclays has made /offered to make adequately 
remedy matters.
1 DISP 3.7.9 (R)
A costs award may:
(1) Be such amount as the Ombudsman considers to be fair, to cover some or all of the costs 
which were reasonably incurred by the complainant in respect of the complaint; andIts important for me to point out that I need to clearly distinguish between the estate of Miss 
F and The Executors as third-party individuals or representatives of the estate. This is 
important because this is a complaint about the estate of Miss F. And an estate cannot suffer 
pain or distress. Although I think it can experience inconvenience and/or delay as Ive 
referred to and considered above. 
But I cannot make a cost award or make an award for distress and inconvenience to third 
parties, which includes executors of an estate. I do not have the power to direct a business 
to make payments to third parties. So while I sympathise with The Executors and the impact 
dealing with the estate has had given the circumstances they have described, I cannot make 
a cost award for their time or make an award for their personal distress and inconvenience.
So overall and in so far as my remit allows, I think the payment for the delay and 
inconvenience caused to the estate in relation to the regulated activity complained about 
(£300 in total - £250 of which has already been paid) is fair in the circumstances.
conclusion and summary
In summary my findings are:
I cannot consider all of the matters raised in this complaint  only those which relate 
specifically to the estate of the late Miss F and which are connected to a regulated 
activity;
the PPI redress offer has been calculated fairly and when brought up to date 
represents fair compensation for the miss-sold PPI;
the £300 Barclays has already offered (£250 of which is has already paid) for the 
inconvenience caused to the estate in relation to the PPI part of the complaint is fair 
in the circumstances; and
I cannot make a distress and inconvenience award or make a cost award to third 
parties, which includes executors.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Barclays Bank UK Plc should now do the following:
pay the estate of Miss F the PPI redress owed bringing the offered amount up to date 
as it has agreed to do; and
pay the estate of Miss F the remaining £250 (£50 in relation to PPI matters and £200 
for other matters) it has previously agreed to make.
I make no other award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask The Executors, Mr 
P and Mrs W, on behalf of the estate of Miss F to accept or reject my decision before 
29 September 2021.
 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
(2) Include interest on that amount at a rate and as from a date specified in the award.