DRN-2683433
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy with the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has dealt 
with a claim they made under their home insurance policy for subsidence.
Mr F has dealt with the claim and complaint throughout, so Ill refer to him only.
  
What happened
Mr Fs subsidence claim has been on-going for a number of years. I wont include and 
comment on everything thats happened during that time in this decision. Ill focus on the key 
events and outstanding issues, summarising where possible.
In 2017, Mr F got in touch with RSA after he noticed damage to his conservatory. RSA 
appointed a loss adjuster, who inspected the damage and carried out investigations. They 
accepted the damage was caused by subsidence and covered by the policy.
The loss adjuster considered the subsidence problem had been caused by nearby 
vegetation and organised for it to be removed. They also carried out level monitoring to 
confirm the conservatory was stable and arranged for builders to schedule up the work 
required to put right the subsidence damage  and establish how much that would cost.
By mid-2019 RSA made an offer to Mr F to cash settle the claim, based on replacing the 
conservatory frame on the existing foundation and walls and other above ground repairs. 
Mr F complained about the offer as he thought foundation work should be included. He also 
thought the loss adjusters valuation for the scheduled work was unfair. And he had several 
concerns about the way the claim had been handled.
RSA accepted there had been failings in the service offered to Mr F. It apologised and 
offered £300 compensation. It said the conservatory was stable and it was reasonable to 
base its offer on replacing the conservatory on the existing foundation.
Mr F and the loss adjuster had further contact and the settlement offer increased several 
times. Mr F also provided a report from a structural engineer. However, the decision not to 
improve the foundation remained the same. Mr F complained again later in 2019.
RSA maintained the conservatory was stable and as a result there was no need to replace 
or underpin the foundation. It didnt agree to pay for Mr Fs report. It considered the loss 
adjusters latest offer was reasonable. But it accepted there had been several changes to the 
offer, poor communication and a substantial delay in responding to Mr Fs complaint. It 
offered an additional £500 compensation.
Mr F referred his complaint to our service where an investigator considered it. She agreed 
the claim hadnt been handled well but thought a total of £800 compensation was reasonable 
in the circumstances. She wasnt persuaded the foundation had been damaged by 
subsidence. And nor was RSA required to improve the foundation for any other reason. She 
didnt think RSA was required to pay for Mr Fs report. She was satisfied RSAs settlement 
offer was reasonable based on the available information.
An agreement couldnt be reached, so the complaint has been passed to me. In the 
meantime, further information has become available and RSAs offer has changed.
My provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A number of points have been made by Mr F and RSA. Ive read and taken them all into 
account, but Ill only comment below on those which I think are important to the outcome of 
this complaint. Ill divide my findings into sub-sections.
Conservatory foundation
This is the main point in dispute. In summary, RSAs offer doesnt include any work to 
improve the conservatory foundation. Mr F thinks it should be improved, for four reasons.
Firstly, Mr F is concerned the conservatory foundation may have been damaged by 
subsidence. RSA has said theres no evidence of that. Mr F notes the loss adjuster hasnt 
inspected the foundation, so he questions how they can be sure its not damaged  
particularly when theres cracking in the brickwork that makes up the conservatory walls.
In my experience of subsidence claims, its unusual for the foundation to become damaged. 
The stresses caused by the movement below ground tend to be transferred through the 
foundation to the structure above ground, causing the kind of damage Mr F has described. 
Cracking in the brickwork doesnt necessarily mean theres been foundation damage. Its 
possible, but I havent seen any evidence to show Mr Fs foundation has been damaged as a 
result of subsidence. So Im satisfied RSA has acted fairly on this point.
Secondly, Mr F is concerned the conservatory continued moving after the vegetation was 
removed. RSA says the conservatory has been stabilised and this has been confirmed by 
level monitoring.
RSAs policy covers the cost of putting right damage caused by subsidence. To do that in a 
lasting and effective way, it must stabilise the conservatory. One way of doing that is to 
improve the foundation but other ways can also achieve stability. The loss adjuster carried 
out investigations into the subsoil, including identifying the species of roots found, and a 
survey of the nearby vegetation to decide what should be removed  and arranged for that to 
happen. It then carried out level monitoring and said no progressive movement was found.
Mr F has noted that the monitoring results showed some movement. RSA considered this to 
be within acceptable tolerance. I havent seen any expert opinion to challenge what RSA has 
said. And its approach is consistent with that generally taken by insurers when considering 
how much movement is acceptable. So Im satisfied RSA has acted fairly on this point.
The third point Mr F has made is about ensuring compliance with Building Regulations. I 
think all parties accept the conservatory footprint means the structure comes under the 
scope of the regulations. I understand the conservatory was built in the 1990s, prior to Mr F 
owning the property, and didnt receive approval from Building Control at that time. And the 
foundation depth wouldnt meet current regulations.In summary the dispute is about whether current regulations relating to foundation depth 
would apply when the repairs RSA has scheduled are carried out. Mr F thinks they will, so 
he considers it fair for RSA to pay the cost of improving the foundation to ensure 
compliance. RSA accepts some regulations will apply due to the size of the structure. But 
because the work its scheduled is limited to replacing the conservatory frame and minor 
repairs, it doesnt think regulations relating to the foundation depth apply.
Its not my role to determine which regulations, if any, apply. Thats the role of the local 
authority building control office (BCO). My role is to consider if RSA has acted fairly when 
not including foundation improvement in its cash offer. That includes taking into account any 
relevant advice and guidance RSA has sought.
The loss adjuster got in touch with the BCO local to Mr F. It explained the work it intended to 
carry out and a summary of the actions taken during the subsidence claim. It asked whether 
any foundation work had to be carried out to meet current regulations. The BCO said if the 
ground was stable and capable of supporting the conservatory, none was needed.
Mr F also got in touch with the BCO. He was told the foundations must be proven to be 
adequate for the new conservatory structure. The loss adjuster said the foundation had 
moved as a result of the nearby vegetation  and with that removed, the foundation would 
return to stability. It thought the foundation had therefore been proven to be adequate.
The BCOs responses to Mr F and the loss adjuster were broadly the same. Neither set out a 
requirement to comply with current building regulations relating to foundation depth whilst 
carrying out the work RSA has scheduled. Both said no foundation improvement was 
required if the foundation and subsoil was stable. Given what Ive said above about the 
actions taken during the claim, Im satisfied RSA has shown that stability has been achieved. 
So Im persuaded RSA is following the guidance of the BCO. 
Mr F took advice from a structural engineer. They said the size of the conservatory meant it 
should comply with building regulations. They thought that included the foundations and 
calculated what depth they should be in order to comply. Those calculations arent in 
dispute. But the evidence from the BCO shows theres no need to comply with the 
foundation depth regulations. So Im satisfied RSA has acted fairly on this point.
Mr Fs fourth point is about an e-mail he received from the loss adjuster which said the 
conservatory would be replaced in full. Mr F understood this to mean foundation 
improvement would be included in the overall schedule of work. The loss adjuster says this 
meant fully replacing the conservatory frame, rather than carrying out repairs to it. I dont 
think it would be fair to interpret an agreement to replace in full as an agreement to extend 
or enhance the foundation. So Im not satisfied this means RSA had previously agreed to 
foundation improvements.
Overall, taking into account all the points made about the conservatory foundation, Im 
satisfied it was fair for RSA not to include the cost of improvements in its offer to Mr F.
Mr Fs structural engineer report
Mr F says he became disillusioned with RSA after the way it had dealt with his claim  
including the settlement offer it initially made to him. So, he approached an independent 
engineer for advice about the conservatory foundations. I understand he paid around £500 
for it and would like RSA to reimburse him that cost.
RSA considered the report and noted the conclusion Ive discussed above. Because RSAs 
decision not to pay for foundation work was unchanged, it didnt agree to pay for the report. Mr F was entitled to challenge RSAs decision by taking engineering advice. But because the 
advice didnt change RSAs decision or the outcome of the claim, Im not persuaded it would 
be fair for me to require RSA to pay for the report.
Claim settlement offer
RSA, through its loss adjuster, has made a number of offers to settle the claim. The latest 
was made in September 2019. Since then Mr Fs provided further information from his 
electrician about the cost involved in getting that work done. Hes also paid to have work 
carried out to his conservatory, which has included paying VAT. RSA has now revised its 
offer to £37,342.63 to take these things into account.  This figure is broken down as follows:
£25,509.30 Conservatory replacement
£  4,003.15 Internal conservatory work
£     277.41 Additional crack repairs in conservatory and retaining walls
£     150.00 Allowance for excavation to inspect retaining wall footings
£     200.00 Repair bricks used for monitoring points
£     800.00 Allowance for storage
£     500.00 Allowance for alarm
£     679.00 Electricians invoice to check and repair patio lights
£ -1,000.00 Less subsidence excess
£31,118.86 Total
£  6,223.77 Plus VAT at 20% of total
£37,342.63 RSA offer to Mr F
This offer includes the deduction of the £1,000 subsidence excess which Mr F is liable to pay 
under the policy. It doesnt include compensation, which is dealt with separately below.
In addition, RSA has offered to add interest to this payment at 8% per year simple, from the 
date Mr F made the claim until the date the settlement is paid.
Mr F asked whether RSAs offer from 2019 would be increased to take into account costs 
rising in the meantime. He suggested an increase of around 1.5%. RSA has offered to pay a 
higher level of interest. Im satisfied this is a reasonable offer and means Mr F wont lose out 
financially as a result of the time it takes to make the payment to him.
Based on my findings above, Im satisfied its reasonable for RSAs offer not to include the 
cost of foundation improvement or Mr Fs structural engineer report.
Ive seen the quotes RSA obtained for the conservatory replacement and internal repairs. 
And I understand it was open to Mr F to have RSA arrange for the work to be carried out 
through these companies if he wished. So Im satisfied it was reasonable for RSA to base its 
cash settlement offer on the quotes.
The other items, aside from the electricians invoice Mr F provided, are based on estimates 
by the loss adjuster or RSA rather than quotes. Thats not necessarily an unreasonable 
approach to take. I understand Mr F agreed to the allowances for storage and his alarm, so 
those amounts arent in dispute.
In response to this provisional decision, Mr F is entitled to provide further information if he 
wishes to challenge any of the amounts RSA has based its settlement on and Ill consider it. 
Or, if he thinks there are items not included at all, but which should be, hes welcome to 
provide further information about that for me to consider.In particular, I understand he identified some damage to the conservatory floor. The loss 
adjuster suggested a further payment could be considered if he provided evidence to show 
this damage led to further costs. Mr F should let me know if that was the case.
If no further information is provided  or it is, but it doesnt persuade me the offer is unfair  
its likely Ill find RSAs offer to be a fair way to settle the claim.
Claim handling
Part of Mr Fs complaint is about the way the claim was handled. Some examples of his 
concerns include, but arent limited to:
The vegetation survey report contained several inaccuracies. He notified the loss 
adjuster of this and changes were made  but the report was still wrong, and he had 
to ask for further changes to be made;
This was important because the errors related to ownership and age  both of which 
had an impact on getting in touch with the right people to remove the right vegetation 
and stabilise the conservatory;
Two different contractors introduced by the loss adjuster caused damage to Mr Fs 
property. This caused Mr F distress and the trouble of having the damage put right;
Another contractor was rude and unprofessional and was asked to leave;
Problems communicating with the loss adjuster, in part due to several changes of 
personnel dealing with the claim;
Some of the investigations carried out and aspects of the offers made only happened 
as a result of Mr Fs prompting  even when agreements had already been made;
Several changes to the cash settlement offer;
Delays to the claim caused as a result of the above;
RSA has broadly accepted the points Mr F has made and has apologised for the service 
hes received. It also apologised to a neighbour who was impacted by the first two bullet 
points. In total RSA has offered £800 compensation for the way the claim has been handled.
Mr F doesnt feel this amount reflects the time and effort hes had to put into the claim as a 
result of RSAs failings. Hes suggested a further £200 compensation.
Given all the points hes made  and which RSA has accepted  Im satisfied thats 
reasonable. It means RSA should pay a total of £1,000 compensation. If it has paid either of 
the amounts offered previously, they can be deducted from this figure. In response to this 
provisional decision, RSA should clarify whether it has paid any of those amounts.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr F made a number of points. Ive read and considered everything he said, but will 
summarise the points which are key to the outcome of the complaint:
It was never established by RSA or its agents that the foundation wasnt damaged;
Mr F cant accept a wall has been damaged due to subsidence but the foundation it 
stands on hasnt  particularly when theres cracking to the floor;
Mr F provided a quote for around £1,000 for a new concrete slab floor and asked to 
be paid this amount;
To support that, Mr F said hed taken advice from a construction consultant;
A total of £1,000 compensation doesnt cover the adverse impact of the claim. The 
£1,000 excess should also be waived.RSA said it accepted the provisional decision. It also offered an additional £120, including 
VAT, for repairing the damage to the conservatory floor. It said replacement of the concrete 
slab wasnt warranted based on the minor nature of the cracking.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA accepts the cracking to the conservatory floor shows it was damaged by subsidence. 
RSA has offered to pay £120 to repair those cracks. Mr F considers RSA should pay around 
£1,000 to replace the conservatory floor slab. RSA has said its not necessary to replace the 
floor in order to put the damage right.
Mr F has mentioned taking advice from a construction consultant. He hasnt provided 
anything directly from that person, so I havent seen any evidence of what theyve said. Mr F 
says the consultant considers that in order for the floor to crack, there must be a subsidence 
issue. I dont think thats in dispute  RSA accepts the conservatory has subsided and thats 
caused damage, including the cracking to the floor. Even if I were to accept this is what the 
consultant has said, it doesnt show why a repair is insufficient to put things right and why 
the concrete slab must be replaced in order to carry out an effective repair.
I know Mr F feels its unfair that he should have to show the foundation is damaged  he 
thinks it should fall to RSA to improve the foundation or show it isnt damaged. In any 
insurance claim, the onus is on the policyholder to show the loss or damage theyre claiming 
for is covered by the policy. In practice, where it appears damage is likely to have been 
caused in a way thats covered by the policy, Id generally expect an insurer to make 
reasonable enquiries or investigations into it. But I wouldnt usually expect it to go further 
than that and rule out the possibility that other damage may exist and may be covered.
RSA considered the cracking Mr F reported, including the photos he sent. Had it shown 
severe or deep cracking that might suggest the foundation was damaged, further 
investigation may have been reasonable. As it didnt, Im satisfied it was reasonable for RSA 
to offer to pay for the crack repair  and let Mr F know he could provide further information if 
he wished.
Mr F later had the work to the conservatory carried out, including a replacement floor slab. If 
the builder carrying out that work had found the slab was damaged beyond the cracking 
RSA has offered to pay for, Mr F could have asked it to confirm that and provide that 
evidence to RSA. Considering what Ive said above, I dont think thats too onerous on Mr F. 
If Mr F later chooses to do this, he can send any new information to RSA and I would expect 
it to consider what he provides.
No further expert evidence has been provided about the damage to the floor or the cost of 
repairing the cracking. So Im satisfied RSAs offer is fair based on the information available.
Claim settlement offer
RSAs previous offer, including VAT and deduction of the excess, came to £37,342.63. 
RSAs additional offer is £120, including VAT. So its offer is now £37,462.63. Based on what 
Ive said above, Im satisfied this is a reasonable offer.
Claim handlingMr F would like the policy excess to be waived. RSA is entitled to charge the appropriate 
excess when it accepts the claim as thats whats set out in the policy terms. The way it 
handled the claim doesnt change that. So I wont be requiring RSA to waive the excess.
Separately to that, where RSA has caused avoidable distress and inconvenience to Mr F, it 
should pay compensation. And the amount of compensation should fairly reflect the degree 
of trouble Mr F has been unnecessarily put to. In my provisional decision, I said RSA should 
pay a total of £1,000. This service considers that to be a substantial amount of 
compensation. RSA has agreed to pay that amount. By asking for the excess to be waived in 
addition to receiving £1,000 compensation, Mr F is effectively asking for £2,000 
compensation.
Ive thought about what Mr F has said went wrong during the claim and the impact its had 
on him. The points he raised in response to my provisional decision were similar to the 
points hed made before  and which Id taken into account when I said £1,000 
compensation was fair.
For that reason, I havent been persuaded to increase the compensation amount. I remain 
satisfied that a total of £1,000 is fair in the circumstances. RSA may deduct any 
compensation paid already from this total.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
For the reasons above, I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) to:
Pay £37,462.63 to settle the claim;
Pay simple interest* at 8% a year, from the date the claim was made until the date 
the claim is settled;
Pay a total of £1,000 compensation
*If RSA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs F how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs F a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman