DRN-2431861
The complaint
Mr F complains that Provident Personal Credit Limited trading as Satsuma Loans (Satsuma) 
didnt carry out adequate affordability checks before lending to him. He says the lending was 
irresponsible.  
What happened
Mr F took out 10 loans with Satsuma between February 2016 and April 2019. The loans 
were repayable over different terms ranging from 13 weeks to 12 months.
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 10 February 2016 18 March 2016 13 weeks £180
218 November 
201607 February 2017 13 weeks £130
321 December 
201608 April 2017 3 months £320
4 08 March 2017 03 August 2017 7 months £350
523 August 201701 December 
20173 months £350
621 November 
201730 November 
20173 months £150
7 09 August 2018 07 March 2019 7 months £350
8 11 October 2018 07 March 2019 6 months £500
9 25 January 2019 07 March 2019 3 months £140
10 01 April 2019 17 June 2020 12 months £2,000
Mr F says that adequate affordability checks werent carried out before the loans were 
provided.
Satsuma says that it carried out several checks before providing the loans to ensure they 
were affordable. In its final response dated March 2020, Satsuma said that a rebate would 
be provided in relation to the second loan and that this would be offset against the 
outstanding balance on the final loan. It didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint regarding the other 
loans provided.
Mr F didnt accept Satsumas outcome and referred his complaint to this service. He said 
that he took out loans shortly after the one Satsuma had upheld and these were for 
increased amounts. He says he was missing payments on loans, but Satsuma still provided 
him with larger amounts of credit. He said his credit file showed his financial situation and 
that Satsuma should have checked this.
Our adjudicator noted that there was a break in Mr Fs lending between loans 1 and 2 of 
around eight months and so he considered loan 2 as the start of a second lending chain. He 
then noted a further break in Mr Fs borrowing between loans 6 and 7 and considered loan 7 
as the start of a third lending chain. He didnt think he had seen enough to say that loans 1 
to 5 or loans 7 to 10 shouldnt have been provided but he thought loan 6 shouldnt have 
been lent. 
Regarding loan 6, our adjudicator said that at this time Mr F was showing signs that he was 
struggling to repay some of his previous loans having missed an instalment on loans 3 and 4 
and two payments on loan 5. He thought this showed there was a significant risk that Mr F 
would have been unable to sustainably meet his repayments for loan 6 and so this loan 
shouldnt have been provided.
Satsuma accepted our adjudicators view. Mr F didnt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr F could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr F could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.
Mr Fs first loan was taken out in February 2016 and was for £180. At the time his monthly 
income was recorded as £1,850. Given this was Mr Fs first loan and considering the amount 
of the repayments compared to his recorded income, I find the checks carried out before this 
loan was provided were propionate. These checks suggested the loan was affordable and so 
I do not find it unreasonable that this loan was provided.
There was then a gap of around eight months between Mr F repaying the first loan and 
taking out the second, therefore I find that loan 2 is the first loan of a new lending chain. 
Satsuma said in its final response to Mr Fs complaint that it would refund the interest on this 
loan and that this would be offset against Mr Fs outstanding balance. I understand this has 
happened.  
Loan 3 was taken out before loan 2 had been repaid. Therefore, I have considered the total 
amount payable under the two loans. Having done so and having assessed this total 
repayment amount compared to Mr Fs monthly income and considering this was the second 
loan in the lending chain, I find that the checks carried out were proportionate. As these 
checks didnt raise any concerns about the affordability of the loan I do not find it 
unreasonable this loan was provided.
Loan 4 was taken out while loan 3 was outstanding and then both these loans were repaid 
before loan 5. Loans 4 and 5 were both for £350. while I can see Mr F was developing a 
pattern of borrowing I do not find at this stage I can say this is something that would have 
required Satsuma to take further action. I find that having considered the repayments he 
needed to make under the loans compared to his income and noting these loans were still 
relatively early in the lending chain, I find the checks carried out were reasonable. These 
didnt raise concerns about the affordability and so I do not find I can say these loans 
shouldnt have been provided.
By loan 6, I agree with our adjudicators comments that Mr F was beginning to show signs 
that he may be struggling to manage his money. He had missed the occasional payment on 
his previous loans, and I think concerns should have been raised about whether loan 6 was 
sustainably affordable. Our adjudicator recommended that the interest and charges be 
refunded on this loan and any adverse information regarding it be removed from Mr Fs 
credit file. Satsuma agreed to this recommendation and based on the comments above, I 
find this reasonable.
There was then a break in Mr Fs borrowing. He repaid loan in November 2017 and then 
didnt take out another loan with Satsuma until August 2018. I think this break in borrowing 
was substantial enough to say that loan 7 was the start of a new lending chain and so I have 
considered loan 7 as the first loan in that new lending chain.
Before the remaining loans were provided information about Mr Fs income and expenses 
was gathered. Having looked at the repayment amounts  and aggregating these where 
previous loans were still outstanding  and comparing these to Mr Fs declared income and 
factoring in Mr Fs borrowing history, I find these checks were reasonable in regard to loans 
7, 8 and 9. The checks showed that these loans were affordable and so I do not find I can 
say they shouldnt have been provided.The final loan, loan 10, was for a much larger amount and was repayable over a longer term. 
Given this was the fourth loan in this lending chain and the repayments required, I find that 
further checks should have been carried out to ensure this loan was sustainably affordable. 
Mr F said that he would provide copies of his bank statements, but I havent received these. I 
have looked through the credit report that Mr F provided and considering the information 
contained from around the time of this loan I do not find I have enough to say that Satsuma 
should have been reasonably aware that the loan wasnt sustainably affordable. Therefore, 
in this case, I do not find I have enough evidence to say this loan shouldnt have been 
provided.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Satsuma should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not lent Mr F loan 6.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr F may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr F in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr F would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Satsumas liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Therefore, I find that Provident Personal Credit Limited trading as Satsuma should:
refund the interest, fees and charges on loan 6 along with 8% simple interest* on the 
individual payments made by Mr F from the date the payments were made to the 
date the complaint is settled.
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Fs credit file in relation to loan 6.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Satsuma should give 
Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. Provident Personal Credit Limited 
should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman