DRN-3906790
The complaint
Mr K complains about his home insurer, QIC Europe Limiteds decision to decline his claim 
for subsidence damage. He wants QIC to fix the pipes and repair the damage to his home.
What happened
In August 2021 Mr K took out a home insurance policy with QIC. In January 2022 Mr K 
discovered some cracks appearing in the wall of an extension both inside and outside his 
home. He employed a structural engineer who told him the cracks were probably caused by 
leaking drainage pipes or settlement. Later in January he employed a drainage specialist 
who used CCTV to detect misplacement and cracks in the drainage pipes.
Mr K claimed for the damage to QIC, and it arranged two separate drainage engineers to 
survey the drains. Mr K said one made no comment on the causes of the cracks only that 
the water pipes were damaged and leaking. He said the second company, C, advised him to 
make a subsidence claim for the damage done by the leaking water pipes. 
Mr K said QICs claims handlers, T, misled him by saying he should claim under Accidental 
Damage cover. Mr K said he has spent months in correspondence with T who declined the 
claim as it said the damage occurred prior to the policy being taken out. Mr K complained to 
T about its decision to decline his claim. 
T responded that Mr Ks claim was considered under the Subsidence section of his policy. 
And it had to determine whether subsidence is the direct cause of the damage. It referred to 
the report by its surveyor which states that: 
External inspection revealed step cracking under the window from above a gulley to the 
external brickwork, this appears to have been re-pointed in the past suggesting this has 
been on-going longer than the PH stated although he the cracks have re-open after they had 
recently been filled. We pushed through a screwdriver into the vertical crack on the opposite 
wall and there did not appear any clips connecting the extension brickwork to the main 
property as the driver went into the gap up to its hilt. The cracking internal mirrors the 
external cracking to the brickwork. A drainage company have attended and used a CCTV 
camera and stated multiple displacements were found to the drains.
T said as Mr K disputed the outcome of the claim, it was referred to its in-house technical 
surveyor, who further advised that:
Although the property is suffering from subsidence due to defects noted to the drainage 
system. The incident was logged on the 14th of January 2022, the policy inception was the 
3rd of August 2021, meaning that the policy is only five months old. The cracking noted at 
the property had previously been repaired, however these repairs had re-opened and the 
policy holder had then logged a claim. Following receipt of the drain survey it was highlighted 
that there are numerous defects with the drainage system. This damage would not have 
occurred within the five months and the fact that previous repointing works carried out 
confirms that this has been ongoing for a prolonged time.
T concluded that the damage to Mr Ks home is as a result of subsidence occurring prior to 
the inception of his policy and referred to the policy exclusion which states that damage 
which happens before the insurance policy starts isnt covered. T said that the damage to 
the property is not consistent with any of the other perils within the policy.
Mr K disagreed with T saying it hadnt offered evidence the damage had occurred before the 
start of his policy. He said Ts surveyor didnt give causes for the movement of brickwork or 
the position of the displaced pipework. He said the surveyor hadnt noted Cs report, which 
stated NO leaks under the structure or within five metres but there were drain 
displacement in and around the area of the extension. He said C reports that it is unlikely 
the drains caused the subsidence and further investigation was advised.
Mr K referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator recommended it be upheld. He 
didnt think it was fair for QIC to rely on the existing damage exclusion. He said if QIC still 
wanted to decline the claim, it should give other reasons and Mr K will need to make a new 
complaint if he remains unhappy with the decision, or approach his previous insurer.
The investigator said the insurance industry subsidence agreement sets out which insurer 
should deal with claims that occur across policies by different insurers. He said QIC accepts 
there was subsidence at Mr Ks home, and if it can provide evidence this began and stopped 
before the policy started, its likely wed accept it wasnt liable for the claim. But he said QIC 
has only supported its decision by saying cracks have been repaired previously and re-
opened  it didnt conduct any monitoring. He said if it had and found that movement was 
progressive, subsidence wouldve occurred during this policy  and would be covered. 
Mr K agreed with the investigators opinion, but QIC did not. QIC said it had provided very 
persuasive information to show that the damage occurred prior to the inception of this policy. 
It said the policy started in August 2021 and the damage was reported in January 2022. This 
means that cracks must have been filled and re-opened in that short space of four months.
QIC said the damage has been diagnosed as defective drainage, which would have started 
months if not years before the policy began. QIC said its surveyor who reviewed the 
evidence stated that, This damage would not have occurred within the five months and the 
fact that previous repointing works carried out confirms that this has been ongoing for a 
prolonged time. QIC said monitoring of the cracking would only usually take place once the 
cause has been resolved to ensure there is no further movement in the property before 
starting repairs. QIC requested an ombudsman review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has complained about QICs decline of his claim which he thinks is unfair. Ive looked 
carefully at the circumstances of the claim and his policy to see if QIC acted in accordance 
with the terms of the policy, and to see if it has treated Mr K fairly.
QIC acknowledges that the damage is due to subsidence. QIC said its surveyor advised that 
Mr K told him that the cracks had been previously filled but had now re-opened. It also said a 
specialist drainage company had confirmed multiple defects with the drainage system, with 
images indicating the damage is not recent. QIC said its in-house surveyor reviewed the 
evidence and thought the images of damage indicate it isnt recent and would have occurred 
well before the policy started. In addition, the previous repairs to the cracks would have re-
opened gradually and so the cracking would have occurred well before the policy started. Mr Ks policy covers subsidence but excludes damage that occurred before the policy 
started. We are not surveyors or structural engineers and so we have to rely on expert 
evidence to determine whether or not a decision on a claim has been reached as we would 
expect. In relying on the exclusion for previous damage, the onus is on QIC to show that it 
applies in Mr Ks circumstances. 
In this case there are reports from Mr K and QIC. But they appear to be based on personal 
observations rather than monitoring data and so I dont find them to be conclusive. Although 
the drainage specialist recommended that the claim be repudiated, it also recommended that 
subsidence investigations are carried out. This would indicate a lack of certainty about the 
cause of the damage and the need for further examination.
QIC said that monitoring of the cracking would only usually take place once the cause has 
been resolved to ensure theres no further movement before commencing repairs. I think this 
should be put differently  the purpose of monitoring is to detect subsidence movement and 
ensure it has finished so that lasting and effective repairs can be carried out. 
I've thought about Mr Ks actions towards the damage. He employed an engineer and then a 
plumbing company soon after he identified the damage. The latter took down part of the wall 
in the utility room and dug a hole to expose the collapsed pipe. I think it was only at this point 
that the cause of the subsidence was identified. This was highlighted to T and the 
contractors, but QIC didnt take any action.
Mr Ks actions dont indicate someone who was aware of problems with the drainage before 
his policy started, but failed to act. Had he been aware beforehand, I have no doubt that he 
would have claimed against his previous insurer. I think its possible that this episode of 
subsidence occurred during the policy  but as QIC didnt monitor at the time, it cant confirm 
this. So I think its unreasonable for QIC to rely on this exclusion to decline the claim.
Mr K has provided us with details of his previous home insurance policy. He confirmed that 
he had noticed cracks in the external brickwork at Christmas 2021 and said he attempted to 
point the brickwork in early January 2022, but realised after only dealing with a small area 
that this was beyond his capability. He said T was incorrect to say that any pointing work 
was carried out before this time. 
    
QICs rejection of Mr Ks claim potentially leaves him without cover for a serious structural 
issue with his home and internal and external damage that remains unrepaired. I understand 
QICs reasons for reaching this decision, but I think the evidence should be stronger and 
more conclusive to support a rejection of the claim with such significant implications for the 
policyholder. In short, Im not satisfied that the movement at Mr Ks home started and 
finished before he took out the policy with QIC.  
Taking all of this into account, Im not satisfied that it was reasonable for QIC to conclude 
that the damage must have occurred before Mr K took out his insurance policy and therefore 
decline the claim. 
QIC should release the results of the monitoring to Mr K together with its decision on his 
claim based on the results. It would then be open to Mr K to bring a new complaint should he 
remain dissatisfied with that decision. He may wish to share the results of the monitoring 
with an independent expert.Putting things right
I agree with the investigator that QIC should consider the claim further and I think it should 
carry out monitoring of Mr Ks home for a minimum period of six months to determine if there 
is any ongoing movement.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I 
require QIC Europe Limited to reconsider Mr Ks claim without reference to the exclusion 
clause in the policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman