DRN-2943460
The complaint
 Mr S complains of irresponsible credit increases to his account  by Vanquis Bank Limited 
(Vanquis). He would like all charges applied to his account since 2014 refunded. And any 
negative information on his credit file amended 
What happened
 Mr S says he took out a credit card with Vanquis with an initial limit of £500 in 2013. 
Vanquis increased  the credit limit to £1500 in 2014 and to £3000 in 2017.
Mr S says as he was in financial difficulty at the time managing his finances with pay day 
loans and family support. He also said he had a gambling problem. So, he didnt  feel 
Vanquis should have offered the increases that it did.
Vanquis said it made appropriate checks each time the credit limit was increased .And from
these felt the credit increases were viable.
My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision in which I found :-
Vanquis aimed to help those with moderate means to access credit products perhaps 
not available elsewhere. So, levels of external lending and historic debt wouldnt 
necessarily mean it wouldnt offer a credit increase.
Vanquis advised Mr S of the two increases giving him the opportunity to opt out of 
them. But that didnt take away its obligations  to lend responsibly.
Before agreeing to credit increases a business needs to ensure it does so in a 
responsible manner. There isnt a set requirement of what a business must do in 
every instance. But they are expected generally to carry out appropriate and 
proportionate borrower focused checks around the affordability of any lending, before 
providing it, and to ensure a borrower can afford to make and sustain the 
repayments, taking account of their financial situation.
I had to consider if, with the two increases in dispute, Vanquis met these obligations 
or if there were further checks it should have carried out to ascertain the suitability of 
the proposed increases including Mr Ss ability to manage repayments.
The first increase Vanquis made in May 2014 took Mr Ss credit limit from £500 to 
£1500.
At that time the account statements that Vanquis provided showed Mr S made at 
least the minimum payment each month  usually slightly more and prior to the first 
increase he made three very significant payments. He largely stayed within his credit 
limit and when he did exceed it this was usually by a relatively modest amount  less 
than £10. I didnt feel that, at the time of the first credit increase, that there were any 
concerns with the account management for Vanquis to consider.
Vanquis also carried out credit searches which only showed two short term loan 
applications had been made in the previous three months and active outstanding 
external debt was £290. The information it collated also covered the total value of 
defaults (£0), the time since the last default (32 months), the total value of County 
Court Judgements (CCJs) (£5,521) and the time since the last CCJ (23 months)
Vanquis, in my view, carried out proportionate checks, combined with its own 
knowledge of Mr Ss account management ,to ensure its proposed credit increase 
was affordable. The level of Mr Ss external debt wasnt excessive, his last default 
was nearly three years ago, and he was managing his account relatively well.
In addition to the information Vanquis considered Mr S has also given us bank 
statements for 2014 to show he managed his account within his overdraft limit. That 
didnt necessarily indicate to me that Mr S was in financial difficulty  some people 
chose to manage their finances using their overdraft.
The bank statements indicated several gambling transactions  all for relatively low 
amounts  around £10. 
I saw no evidence Mr S advised Vanquis of his gambling problem. Although I did 
appreciate this might have been a difficult thing for Mr S to do.
Given the information available to Vanquis at the time of the first increase and given 
the type of credit provider Vanquis is, I didnt think it would have been proportionate 
for Vanquis to carry out further checks for the first increase. I thought it had enough 
information to think this credit increase was affordable.
However, I wasnt persuaded that the second credit increase in 2017 was either 
responsible or affordable. By this time Mr S had several pay day loans which would 
indicate he was potentially becoming dependent on short term lending.
I appreciated Vanquis showed its own search at the time showed no short-term loans 
had been applied for in the three months prior to increasing his credit limit. However, 
my main concern was that Vanquis searches showed that Mr Ss outstanding 
balance of external debt excluding mortgages had risen from £290 prior to the first 
loan increase to £16,973 prior to the second credit increase. I didnt agree with 
Vanquis view that this sum was low even accepting Mr Ss relatively strong declared 
income on his initial credit application. And of course, his income could have 
changed since then.
The increase in outstanding debt was a significant increase for which I felt  it would 
have been proportionate for Vanquis to have carried out more checks to ascertain 
what the increase was due to, and to assess Mr Ss current income and expenditure 
and therefore likely ability to manage a further credit increase. Additionally, it was 
also clear from Vanquiss own statements that the gambling transactions, whilst still 
for relatively modest amounts, were ongoing and further checks might have shown 
that Mr S wasnt just using his Vanquis account to make such transactions.I wasnt persuaded the second credit increase was responsible, so I felt it would be 
appropriate for Vanquis to refund any charges and interest payments applied to the 
account from the date of the second increase which I understand was November 
2017.
As the debt was still outstanding but had been transferred to an external 
organisation. I thought Vanquis should buy back the debt and use the refund of 
charges and interest to reduce the outstanding balance. If this left Mr S with a credit 
balance this should be refunded to him with 8% simple interest.
It was also fair to remove any adverse information from Mr Ss credit file November 
2017 and to pay the £100 distress and inconvenience payment our investigator 
recommended as I didnt think Vanquis should have offered the second credit 
increase.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Vanquis accepted my provisional decision in part. However, it didnt feel it was fair to refund 
all interest payments made since November 2017. It felt it should only need to refund 
payments made on balances over £1500  the amount of credit prior to the second increase.
I understand Vanquis logic, but I dont agree with it. Had it carried out proportionate checks 
prior to the second increase being given and realised the full extent of Mr Ss financial 
situation it might have frozen his account at that point not allowing further transactions. 
And whilst we dont say businesses have to suspend interest payments when customers are 
in financial difficulty, we do expect businesses to respond positively and sympathetically. In 
this case, suspension of interest payments at the point of the second increase ,might have 
been a reasonable step to take.
Mr S didnt accept my provisional decision. He said his gambling transactions were more 
numerous and more significant that he felt I indicated in my provisional decision.  That  prior  
to the first increase being applied he took out several pay day loans over a short period of 
time,  and he was dependent on family support to manage his finances.
Mr S provided us with bank statements which  support what he has told us  about the 
number and frequency of gambling transactions in 2014 along with a credit report which 
supports his comments that he had taken out several payday loans just prior to the first 
credit increase . I have also noted he took out further payday loans just after that first credit 
increase. Many of  the short-term loans show as settled in 2014 and further ones show as 
settled in subsequent years. He hasnt provided us with any evidence to show he had family 
support to manage his finances.
I have revisited the information available to Vanquis at the time of the second increase .And I 
have carefully considered the information Mr S has provided in response to my provisional 
decision.For Vanquis to have  not offered a second increase or to have made further checks on 
affordability there would have had to be have been a reason to do so. But I dont believe at 
the time of the second increase there was any reason for Vanquis to do this .
I appreciate it might have been difficult for Mr S to share information with Vanquis on his 
gambling transactions but ,  as far as I am aware, he didnt make Vanquis aware of any 
financial problems. His account management didnt flag any issues  in fact he had made a 
number of large payments to his accounts. And I dont think the gambling transactions which 
showed on his Vanquis account werent significant enough to cause concern on their own.
The checks Vanquis carried out didnt flag any issues that lead me to feel further checks 
would have been proportionate at the time. I appreciate the information doesnt tally with the 
credit information Mr S has given us but that might be due to which credit reference agency 
Vanquis used. 
The checks available to Vanquis showed two short term loan applications in the three 
months prior to the first increase with  an active outstanding external debt of £290. The total 
value of defaults was £0,  the time since the last default was  32 months, the total value of 
County Court Judgements (CCJs)  was £5,521 and the time since the last CCJ was 23 
months.
I think the checks Vanquis carried out for the first credit increase were proportionate at the 
time. I feel further checks would have been  proportionate for the second increase primarily 
as Vanquis was aware that Mr Ss level of external debt had increased significantly from  
£290 to just under £17000.
Having carefully considered all the information to me I see no reason to alter my provisional 
decision.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Vanquis Bank Limited should :-
Buy back Mr Ss debt and reduce it by any interest and charges Mr S made from 
November 2017 onwards. If this leaves Mr S with a credit balance this should be 
refunded to him with 8% simple interest added from the date the credit balance 
accrued to the date of settlement
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ss credit file from November 2017
Pay Mr S £100 for the distress and inconvenience
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman