DRN-4286048
The complaint
Ms N and Mr N complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to treat them fairly when they 
attempted to make changes to their mortgage which resulted in them losing out on an 
interest rate.
What happened
The background of this complaint was set out by our investigator in their view and the facts  
have been accepted by both Barclays and Ms N and Mr N, so Ive not set these out in any 
great detail below. Instead Ive summarised the key points.
Ms N and Mr N are siblings who own a property jointly. When the existing fixed rate product 
was due to expire on the mortgage, Mr N attempted to transfer the mortgage property into 
his own name with additional borrowing with the intention of buying his sister out. He was 
hoping to fix his new mortgage for five years if successful. But if this wasnt an option, Ms N 
and Mr N would have fixed a new rate on the mortgage jointly for 2 years. They said they 
would have opted for the best rate available at this time with Barclays which was 3.05%.
The transfer of the mortgage property and additional borrowing wasnt successful because of 
fire safety defects and concerns about this within the development. This was despite Ms N 
and Mr N being reassured previously that this wouldnt cause a problem.
This delay meant the mortgage moved onto the standard variable rate for a brief period 
before a new two-year fixed rate was taken out at a rate of 3.13%. Ms N and Mr N 
complained to Barclays as they feel theyve lost out as a result of the misinformation about 
the transfer of the mortgage to Mr Ns sole name. It meant they paid the standard variable 
rate for a brief period and they have a rate which is 0.07% higher than it would have been.  
Barclays agreed to back date the rate switch so the mortgage didnt move to the standard 
variable rate. It also offered £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and felt Barclays needed to go further. She was 
persuaded the mortgage hadnt been charged the SVR based on the information provided 
and the new rate fix was implemented from 1 September 2022. But she felt Ms N and Mr N 
would have fixed their mortgage sooner and been able to obtain the lower rate if Barclays 
hadnt provided incorrect information about the transfer of the mortgage property (TOMP).  
Because of this, she recommended Barclays pay Ms N and Mr N the difference in interest 
between the mortgage they have (3.13%) and the mortgage they could have had (3.05%).   
Ms N and Mr N did not disagree with the outcome suggested and waited to hear from us as 
to whether Barclays had accepted. This Service did not hear from Barclays in response to 
the view and as a result, the complaint was escalated for an ombudsmans decision. Ahead 
of the complaint being allocated, Mr N notified us that hes received a revised payment 
notice for the mortgage. This said the interest rate applied to the mortgage had changed and 
from 24 January 2023, was 3.05% and this was effective until 30 November 2024.
Mr N also received a separate letter which confirmed changes to the mortgage had been 
made and a refund of £70.49 had been paid to the nominated bank account with the 
mortgage. 
This Service chased Barclays for an answer on the complaint and whether it had accepted 
the investigators view and how it was actioning this. Barclays responded and apologised for 
an incomplete email address being used previously resulting in its acceptance not having 
been sent. It said it accepted the view of the investigator, but to put Ms N and Mr N in the 
position theyd have been in had it not made the error, it was honouring the rate as if it had 
been put in place from 1 September 2022. The end date is reflective of when this product 
would have ended and it refunded the difference from when this wasnt in place. 
Ms N and Mr N dont think it is fair the end date on this fixed rate is now two months shorter 
than the fixed rate they took out in September 2022 and theyve asked that this be extended 
until 31 January 2025. They feel that the current mortgage market conditions mean it is likely 
they will have to pay a higher rate with Barclays sooner than they otherwise would. And as 
they feel the fire safety issues will still be outstanding at this point, they wont have the option 
to search the wider market. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 24 October 2023 and said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im planning on upholding this complaint as I said at the outset. There is no dispute on the 
facts of this case or the outcome, so Ill focus on the outstanding matter, whether the 
resolution put forward by Barclays is a fair way to put this complaint right. 
Our investigator recommended that Barclays simply refund the difference in interest Ms N 
and Mr N will pay over the cause of the two- year fixed rate period. However, I dont think 
this puts them back into the position theyd have been in had the error not occurred.
The starting point when looking at how to put things right when theyve gone wrong is to 
consider what would have happened had the error not occurred. In this case Ms N and Mr N 
said, had they not been given inaccurate information about the TOMP application, they 
would have fixed their mortgage sooner. This would have meant they would have taken out 
the two-year fixed rate mortgage at 3.05% and this would have run until the end of this 
products term. 
The end point of this product is slightly longer than two years and it finishes on 30 November 
2024. But it does finish before the product they took in place of this one when Barclays 
initially said the previous rate couldnt be honoured.
Understandably, with the current mortgage market and interest rates, Ms N and Mr N are 
concerned about what rate they might be able to achieve at the end of the term. And with the 
ongoing concerns over the fire safety issues, they feel its likely theyll be re-mortgaging with 
Barclays at this point. However, extending the period of their fixed rate beyond when it would 
otherwise have finished would be putting them in a better position than they otherwise would 
have been. And so I dont think it would be fair to ask Barclays to extend the term of their 
product by a further two months so that it matches the product term of the one they took out 
later. 
There is no guarantee on what rate Ms N and Mr N will be able to achieve in December 
2024. But the product they are now on, as previously requested ends on 30 November 2024 
and I see no reason why this should be increased.It is clear Barclays caused inconvenience and distress when it failed to provide advice on the 
point Mr N had made clear at a number of points about the fire safety issues. This resulted in 
further time and effort being spent on the product transfer which could have been avoided. 
But I think the £150 offered in recognition of this is fair.
I do think Barclays has added further confusion to this complaint through the lack of 
communication with this Service and Ms N and Mr N about the actions it was taking and 
why. And this has added to the time theyve needed to commit to this complaint. The dispute 
resolutions rules that set out our powers make provision for delays in responses and 
specifically, DISP 3.5.14 allows for any material distress or inconvenience caused as a result 
to be taken into consideration. 
While I accept Barclays attempted to comply with this Service and it took steps to put in 
place a resolution that was fair, it failed to respond to us and explain these steps. And when 
the action taken was not in line with the investigators assessment, this reasonably caused 
some confusion. So I plan on asking Barclays to increase its initial award by a further £50 to 
reflect this additional inconvenience.  
Barclays responded to say it accepted the decision. Ms N and Mr N responded to say they 
accepted it in part. 
Ms N and Mr N accepted a refund had been provided for £70.49 and the £150 compensation 
was accepted for the distress and inconvenience caused on the original complaint. They 
accepted the additional award I recommended of £50 for the failures in Barclays complying 
with this Service, although highlighted this was lower than theyd hoped for.
They didnt accept the remedy of the mortgage fixed rate term not being extended by an 
additional two months. Mr N reiterated that they will likely be unable to move to another 
lender and he has concerns Barclays will charge a higher rate than the current one. But they 
recognised the logic provided in why I hadnt recommended this.
Mr N also highlighted I had not made comment on his credit file and the impact of the 
rejected application for the TOMP. He feels he should be compensated for the potential 
negative impact of the declined application on his credit score as this would put him back to 
the position he would have been in had no error occurred. 
As both Barclays and Ms N and Mr N have responded, the complaint has been passed back 
to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered all information on this complaint and the new information provided, I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. I know Ms N and Mr N will be 
disappointed by this as it stops short of the outcome they are hoping for, but Ill explain why I 
think this is fair.
I appreciate Ms N and Mr N feel the additional award I recommended under DISP 3.5.14 is 
lower than they would have liked, but I needed to take account of the steps Barclays did take 
following our investigators view as well as the steps it didnt. 
Barclays did accept the recommendation and refunded the interest to Ms N and Mr N as 
recommended by our investigator. And it changed the interest rate on the mortgage to reflect the rate they would have achieved from the start had a two-year fixed rate application been 
made before the TOMP application. So it did attempt to comply with this Service.  
Unfortunately in doing so, it failed to update us that it had accepted the recommendation and 
explain what it was doing in its attempts to put things right. But I feel the award of £50 to 
recognise any confusion experienced when the rate change letter and refund were received 
without explanation is fair. 
I know Ms N and Mr N have concerns about the rate theyll be able to achieve when the 
fixed rate expires and it is unlikely they will be able to move from Barclays if the fire safety 
concerns remain unresolved. But this doesnt take away from the fact they would always 
have been in this position had they been able to take the two-year fixed rate option sooner. 
So in line with my provisional decision, I dont think it would be fair to ask Barclays to extend 
the term of the mortgage to the expiry date to reflect the later product Ms N and Mr N took 
out. 
Mr N feels Barclays decision to reject his application for the TOMP will have impacted his 
credit score and he said to this Service that he feels this was the reason why he was later 
refused credit by another provider. He didnt raise this as a potential loss with Barclays when 
the complaint was made, so Barclays didnt comment on this aspect. 
Barclays isnt a credit reference agency so it doesnt set the score Mr N has and each credit 
reference agency will differ in the information it relies on when setting its scores. Equally, 
each lender will consider a number of factors when deciding whether it is willing to provide 
credit and this includes which credit scores it will rely on to help assess potential 
applications. Mr N hasnt provided the details of the application he made that was declined 
and in the first instance, if he feels this was the result of Barclays error and his credit score 
as a result of this, hed need to set this out as a complaint to Barclays. 
Ive considered whether, based on what Mr N has said about his credit score, it would be fair 
to increase the award for distress and inconvenience. Having done so, I dont think it would 
be fair to ask Barclays to increase this. Ive not been provided with anything to show the 
reason why the other lender declined Mr Ns application so I am not persuaded this is the 
cause of the loss here. And it wouldnt be fair to compensate for future distress and 
inconvenience based on what might happen as a result of Mr Ns credit score and any 
impact the declined application had on this. Credit scores are updated monthly and so I cant 
say now that Barclays declined application will be the cause of any issues going forward.  
But if Mr N feels it does cause an issue, as and when he makes an application, he can raise 
this with Barclays.
Overall, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision set out above and I uphold 
this complaint. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Barclays needs to do the following:
If it has not already done so, pay the £150 previously offered for the distress and 
inconvenience experienced.
Pay the additional £50 for the added distress and inconvenience resulting from the failures in 
complying with our Service.
I note Barclays has already amended Ms N and Mr Ns fixed rate product and refunded the 
additional interest paid when comparing what they would have paid had this been taken out 
sooner, so I think it has done what it needs to here.I expect Barclays to consider any information Mr N provides to support it was the cause of 
any declined applications for lending. Recognising that the TOMP application would not have 
been completed had Barclays not provided incorrect information about this process. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Ms N and Mr Ns complaint in part.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman