DRN-3696173
The complaint
Mrs S complains about Covea Insurance plc (Covea), declining a claim under her home 
insurance policy for damage to a wall at her property during bad weather.
 
Covea use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to Covea 
includes these agents.
What happened
In February 2022, around the time of Storms Dudley, Eunice and Franklin, a retaining wall at 
the end of the rear garden at Mrs Ss property collapsed. She contacted Covea to tell them 
about the collapse and lodge a claim.
Covea arranged for a surveyor (B) to visit the property and assess the damage. Bs report, 
concluded there was no evidence of storm damage and the wall collapsed because of water 
ingress (saturation of the earth behind the wall, leading to increased pressure and collapse). 
As such, there was no insured peril. Following Bs report, Covea declined Mrs Ss claim on 
the grounds that the damage was due to the water ingress  not storm damage.
Mrs S challenged Coveas decision, saying there were no signs of water ingress before the 
collapse. She also said the construction of the wall  despite not having weep holes  meant 
water was able to drain through effectively. She also referred to the opinion of a structural 
engineer and a geotechnical specialist who (having inspected the site of the wall) concluded 
the collapse was due to the volume of rain before the collapse. This led to the ground to 
become saturated, which caused hydrostatic pressure on the wall and its collapse. 
Covea treated Mrs Ss challenge as a complaint, but they didnt uphold it. In their final 
response Covea confirmed the decision to decline the claim, referring to Bs report. But they 
said theyd reconsider if Mrs S could provide reports or other evidence from specialists.
Mrs S then complained to this service. Based on her challenge to Covea (including the views 
from the specialists) she thought Covea unfairly declined her claim. She said the collapse 
was a result of the heavy rain in the storms. She wanted Covea to settle the claim and cover 
the cost of rebuilding the wall.
Our investigator initially didnt uphold the complaint. He noted Bs conclusion about the 
collapse due to rainwater ingress over a period, not storm damage. As the policy excluded 
damage caused by gradual deterioration, he thought it fair for Covea to decline the claim.
In response to the investigators initial view, Mrs S provided a report from a geotechnical 
consultant (M). M inspected the wall and, in his report, concluded it had been in good 
condition prior to the incident, having stood for many years. The report noted the collapse 
happened directly after Storms Dudley, Eunice and Franklin. The report also noted gaps in 
the mortar to allow dissipation of rainwater under normal circumstances. It concluded the 
trigger for the collapse was excess rainfall and surface water run-off in the lead-up to the 
collapse, causing the build-up of hydrostatic pressure. The water didnt have time to 
dissipate as would normally have happened.
Our investigator provided a copy of Ms report to Covea, who agreed to send an engineer 
(G) to inspect the wall again. Gs report found the wall had been built up over time, including 
when Mrs Ss property was constructed (2017). At that time the level of the rear garden was 
raised, and additional height was added to the wall (including an additional retaining wall 
behind the existing wall). 
The report concluded the build-up of water (from the rainfall leading up to the collapse) was 
rapid during the period of the storms and was a contributory factor in the collapse. But it also 
concluded the form of construction of the wall, including the additional stages that increased 
the overall height, was a factor. But the report also stated there was no evidence the wall 
was gradually failing, or that it was bulging (from photographs before the collapse). The 
overall conclusion was the collapse was caused by a combination of rainwater build-up in 
the soil behind the wall and defective wall construction, combined with the additional weight 
from the build-up of the wall.
Following Gs report, Covea reconsidered the claim but again declined it. They said the 
weather reports for the area of Mrs Ss property indicated heavy rains, but none of a 
sufficient level to meet the definition of a storm under the terms and conditions of the policy. 
So, the claim couldnt be considered under storm peril in the policy. They also considered 
the claim against the accidental damage section of the policy, but because of Gs findings 
about the construction of the wall, they concluded the proximate cause of the collapse was 
the defective construction of the wall. They referred to a specific exclusion in the accidental 
damage section for faulty or defective design and workmanship.
Our investigator reconsidered the complaint to take account of the reports from M and G, as 
well as Coveas reconsideration of the claim. He noted Covea changed their reason for 
declining the claim from gradual damage to faulty workmanship and the level of rainfall 
didnt meet the policy definition of storm damage. On the faulty workmanship issue, he noted 
B and M didnt comment on there being any signs of poor workmanship, and G hadnt 
provided sufficient evidence to support his conclusion of defective construction of the wall. 
So, Covea unfairly declined the claim. On the storm conditions he thought it was unfair to 
use the policy definition of hourly rainfall, when weather data recorded rainfall over a 24-hour 
period. And both M and G had commented on the heavy rainfall in their reports, concluding it 
was the direct cause (M) or contributory cause (G). Based on this, he thought it was unfair 
for Covea to decline the claim on the grounds there werent storm conditions.
Having concluded Covea unfairly declined the claim, the investigator thought they should 
approve the claim and repair the wall (allowing for the wall being part-owned by Mrs S and 
the neighbouring property).He also thought Covea should reimburse Mrs S for the cost of 
Ms report (together with interest). He thought Covea should pay Mrs S £250 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience shed suffered from what had happened.
Covea disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. They provided further information on the construction of the wall, which they 
said showed faulty workmanship (and, for the most recent build up, not in accordance with 
the architects specification). They also said Gs report was significantly more detailed about, 
- and gave more consideration to - the construction of the wall. Given the build-up of the wall 
over time (including when Mrs Ss property was built) this showed defective design and 
faulty workmanship. Covea also provided further weather data they said showed the hourly 
rainfall was significantly below the hourly level set out in the policy definition. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Covea has acted fairly towards Mrs S.
The main issue in Mrs Ss complaint is Coveas decline of her claim for the collapse of the 
wall. She says the wall was in good condition prior to its collapse, which she says (drawing 
on the views of specialists) was due to the build-up of hydrostatic pressure in the soil behind 
the wall, caused by heavy rain leading up to the collapse. Covea say they declined the claim 
fairly. Initially (based on Bs report) that the damage was due to water ingress (not storms). 
Following Gs report, Covea reconsidered the claim, but rejected it on different grounds. 
Firstly, there werent storm conditions in the area at the time of the incident that met the 
policy definition of storm (so there was no insured peril). And, secondly, the proximate cause 
of the collapse was the defective design and faulty workmanship in the walls construction. 
Which was an exclusion to the accidental damage section of the policy.
Ive considered both these elements in turn. 
In considering the first element, whether the damage resulted from a storm, there are three 
key issues we consider:
Do we agree storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, in their second decline issued after reconsideration of the claim, Covea 
say there werent storm conditions around Mrs Ss property at the time of the incident that 
meet the definition of a storm. They refer to the following definition of storm in the policy:
STORM
We consider storm to be a period of violent weather defined as:
Wind Speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots (55 mph); or
Torrential rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm per hour; or
Snow to a depth of at least one foot (30cms) in 24 hours
Covea also referred to weather reports for the area of Mrs Ss property (from the nearest 
weather station). These indicated heavy rains in the days leading up to the collapse 
(consistent with the dates of Storms Desmond, Eunice and Franklin). However, none of 
these reports included rainfall exceeding 25mm per hour (although the rainfall over a 24-
hour period exceeded 25mm on one of the days). Based on this, Covea concluded the levels 
of rainfall didnt meet the criteria in the policy for a storm, so they concluded they couldnt 
consider the collapse of the wall under the storm damage section.
Ive considered this issue carefully, but Im not persuaded Coveas view is fair or reasonable. 
Ive come to that conclusion for several reasons. Firstly, the reason cited in all three of the 
reports from B, M and G for the collapse of the wall (either the cause, or a contributory 
cause) was saturation of the soil behind the wall, leading to hydrostatic pressure that 
triggered the collapse. The reports also indicate this saturation was the result of heavy 
rainfall in the days leading up to the collapse. This suggests the issue wasnt the level of 
rainfall in any one hour (the policy definition) but the accumulation before the collapse. The 
weather reports provided by Covea show heavy rains (or very heavy rains) over several 
days, which would be consistent with the various report findings about heavy rain leading to 
soil saturation. So, in the specific circumstances of this case, I dont think its reasonable to 
assess what happened against the single criteria of 25mm per hour set out in the policy.Ive also considered the policy definition itself. While snow isnt an issue, Ive considered the 
first element, wind speeds. Looking at the wind speeds in the area from the weather firm this 
service uses (which includes the same weather station cited by Covea in their reports) the 
data indicates a maximum gust of 77mph on the day before the collapse, which is described 
as a dry storm. This significantly exceeds the wind speed level in the policy definition. While 
Covea have only considered rainfall against the policy definition, the wording of the definition 
is such that weather conditions meeting any of the individual elements would constitute a 
storm under the policy definition wording (because the wording includes or after each 
element  not and).
 
Taking these points together, Ive concluded storm conditions were present at the time of the 
collapse. So, Ive concluded Covea havent acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim 
on the grounds storm conditions werent present.
Having concluded storm conditions were present, Ive then considered the second question. 
Whats clear from the photographs and from the various expert reports, is that hydrostatic 
pressure was the cause (either sole or contributory) of the collapse. Hydrostatic pressure is 
the result of soil becoming saturated and thereby exerting pressure on (in this case) the 
adjoining wall. This was the result of the cumulative heavy rainfall in the days leading up to 
the collapse. Given my conclusion about storm conditions being present (including the 
impact of heavy rainfall in the days before the collapse) I think its reasonable to conclude 
the damage is consistent with that wed expect in a storm. 
Ive then gone on to consider the third question, whether the storm conditions were the main 
(or dominant) cause of the damage. This question is also key to the second reason for 
Covea declining the claim, that the proximate cause of the collapse was the defective design 
and poor workmanship of the wall. Gs report concludes that while the hydrostatic pressure 
was the immediate cause of the collapse, the defective design and faulty workmanship of the 
wall was the proximate (and so main or dominant) cause of the collapse. Its also a specific 
exclusion under the accidental damage section of the policy.
Ive considered this issue carefully. But, on the balance of probabilities, Ive concluded the 
main (dominant) cause of the collapse was the effect of the hydrostatic pressure on the wall, 
from the heavy rains. Ill set out why Ive come to this conclusion.
First, Ive considered the condition of the wall before the collapse. Mrs S says the wall was in 
good condition before the collapse, with no signs of water ingress, or bulging of the wall. 
Looking at the photograph taken of the wall before the collapse, this supports that view. Bs 
report doesnt comment on the condition of the wall, but Ms report includes a statement that:
Small sections ofthe wall remain, and these show the wall to have been in very 
good condition for its age. I was shown a photograph taken shortly prior to collapse 
and it is evident that the wall was originally in same good condition throughout 
There is no obvious bulging nor missing stonework indicative of ongoing 
deterioration of the wall.
Gs report comments on the construction of the wall (which Ill come onto) but also includes 
the statement:
there is little evidence of any bulging prior to the failure occurring. There was no 
evidence the wall was gradually failing. The only photographdid not show any 
evidence of imminent failure.Based on these points, Ive concluded there was no evidence of any issues with the wall, of 
any deterioration prior to the collapse, with no obvious weaknesses or indications of likely 
failure. 
Ive then considered the likely cause of the walls collapse. Ive looked carefully at the three 
expert reports. In turn, Bs report concludes:
ground saturation prolong rainfall over a period of time has destabilised the 
wall causing it to collapse. There is also a large volume of earth behind the wall, 
pressure has been built [up] to cause the collapse
Ms report states:
The trigger for the collapse was the excess rainfall and surface water run-off, 
which caused excess pressures on the wall. The water did not have sufficient 
time to dissipate as would normally have been the case. Pressure would be 
greatest at the base of the wall, and its here that I believe the collapse began, 
and which accounts for the full height of the failure.
In conclusion, I am of the opinion that the wall collapsed as a direct result of 
exceptional rainfall causing pressures to build-up directly behind the wall. This 
was sufficiently intense and rapid to prevent normal dissipation, thus causing the 
collapse.
Gs report concludes:
the cause [of the collapse] is due to a combination of the build-up of rainwater 
behind the wall, and a defective wall construction combined with the extra weight 
put on the wall at the time of the development [of Mrs Ss property]. This will have 
weakened the top of the wall which should have been properly assessed by the 
builder and his advisors.
Thinking about these conclusions, they all agree the hydrostatic pressure from the heavy 
rains was either the cause (or contributory cause) of the collapse. But Gs report considers 
the construction of the wall, and the extra weight on the wall from it being built-up over time. 
It concludes this to be the proximate (main or dominant) cause of the collapse. However, Im 
not persuaded by this. Partly, because there were no prior indications of weakness (such as 
bulging, which would have indicated extra weight weakening the wall). But Im also more 
persuaded by Gs report where it refers to the hydrostatic pressure being greatest at the 
base of the wall, where G believes the collapse began (and accounts for the full height of the 
failure). Thats consistent with photographs of the collapsed section of the wall. If (as G says) 
the wall was weakened at the top, thats where Id expect the damage to have happened. On 
the balance of probabilities, I think Gs conclusion is more persuasive. 
So, Ive concluded the main, or dominant cause of the collapse was the hydrostatic 
pressure. 
As a general principle, where a policyholder makes a claim for damage or loss under a 
policy, the onus is on them to show there was an insured event that caused the damage or 
loss. In this case, given my conclusions there were storm conditions at the time of the 
incident; the damage is consistent with that wed expect to see in a storm; and the storm 
(through the build-up of saturated soil) was the main, or dominant cause of the damage, I 
think its reasonable to conclude there was an insured event (storm) that caused damage. 
Where an insurer relies on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim (as Covea have done 
when referring to the exclusion for defective design or poor workmanship) then the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies. Given my conclusion about the main, or dominant 
cause of damage, I dont think Covea have shown it was fair to apply the exclusion.
As Ive concluded Covea havent acted fairly in saying there werent storm conditions as the 
time of the incident, nor applying the exclusion for defective design or poor workmanship 
from the accidental damage section of the policy, then Ive concluded theyve acted unfairly 
and unreasonably in declining Mrs Ss claim.
Having reached this conclusion, Ive thought about what Covea need to do to put things 
right. As theyve unfairly declined the claim, I think they should settle the claim in accordance 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy (including any excess under the policy, 
as appropriate). In settling the claim, they should also take account of the shared ownership 
of the wall between Mrs S and the neighbouring property (on the assumption it wouldnt be 
practicable or sensible to rebuild only that part of the wall to the boundary of Mrs Ss 
property). 
Covea should also reimburse Mrs S for the cost of Ms report, on production of an 
appropriate invoice. Covea should also add interest at a rate of 8% simple from the date Mrs 
S paid the invoice to the date they settle the claim. Given the impact of whats happened, 
Covea should also pay £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. I require 
Covea Insurance plc to:
Settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy 
(including any excess under the policy, as appropriate). In settling the claim, they 
should also take account of the shared ownership of the wall between Mrs S and the 
neighbouring property (on the assumption it wouldnt be practicable or sensible to 
rebuild only that part of the wall to the boundary of Mrs Ss property). 
Reimburse Mrs S for the cost of Ms report, on production of an appropriate invoice. 
Covea should also add interest at a rate of 8% simple from the date Mrs S paid the 
invoice to the date they settle the claim*. 
Pay £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Covea Insurance plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
them Mrs S accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
*If Covea Insurance plc consider that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs S how much theyve taken off. They should 
also give Mrs S a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman