DRN-1397817
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1994. Mr and Mrs D say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 1994 Mr and Mrs D took out PPI around the same time as taking out a mortgage. It 
appears the policy was taken out during a branch meeting
The policy provided protection for Mr and Mrs D's mortgage payments in the event Mr D - 
the policy was in his sole name - couldn't work because of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. The policy would pay out for up to 18 months per claim and it cost around 
£36 a month.
At the time of the sale Mr D was employed, and he said he was entitled to sick pay of at 
least 12 months' pay. He said he was entitled to redundancy pay and he and Mrs D had no 
other means such as savings they couldve used to make their repayments. Mr D was in 
good health at the time.
Nationwide's records show the mortgage account ended in 2003.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said there was 
limited evidence now available, so didn't think they could fairly say Nationwide mis-led Mr 
and Mrs D into thinking they didn't have a choice about the cover. And there was nothing to 
indicate it was wrong or inappropriate for them.
Because Mr and Mrs D disagree, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Having done so, while I know this isn't the answer Mr and Mrs D were hoping for, Ive 
decided not to uphold their complaint. My reasons are set out below.
 
did Mr and Mrs D have a choice about PPI? Mr and Mrs D say they were led to believe they had to have PPI. Nationwide says PPI was 
not a condition of Mr and Mrs D's mortgage.
Because things happened many years ago - it's also more than 15 years since Mr and Mrs 
D's mortgage account ended - Nationwide hasn't got all the paperwork from the time of the 
sale. It has got a copy of Mr and Mrs D's mortgage offer letter and it's provided an example 
copy of the separate PPI application and direct debit mandate it says Mr and Mrs D would've 
had to complete to take out the policy.
Looking at the mortgage offer letter - I can't see any reference to PPI here or it being a 
condition of Mr and Mrs D's mortgage. I'm mindful that Nationwide hasn't got Mr and Mrs D's 
PPI application. But it seems likely they'd have to complete some kind of paperwork to set 
the policy up. And looking at the example application and the way it was set out - including 
the requirement to complete a separate direct debit mandate - I don't think a customer 
would've likely been given the impression that PPI was a mandatory part of the mortgage. 
So, given the passage of time and in the absence of persuasive evidence to suggest that 
something very different happened in Mr and Mrs D's case, I don't think I can fairly say that 
Nationwide more likely than not misrepresented PPI as being a compulsory part of Mr and 
Mrs D's mortgage taking away their choice whether to take the policy out or not.
the information  
Mr and Mrs D say Nationwide advised them to take out PPI. Nationwide says it didn't advise 
or recommend the cover to them. Based on what we know about how Nationwide conducted 
sales around this time - and because I've not seen enough evidence in this case to persuade 
me otherwise - I don't think this was an advised sale. This means Nationwide didn't have to 
ensure PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs D. But it did have to give Mr and Mrs D enough clear 
and timely information about the policy, so they could make an informed decision about it.
Given the limited available evidence, I accept its possible the information Nationwide gave 
Mr and Mrs D about the PPI wasn't as clear as it shouldve been. For example the evidence 
doesn't tell me how the cost was disclosed to them or whether the significant exclusions and 
limitations of cover were clearly highlighted.
But as I found above, I think Mr and Mrs D likely chose to take it out - so it looks like 
they wanted this type of cover. And based on their circumstances at the time it doesn't  
surprise me that they chose it - it appears that it was inappropriate for them. For example Mr 
D was eligible for the cover; he wasn't affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to 
the cover such as those for existing medical conditions or unusual employment 
circumstances; and they appear to have had a need for cover. So it seems like it would have 
been useful for them if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont 
think better information about the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs D off taking out the cover. 
I can see that Mr D says he would've been paid in full for 12 months if he was off work sick. 
And he was entitled to redundancy pay if he lost his job.
I think it's very unusual for an employer to pay full sick pay for a year - I think more likely it 
was six months' full pay followed by six months' half pay. But in any event the policy 
would've paid out alongside Mr D's sick pay and for longer if necessary - up to 18 months 
per claim. I'm mindful too of Mr D's wider circumstances - he was the sole household income earner; 
he had dependent children; and Mr and Mrs D had no savings to speak of. So it seems to 
me that the policy would've provided a useful and welcome benefit had the insured risks 
become a reality.
Mr and Mrs D say the policy wasn't appropriate because it didn't provide cover for 
permanent total sickness disablement. But I've not seen anything which suggests they were 
misled into thinking that it did - in fact I can see that the insurance schedule Nationwide has 
provided, which it says Mr and Mrs D would've received around the time of the sale, 
explicitly says this wasn't covered on their policy - it's recorded as 'Nil'.
Ive thought very carefully about everything Mr and Mrs D have said in making their 
complaint. But for the reasons I've detailed above, I dont think Mr and Mrs D have lost out 
as a result of having PPI. So, Nationwide doesn't have to pay back to Mr and Mrs D what 
they paid for PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I've decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman