DRN-3123501
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how Moneybarn No. 1 Limited treated him after he fell into financial 
difficulty.
What happened
In August 2018 Mr H was supplied with a used van through a conditional sale agreement 
with Moneybarn. The agreement was for £8,599, with an initial payment of £400, followed by 
59 monthly payments of £281.91.  
Mr H said that Moneybarn failed to respond promptly to his request for a payment 
arrangement. He said he told them in April 2020 that his household income had been 
affected by the Covid 19 pandemic. He said they kept asking him to supply the same 
information, and their delays meant the amount of arrears on the account had increased. He 
said Moneybarn also rejected his offers to repay the arrears.
Mr H is unhappy with how long it took Moneybarn to respond to his various emails and calls. 
He said his arrears would be lower if Moneybarn had accepted his offer. He said he now has 
a higher settlement figure than the original one because of their delays.
Moneybarn said Mr H first contacted them about his financial difficulties in November 2019. 
They said that they responded by providing him with his options to end the agreement early.
On 4 February 2020 they issued a default notice to Mr H advising him of arrears on is 
account of £1,838. They said Mr H responded by asking if the early exit options hed been 
given in November 2019 were still available. Moneybarn said they responded by sending an 
updated version of the options to Mr H.
They said Mr H then asked what the minimum amount was he needed to pay to clear the 
arrears and continue with the monthly payments. Moneybarn said they asked Mr H to 
complete an Income and Expenditure form so that they could ensure any payment plan was 
affordable for him. They said Mr H told them he was unable to complete the form so they 
arranged to do this by phone. This didnt happen due to an increase in calls, and staffing 
issues Moneybarn said were caused by the pandemic.
They said Mr Hs direct debit due on 31 March 2020 failed, and on 17 April 2020 they 
provided him with details of independent organisations who could provide debt advice.
They said Mr H contacted them on 21 May 2020 and offered to increase his monthly 
payment to £300. They responded two weeks later informing him they still required an 
income and expenditure form before they could agree a payment plan.
They said Mr H provided an Income and Expenditure form on 30 June 2020. Hed offered a 
monthly repayment of £300, inclusive of the normal monthly payment of £281. 
They said Mr H contacted them again on 6 August 2020 to tell them his wife had lost her job 
and his household income had reduced. Two weeks later they advised Mr H they would 
need a revised income and expenditure form due to the change of circumstances. They said 
Mr H didnt complete a revised Income and Expenditure form, but submitted the same details 
as hed provided before his wife lost her job.
They told Mr H they were unable to discuss a payment plan until hed provided an up to date 
Income and Expenditure form. They said they had to ensure that any new payment 
arrangement was sustainable and affordable for him.
Mr H brought his complaint to our service as he wasnt happy with their response. He said 
hed tried for more than five months to agree an arrangement, but his offers were not 
acknowledged. He also said he had submitted an up to date Income and Expenditure form.
Mr H was unhappy with Moneybarns response, and he brought his complaint to us for 
investigation.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. He said that Moneybarn had notified Mr H of 
the arrears on his account, and issued default notices setting out what action may be taken if 
the arrears werent paid. He acknowledged that Mr H had offered to pay £300, but felt that it 
was reasonable for Moneybarn to ask him for an Income and Expenditure form so that they 
could consider whether or not Mr H could afford to pay this amount. And he also said it was 
reasonable for Moneybarn to ask Mr H to provide an updated version when he declared the 
change in household circumstances. He was also satisfied that Mr H had submitted the 
same version of the form on three different occasions.
Mr H disagreed. He said he was unhappy with how long it had taken Moneybarn to respond 
to his emails and calls. He said that he wouldnt be in so much arrears if Moneybarn had 
accepted his offer.  And he said that he had submitted updated versions of the income and 
expenditure form. He said that he was also unhappy that Moneybarn had responded to his 
request for a payment arrangement in different ways on each occasion he made an offer.
Because Mr H didnt agree with the investigator, the matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr H was supplied with a car under a conditional sale 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look 
into complaints about it.
Id like to reassure the parties that Ive considered and read everything theyve said and sent 
us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be focusing on the 
crux of Mr Hs complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. That is whether or not 
Moneybarns delays and failure to respond led to an increase in his arrears.
Income and Expenditure formsMoneybarn had provided Mr H with the options to exit the agreement in 2019 when he was 
also in arrears in 2019. At that time Moneybarn agreed repayment plans with him. Mr H 
failed to adhere to these plans, so I can see why Moneybarn would want to ensure he could 
afford an any new arrangement.
Mr H asked in February 2020, if the exit options were still available to him. Moneybarn 
confirmed they were. Mr H then asked what his minimum payment would be if he wanted to 
keep the van.
Moneybarn responded informing Mr H they would need to understand his current financial 
circumstances and why hed missed payments. It was at this point that they also explained 
to Mr H why they need an Income and Expenditure form.
Mr H told Moneybarn he was unable to complete the form. He said hed attempted to contact 
a debt charity but he said they couldnt help him. Moneybarn were also unable to help him as 
theyd closed their phonelines due to the Covid pandemic. They resent him the links to debt 
charities that could provide an income and expenditure form. They also advised him to see 
independent advice.
In May 2020 they told Mr H he would need to pay more than his monthly payment to clear 
the arrears, and told him again they would need the Income and Expenditure form. It was at 
this point Mr H offered to pay £300 a month.
Moneybarn told him they werent able to accept the offer without the income and expenditure 
form as they needed to assess whether or not this was affordable. Mr H completed the form 
and returned it, repeating his offer of £300. But they returned it to him as it wasnt complete  
it didnt include this agreement.
This to-ing and fro-ing continued in June and July 2020. In August 2020 Mr H told 
Moneybarn that his wife had lost her job. Moneybarn replied saying they couldnt consider 
his latest offer without an up to date Income and Expenditure form showing accurate 
household income.
Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Moneybarn to ask Mr H for accurate income and 
expenditure figures. Regulated firms like Moneybarn have to follow rules and guidance set 
by The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the industry regulator. These are set out in The 
FCA Handbook. They say that firms must treat consumers in financial difficulty with 
forbearance. This includes allowing the deferment of payment of arrears where immediate 
payment would increase the customers payments to an unsustainable level. But they can 
only do that if it doesnt extend the term for the repayments excessively.
Its reasonable for Moneybarn to consider Mr Hs full income and expenditure before it made 
a decision on his offer. The two versions of the form he sent are not identical, but they are 
dated the same, and they are incomplete. This is a key document and I can see why 
Moneybarn wanted to be certain it included full and accurate details of Mr Hs household 
income, and all his expenditure. So I dont think their requests were unreasonable.
Mr H said they didnt ask him for a new version after he told them about his wife losing her 
job. But he has provided a copy of the message he received from Moneybarn on 12 August 
2020 in which they did so.
So I dont think their requests were unreasonable. I can see that both parties failed to 
respond by deadlines theyd been set, but I cant see that Moneybarn deliberately caused 
any delay. Payment offers
Mr H says that Moneybarn did not respond to his emails. He said hed made many offers to 
repay a monthly amount towards his arrears, and Moneybarns failure to consider or respond 
has left him owing more than if theyd responded promptly.
Mr H made his first offer to pay £300 in May 2020. At this point he was in arrears by £2,402.
Moneybarn told him they wouldnt accept the offer until they could consider whether this was 
affordable and sustainable. Ive explained above why I felt it was reasonable for them to 
seek this information from Mr H, and Ive said why I dont think they deliberately delayed the 
process.
I can see from the statement of account that Mr H made just one payment towards the 
account from December 2019 to August 2020. Im satisfied this is the main reason for the 
increasing arrears, not any delay by Moneybarn.
Mr H couldve continued making the regular monthly payments during this period. This 
wouldve prevented the arrears increasing every month.
Ive explained above why I think Moneybarn has acted reasonably.
Mr H is still in arrears. Id expect Moneybarn to consider his current financial situation and 
treat him with appropriate forbearance when considering an affordable payment plan to clear 
the arrears. I think this is fair and wont be asking them to do anymore.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Moneybarn No. 1 Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman