DRN-2058718
The complaint
Ms P complains that Barclays Bank UK plc returned cheques on her account and hasnt 
compensated her fairly for the delay that occurred. She also complains about poor service.
What happened
Ms P had a current account with Barclays. She says she issued four cheques out of the 
account on behalf of her late mothers estate. But, she says she was contacted by the 
beneficiaries who told her the cheques had been returned unpaid.
She went to a branch of Barclays to try to get the matter sorted. She says it couldnt tell her 
why the cheques were returned unpaid. She was in the branch for four hours. She says she 
wasnt offered a seat or refreshments.  She says Barclays agreed to transfer the money from 
her account to the beneficiary bank accounts whilst she was in the branch. She says she 
was told that Barclays would pay compensatory interest for the delay that had occurred. And 
she says Barclays told her it would phone her about this.
She heard nothing further from Barclays. It didnt phone her back. She says it took ten 
weeks to respond to her complaint. 
Barclays investigated her complaint. It said it returned the cheques because the signatures 
didnt match the mandate for the account. It said it only agreed to pay compensatory interest 
if it had done anything wrong. It hadnt done anything wrong and so no interest was payable. 
Barclays said it hadnt charged Ms P any fees for the returned cheques or for the bank 
transfers it had carried out. 
Barclays apologised for not calling Ms P back after promising to do so. It credited her 
account with £25 by way of compensation. But it didnt agree that shed been treated poorly 
when she visited its branch. It said that seating was available in the banking hall and it had 
offered her a private room, but shed declined.
Ms P wasnt satisfied. So, she complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into her complaint. He said that Barclays hadnt done anything wrong 
when it returned the cheques unpaid. He said that the signatures didnt match the mandate. 
He thought £25 was fair and reasonable compensation for not calling Ms P back. He also 
accepted what Barclays had said about how Ms P was treated in the branch. So, he didnt 
uphold her complaint.
Ms P didnt agree with our investigators view. She raised several points:
the CCTV footage would show how shed been treated in the branch;
Barclays staff couldnt tell her why the cheques had been returned;
two of the cheques had been debited from her account on 16 August 2019 but hadnt 
been credited back until 19 August 2019. She said Barclays had no right to hold this 
money and should pay interest on it;
there were at least two occasions where she hadnt been called back;
shed received no ID calls from Barclays on 16 August and 19 August. When she 
contacted Barclays it was unable to tell her who had phoned her or what the purpose 
of the calls was; and
she feels shes been treated shabbily by Barclays. It took ten weeks to respond to 
her complaint.
Our investigator considered what shed said. But he didnt change his view. He said the 
CCTV footage wouldnt help him to clarify what the branch staff had told Ms P. He said he 
was satisfied Barclays hadnt done anything wrong when it returned the cheques. Barclays 
had tried to resolve the situation by making the bank transfers and it hadnt applied any fees 
to her account. It had paid her £25 by way of compensation for not returning her calls. He 
thought that was fair and reasonable.
Ms P didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For mainly the same reasons as our investigator I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise 
this will come as a disappointment to Ms P, so Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the signatures on the four cheques and compared this to the mandate for the 
account. I agree with our investigator that there are differences in the signatures. So, I dont 
think Barclays did anything wrong when it returned the cheques unpaid. They were for 
significant amounts and diligence was required. 
Ive thought about whether Barclays should pay interest for the delay caused as a result.
The beneficiary accounts were credited on 20 August by bank transfer. As Ive mentioned 
above I dont think Barclays did anything wrong when it returned the cheques unpaid. And 
when Ms P attended the branch on 20 August it took steps to transfer the funds immediately 
to the beneficiary accounts. So, I dont agree that any compensatory interest should be paid 
to the beneficiaries.
Ive also considered whether Barclays should pay Ms P interest for the delay. Two of the 
returned cheques were recredited to the account on the same day as they were debited. So, 
I dont think any interest is payable in respect of those two cheques. 
Barclays didnt recredit the other two cheques on the same day as the account was debited. 
The account was debited on Friday 16 August 2019 and recredited on Monday 19 August 
2019. That was the next business day. And, although I can see there was a delay in 
recrediting the account, Im conscious that this was a current account. Credit interest 
wouldnt have been payable on the funds even if they had been re-credited on 16 August 
2019. Barclays has confirmed this is correct. 
So, Ms P didnt suffer any loss of interest because of the delay. It is also the case that she 
wasnt charged any fees for the return of the cheques or for the interbank transfers to the 
beneficiary accounts. So, I dont think she suffered any financial loss as a result of what 
happened. And, on balance, I dont think Barclays should pay compensatory interest for the 
delay in recrediting the account.
Ms P has also complained about several aspects of the service she received from Barclays. She says she received no ID calls which she wasnt able to take at the time. When she 
contacted Barclays about these calls it couldnt tell her who had called or what the purpose 
of the calls was. It is upsetting to receive calls of this nature and it can be stressful when the 
organisation isnt able to confirm why the call was made.  Barclays says this was because its 
systems hadnt been updated. I think this does explain why the staff Ms P spoke to werent 
aware of the calls that had been made.
I can see that Barclays did send Ms P letters to explain why two of the cheques hadnt been 
paid. But, it says there was a system error and thats why a letter wasnt automatically 
produced to tell her the reason why the two other cheques had been returned unpaid. Ms P 
says that even when she visited the branch it still wasnt able to tell her why the cheques had 
been returned.
I agree with Ms P that this wasnt very helpful. But, even though it wasnt able to explain why 
the cheques had been returned unpaid, Barclays did take immediate steps to make the 
payments when Ms P was in the branch. I think this was important for Ms P since shed been 
contacted by the beneficiaries about the payments. And, as mentioned above, Barclays 
waived its usual fees for payments of this kind. So, I think the actions taken by Barclays 
were a fair and reasonable way to make sure that Ms Ps concerns about payments being 
made to the beneficiaries were dealt with as quickly as possible.
Ms P has complained about how she was treated in the branch. She says she was there for 
a very long time and wasnt offered a seat or refreshments. Barclays says there was seating 
available and it offered her a private room. So, there is disagreement about what happened.
I havent asked to review any CCTV footage because I agree with our investigator when he 
says that wont resolve the disagreement about what arrangements were offered to Ms P 
when she visited the branch.  But I can understand why Ms P was annoyed that it took so 
long to get matters sorted. 
Having thought about it, Im satisfied that Barclays primary focus was on making the 
payments to the beneficiaries as quickly as possible. Each of the four payments had to be 
processed separately. That explains why it took additional time. And, on balance, I think that 
seating was available to Ms P if shed asked for it.
Ive also thought about Barclays failure to return calls as promised. Its always disappointing 
when this happens. Barclays has acknowledged that it didnt call Ms P back. Its paid her 
£25 by way of compensation. And, in these circumstances, I agree with our investigator that 
£25 is fair and reasonable compensation.
Ms P has also mentioned the length of time Barclays has taken to deal with her complaint. 
Its not for this service to tell Barclays what procedures or processes it should put in place as 
a business. Nor can this service look into her concerns around this, where those concerns 
specifically relate to a complaints process, which is not a regulated financial activity. 
 
So, having considered everything here, Im satisfied that Barclays didnt do anything wrong 
when it returned the cheques unpaid. It took immediate action when Ms P visited the branch 
and made bank transfers to each of the beneficiary accounts. It waived its usual fees. Its 
also paid £25 compensation for not returning calls when promised. I think thats fair and 
reasonable. So, I dont require it to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman