DRN-2745510
The complaint
Miss P complains Vanquis Bank limited (Vanquis) havent refunded her the correct amount 
following the closure of her credit card account with them.
What happened
Miss P says Vanquis wrote to her in July 2020 notifying they would be closing her credit card  
account. Miss P says Vanquis reason for this was they provided her with a credit card 
account they shouldnt have. Miss P says Vanquis agreed to refund her in excess of £400 
but when they closed her credit card account, she was refunded with less than that and they 
have used these monies to simply write off the debt. Miss P says she cannot locate the 
original letter Vanquis sent to her and feels Vanquis  have misled her and this has caused 
her stress and upset. 
Vanquis says they have closed Miss Ps credit card account and gave her reasonable notice 
of this. Vanquis says they have no record of offering Miss P the amount she claims. It says 
they have written off the debt and refunded any interest and fees, closed the account and 
ensured no record of this appears on her credit file. Vanquis have agreed to pay Miss P 
£100 by way of compensation and goodwill, for mis-information as to how the refund would 
be processed.
Miss P wasnt happy with Vanquiss response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold Ms Ps complaint. 
The investigator felt that Vanquis had acted fairly when closing the credit card account and 
gave sufficient notice to do so and had written off the balance of the account and accrued 
interest correctly. The investigator couldnt see any evidence to show Vanquis had agreed to 
pay the £400 plus Miss P refers to and felt the offer of £100 by way of compensation was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances .
Miss P wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to 
an Ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can see that it would be frustrating and upsetting for Miss P to believe she was due a 
refund which hadnt been paid. I was sorry to learn Miss P has suffered with health issues 
and the stress this matter has caused has added to that . 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Vanquis have acted fairly when they closed 
Miss Ps credit card account and if Miss P was due any other monies from them. 
What happened here was Miss P was written to by Vanquis in July 2020 who had identified 
they had made an error in her income verification and would be closing her account in two 
months time. In that letter it explained to Miss P they would write off any remaining  
balances, all interest , fees and charges incurred and remove any record of the credit card 
account from her credit file. 
From the information available to me I can see this was followed up by a letter to Miss P in 
October 2020 confirming the account was closed and broke down the amount of fees and 
interest refunded totalling £226.79. Miss P says her representative rang Vanquis in 
November to complain that Miss P was written to before, saying she would receive around 
£400 by way of direct credit payment to her. 
Miss P says Vanquis have offered her £100 by way of compensation but this isnt sufficient 
for the inconvenience and stress caused and they havent been entirely truthful about the 
amount they agreed to refund her. 
The first thing to say here is, Vanquis have acted fairly on closing Mis Ps credit card account 
and provided sufficient notice to do so. I say this because Miss P was given over two 
months-notice and while Vanquis had not needed to, they have provided a full explanation 
why the account has been closed. In addition, I can see that Vanquis have refunded interest, 
charges and fees and written off the outstanding balance on the credit card and ensured 
Miss Ps credit file is unaffected.  
Miss P and her representatives point of issue is not that the credit card account shouldnt 
have been closed, but the fact Vanquis had originally agreed to pay a direct refund to Miss P 
of around £400 and havent. In addition, the compensation of £100 offered by Vanquis isnt 
sufficient for the upset and stress it has caused. 
I understand the points made here but from the evidence available to me I cant see that 
Vanquis have agreed to anything other than close Miss Ps account, by writing off the 
balance and all interest and charges. Miss P nor her representative are able to provide the 
letter they say Vanquis sent offering around £400 and Vanquis have no knowledge of this 
either. 
Its worth saying here, that Vanquis have acted in a way we would expect to see when they 
have realised an error in providing credit, based on a mistake in assessing income 
verification. I cant see they could be expected to do any more than they have here and in 
addition have agreed to write off the debt in full , which I am satisfied is a reasonable 
outcome for Miss P. I say this because in normal circumstances if a lender like Vanquis had 
been found by this service to have provided credit when they shouldnt, we would normally 
instruct them to simply refund all interest and charges and put the consumer back to the 
position they would have been before taking out the credit. It would be generally accepted  
the spending on the card, in normal circumstances, would be considered to have been of 
benefit to a consumer, like Miss P, so by writing this sum off, Vanquis have been quite 
reasonable here. 
While Miss P says Vanquis agreed to refund her around £400, I cant see anything to 
support that and I can only make a decision based on the evidence available to me. On 
balance I cant see why Vanquis would agree to do any more than they already have here. 
That said, Vanquis have accepted they may have been unclear as to how the refunds would 
be made and as a gesture of goodwill and in acceptance their service could have been 
improved, have agreed to pay Miss P £100 in compensation to recognise this . 
While Miss P and her representative may not agree I am satisfied this is a reasonable offer 
by Vanquis and Miss P can still contact Vanquis to arrange this payment, if it hasnt been paid already . 
While Miss P will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Vanquis 
here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman