DRN-2966407
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as M, complains about delays in obtaining a Bounce Back 
Loan from HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Ms director, Miss H, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
M banks with HSBC and applied to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan shortly after the 
government-backed scheme was launched on 4 May 2020. 
Ms application was approved and the loan was drawn down on 30 July 2020. When Miss H 
complained about the delay in obtaining the funds, HSBC apologised for any inconvenience 
but declined to offer any compensation. So Miss H referred the matter to us.
Miss H says that delays in receiving the loan funds had severe consequences for the 
company  it fell behind on rent payments which led to the landlord ending its tenancy 
agreement and it couldnt buy stock or materials, meaning it couldnt trade and had to cancel 
orders. She also says the stress of dealing with the matter exacerbated her existing mental 
health conditions. 
While the complaint was with us, HSBC reviewed the matter afresh and offered to pay M 
compensation of £200 for the inconvenience it had been caused. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and thought that was a fair way to put things 
right. In summary, she didnt think that HSBC was responsible for all the delays  noting that 
Miss H had submitted a number of applications which had impacted things. For the 
inconvenience caused by the delays caused by the bank, she thought £200 was fair 
compensation. And she said that Miss H hadnt provided sufficient evidence to support the 
financial losses claimed  so she didnt recommend that the bank pay anything in this 
respect. 
Miss H didnt accept our investigators view. She didnt think that £200 fairly compensated M 
for the time spent on the application, highlighting an estimated 20 or more phone calls and 
25 hours of her time. She reiterated that the company had been left unable to trade as a 
result of the delay in receiving the funds and that it had to move to new premises as a result 
too.
So with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H says she attempted to apply for a Bounce Back Loan on 4 May 2020, after the 
Scheme was introduced. It seems, though, that she was unable to submit the appropriate 
loan application until the end of July 2020. 
It is unclear exactly what caused these problems. M had an existing business account with 
HSBC through which an application could be made. But it appears that for some reason, M 
ended up applying for a feeder account  a separate account used solely for the purpose of 
drawing down the loan (which would typically be used by customers without an existing 
business relationship with the bank). 
I cant say with any certainty if this problem arose due to a problem on HSBCs part or Ms. 
But either way, I think Miss H was in touch with the bank about the matter soon enough to 
avoid any protracted delays  and that it couldve done more to resolve any issues and 
facilitate Ms application.
HSBC eventually resolved these problems in late July  and as soon as it did, Miss H 
successfully completed an application that was approved swiftly and funds were received 
within a couple of days. This is what shouldve happened at the outset. And I think delays on 
the banks part meant it took at least two months longer to get to this point than it should 
have done. Ive borne in mind that there may initially have been some confusion on both 
sides and that the bank was dealing with exceptional demand under the newly-introduced 
loan scheme alongside the other operational challenges caused by the pandemic. But I still 
think HSBC could and should have done more to assist M in obtaining the support it needed 
under the Loan Scheme.
Its right that M is compensated for the impact of HSBCs errors. Ive considered what Miss H 
has said and provided to us in this respect. She has described significant financial losses, 
estimating lost business to the value of £35,000. But despite our requests, she hasnt 
provided any evidence to demonstrate how the company was impacted or to show that it 
incurred the losses she has claimed. So I dont think there is any basis on which I could fairly 
require HSBC to pay M any compensation for this.
Miss H also says that the delays led to M having to move premises  as after falling behind 
on rent, the landlord decided not to renew Ms tenancy agreement. She has sent us an email 
that confirms the landlords decision, although this makes no mention of any reason and 
doesnt refer to any rent arrears. It also appears to be a residential tenancy agreement, 
rather than a commercial one. But either way, theres nothing to show that the landlords 
decision not to renew the tenancy was a consequence of the delays in M receiving the 
Bounce Back Loan. It seems M would always have needed to relocate, irrespective of the 
delays in obtaining its loan. It follows that I dont think HSBC needs to compensate M for this 
either.
I appreciate, though, that M wouldve been put to some inconvenience in dealing with the 
matter. Miss H has explained that she made a number of phone calls and I understand that 
given the volume of calls HSBC was receiving at the time, she had to spend a lot of time 
waiting to get through. This wouldve taken her away from her business. And M also had to 
carry on without the loan for longer than necessary. 
I also understand that the matter will have caused Miss H additional stress during an already 
difficult time and Im sorry to read of the impact it had on her. But I cant award 
compensation for any distress she may have suffered personally, as under our rules the 
complainant here is M. And the company cant have suffered any emotional distress. HSBC has already recognised that its errors caused M some inconvenience and has offered 
to pay it £200 compensation. Taking all of the above into account, I think this is a fair way to 
put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
pay M £200. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman