DRN-2439126
The complaint
Mr M complains about the settlement Aviva Insurance Limited has paid him for a claim he
made on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M was abroad and was due to fly home. His airline cancelled his flight (and later became
insolvent). Mr M had to pay for a new flight home at a substantially higher cost. He received
a refund for the cancelled flight from the airline. He made a claim on his travel insurance
policy for the cost of the new flight.
Aviva initially assessed the claim under the travel delay section of the policy and paid Mr M
£100. It later reconsidered its stance and decided to deal with Mr Ms claim under the
curtailment section of the policy, as a gesture of goodwill. Mr M had bought a return
replacement ticket rather than a one-way ticket to the UK. So Aviva split the cost of the flight
in two  leaving around £1364. It deducted the refund Mr M had received from the airline of
around £490, together with the policy excess of £50 and the payment itd already made to Mr
M of £100. Aviva also deducted a payment of £100 Mr M had received from another insurer.
This meant Aviva paid Mr M a total settlement of around £723.
Mr M was unhappy with the settlement and he asked us to look into his complaint. He didnt
think it was fair for Aviva to deduct the refund hed received from the airline from the
settlement. He said the payment from the other insurer was a delay benefit payment, rather
than a payment towards his new flight. And he didnt think there was anything in the policy
that entitled Aviva to deduct the delay benefit itd initially paid him from the settlement.
Our investigator didnt think Aviva had settled Mr Ms claim fairly. He thought it was fair for
Aviva to deduct the refund Mr M had got from the airline from the settlement, together with
the excess and the payment itd already made under the delay section of the policy. But the
investigator didnt think it was fair for Aviva to deduct the £100 Mr M had been paid by the
other insurer. Thats because he thought the payment was a travel delay benefit payment,
rather than a contribution towards the cost of Mr Ms new flight. He also felt Aviva had had
enough information to recognise this from the outset, so he felt it should also pay Mr M £50
compensation.
Neither Mr M nor Aviva agreed with the investigators findings.
Mr M didnt accept that Aviva had calculated the settlement fairly. And he didnt think it was
reasonable for Aviva to deduct the refund hed received from the airline from the settlement.
Aviva didnt accept that the payment Mr M had received from the other insurer was a delay
benefit payment. It said the policy covered the reimbursement of costs for travel,
refreshments and accommodation if a flight was delayed, cancelled or overbooked up to a
limit of £200. And it felt the letter from the insurer made it clear that its payment had been a
reimbursement towards the costs of Mr Ms flight. So it maintained the insurer had
contributed towards the cost of Mr Ms new flights up to its own policy limits.
I issued my provisional decision on 4 November 2020. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I thought Aviva had settled Mr Ms claim fairly. I said:
Theres no dispute that Mr Ms original pre-booked return flight was cancelled by the airline. 
I dont doubt know frustrating this was for him, especially when the cost of the new flight he
purchased was substantially more than the cost of his original ticket. But in making my
decision, I need to bear in mind the policy terms and the circumstances of Mr Ms claim.
Initially, Aviva considered Mr Ms claim under the travel delay section of the policy. Thats
because it said there was no cover on the policy for Mr Ms specific circumstances. So it paid
Mr M £100. However, it later agreed to reconsider the claim under the cancellation and
curtailment section of the policy, despite the fact it wasnt strictly covered.
Mr M bought a return replacement ticket. He paid £2729. The receipt from the airline doesnt
break down what each leg of the flight cost. I appreciate Mr M feels a single outbound flight
to the UK wouldve cost around £2100. But in the absence of any evidence to show the cost
of the outbound flight to the UK, I think it was fair and reasonable for Aviva to divide the total
cost of the return flight in two when working out what the cost of a single flight wouldve
been. This meant Aviva calculated the cost of Mr Ms flight back to the UK as £1364.50.
The terms of Mr Ms policy state that an excess of £50 will be deducted from the first part of
a claim. So Im satisfied Aviva was entitled to deduct this amount from the settlement it paid.
I also think it was fair for Aviva to take off the £100 itd already paid Mr M under the delay
section of the policy. Thats because it made the decision to no longer treat the claim as
being covered by the delay section of the policy and instead, considered it under a section
that was more beneficial to Mr M.
Mr Ms original airline refunded him for the cost of his cancelled flight. It paid him £490.60. I
appreciate Mr M doesnt feel it was fair for Aviva to deduct this amount from the settlement it
paid him. Ive thought carefully about this. But the relevant policy terms clearly include the
following exclusion clause:
What is not covered
c. Any costs incurred by you which are recoverable from your credit/debit card provider or
which you receive or are expected to receive compensation or reimbursement.
Its clear Mr M had to pay out more to travel home than hed already paid for his cancelled
flight. But if his flight had gone ahead as planned, hed always have had to pay £490.60 for
the ticket. Hes been refunded this amount by the airline and Ive seen the credit to Mr Ms
account. So I think Aviva was reasonably entitled to deduct this amount from the settlement
it paid Mr M, because hed always have had to pay out that amount to get back to the UK.
Ive then turned to look at the payment Mr M received from the other insurance policy he
had. Mr M says he received compensation for travel delay. Aviva maintains that the payment
was a contribution towards the cost of Mr Ms new flight. So Ive carefully considered the
terms of Mr Ms contract with the other insurer and the payment letter he received.
It seems the other insurer dealt with Mr Ms claim under the travel inconvenience section of
its policy. This says:
You will be reimbursed (my emphasis) up to £200 for additional travel, refreshment and
accommodation costs incurred prior to Your actual departure if:
a) (Delay, Cancellation or Overbooking) Your flight is delayed, cancelled, or overbooked
and no alternative is made available within 4 hours of the published departure time.The policy also says that for the benefit to be paid, the accommodation, travel or
refreshment costs must be charged to a particular charge card.
It seems to me that to claim a benefit under this particular policy, a policyholder mustve
incurred one of the covered costs which they can then go on to claim for. The terms suggest
that a policyholder will be reimbursed for these costs up to the policy limit. The fact costs are
reimbursed does suggest they are intended as an indemnity payment, rather than a
standalone benefit payment.
The payment confirmation from the insurer refers to Mr Ms claim. It says: Description  New
Flight and states a claim amount of £2729  which was the cost of Mr Ms new flight. So it
seems thats what he was claiming from it. The letter also says: new flight limit applied. So
I currently think that the payment from the other insurer was a contribution towards the cost
of the replacement flights. This means I currently think it was fair for Aviva to deduct this
contribution from the settlement it paid Mr M.
Aviva told Mr M that if he could get a letter from the other insurer which showed that its
payment was intended as delay benefit rather than as a contribution towards the flight, it
would reconsider the settlement. I think this was an appropriate response. Mr M doesnt
seem to have provided Aviva with this information. Its open to Mr M to obtain such evidence
in response to my provisional decision if he wishes to do so.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Aviva said it had nothing more to add.
Mr M said he still didnt believe that Aviva had applied the terms of his policy correctly. But 
he accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mr M and Aviva have accepted my provisional findings, I see no reason to change 
them. So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons. 
This means that Im still satisfied that Aviva settled Mr Ms claim fairly and in line with the 
policy terms. And Im not telling it to pay him anymore.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman