DRN-3445338
The complaint
Ms M complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, lent to her 
irresponsibly and without carrying out proper affordability checks. She would like all the fees 
and charges associated with the loans refunded.
What happened
Between November 2014 and October 2019 Everyday Loans approved four loans for Ms M. 
When assessing the applications, Everyday Loans took steps to verify Ms Ms financial 
circumstances and carried out credit checks before approving the lending. It would appear 
that the fourth and final loan is still current, although that hasnt been confirmed.
Via a claims management company, Ms M complained to Everyday Loans, but it didnt 
accept that it had done anything wrong. When she brought her case to this service, the 
adjudicator thought that Everyday Loans shouldnt have granted loans three and four, so 
partly upheld the complaint. Ms M accepted that, but Everyday Loans didnt respond.
As Ms M has accepted that Everyday Loans did nothing wrong when granting loans one and 
two, so those are no longer in dispute, this decision will only be considering whether it 
should have granted her loans three and four. They were given in November 2016 and 
October 2019 respectively.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im going to uphold this 
complaint in part, essentially for the same reasons as the adjudicator, to which Everyday 
Loans has not responded.
Everyday Loans is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the 
time of this lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I 
wont repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to 
ensure that Ms M would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. 
As set out in CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that she could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
Essentially, Ms M needed to be able to meet her financial commitments and not have to 
borrow elsewhere to repay Everyday Loans for the loan to be considered affordable and 
sustainable.
Did Everyday Loans carry out proportionate checks before granting these loans?
For the same reasons as those set out by the adjudicator, Im satisfied that Everyday 
Loans checks went far enough.
Did Everyday Loans respond appropriately to the information it had when deciding whether 
to provide this loan?
Based on what it knew about Ms M, I cannot see how Everyday Loans concluded that 
these loans would be sustainable for her, bearing in mind the regulations in force. Ill 
summarise why for each loan.
Loan three  November 2016
The adjudicator set out in detail why she thought that Everyday Loans decision to provide 
loan three to Ms M was a mistake and that there was evidence that the borrowing would 
not be sustainable for her. Everyday Loans made no response, so I have no submissions 
from it to deal with. Consequently I will summarise here the key reasons why I am 
upholding the complaint about this loan:
Despite most of the purpose of the loan being to reconsolidate other debt, it 
actually increased Ms Ms monthly credit outgoings from around £798 to around 
£847.
There were clear signs of financial distress in the information Everyday Loans 
gathered  most crucially a recent default; a recent very late payment; and a 
substantial amount of Ms Ms income being paid out to a debt collector.
Ms Ms borrowing was, in short, out of control, at this time, and I cannot see how 
Everyday Loans could have concluded that granting this loan would improve her 
situation. The inescapable conclusion is that she would have needed to borrow to 
meet this repayment.
As Ive explained, needing to borrow to meet repayments means that the lending is not 
sustainable for the customer. It therefore follows that I uphold the complaint about this 
loan.
Loan four  October 2019
Although it isnt entirely clear, Everyday Loans suggests that this loan, for £10,000, to be 
repaid over 36 months at £654 per month, was to buy a car. It doesnt appear to have been 
intended to consolidate any other debt.
When taken in conjunction with her other monthly credit outgoings, this loan put Ms M in a 
position where a substantial amount of her income was needed simply to service 
unsecured debt. Substantial enough that this in itself should have led Everyday Loans to 
conclude that there were serious concerns about the sustainability of the lending, and a 
high risk that Ms M would struggle to manage the repayments. So it should have refused 
the application.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Ms M, Everyday Loans must do the following:
A) Everyday Loans must remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loans 
four, and treat any repayments made by Ms M as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on the outstanding loan. B) If this results in Ms M having made overpayments then it must refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
payments were made, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C) If there is still an outstanding balance following the actions set out in A, then Everyday 
Loans should agree a suitable repayment plan with Ms M.
D) Everyday Loans should refund all interest, fees and charges applied to loan three and 
add 8% simple interest* on the payments from the date the payments were made to the date 
of settlement.
E) It must remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ms credit file in relation to these
loans, once they have been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. It should 
give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint in part and direct Everyday Lending 
Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman