DRN-4104279
The complaint
Mr G complains about the administration of his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) by 
Wesleyan Assurance Society (Wesleyan). He is represented by his financial adviser who 
says that Wesleyan provided incorrect information about his plan on several occasions and 
delayed the transfer process.
The representative also says Mr G decided to transfer his SIPP as a result of changes made 
to the set-up of that plan, namely the way in which funds within the plan could be sold. She 
says that decision necessitated Mr G taking further advice and Wesleyan had agreed to 
cover the cost of that advice and any set up fees, so there was no financial cost to Mr G in 
transferring his plan. The representative says Wesleyan then changed its position and 
limited costs to £1,600.
What happened
In 2015 Mr G and his representative complained to Wesleyan that he was unable to sell
funds in his pension plan, in the way that he wanted, because his SIPP had been reset. His
complaint was upheld. Wesleyan offered a work-around method to try to achieve Mr Gs
objective of making encashments from only some of the funds, rather than proportionately
from all the funds.
Mr G remained dissatisfied with the way in which his SIPP was set up, so in the same year
Mr Gs financial adviser requested documents from Wesleyan to begin the process of
transferring his plan to another provider.
Following this request Mr Gs health deteriorated, so the process of moving his SIPP was
placed on hold. In 2016 the process was recommenced with his representative requesting
the relevant documentation but unfortunately it had to be paused again because of Mr Gs
medical situation.
There was a further attempt to start the transfer process in 2017 but unfortunately Mr Gs
medical condition worsened and so the process was stopped.
At the beginning of January 2020 Mr G suffered a significant medical event so matters with
his SIPP couldnt move forward. By the end of 2020 Mr Gs health stabilised and at the
beginning of October 2020, his adviser requested updated information from Wesleyan.
On 8 October 2020 Mr Gs representative received information about his SIPP from
Wesleyan but no projections were included.
Projections were provided on 21 October 2020 which Mr Gs representative says were
incorrect.
Then on 30 November 2020 Wesleyan wrote to Mr G to inform him that it had decided to
close all its SIPP products and to give him three months-notice of the closure of his plan. It
asked Mr G to indicate what he wished to do with his pension savings and set out two
options, which were either to transfer to a Wesleyan Personal Pension Plan or to transfer to
another pension provider. It said that it would pay up to £1,600 for the cost of any advice he
sought regarding his options. Wesleyan also said that if Mr G didnt notify it of his decision
within the timeframe stipulated it would transfer his pension plan to another pension provider
chosen by Wesleyan.
On 9 January 2021 Wesleyan sent an email to Mr Gs financial adviser responding to an
inquiry for information about his plan and indicated it would pay up to £6,000 of the adviser
fees.
Mr Gs representative contacted Wesleyan ten days later and the fees were discussed. She
was informed that a mistake had been made and that only £1,600 fees would be refunded.
Mr Gs adviser then brought a complaint on his behalf.
Further projections were sent on 22 January, 27 January, 1 February, 22 February, 23
February and 1 March 2021. Mr Gs representative says these projections were all incorrect.
On 27 February 2021 and 2 March 2021 Mr Gs representative emailed Wesleyan asking it 
to contact her. 
On 5 March 2021 Wesleyan provided information to Mr Gs representative about charges 
associated with the plan. 
A decision was taken by Mr Gs representative, at the beginning of March, to proceed
to the pension switch advice with the information provided.
On 19 March 2021 Wesleyan issued a final response where it didnt uphold Mr Gs
complaint. It acknowledged there had been a complaint in 2015 about the limitations in the
way funds could be sold from his plan. So, Mr G couldnt choose the individual percentage of
each fund to be sold, as he had done previously, but instead the percentage sold from each
fund had to be proportionate.
It said Mr Gs complaint had been upheld but no compensation was paid as Wesleyan had
concluded there was no financial loss as a result. Wesleyan said it had then proposed a
work-around where it would switch funds after the sale. It said that complaint wasnt pursued
further by Mr G and no referral was made to our service.
Wesleyan said a business decision had been made to discontinue its SIPP product. It noted
its personal pension plan charges were lower and said it considered most customers would
be better off with the personal pension plan. Wesleyan said Mr G was given two options to
either transfer to a personal pension plan, or transfer to another provider. It said it would
waive any transfer costs.
Wesleyan said transferring to its personal pension plan wouldnt involve any further costs
and it would cover the cost of advice provided through Wesleyan Financial Services, who
had outlined a flat fee of £1,600.
Wesleyan said for customers who wished to seek advice to transfer to a new provider, for
instance because they may be required to do so by that new provider, it would cover the
advice cost up to £1,600. So, it said it had offered £1,600 to Mr G.
Mr Gs representative didnt agree with Wesleyans conclusions. She said it hadnt answered
Mr Gs complaint, which was about Wesleyan providing incorrect information in respect of
his plan on several occasions, starting at the beginning of October 2020. The representative
said the complaint wasnt about the letter sent to Mr G informing him his SIPP plan was
being discontinued.The representative also said that as a result of the re-setting of Mr Gs plan and his upheld
complaint in 2015, Wesleyan had agreed to cover the advice and set-up costs which would
be incurred in transferring to a new pension plan. She said it had agreed to pay £6,000 in an
email sent on 9 January 2021.
Wesleyan sent further letters to Mr G asking for his instructions in respect of the transfer of
his SIPP. It initially said that if it didnt receive instructions by a certain date, it would transfer
his plan to another provider. 
Wesleyan then subsequently said, in an email of 2 November and a letter dated 16 
November,  that if it hadnt been provided with instructions by the end of November 2021, his 
funds would be encashed, and the proceeds paid out as a lump sum. 
Mr Gs representative referred his complaint to our service on his behalf.
Mr Gs SIPP was then transferred in December 2021.
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded it should be upheld in part. She
noted that Mr Gs representative had given details about the number of times she had
requested information about the plan and contacted Wesleyan to inform it that the
information it had provided was incorrect. The investigator also took into account that
Wesleyan had provided an internal document which recorded that Mr Gs representative had
been in contact stating the information provided by Wesleyan was incorrect. So, she felt it
was more likely than not that incorrect information had been provided and Mr G had been
inconvenienced and caused distress as a result. The investigator said Wesleyan should pay
Mr G £400 for the distress and inconvenience it had caused throughout the process.
The investigator considered what had been said about the advice fees. She didnt agree that
Wesleyan had agreed to pay the fees in the upheld complaint in 2015. The investigator
noted that Wesleyan had said, in its letter of 30 November 2020, that it would cover up to
£1,600 in advice fees. But it had then said it would cover up to £6,000 fees in an email in
January 2021.
The investigator issued an initial view on this point, but then received further information
from Wesleyan, including a recording of a telephone conversation which took place 10 days
after the email had been sent out. The investigator said in that call Wesleyan explained there
had been an error in the email and agreed to pay £1,600. The investigator noted Wesleyans
representative explained that the £6,000 only applied in certain circumstances, such as
where the SIPP included a property or external investments, which wasnt the case for
Mr Gs plan.
The investigator also noted that Mr G had already instructed his adviser to start the transfer
process before being told Wesleyan would cover any of the costs associated with the
transfer. So, the investigator concluded that Mr G was always going to incur the adviser
fees.
The investigator was of the view that Wesleyan should honour the £1,600 it had agreed to
pay towards the fees and that it should also pay £400 to Mr G for the distress and
inconvenience caused to him throughout the process.
Mr Gs representative disagreed and said that Wesleyan had agreed to pay all the fees in
their discussions. She said she had put forward a figure based on 3% of the 2015 value of
the plan, plus set up costs and that had been agreed by Wesleyan.She also reiterated that Wesleyan had failed to answer the complaint which was about the
incorrect information provided and not the letter sent by Wesleyan informing Mr G that it was
discontinuing his SIPP.
As no agreement could be reached Mr Gs complaint was referred to me for review.
I issued a provisional decision where I concluded that Mr Gs complaint should be upheld in 
part, on the basis that Wesleyans actions had delayed the transfer by 18 weeks and 5 days. 
I set out my proposed method of calculating the redress and said Wesleyan should also pay 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr G. 
Below is an extract from that provisional decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To recap, Mr G held a SIPP with Wesleyan and in 2015, he made a complaint about
changes to the way it operated in respect of the sale of funds within the plan. That complaint
was upheld by Wesleyan but no compensation was offered, as it said there was no resulting
financial loss. Instead, an alternative work-around method was proposed by Wesleyan.
I can see referral rights to our service were included in the final response letter sent to Mr G,
which indicated if he wasnt satisfied with the decision, he could refer his complaint to our
service and he would need to do that within six months. Both parties agree that his complaint
was not referred to our service at that time.
However, Mr Gs representative, his financial adviser, says that as a result of that upheld
complaint, Wesleyan agreed to reimburse any transfer costs for his plan, including any
advice fees incurred.
I have carefully considered the contents of that final response letter and I am satisfied that
no offer was made to reimburse any transfer costs within it. And I would expect such an offer
to have been contained there if it was part of the resolution of that complaint. In addition, I
have not been provided with any other documentation from that time which indicates that an
agreement was reached between the parties that those costs would be covered, all or in
part, by Wesleyan.
Mr Gs representative has said, and I accept, that as a result of the issue around the sale of
funds, Mr G decided to start the process to transfer his plan in 2015.
Unfortunately, because of Mr Gs poor health the transfer process was attempted several
times over the years but only ever reached the early stages. Then in October 2020, Mr Gs
representative started that process again by asking Wesleyan for some information about
the plan with a view to it being transferred.
Mr Gs representative says that she was provided with incorrect information which meant
she was unable to complete her pension switch advice.
Shortly after, at the end of November 2020, Wesleyan sent a letter to Mr G notifying him of
its intention to close his SIPP, as it had taken a business decision to stop offering SIPPs.
Mr Gs representative has said Mr Gs complaint is not about that letter, but I consider it is
part of the background to this complaint and is relevant to the issue of the costs agreed.I consider that Wesleyan was entitled to take a business decision to stop offering a product,
as it did here. I also note that the reasons behind that decision were that it considered that
the majority of its customers would be better off with the personal pension plan as the
charges were cheaper.
In addition, I think the contents of the letter are relevant to the issue of what was agreed in
relation to adviser costs and what happened next in respect of the transfer.
Letter of 30 November 2020
I am satisfied that Wesleyan sent Mr G a letter on 30 November 2020 notifying him of the
intended closure. It gave Mr G three months-notice, which I consider was sufficient for him to
consider his options, make a decision and notify Wesleyan. And I also note that at this point,
Mr G had, in any event, already decided to transfer his SIPP.
Wesleyan gave Mr G two options which I am satisfied were set out in clear terms. It also
explained that the first of those options to transfer to a Wesleyan personal pension plan
meant that Mr G would incur no additional costs.
Wesleyan agreed to waive any transfer costs. However the second option - to transfer to
another provider- might entail seeking external financial advice. So, it offered to cover some
of that cost, up to a maximum of £1,600.
It said:
We have arranged with Wesleyan Financial Services that a flat fee of £1,600 will apply if
you want to take advice about transferring from your SIPP to a Wesleyan Personal Pension
Plan.
If you choose to take advice from Wesleyan Financial Services, then we (Wesleyan Bank)
will pay that fee on your behalf. You wont have to pay the fee yourself, and we wont deduct
it from the value of your pension savings.
If you choose to transfer your pension savings to another pension provider then your chosen
provider may require you to take advice from a regulated financial adviser. You will need to
arrange this advice and how to pay for it with your chosen financial adviser. We (Wesleyan
Bank) will refund the cost of the advice up to a limit of £1,600.
Once you have taken advice and want to arrange the refund you will need to call Wesleyans
Retirement Team on the phone number provided at the end of this letter and they will explain
what you need to do next. 
I am satisfied on balance that the information in that letter was set out clearly and it wasnt
misleading.
Mr Gs representative has pointed out, in a telephone call to Wesleyan in January 2021, that
the option to transfer to a Wesleyan personal pension plan didnt allow Mr G to keep all of
his investments as they were, because the personal pension plan wouldnt accept unit trusts.
I appreciate that wouldnt be ideal as it would be preferable for Mr G to have the option to
keep his investments broadly the same. However, I dont consider on balance that Wesleyan
was being unfair to Mr G because it gave him more than one option and time to explore what
was available. It was a matter for Mr G whether he wanted to choose the second option,
which was likely to provide more opportunity for retaining the same investments but might
well mean he would incur additional advice costs.January 2021 email
I have carefully considered the information sent to Mr Gs representative and financial
adviser in an email in January 2021. The context of the email was that it was a response to a
request from his adviser for further information. The email indicated that Wesleyans
representative didnt have all the information requested by Mr Gs adviser, but it said that
Wesleyan would cover up to £6,000 of the adviser and new scheme fees.
It said:
I am sorry for the delay in my response as I am still trying to obtain some of the information
you requested.
However, I did raise your enquiry regarding the £1,600 payment outlined in the letter towards
any IFA advice and receiving company fees.
It seems that Mr Gxxxx (redacted), has in fact received the wrong correspondence and a
new letter is to be sent out shortly. 
In short though, The Wesleyan will be covering up to £6,000 of advice/new scheme fees.
I note that the email indicated Mr G would be sent a new letter confirming this, which didnt
happen.
Then, a short while later, in a telephone conversation with Mr Gs representative, Wesleyan
explained that the contents of the January 2021 email were a mistake and that fees of
£6,000 would only be covered in certain circumstances which didnt apply to Mr Gs
situation. So, the relevant figure was £1,600.
Overall, I consider what was said in respect of fees in that January email was an error on
Wesleyans part. As I have said, Im not persuaded on balance that Wesleyan agreed in
2015 to cover any fees incurred in transferring Mr Gs plan. I note the letter it sent at the end 
of November 2020, stated it would pay up to £1,600 in fees and that the January email was
not followed up with a letter confirming its contents. I am also satisfied on balance that
Wesleyan clarified that what it had said about the adviser fees was a mistake and it did this
shortly after it had sent the January email, which I think further supports the position that it
was a genuine mistake. And importantly, not one which I think altered the course of events
here.
What level of transfer fees should be refunded?
As I have said, I am satisfied on balance that a mistake was made by Wesleyan in its email
of 9 January 2021. So, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask it to pay Mr G that
incorrect amount. However, I do think it should still cover the advice fees of £1,600 that it
offered in the letter of 30 November 2020.
I also think that email, in January 2021, wouldve given Mr G the incorrect impression he
would be reimbursed for a larger amount, albeit this was corrected fairly quickly. So, I think
Wesleyan caused him a loss of expectation as a result. And I will come back to this later in
my decision.Information provided by Wesleyan in relation to SIPP for the purposes of providing advice
regarding the transfer 
I accept that Mr Gs representative asked for information about the SIPP for the purposes of
giving transfer advice and facilitating the actual transfer.
Mr Gs representative has outlined in detail the requests she made and the responses she
received. She has said the information provided by Wesleyan - such as the plan value and
the fund names - was incorrect.
Wesleyan has not explicitly said in its response to the complaint whether it agrees with this.
But I can see there is an internal note from its records which indicates that Mr Gs
representative had raised this issue about the information being incorrect. In addition, Mr Gs
representative referred to incorrect information being provided by Wesleyan in her telephone
call in January 2021. So, it seems more likely than not that Mr Gs representative contacted
Wesleyan and raised some issues about the information it had provided.
Mr Gs representative has said she first asked for information on 1 October 2020 and
received seven sets of incorrect projections over several months, with the last one being
provided at the beginning of March 2021. It was then that the decision was taken to
complete the switch advice with the information provided.
I can see that a letter was sent on 1 October 2020 setting out a detailed list of information
required by the representative. Wesleyan responded on 8 October 2020 and provided details
about the SIPP including the plan value, the funds it was invested in and the series of those
various funds. However, it didnt provide a projection. It subsequently provided a projection
on 21 October 2020; but unfortunately the value of the plan in that projection was incorrect.
I have carefully considered the telephone conversation of 19 January 2021 where Mr Gs
adviser reiterated to Wesleyans representative that she still required projections for ages 85
and 95. She said she also needed information about which series applied to the with-profits
fund, which bonuses had been paid and the relevant charges because she said it impacted
the advice she gave when comparing the old plan with a new plan.
Following that conversation, further information was provided and it was explained that
because of Mr Gs age, projections for age 85 wouldnt give meaningful information hence
the zero values. Wesleyan has said this was because projections were generally not issued
for a time period that was very close to retirement age. However, I note it also provided
projections for age 95.
I can see further projections were provided at the beginning of February 2021, with the
business also confirming by email that certain funds couldnt be replicated in the personal
pension plan in response to a question from Mr Gs representative. Wesleyan also
responded to a query from the representative about the fund names provided and said those
were the ones on the system and were correct as far as it was concerned. So, I consider that
Wesleyan was engaged in the process and was trying to assist with providing the
information required by Mr Gs representative.I note further information and projections were provided on 23 February 2021 which included
the values, different funds, and bonuses.
So, I consider there was some delay by Wesleyan in providing comprehensive and correct
information and this led to some delays in this transfer. However, I note the letter of 1
October 2020 set out a long, detailed list of required information. So, I have to consider what
was reasonably necessary to provide advice and facilitate the transfer, also taking into
account that some of the information would be accessible through Mr Gs plan records. I
think therefore that by 23 February 2021 sufficient information had been provided to allow
advice to be given and for the transfer to then take place after this. I also note that Wesleyan
did respond to requests for clarification from the representative during this period and that it
would have taken some time for Wesleyan to provide all the information required on 1 
October 2020, in any event.
So, assuming Wesleyan could have provided the information that was reasonably necessary
by 15 October 2020, then 23 February 2021 was an additional 18 weeks 5 days after this.
It appears that in March 2021, Mr G s representative decided to go ahead with providing the
switch advice. And so, I consider on balance that Mr G and his representative were then
waiting for a response to his complaint, prior to transferring the plan. I note it wasnt
transferred until the beginning of December 2021.
I acknowledge the representatives point that Wesleyan hadnt addressed the crux of her
complaint about the provision of information in respect of Mr Gs plan, in its final response in
March 2021. However, I am not persuaded that Mr G needed to wait for an answer to that
complaint, or an agreement about the costs that would be paid, prior to obtaining advice or
transferring his SIPP plan.
So, I think, looking at what has happened here, that Wesleyan is broadly responsible for 18
weeks and 5 days of the delay for the period in between October 2020 and February 2021,
that I have identified. So, it should compare the value of the plan as at the transfer date of 2
December 2021 with the notional value if it had been transferred 18 weeks and 5 days
earlier. It should then establish the notional current value of Mr Gs replacement plan, had
the subsequent investments (that Mr G actually made) been made with that notional transfer
value. If the notional value is higher than the actual plan value, then the difference should
be paid into Mr Gs new pension plan.
I also note that Mr G was caused some distress by the letters he received from Wesleyan
indicating he needed to provide instructions in respect of his pension plan and outlining the
consequences of not doing so. His representative has also pointed out that one of those
letters gave incorrect details of her name and employer.
I think that Wesleyan was trying to move things forward as it had given Mr G three months 
notice at the end of November 2020 and asked for his instructions by the beginning of March
2021. However, I note those letters didnt acknowledge the ongoing disagreement in respect
of the refund of costs, which was unfortunate. Ultimately, I think Wesleyan was trying to
finalise the closure of its SIPP plans and I consider on balance, that the transfer could still
have gone ahead despite this issue, as eventually did happen in December 2021. However,
I think Wesleyan couldve been more sensitive to Mr Gs position and explained that, while
he may disagree about what costs should be refunded, he still needed to decide what should
happen to his plan and notify Wesleyan of that decision.
Overall, I think the £400 recommended by the investigator is a fair and reasonable sum for
the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr G by the delays in providing comprehensive
information about the plan and the incorrect email regarding the fees sent in January 2021.Putting things right
Wesleyan should pay Mr G £400 for the distress and inconvenience it caused him.
As set out above, a comparison should be carried out using the notional value of Mr Gs
replacement pension arrangements, as at the date of any final decision along these lines,
had Mr Gs pension transfer been carried out 18 weeks and 5 days earlier than it was, and
comparing it to the actual current value of his replacement arrangement.
If theres a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr Gs current
pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely
income tax rate in retirement presumed to be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 15%
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Wesleyan should also pay £1,600 towards the advice costs of the transfer, if it hasnt already
done so, providing it has received the necessary invoice documentation, and evidence of
payment by Mr G of this if required, to support this.
Mr Gs representative responded and raised some concerns about obtaining information 
from Wesleyan for the purposes of calculating the redress I had set out in my provisional 
decision.  The representative also indicated that Mr G wasnt prepared to give consent for 
Wesleyan to contact his new provider for information. She pointed out that Mr G had been 
caused distress by the correspondence he had received from Wesleyan in respect of the 
transfer of his plan and so he wasnt happy for it to contact his new provider. Mr Gs 
representative said she could contact the new provider instead. 
I confirmed to Mr Gs representative that the calculation should be carried out by Wesleyan 
as I had set out in the provisional decision. I noted Mr Gs position and the concerns he had 
raised but said that I thought Wesleyan would need to contact his new provider to obtain the 
relevant information for calculating any redress owed to Mr G. I explained I was satisfied this 
could be carried out without causing any distress to Mr G. 
Mr Gs representative provided this service with some further representations sent to 
Wesleyan following the issuing of the provisional decision and enclosed a number of 
documents, including illustrations provided by Wesleyan and correspondence between the 
parties. She also indicated that Mr G was prepared to provide consent to Wesleyan 
contacting his new provider for the purposes of obtaining information to calculate redress if 
Wesleyan provided the notional value of the former plan specified in the provisional decision.
Mr Gs representative pointed out that Wesleyan had informed Mr G that if he didnt respond 
within a set time frame, it would pay out his pension plan as a lump sum and reiterated the 
distress caused to Mr G as a result.
Wesleyan acknowledged and accepted my provisional decision. It said to calculate the 
redress, it would need to receive information from Mr Gs new provider. 
Wesleyan also explained that having considered the service issues and delays further it was 
prepared to pay a total of £750 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr G. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully considered the further representations made by Mr Gs representative in 
response to the provisional decision and the documentation provided to Wesleyan and 
copied to this service. I had already seen and considered the vast majority of that paperwork 
prior to issuing my provisional decision. Having considered the representations made I still 
remain of the view set out in my provisional decision, an extract of which is reproduced 
earlier in this decision and forms part of this decision. 
In her correspondence, Mr Gs representative has highlighted that Wesleyan informed Mr G 
that his plan would be paid out as a lump sum if he didnt provide instructions in respect of 
his SIPP, rather than being transferred to cash as I have summarised in my provisional 
decision. 
I agree with Mr Gs representative that Wesleyan indicated, in its letter of 16 November 
2021, that if Mr G didnt provide instructions for transferring his SIPP, then his funds would 
be encashed, and the proceeds would then be paid out as a lump sum.  So, I do 
acknowledge that it wouldve been clearer if I had expanded my summary to also include the 
later section. At the time I took the view that, as all parties were familiar with that particular 
piece of correspondence, it was unnecessary to do so. However, with a view to providing 
clarity I should make it clear that I have carefully considered that correspondence and the 
resulting impact on Mr G.
For the sake of completeness, I have included an extract from that letter below:
If we do not have your instructions by 30 November 2021 then we propose to take the
second of these options and pay out the value of your SIPP plan as a lump sum (or lump
sums). We will first arrange for the sale of the investments you hold in your SIPP plan, and
then pay you the value of your plan - after the deduction of any tax charges - in either one
or two lump sum payments (depending on whether your SIPP plan is wholly or partly
designated to pay a drawdown pension). 
 
I appreciate that it would have been upsetting for Mr G to be informed that his pension plan 
would be paid out as a lump sum because of the significant tax implications of that action. 
However, I take into account, that this would only have happened if Mr G hadnt provided 
any instructions and this letter was sent almost a year after Mr G was given notice of the 
closure of the SIPP product. So, I consider it was sent at the end of a relatively long period 
of seeking Mr Gs instructions regarding the transfer of his SIPP plan, where his plan was 
the only remaining SIPP that hadnt been transferred. 
Having carefully re-examined the correspondence sent during the relevant period, I still 
remain of the view that the £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
the delays and incorrect information in the email regarding fees, is a fair and reasonable sum 
in the circumstances. 
However, since I issued my provisional decision, Wesleyan has taken the opportunity to 
reconsider the service it provided to Mr G, and it has indicated that it is prepared to pay Mr G 
£750 for the distress and inconvenience it caused him. As it has agreed this voluntarily, I 
wont make that part of the award set out in this decision but leave it for Wesleyan to also 
pay the additional £350, over and above the £400 set out in this final decision.I also note that, in her recent correspondence with Wesleyan, Mr Gs representative has also 
referred to a potential issue relating to the way in which Wesleyan has handled Mr Gs 
information. That matter wasnt included in the original complaint referred to this service and 
post-dates the referral, so it wont have been investigated by the business and I dont intend 
therefore to comment on it here.     
However, if Mr G wishes to raise that as a separate matter, and doesnt receive a 
satisfactory response, he may refer it to this service.
Putting things right
Wesleyan should carry out a comparison, as set out above, as at the date of this decision. 
It should also pay £400 to Mr G for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr Gs complaint against Wesleyan Assurance Society is
upheld in part.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman