DRN-2915437
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained about the service and advice they received from Union 
Reiseversicherung AG (URV).
All references to URV include any agents acting on its behalf.
  
What happened
Mr and Mrs P had a travel insurance policy, underwritten by URV. Whilst on holiday, Mrs P 
was admitted into hospital and so Mr P called URV for assistance. 
Mr P is unhappy with the information he was given by URV.
Mr P complained to URV and unhappy with its response, referred his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended URV should pay £150 
compensation to Mr P for the anxiety caused to him as a result of an unnecessary comment 
made its agent. 
Mr P remained unhappy and has made the following comments, in summary:
URV shouldnt be allowed to say that doctors are or arent qualified.
Mr P says this is now the crux of his complaint and URV should be made to answer 
its contradiction. He says there is still an important question that remains to be 
answered  that doctors in private hospitals are qualified or not. Either the doctor was 
qualified which negates the agents statement  and URV shouldnt have insisted on 
a transfer to a public hospital. Or, the doctor wasnt qualified. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Ive considered Mr Ps comments in full and will focus on what he says is the crux of his 
complaint, taking into account all the circumstances and background of this case.
URV has accepted the investigators recommendation. Mr P would like an answer from URV 
regarding its comment about qualifications, as set out above. Our investigator did go back to 
URV during the investigation and asked for its comments. URV has explained that the agent 
didnt say the particular doctor in the hospital wasnt qualified but made a comment about 
private hospitals in general. 
The agents comments 
In Mr Ps first phone call to URV, the agent told Mr P that private treatment wasnt covered 
and if it was medically safe to move Mrs P to a public hospital then that should be arranged. 
She also said that although private hospitals may look flashy, you didnt have to be a 
qualified doctor to work in them. She said public hospitals were run by the government and 
would have qualified staff. 
I agree that the comments about not being qualified were unnecessary and would have been 
distressing for Mr P to hear whilst his wife was at a private hospital. Especially since the 
agent wasnt familiar with the specific hospital Mrs P was in and she was making sweeping 
generalisations which wasnt helpful. 
Mr P says that the doctor from the private hospital supplied the fit to fly certificate which URV 
accepted  and he has asked how the doctor was qualified to issue the letter if he wasnt 
qualified to treat Mrs P in the private hospital.
I understand the point Mr P is making but I dont agree with him. When the adviser was 
talking to Mr P about private hospitals, she was making generalisations rather than talking 
about the specific hospital Mrs P was in. She didnt say the doctor treating Mrs P was 
unqualified. And I think this is an important distinction to make to answer Mr Ps question. 
URV has further clarified:
Fit to fly certificates can be obtained from a private hospital but medical treatment 
cannot and isnt covered under the policy.
There are a number of reasons why private facilities arent covered and one of them 
is that theyre not regulated and so the skills and qualifications of doctors cannot be 
determined.
As set out above, I agree that the agents comments were unnecessary and not explained 
properly. But I dont think the advice to move Mrs P to a public hospital, if safe, was 
incorrect. And I think the acceptance of the fit to fly certificate from the private hospital was in 
Mr and Mrs Ps interest and no detriment was caused as a result.
For the sake of completeness, I will now address Mr Ps other complaints. 
Private medical treatment
The policy confirms private medical treatment isnt covered. 
Mr P says he questioned the transfer from the private hospital to the public hospital at the 
time and was told that this could lead to any claim not being paid. 
In Mr Ps initial call to URV there is no evidence that he questioned the transfer from the 
private hospital. Even if he had done so, the policy doesnt cover private treatment unless 
authorised by URV. So I dont think URV did anything wrong by advising Mr P that the policy 
only covered treatment in a public hospital unless it was unsafe to transfer Mrs P. I havent 
seen any evidence to show that a transfer would have been unsafe  and so I dont think 
URV gave incorrect advice about the treatment which would be covered. 
The standard of care in the hospital
Mr and Mrs P have complained about the poor standards and condition of the public hospital 
that Mrs P was moved to but URV cant be held responsible for the standard of care given in a hospital. Mr P has provided emails which he says URV didnt respond to. But by the time 
Mr P had emailed URV, Mrs P had already been discharged and so there was nothing more 
URV could have done. I would expect URV to respond to emails  but Mr P was able to 
speak to URV after having sent his emails and so Im satisfied no detriment was caused to 
him as a result. 
The fit to fly certificate 
Mr P says URV happily accepted a fit to fly certificate from the doctor who treated Mrs P at 
the private hospital initially. He said URV accepted this rather than supplying their own 
doctor. He was told URV would organise the doctor but then didnt hear anything further. 
But Ive seen that Mr P spoke to URV again and it explained that Mr P had the option of 
arranging the fit to fly certificate himself which he did. And so URV didnt fail to organise the 
certificate as an alternative agreement had been reached. 
Mr P also said he was concerned that Mrs P was discharged too soon but this was a 
decision taken by the treating doctor which URV cant be held responsible for. By the time 
URV were emailed about Mr Ps concerns, Mrs P had already been discharged and so there 
was no further action URV could have taken. 
Overall, I consider URVs advice about private hospitals not being covered was correct. But I 
do think the agents comment in the first call was unnecessary and would have caused some 
distress to Mr P at an already stressful time. So I think £150 compensation is appropriate in 
the circumstances.    
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct Union Reiseversicherung 
AG to pay Mr and Mrs P £150 compensation.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman