DRN-3004267
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as A, complain that Aviva Insurance Limited declined their 
claim for business interruption. Mr B, a director of A, brings the complaint on As behalf.
 
What happened
In March 2020, the Government announced restrictions to combat the spread of Covid-19. 
These restrictions had a significant impact on A, as they were required to close during 
various lockdown periods. 
A held a business insurance policy with Aviva. This included business interruption cover, so 
they made a claim. But Aviva declined it. It said the policy primarily covered A for business 
interruption arising from damage. And that Covid-19 couldnt be considered damage by the 
policy definition. 
It said there was cover for the occurrence of certain kinds of diseases at, or within five miles 
of, As premises. But Covid-19 wasnt one of the specified diseases the policy covered. 
A complained to us, but our investigator thought the policy terms had been applied fairly. A 
didnt agree, so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its evident the government restrictions imposed on A had a considerable financial impact. 
With that in mind, Ive carefully reviewed the terms of their policy to decide whether Aviva 
should have met their claim. Whilst Ive reviewed the policy in full, Ive only addressed the 
elements of cover most relevant to As circumstances below. 
The burden of proof initially rests with A to demonstrate, on balance, theyve suffered a loss 
that their policy covers. 
Core business interruption cover
The core business interruption cover in As policy is for:
loss of Income resulting from Damage to property used by You at Your Premises 
for the purposes of Your Business 
Damage is defined in the policy as:
Physical loss, destruction or damage. 
I havent seen anything to indicate the Covid-19 pandemic, or the Governments response to 
it, caused physical loss, destruction or damage to property used by A at their premises. 
Therefore, Im satisfied theres no cover under this section of the policy. 
Additional covers - Loss of Attraction and Prevention of Access
Under Loss of Attraction, A are covered for business interruption as a result of:
Damage to Property or premises within one mile of the boundary of Your Premises 
which causes a loss of Income directly due to a reduction in customers visiting the 
area. 
Under Prevention of Access, A are covered for business interruption as a result of:
Damage by any cause included under the Property Damage section to property 
within one mile of the boundary of Your Premises which physically prevents or 
restricts access to, or use of, Your Premises. 
The policy definition of damage still applies. I havent seen anything to indicate Covid-19, or 
the Governments response to it, caused physical loss, destruction or damage to property 
within one mile of the boundary of As premises. So, Im satisfied theres no cover under 
these additional covers either. 
Additional cover  Specified Disease
This covers A for business interruption as a result of:
A Specified Disease occurring at Your Premises or within five miles of the boundary 
of Your Premises
The discovery of an organism at Your Premises which is likely to result in any person 
contracting an illness caused by food or drink poisoning or a Specified Disease
A definition is given for Specified Disease, which is:
Acute encephalitis, Acute poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chicken pox, Cholera, Diphtheria, 
Dysentery, Erysipeloid, Legionellosis, Legionnaires, Disease Leprosy, Leptospirosis, 
Lyme Disease, Malaria, Measles, Meningitis, Meningococcal septicaemia, Mumps, 
Ophthalmia neonatorum, Paratyphoid fever, Puerperal fever, Plague, Rabies, 
Relapsing fevers, Rubella, Scarlet fever, Smallpox, Tetanus, Toxoplasmosis, 
Tuberculosis, Typhoid fever, Typhus fever, Viral hepatitis, Whooping cough, Yellow 
fever
Viral haemorrhagic fever caused by the following viruses: Lassa virus, Junin virus, 
Machupo virus, Sabia virus, Guanarito virus, Ebola virus, Marburg virus, Crimean-
Congo, haemorrhagic fever virus, Hanta virus, Rift Valley fever virus, Yellow fever 
virus, Dengue virus. 
I recognise Covid-19 wasnt something Aviva might have known about when the policy was 
drafted and have considered this point carefully. But there are policies that provide cover for 
all notifiable diseases (which is a defined list of diseases, updated by the Government, and 
which does now include Covid-19) in a way that would encompass any new diseases that 
subsequently became notifiable. In contrast, As policy includes a list of specified diseases. And theres nothing in the policy 
which implies that cover will be provided for diseases not on the list, including any new 
diseases which emerge, and / or become notifiable at a later date. Im satisfied that the 
purpose and effect of the list is to provide cover in the event of these particular diseases.
As Covid-19 isnt one of the specified diseases included in this list, Im satisfied this 
additional cover wouldnt respond to the business interruption caused as a result of the 
restrictions introduced by the Government to combat the spread of Covid-19. 
A did also enquire about the test case brought by the Financial Conduct Authority. But this 
only affected claims made under non-damage business interruption cover. And it didnt seek 
to resolve coverage issues relating to clauses that have an exhaustive list of diseases which 
doesnt include Covid-19, as is the case here. 
Whilst I appreciate this is likely to come as a disappointment to A, I havent found theyve 
been able to establish, on balance, theyve suffered a loss their policy covers. I therefore 
wont be asking Aviva to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman