DRN-3440187
The complaint
Mr D complains that loans he had from Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) were 
unaffordable to him.
What happened
Mr D had two loans from Lending Stream between June 2016 and August 2016 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Max Monthly 
Repayment*Due Repaid
1 9 Jun 2016 £450 175d £194.40 30 Nov 2016 Sold to DCA**
2 4 Aug 2016 £320 181d £295.60 31 Jan 2017 Sold to DCA**
* Including overlapping loans
** Debt Collection Agency
Mr D says he was already struggling to repay a car loan when he took out the Lending 
Stream loans. He says if Lending Stream had carried out better checks it would have seen 
the loans were unaffordable. Mr D says he quickly fell into arrears and the loans were 
defaulted. He adds that hes now on an affordable repayment plan of £50 per month, but that 
its affected his ability to repay other bills and hes had a car repossessed as a result. Mr D 
says this has had a negative effect on his mental health for over four years.
Lending Stream says it asked Mr D about his employment and income, as well as his regular 
outgoings. It says it sanity-checked these figures with statistics from independent sources 
and revised them if required. Lending Stream says it also carried out a credit check to 
understand Mr Ds existing credit commitments and found the repayments on both loans 
were affordable to him. 
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied 
Lending Streams checks went far enough and there was nothing in the available information 
that should have indicated to Lending Stream that the repayments were unsustainable. He 
added that he could not conclude Lending Stream had done anything wrong by defaulting 
the accounts and reporting them as such to the credit agencies.
Mr D responded to say that his credit score and other checks should have precluded him 
from further credit. He said he had 60 missed payments to various lenders and the results 
from the credit checks should have prompted Lending Stream to ask for further information. 
He adds that this service found Lending Stream should have carried out further checks in 
another case that was similar to his own. Mr D says that his credit history has been 
completely ruined and hes lost family members due to court proceedings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr D could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting a risk of repeated refinancing 
signalling the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication Mr D 
could sustainably make his repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
Loan 1
When Mr D applied for this loan, Lending Stream asked about his income and expenditure 
and carried out a credit check. As the loan was Mr Ds first, and the maximum repayment was only around 13% of his income, Im satisfied Lending Stream was entitled to rely on the 
information provided by Mr D. As it is, Lending Stream considered Mr D had understated his 
expenditure, but even with an adjustment, found he had almost £900 of disposable income.
As Mr Ds credit score was average and his file showed just two credit accounts, and no 
delinquent or defaulted accounts, I find these checks went far enough. I cant see there was 
anything in the available information that should have indicated that the repayments were 
unsustainable, so Im satisfied Lending Stream wasnt irresponsible when it approved loan 1.
Loan 2
Mr D applied for loan 2 with loan 1 still open so the maximum combined loan repayment was 
around 15% of Mr Ds income. Im again satisfied that Lending Streams checks went far 
enough as Mr Ds credit score was unchanged and the additional credit account on his file 
was likely to be loan 1. There were still no delinquent or defaulted accounts and Lending 
Streams checks showed over £1,400 of disposable income, despite another adjustment.
So, I find Lending Stream made a fair lending decision for loan 2.
I acknowledge Mr D says further checks would have shown he was in financial difficulties, 
but the available information does not indicate such checks would be proportionate. These 
were Mr Ds first loans with Lending Stream, his credit file showed no adverse information, 
and the repayments were affordable.
I further accept that Mr D says he has seen another case where this service said Lending 
Stream should have carried out further checks. We consider each case on its individual 
merits, and in the case to which Mr D refers, the consumer had taken out ten loans.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman