DRN-3917949
The complaint
Mrs D has complained that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance (BPF) unfairly turned down her claims made under the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In June 2008, Mr and Mrs D bought timeshare membership from a timeshare provider (the 
Supplier). Under this, they were able to stay for a week in five different apartments every 
year, so five weeks in total. The apartments were in three different resorts, three in a resort 
called BHC, one in a resort called CP and one in a resort called HMC. The membership 
cost £30,292 and was paid for by Mr D and Mrs D each taking a loan with BPF. In this 
decision, I will only be considering the loan in Mrs Ds name, which was settled in July 
2010.1
In 2019, Mrs D complained to BPF using the help of a professional representative (PR) 
about the loan and membership.  PR said that the membership was presented to Mrs D as 
an investment that could be resold later at a profit. But, when they tried to sell them, they 
didnt sell as expected. PR alleged that this was a misrepresentation that BPF were 
responsible for under s.75 CCA. PR also said there was an unfair debtor-creditor 
relationship under s.140A CCA due to the way the membership was sold.
In 2020, Mrs D contacted BPF as she found out that the Supplier had gone into liquidation 
that year. She said that as BPF had lent her the money to by the membership, it was jointly 
liable to compensate her for what went wrong.
In May 2022, BPF upheld Mrs Ds claim in part and made an offer to settle it. It said that any 
claim for misrepresentation made under s.75 CCA or arising out an unfair debtor-creditor 
relationship under s.140A CCA had been made too late. That meant BPF had a defence to 
the claim under the provisions of the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). But BPF said there was a 
breach of contract claim that it was jointly liable for. It said that the Supplier had become 
insolvent and one of the resorts (CP) had closed. So it offered a refund of £2,287.17 for that 
part of the claim. BPF said that the other resorts (BHC and HMC) were still operating, so it 
didnt accept there was a breach of contract in relation to those aspects of the membership.
Mrs D wasnt happy with the amount that BPF had offered, so she referred a complaint to 
our service  she did so without the assistance of PR. She said that the total level of loss 
was significantly more than what was offered and asked for the full contract value to be 
returned.
One of our investigators considered everything and thought that due to the time that had 
passed since the purchase and from when the loan had been paid off, the only claim that 
BPF needed to consider was for a breach of contract. And he thought its offer for that claim 
1 I am aware that Mr and Mrs D made other purchases from the Supplier and used BPF loans to pay 
for them. Some of those purchases have also been complained about, but in this decision Im only 
looking at the July 2008 loan take out in Mrs Ds name. That means I will refer to her throughout this 
decision.
was fair. But Mrs D disagreed and asked for complaint to be reconsidered by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D took out a loan from BPF to pay for her membership. Because of the way that loan 
was arranged, she has certain protections under the CCA. In particular, there is a regime of 
connected lender liability under sections 56, 75, 75A and 140A CCA that, in summary, gives 
consumers, such as Mrs D, rights of recovery and recourse against lenders, such as BPF, 
that provide finances to purchase goods or services from businesses, such as the Supplier, 
for when things go wrong. But these provisions only operate in certain circumstances and, 
as they give rise to legal claims, such claims have to be made within certain time periods. So 
Ive thought about what that means for Mrs D.
Mrs D made claims under s.75 CCA for misrepresentation and s.140A CCA for there being 
an unfair debtor-creditor relationship. BPF explained that these claims were made too late 
under the provisions of the LA and I agree that BPF has a defence to any claims for that 
reason.
A claim for misrepresentation must be brought within six years of when someone lost out as 
a result of that misrepresentation. Here, that would be from the date Mrs D took out her loan, 
as it was on that day she took out a liability based on the alleged misrepresentations of the 
Supplier. But PR first raised this to BPF in 2019, which was eleven years after the loan was 
taken out, so I think BPF acted fairly in saying it was made too late.
A claim that there was an unfair debtor-creditor relationship has to be made within six years 
of when that relationship ended. So, in this case, that was when Mrs Ds loan came to an 
end in July 2010. But, again, PR first raised this in 2019, which was nine years after the loan 
was paid off, so I think BPF acted fairly in saying it was made too late.
But the Supplier became insolvent in 2019 and Mrs D raised a claim about this to BPF in 
2020. She said shed lost out as a result as she couldnt use the membership in the way 
shed been able to before the Suppliers insolvency, which was a breach of contract. Again, 
there are time limits in place in which a claim has to be brought, but Mrs D raised this within 
a year, so I think it was within the time limits that apply.
I dont think its in dispute that Mrs D lost the ability to stay at the apartments that her CP 
membership entitled her to. Our investigator said that any entitlement to stay at apartments 
at BHC and HMC hadnt been lost by the Suppliers insolvency and Ive not seen any 
evidence to contradict that, nor has Mrs D disagreed with that part of the investigators view. 
So I think Mrs D only lost the chance to stay at CP apartments (as well as exchanging that 
entitlement to stay at other resorts elsewhere). And its for that loss that BPF offered to pay 
compensation.2
Ive looked at the purchase agreement from June 2008 and it lists five properties of which Mr 
and Mrs D were buying usage. At BHC there was a two bedroom apartment and then two 
studio apartments, sleeping six and four respectively. The HMC apartment is described as a 
three bed DLX that slept eight people and the CP apartment is a city apartment that slept 
2 I think BPF offered to pay compensation under the provisions of s.75 CCA, but as the purchase 
price was over £30,000, I think it was actually s.75A CCA that applied in this case. But as it doesnt 
make a difference to the outcome of this complaint, I wont comment on it further.two. The total price for these rights was £30,292 and there isnt any breakdown of that, 
attributing part of the price to each of the apartments. For Mr and Mrs D to use their 
accommodation rights, they also had to pay a certain amount every year as a maintenance 
fee.
BPF has made an offer to Mrs D to pay compensation for the loss of her CP rights. BPF has 
attributed one fifth of the agreement price to the CP accommodation, it being one of the five 
weeks bought. Its then worked out an annual cost of the membership, based on dividing up 
the total cost over the time the agreement was set to run, from when Mrs D took it out to 
when the membership ended in December 2049. And then BPF has offered to pay to Mrs D 
the amount for the unused period from the date of the Suppliers liquidation in June 2019, 
as well as adding 8% per annum simple interest on that amount from the date of liquidation. 
BPF has also split the compensation between Mr and Mrs D, as there were two loans to pay 
for the agreement. On the face of it, I think that is a fair way to work out compensation. 
Mrs D says that the CP part of the membership was actually worth more. She has explained 
that the CP resort was in luxury apartments and she has provided photographs showing the 
accommodation. She also explained that it could be used any week of the year and also 
provided accommodation worldwide. Finally, Mrs D has said that in reality, the CP part of the 
membership was the only part of value purchased and the other four were effectively free or 
of little value.
Ive thought about that and considered the evidence provided. I agree that the pictures of the 
accommodation do look luxurious and the accommodation appears to be of a good quality. 
But I dont think it would be fair to tell BPF to do anything differently. That is because in the 
actual purchase agreement, the different weeks havent been given different purchase 
prices. Further, although the CP accommodation might have been of a higher standard, it 
was also the smallest of the apartments listed in the agreement. So, for example, the HMC 
apartment slept four times the number of people as the CP apartment and, without knowing 
more, its difficult to say the CP apartment was worth more or less than the HMC one. 
Finally, Im aware that Mr and Mrs D placed the CP membership for sale in 2017 for more 
than they paid for it. But Ive not seen any evidence that anyone ever expressed an interest 
or desire to buy it for that amount, so I cant say CP part of the membership was worth the 
amount for which it was marketed.
Based on the evidence available, I think BPFs method of working out compensation is both 
pragmatic and fair in all the circumstances. If Mrs D wishes to accept this offer, I think BPF 
needs to update its calculation of 8% simple interest to the date it is paid.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I think Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as 
Barclays Partner Finances offer is fair and I direct it to update and pay its offer to Mrs D.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman