DRN-2293974
The complaint
Mrs F complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in
connection with a home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Where I refer to British Gas, I refer to the insurance company of that name and I include its
associated plumbing and drainage company and others insofar as I hold that insurance
company responsible for their actions.
From at least September 2018, Mrs F had a British Gas Home Care agreement that covered
her central heating, kitchen appliances, plumbing and drainage and home electrics.
In January 2019, Mrs F called British Gas for help with an issue with her washing machine.
Mrs F complained that British Gas sent the wrong type of engineer and gave her poor
service.
British Gas sent a final response dated 13 February 2019. It said it was sending a cheque for
£30.00. Mrs F returned the cheque and complained again in April 2019. She said shed got
someone else to look at the washing machine at a cost of £25.00.
British Gas sent a final response dated 29 April 2019. It offered to reimburse the £25.00.
Unhappy with that, Mrs F brought her complaint to us on 18 June 2019.
our investigators opinion
At first our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Later he
changed his view.
The investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that British
Gas made an error in the first telephone call. Mrs F was then unable to get another
appointment for the correct engineer to come and fix the problem. In the end Mrs F had to
get someone else to do a temporary fix and the washing machine was still not working
properly, the investigator said.
The investigator recommended that British Gas should:
1. pay Mrs F £200.00 to recognise their errors with this complaint; and
2. liaise with him or through written communication to Mrs F to arrange a white 
goods engineer to attend the property.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs F 
and to British Gas on 25 September 2020. I summarise my findings:
British Gas mishandled the first call and mis-categorised Mrs Fs problem.
I wasnt satisfied that British Gas communicated with Mrs F as well as it shouldve.
Mrs F hadnt had an opportunity to respond to the British Gas comments of 9 June
2020.
Subject to any further information from Mrs F or from British Gas, my provisional decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct British Gas 
Insurance Limited to pay Mrs F (in addition to its offer of £25.00 and insofar as it hasnt 
already paid her)  £200.00 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Mrs F hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
British Gas disagrees with the provisional decision. It says, in summary, that its offer is both 
fair and reasonable and no further gesture is due.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms included the following:
Reasonable timescales
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless
something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you
know as soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
So the starting point is that visits will be within a reasonable time. But, in my view, whats
reasonable depends on the relevant circumstances, including the urgency of the problem
and the availability of a suitable engineer.
The policy term has the effect that British Gas may not visit within a reasonable time if
something beyond its control makes that impossible.
And, of course, a visit can only be made with the cooperation of both British Gas and the
policyholder.
British Gas hasnt provided the call recording from 15 January 2019. But British Gas mustve
reviewed that recording before it wrote its final response letter dated 13 February 2019. In
that letter it said that  during the call  it hadnt asked the right questions. So it thought
there was a blocked pipe and it sent a drainage engineer.
From that, I find that British Gas mishandled the first call and mis-categorised Mrs Fs
problem.
Its drainage engineer tried to get someone else to attend. Mrs F wanted that to happen the
same day or at another time convenient for her.
However, I cant say that a reasonable time had expired. And  as it was mid-winter  I
accept that the high demand for engineers made it impossible for British Gas to offer an
earlier appointment.
In any event British Gas couldnt do another visit without an appointment with Mrs F. She gotsomeone else to attend to her washing machine. And theres not enough evidence that she
made any further appointment for British Gas to look at the washing machine in 2019.
So British Gas had only made one visit. Therefore, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct
British Gas to pay compensation for loss of earnings. In any event Mrs F hasnt provided
enough detail or evidence to show her earnings or any loss.
Ive reviewed the emails between Mrs F and British Gas. Im not satisfied that British Gas
communicated with Mrs F as well as it shouldve.
We have dealt separately with Mrs Fs complaint about missed appointments for an annual
boiler service in 2020. From that, I find that the policy was renewed in September 2018 and
September 2019. And British Gas says that on 17 February 2020 it clipped the washing
machine waste pipe to the wall.
So Mrs F can make any further appointment in the usual way. Unlike the investigator, I dont 
find it fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to arrange a white goods engineer
to attend the property.
Ive found that British Gas mishandled the first call and mis-categorised Mrs Fs problem.
And Im not satisfied that British Gas communicated with Mrs F as well as it shouldve.
I accept that these shortcomings caused Mrs F distress and inconvenience. She was
concerned about water damage and being without a washing machine. And she felt British
Gas didnt care.
Putting things right
Mrs F considers that £200.00 compensation isnt enough to deter British Gas from poor
service in future. British Gas considers that £200.00 compensation is too much in the
circumstances. I conclude that  for the shortcomings Ive found and their effect on Mrs F -
£200.00 is fair and reasonable compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs F (in addition to its offer of £25.00 and 
insofar as it hasnt already paid her)  £200.00 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman