DRN-3033523
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with Fairmead Insurance Limiteds decision to decline his claim. 
What happened
Mr W had an income protection policy with Fairmead. During the pandemic, Mr Ws 
employer explained that his job was at risk. Ive decided not to explain Mr Ws profession to 
help maintain his anonymity. 
Mr W was eventually offered a choice between redundancy, or a new part time contract on a 
permanent basis. And so, he opted for the part time contract. Mr W explained this was the 
best option available to him at the time, however, it left him with approximately half his 
original income. So, in an attempt to recover his losses, Mr W claimed on his income 
protection policy. Fairmead declined his claim and said there was no cover available in the 
circumstances. And so, Mr W brought his complaint here. Hed like his insurer to effectively 
top up his salary to match his full-time earnings.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. She said that Fairmead had declined his 
claim fairly because it relied on the policy terms, which said theres no cover for his 
circumstances. 
Mr W would like an ombudsman to take a look at his case and reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so. Ive decided not to uphold it. My reasons for doing so are similar to those 
already explained by our investigator because the policy terms simply dont cover Mr Ws 
circumstances. Ill explain why.
Fairmead must not decline a claim unfairly. And so, it must consider Mr Ws claim in 
accordance with the policy terms. The policy terms say this about when employers place 
their employees on short time working hours; 
You will be able to make a claim provided you are employed, and you can provide
written evidence from your employer that you are receiving either no pay or part pay
under your existing employment contract for the duration of your claim. This is
providing that the hours, or pay, under your existing employment contract are
not permanently changed.
Ive carefully considered this term because its relevant to Mr Ws situation. But I should 
highlight that for there to be cover, the changes to Mr Ws contract would need to be 
temporary and having considered Mr Ws new part time contract, Im satisfied he doesnt 
meet the term because its a permanent change to his employment. 
Mr Ws new contract is for part time hours, around 50% of his original contribution, but on a 
permanent basis  its effectively a new contract, rather than a limitation placed on his 
original full-time contract. Its for that reason, Fairmead was able to fairly rely on the above 
term to decline his claim.
I wanted to acknowledge Mr Ws comments about not having much of a choice whether to 
accept the new part time contract at the time. I can fully appreciate why he may have felt that 
way, having other financial commitments and responsibilities, would influence anyones 
decision-making ability at that time. But I couldnt fairly hold Fairmead responsible for that as 
these options were put forward by his employer, rather than the insurer.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman