DRN-3614784
The complaint
Mrs S, who is represented by a professional representative (PR) complains that Clydesdale 
Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) rejected her claims 
under the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 1974 in respect of a holiday product. I gather the 
purchase was made by Mr and Mrs S, but as the finance agreement was in Mrs S name she 
is the eligible complainant. In this decision for simplicity I will refer to Mrs S as the sole 
purchaser.
What happened
In 2009 Mr and Mrs S purchased a holiday product from a company I will call C. This was 
funded by a loan in Mr Ss name and this has been the subject of a separate complaint. In 
October 2010 on a visit to one of Cs resorts they upgraded their membership at a cost of 
£7,403. This was funded by a loan from BPF in Mrs Ss name and this is the subject of this 
complaint.
In December 2018 PR submitted a letter of claim to BPF. The letter went into some detail but 
as this is well known to both parties I will simply set out the grounds. PR made a claim under 
s.75 CCA for both misrepresentation and breach of contract. It said BPF was liable for 
procuring a breach of fiduciary duty and there had been an unfair relationship under s.140A 
CCA.
BPF issued a holding letter, but I have not seen a final response. In May 2019 PR brought a 
complaint to this service which broadly repeated the main elements in the letter of claim. It 
was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He said the 
claim for misrepresentation under s.75 had not been brought in time. He also said that he 
could not identify any breach of contract. On the matter of the alleged unfair relationship he 
did not believe this had been demonstrated. Nor did he consider there were grounds to 
declare the agreement null and void. Finally he said there was no evidence submitted to 
show the loan was unaffordable. 
PR didnt agree and submitted a generic counsels opinion. Subsequently it wrote to express 
concern about the way finance was sold to its clients including Mrs S and suggested we 
obtain further information from BPF.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account 
the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
And when evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having read and considered all the available evidence and arguments, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld. I will explain why.
S.75 CCA
S. 75 of the CCA states that, when a debtor (Mrs S) under a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement has a claim of misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier that 
relates to a transaction financed by the agreement, the creditor (BPF) is equally and 
concurrently liable for that claim  enabling the debtor to make a like claim against the 
creditor should they choose to.
Its important to note that, as BPF was the lender rather than the supplier, under the Act a 
claim is limited to one for misrepresentation or breach of contract, rather than general 
unhappiness with what was available under the contract.
However, under the Limitation Act an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mrs S into the contract 
were made in October 2010, but no claim was made until December 2018, more than eight 
years later. I think it very likely therefore that a court would conclude that any claim for 
misrepresentation against C would be outside the relevant time limit in the Limitation Act.
In the circumstances, I think that it would be reasonable for BPF to reject the claim of 
misrepresentation.
On the matter of breach of contract PR argues that the contract was illegal under Spanish 
law although it is governed by English law. It said C demanded a deposit immediately, but I 
note the contract says there is no deposit. Nor can I see how the alleged breach of the 2010 
Timeshare regulations could have led to a breach of contract. As such I can see no basis for 
the claim of breach of contract. 
S.140 A
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationships between Mrs S and BPF 
were unfair for the purpose of s. 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it if it 
applies to the credit agreement  which it does.
However, as a claim under s. 140A is an action to recover any sum recoverable by virtue of 
any enactment under s. 9 of the LA, Ive considered that provision here.
It was held in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) (Patel v Patel) that the time for 
limitation purposes ran from the date the credit agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the 
time the claim was made. The limitation period is six years and the claim was made within this period.
However, Im not persuaded that Mrs S could be said to have a cause of action in 
negligence against BPF anyway.
The alleged loss isnt related to damage to property or to her personally, which must mean 
its purely financial. And that type of loss isnt usually recoverable in a claim of negligence 
unless there was some responsibility on the allegedly negligent party to protect a claimant 
against that type of harm.
Yet Ive seen little or nothing to persuade me that BPF assumed such responsibility  
whether willingly or unwillingly.
PR seems to suggest that BPF owed Mrs S a duty of care to ensure that C complied with the 
2010 Regulations and it argues at length that the payment of commission created an unfair 
relationship.  As for the issue of commission BPF has not denied that commission was paid. 
In my experience of this industry the sums paid were not such that they could be said to 
have led to an unfair relationship. 
Indeed although PR has not submitted all the documentation signed by Mrs S I am aware 
that Cs Members Declaration usually includes a paragraph that mentions that commission 
is paid and details can be made available. While I cannot say if this was included in the 
paperwork given to Mrs S I think it likely that she could have asked for details of the 
commission paid.
Is the loan agreement voidable? 
PR has referenced an EU Directive, Spanish law and a Spanish court judgement.  However, 
I can see no reason why the agreement would be voidable under English law (the law that 
applies in this case). It follows, I do not think the associated BPF credit agreement is 
voidable.
Further, the EU Directive was enacted into English law in the Timeshare Regulations 2010. 
Im not aware that any of those provisions prohibited the sale of timeshares like the one 
bought by Mrs S. In fact, in a recent House of Commons Library Briefing Paper, 
Timeshares: common problems faced by UK owners, it was said that a floating week or 
points-based timeshare were basic timeshare models that were not described as being 
problems in and of themselves. Based on the evidence I have seen; I dont think the 
timeshare agreement - nor the related credit agreement - was voidable.
Affordability
PR says no or insufficient checks were carried out at the time of sale and this means the 
lending was irresponsible. 
Our investigator said that he could not see any evidence that Mrs S found the loan 
unaffordable. When considering a complaint about unaffordable lending, a large 
consideration is whether the complainant has actually lost out due to any failings on the part 
of the lender. So, if BPF did not do appropriate checks (and I make no such finding), for me 
to say it needed to do something to put things right, I would need to see that Mrs S lost out 
as a result of its failings. Following the issue of our investigators view PR has made generic 
points about affordability, but has not provided evidence that she would have found, or did 
find, it difficult to repay the loan, so I do not need to consider this point further.
ConclusionI appreciate Mrs S is dissatisfied with her purchase and she has my sympathies for this, but, 
in summary I cannot see why any of her claims were likely to have succeeded. So overall I 
think that BPF acted reasonably in not accepting the claims under s.75 and s. 140A CCA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman