DRN-2654802
The complaint
Mrs L has complained that Barclays Bank Plc recorded incorrect information on her credit 
history file which resulted in her application for a credit card being declined.
What happened
Mrs L called Barclays in December 2018 to ask if she could change her loan repayment 
arrangements. She explained that this was due to a change in her personal circumstances, 
limiting her income at the time. Barclays agreed to a repayment holiday for three to four 
months and told her that this wouldnt have a negative impact on her credit file.
Mrs L received a letter from Barclays dated 21 December 2018 that said that her 
repayments werent sufficient. They also said that a default notice would be issued at the 
end of May 2019 and that it would be registered on her credit file.
Mrs L complained to Barclays as this wasnt what she believed had been agreed. Barclays 
listened to a recording of her original telephone conversation and agreed. They apologised 
and confirmed that they would cleanse Mrs Ls credit file of any adverse information. They 
also paid her £200 in compensation.
Mrs Ls loan was repaid in full in March 2019.
In May 2020, Mrs L applied for an interest free balance transfer credit card through another 
lender. She intended to transfer the balance owed on her Barclays credit card. But her 
application was declined. When she asked why, the lender recommended she check her 
credit file with Equifax.
When Mrs L got her Equifax credit report, she noticed that Barclays had recorded a late 
payment in February 2019 in respect of the loan shed had with them. She said that this 
wasnt correct so complained to Barclays.
Barclays looked into her complaint and agreed that the late payment marker shouldnt have 
been recorded. They wrote to her in July 2020 to apologise. They confirmed that theyd 
arranged for her credit file to be corrected and offered compensation of £150
. 
But Mrs L didnt think that this was enough. She thought it was Barclays fault that she was 
declined for her new credit card account. So, she wanted them to change her Barclays credit 
card account to an interest free one. Barclays didnt agree so Mrs L decided to refer her 
complaint to this service.
One of our investigators has looked at Mrs Ls complaint. They also didnt think that Barclays 
needed to do anything more here. So, Mrs L asked that her complaint be referred to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision.
I reached a different outcome to that of our investigator. Because of that, I issued a 
provisional decision on 19 February 2021. I explained why a thought that Barclays needed to 
do more than they had. I said that to put thinks right, Barclays should remove all reference to 
an arrangement to pay from Mrs Ls credit file. I also thought that Barclays should pay 
compensation to Mrs L of £100 in addition to the £150 they had already offered.
Both Mrs L and Barclays accepted my provisional decision, so the case has been passed 
back to me to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ls approach to Barclays in December 2018 was a reasonable request given her 
circumstances at the time. The change to the repayment agreement reached with Barclays 
appears to have been a sensible one. But the letter sent to Mrs L appears to be a standard 
template letter. It refers to payments not being sufficient. This appears to be because they 
had agreed to a repayment holiday, where no repayments were made for that period. The 
letter doesnt refer to the repayments starting again after that period.
Barclays also recorded this against Mrs Ls credit file incorrectly. They accepted that they 
had made a mistake and agreed to cleanse her credit file of the related data. This means 
that they would remove any adverse information recorded in relation to what was agreed. I 
agree that this was the right thing to do here.
 
The compensation paid by Barclays included £180 to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused and a further £20 goodwill payment. This is in line with what I would expect in this 
situation and was accepted by Mrs L
. 
Mrs L said that she didnt take advantage of the agreed repayment holiday and maintained 
the original repayments. The loan was repaid in full in March 2019.
In May 2020, Mrs L discovered that there was still adverse information recorded on her 
credit file. She had completed an application for a credit card through another lender. It was 
her intention to transfer the balance owed on her Barclays Credit card to take advantage of 
an interest free offer with the new provider. This would help her to repay the debt over the 
course of the interest free period without incurring any interest costs.
The new card provider told Mrs L that they couldnt agree her application. So, Mrs L asked 
them why. They wouldnt give her any specific details but suggested that she check her 
credit history with Equifax. This is not unusual and what I would expect them to suggest in 
these circumstances.
 
When Mrs L received a copy of her credit file, it said that there had been a missed payment 
to her Barclays loan in February 2019. Barclays have confirmed that this wasnt correct. In 
their letter of 22 July 2020, they apologised to Mrs L. They confirmed that they had promised 
to remove this back in March 2019. It is disappointing to see that Barclays didnt do this 
when they said they would. I completely understand why Mrs L would be upset. Particularly 
as she felt that this had impacted upon her new card application.
Barclays have confirmed that the amendment to her credit file has now been actioned. Im 
pleased that they have acted quickly and appropriately here to resolve this problem. They 
have also offered Mrs L a further compensation payment of £150. I think that this is a fair 
offer given the circumstances of their mistake.
But Mrs L feels that Barclays should do more. She wants them to reflect that she was 
declined for an interest free credit card and so continues to pay interest on her Barclays Credit Card. I have thought about this carefully considering where Barclays were at fault and 
how this has impacted upon Mrs Ls situation.
I understand why the new credit card provider recommended that Mrs L review her credit 
file, when she asked about her declined application. The use of credit scoring is common 
place among banks and providers of personal credit facilities. Each one uses their own credit 
score system which is tailored to the product they are offering, the customers they wish to 
attract and the market circumstances. The decision process would consider a range of 
factors about the applicant. The information on a credit file is only one part of that and 
wouldnt necessarily lead to an agreement or decline on its own.
The card provider declined to provide anything more specific about Mrs Ls declined 
application. I dont think that this is unreasonable as the fine detail of a credit score system is 
not something they would wish to publicise. So, its not possible to prove that Mrs L was 
declined solely because of the information that Barclays had recorded. Barclays have said 
that if Mrs L can provide confirmation that the credit card decision was based upon their 
reporting, they would reconsider their offer. I think thats a fair response in the 
circumstances.
Mrs L has since noticed that there is also an AP marker recorded by Barclays on her credit 
file. This refers to an Arrangement to Pay and may be recorded where the lender agrees to 
change the loan repayments of an existing lending agreement. It appears to relate to Mrs Ls 
loan with Barclays and the change agreed when she first called them in December 2018. 
This would normally remain on her file for six years.
 
Mrs L said that she was told that an informal arrangement would not affect her credit file. 
Barclays agreed to cleanse her credit file of the related data. Mrs L has also said that 
although Barclays offered her a capital repayment holiday, she didnt take it up and 
maintained the originally agreed repayments until the loan was cleared in March 2019.
On the basis that Barclays agreed with Mrs Ls original complaint, I think that Barclays need 
to also remove the AP marker from Mrs Ls credit file. This is because this was recorded as 
a consequence of the agreement made in December 2018. Barclays upheld Mrs Ls 
complaint of December 2018 and agreed that she was told it would not impact her credit file. 
So, I believe that Barclays have still failed to fully address this issue, I believe that Barclays 
should pay further compensation of £100 in addition to the £150 already offered.
I was pleased to see that both sides accepted my provisional decision. That means that I 
have no reason to depart from the findings I reached in this. So, my decision remains the 
same. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
I require Barclays Bank Plc to remove all reference to the arrangement to pay from Mrs Ls 
credit file. I also require Barclays Bank Plc to pay Mrs L compensation of £250 - to include 
£150 already offered by themUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman