DRN-3300494
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) increased 
their home insurance renewal premium and reduced their no claims discount.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P had home insurance with RSA. In May 2021 they contacted RSA because 
there was a problem with their septic tank. RSA said its drainage contractors would have 
to attend to inspect the problem and an appointment was made for 8th May. Unfortunately, 
that appointment was cancelled, and a further appointment was made for 13th July.
Mr and Mrs P werent happy to wait for the next available appointment because they had 
an overflowing soakaway and a faulty pump. So they told RSA they would contact another 
company to undertake the inspection. RSA said it would pay for the cost of the inspection, 
but it would need to validate the report before a decision could be made about the claim.
Mr and Mrs P complained to RSA about the delays and it offered them £100 compensation 
for the failed attendance and the fact the proposed date for the next visit was 
unreasonable. They rejected the offer of compensation and asked for their complaint to 
remain open.
Following the inspection, Mr and Mrs P sent the report to RSA, but when they didnt 
receive a response within three weeks, they went ahead and arranged for a new treatment 
tank to be installed.
They later complained to RSA because their renewal quote had increased from £465.15 to
£606.45, and their no claims discount had decreased from five to two years. Having 
made the decision to change insurer, they said they wanted a new renewal letter 
showing the correct number of years for the no claims discount. They also said they 
were unhappy the policy had been unable to fulfil its commitment to provide coverage in 
their geographical area and was therefore mis-sold.
RSA said that, based on the information in the report, the claim should have been rejected 
in mid-July. It apologised this hadnt happened and for the delays that had occurred, 
offering £200 compensation. It said if Mr and Mrs P didnt want its contractors to attend so it 
could further consider its liability under the claim, the claim would be closed as declined 
and they would need to inform their current insurer.
Regarding the renewal premium, RSA commented it wouldve been correct had Mr and 
Mrs P renewed the policy. It explained a settlement payment had been issued to you in 
June 2020 for some of the work required, so the claim wouldve potentially have affected 
your no claim discount, as well as any annual increases. It also said that given the claim, 
there would have been a reduction in [no claim discount] which would have been an 
additional factor. It didnt accept there was a problem with coverage, explaining that septic 
tanks are specialised and so contractors are often from out of area.
Mr and Mrs P werent satisfied and so they complained to this service. They dont accept 
their initial call to RSA was a claim attempt, arguing they only called to establish if the 
claim would be covered and that they were told an inspection was necessary to ascertain 
whether or not they could make a claim. Theyre unhappy because they now have to pay 
higher premiums and they have questioned how RSA can claim to have national coverage 
when it was unable to find someone to visit for two months.
Our investigator didnt think the claim should be upheld. She accepted there were problems 
with the way the claim was handled but she was satisfied RSAs offer of £200 
compensation along with the fact it had paid for the cost of the report was fair. She noted Mr 
and Mrs Ps concern about RSAs ability to provide coverage in rural areas, but she didnt 
accept this was the case and instead put this down to poor claims handling. Our 
investigator concluded that even though Mr and Mrs P had ultimately had the work 
completed themselves, a claim was raised and therefore it wasnt unreasonable for RSA to 
have amended their no claims discount ad premium.
Mr and Mrs P werent happy with the outcome of their complaint and so they asked for it to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman. They maintain they were told by RSA it would have to 
carry out an inspection to ascertain whether they could make a claim and that because the 
inspection never took place, there was never a claim.
They have questioned how a company can offer bad service and still profit from it by 
increasing the premium and they remain unhappy they will be paying additional premiums 
even though they have changed insurer. Theyve also questioned why the company that 
sells the insurance isnt responsible for the policy and asked how an insurer can take 
premiums based on national coverage when they cant provide cover for the area?
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA wasnt responsible for selling the policy and so the sale of the policy is not something 
I can consider for the purposes of this complaint. However, I have considered the 
comments Mr and Mrs P have made about RSAs ability to provide the cover they 
expected. I think the fact an appointment was made and then cancelled means RSA had 
intended to undertake an inspection and I consider the fact it was cancelled to be 
indicative of poor service.
Having cancelled the first appointment, the next available appointment was 13th July, 
which left Mr and Mrs P feeling they had no choice but to arrange the inspection 
themselves. But RSA offered £100 compensation for this and agreed to pay for the 
inspection. I think thats fair and I wouldnt have expected it to do anything more to put that 
right.
Eventually, Mr and Mrs P paid for the repairs themselves and changed insurers, having 
received a renewal quote from RSA that was £141.30 more than the previous year. 
They were also told their no claims discount had been reduced. They believe this was 
unfair because there was no claim.
RSA maintains there was an attempted claim and has explained that, based on the 
inspection report, it was ultimately declined. It offered to conduct a further inspection 
toreview its decision but Mr and Mrs P didnt want that because the repairs had been 
completed and it wouldnt be relevant to the outcome of their complaint.
They are unhappy about the no claims discount and the effect it had on their renewal premium because they dont consider they made a claim on the policy. They recall they 
were told there would need to be an inspection before a decision could be made as to 
whether they could make a claim and therefore they were surprised when they learned their 
premium and no claim discount had been affected.
The fact Mr and Mrs P didnt appreciate their initial call would be recorded as an attempted 
claim doesnt mean it was unfair that it was recorded as such. Mr and Mrs P have said 
they thought the payment for the inspection was a goodwill gesture and I accept they 
arranged the inspection themselves and that RSA paid for it because the arrangements it 
had made were unsatisfactory. But its not unusual for insurers to pay for investigations to 
be arranged by the policyholder should the circumstances mean its more practical. This is 
a commercial decision on the part of the insurer, not a goodwill gesture.
Mr and Mrs P ultimately paid for the repairs themselves and I understand why they feel 
its unfair that a claim was recorded. But a claim was recorded when Mr and Mrs P first 
contacted RSA. This is standard for insurance claims and those claims that are declined 
following investigations are still recorded as claims.
Having found there was an attempted claim, Im satisfied the decision to reduce Mr and Mrs 
Ps no claims discount was fair. Im also satisfied RSAs explanation that the reduced no 
claims discount would have affected the renewal premium is reasonable. And as Mr and 
Mrs P have changed insurer, I dont intend to look at the renewal premium any further.
Mr and Mrs P dont think its fair that they are now paying higher premiums for their 
home insurance when they received such poor service from RSA, but the service they 
received from RSA is not relevant to pricing of their new policy.
Overall, RSA offered £200 compensation for its poor handling of this claim and, taking 
into account the impact those failings had on Mr and Mrs P Im satisfied that is fair.
My final decision
I understand Mr and Mrs P will be disappointed but, for the reasons outlined above, I 
dont uphold their complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before .
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman