DRN-3236990
The complaint
Mr C complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc have treated him unfairly when handling his 
contents claim.
What happened
In August 2020 Mr C had a number of items damaged when moving home. Some of these 
were damaged when boxes were dropped or knocked over and others while in transit. Some 
items were also left outside, causing damage overtime when not moved indoors sooner.
Mr C notified AXA of the claim at the start of September and it split the claim into three 
separate claims. All claims were for accidental damaged caused  to Mr Cs items when he 
moved to a new house. AXA split the claim as there was three separate causes of damage 
and because of this, it felt it was right to deal with each incident and the items damaged 
individually. The three claims were for:
1. Items damaged when a box was dropped by Mr Cs daughter (claim 1).
2. Items damaged when the van used for the removals was seized by the police 
(claim 2).
3. Items damaged when they were left outside after the movers failed to return them to 
the house (claim 3).
The claim took several months to be investigated by AXA and it appointed a loss adjuster as 
well as an expert valuation report before being able to confirm the outcome for all the claims. 
AXA declined claims 2 and 3 as it felt the policy excluded damaged caused when moving to 
a new house if no professional moving company was employed to carry out the work. It 
agreed to pay the claim for items damaged when Mr Cs daughter dropped a box when 
helping with the move. Mr C has disputed the value of this claim and feels AXA hasnt 
treated him fairly when deciding what items are beyond economical repair and which items it 
will attempt to repair.
Mr C complained about the slow progress of the claim and AXA apologised for its handling 
of this. It said it would make a payment of £225 to Mr C in recognition of the delays and 
inconvenience caused. Mr C didnt make a complaint directly to AXA about the claims 
decision but has complained about the declined claims and the value of the settlement 
offered by AXA for claim 1. AXA, having not received a complaint hasnt provided an answer 
on these complaint points, but has consented to this service considering the complaint 
directly.
Our investigator reviewed Mr Cs complaint and didnt think AXA needed to do anything else. 
She was satisfied the policy didnt cover damage caused when moving without a 
professional removal company being used. As Mr C had borrowed a van from a friend and 
used several casual labourers to assist with the move, she didnt think he had done this. So 
AXA was acting fairly when it declined to cover damaged caused with claim 2 and 3. She 
also felt it wasnt fair to cover damage caused when the items where left outside and 
exposed to the elements when they werent moved into the house.
She also felt the offer made by AXA to settle claim 1 was fair. AXA had a professional 
valuation of all items and in the absence of receipts for their replacement value or other 
professional valuations provided by Mr C, she was persuaded the amount offered was fair.
Mr C disagreed with our view of the complaint. He reiterated that he believes the policy does 
provide additional cover for claims 2 and 3 and the amount offered for the items covered in 
claim 1 is far below what it should be. He also explained the impact of the claim on his health 
and how the delays and service had added to this.
Because Mr C disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I 
know this will be disappointing to Mr C, but Ill explain how Ive reached this decision.
Mr C is unhappy with the claims handling decision made by AXA with his three claims. I 
accept he didnt ask for these to be raised as three individual claims, but with three different 
incidents taking place which caused damage, it is right to deal with these separately. Ive 
considered these claims in turn and whether AXA has acted fairly.
Claim 1 
Mr C thinks the settlement offered and value placed on his items is significantly lower than 
the actual cost of the items damaged. He is also unhappy with the decision taken by AXA to 
repair two paintings. He feels it would be fairer to say these are beyond economical repair.
It's important to set out what Mr Cs policy covers him for when deciding whether or not AXA 
has acted unfairly with how it has handled his claim. 
Mr Cs policy, like most insurance policies explains that when settling claims, AXA as the 
insurer, will have the right to determine how best to settle the claim. It has the option to 
repair or replace items and if it cannot do this, it will pay to cover what it feels the cost of the 
loss is. I appreciate Mr C has concerns about AXA being able to do this but as Ive said, this 
is standard with most insurance. 
Ive thought about whether AXA acted fairly when deciding the value of the items damaged. 
Mr C has owned many of the damaged items for a long time and its understandable why he 
doesnt have receipts for these. And it follows that many items hold a great deal of 
sentimental value too. With the lack of information on the cost for the majority of these items, 
AXA had each item assessed and valued. The assessment was to determine whether the 
item was repairable and if not, place a value on the likely replacement cost. This gave a total 
value  with the higher estimate for each item  of £2740 for all. 
Mr C hasnt provided a professional valuation but given his opinion on what he feels a more 
appropriate value is. This gives a considerably higher figure, even when taking low values 
offered by Mr C instead of what he feels the actual value of items may be. He has also said 
more information can be provided on the background of each item and questioned the 
experience and competence of the valuers.  I understand the strength of feeling Mr C has about his items and the sentimental value of 
these will add to the cost of each to him and he may consider himself an expert in this area. 
But he has failed to show anything beyond his opinion to justify the value of each item. In 
contrast a valuation was completed by a professional company employed in restoration and 
valuing fine art, collectables, furnishings and furniture. And in the absence of anything else 
from Mr C, Im persuaded that AXA has acted fairly when offering to settle claim 1 based on 
the valuation report provided. 
Claim 2
Mr Cs policy covers him for a number of things and he believes this cover includes the 
transport of his belongings between properties when moving. The policy wording sets out the 
cover for contents in transit under section 17 on page 29 of the policy booklet:
Contents in transit  If Your Contents are professionally packed and transported The 
insurer will insure You against loss or damage to the contents while they are:
-Being transported anywhere in the UK between your old and your new address;
-On their way to and from the furniture depository, and
-Being unloaded or loaded.
There is no definition of what constitutes professionally packed but it isnt disputed that 
Mr C didnt use a professional removal company. He instead borrowed a van from a friend 
and employed a number of casual labourers to assist with the move. He was also supported 
with the move by his children.
The items claimed for with claim 2 were damaged when moved from Mr Cs new property 
and while in transit. But because this wasnt professionally packed and transported, I think 
AXA has made a fair claims decision when its declined these items and this claim. 
Claim 3 
As Ive said above, damage caused by the removal of items not professionally packed would 
not be covered. And this term applies to the items claimed for in claim 3. I think AXA has 
acted fairly when applying this and saying these items are not covered. But I think its also 
worth noting that the items were left outside or in storage with exposure to the weather for a 
period of time. And even if not damaged when in transit or moved by Mr Cs labourers, I 
think its fair to say that its likely damage could occur if the items were not moved back 
inside. 
I understand Mr C has had a number of health issues and he was relying on the assistance 
of paid labour with the move. And this disappeared quickly when the moving van was seized 
by the police. But it doesnt take away from the fact that the items were not treated with 
reasonable care when left outside. And I dont think AXA has acted unfairly when its 
declined the damage items left out in the garden.
This claim did take a number of months to be settled and I can understand the frustration of 
this with Mr C. AXA has apologised for the delays and accepted this could have been better, 
offering a payment which Mr C has questioned having received. If this hasnt been paid, I 
think its fair that it resends this to him or confirm with him how and when the payment was 
made. But I dont think it needs to do anything else in relation to the claim. With the nature of the claims and the information which needed to be gathered to answer the claim, it was likely 
it could take some time. 
While AXA has a requirement to handle claims promptly as set out in the Insurance Code of 
Business Sourcebook (ICOBS), it also has an obligation to not unreasonably reject a claim. 
It appointed loss adjusters and made sure it attempted to speak with all relevant parties to 
the claim to help understand what happened before giving its claims decision. I think it acted 
fairly in doing this and although this caused some delays with relevant parties not coming 
back promptly or being unavailable, I dont see any reason to ask AXA to increase the 
amount already paid in recognition of this. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint against AXA 
Insurance PLC UK.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman