DRN-3241229
The complaint
Mr R complains Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans irresponsibly lent to 
him.
What happened
Everyday Loans approved Mr R for a £1,700 loan in August 2015. The term of the loan was 
24 moths with repayments of approximately £135. The purpose for the loan was debt 
consolidation.
Mr R says the loan was irresponsibly lent as Everyday Loans did not complete reasonable 
and proportionate checks before it approved the loan. Mr R says the loan was unaffordable 
to him; and Everyday Loans wouldve seen this had it completed the appropriate checks. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He felt that Everyday Loans had 
completed proportionate checks. This is because Everyday Loans had verified Mr Rs 
income and outgoings with payslips and bank statements. However, even though 
proportionate checks had been completed; our investigator felt the checks had shown Mr R 
was struggling financially. The information also suggested that Mr R would not be able to 
afford the repayments sustainably and the decision has increased Mr Rs indebtedness in 
the long term. He therefore concluded Everyday Loans had acted unfairly in approving the 
loan.
Everyday Loans disagreed with the assessment. It maintained the decision to lend was fair. 
It highlighted Mr R would benefit from the consolidation of the loan; and as such would be in 
a position to afford these repayments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.   
Everyday Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it responsibly lent to Mr R. The 
relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time Everyday Loans lent required it to carry 
out reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks needed to assess Mr Rs ability to 
afford the loan and repay it sustainably over its term without causing him financial difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as their circumstances. 
And it isnt sufficient for Everyday Loans to just complete proportionate checks  it must also 
consider the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending decision. This 
includes not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring repayments can be 
made sustainably without having to borrow further.
Everyday Loans says it completed proportionate checks, and I agree it did in this instance. 
The application process saw Everyday Loans ask for an income and expenditure 
assessment from Mr R. It also searched his credit file; and asked him to provided verification 
of his finances. Mr R provided Everyday Loans with a payslip and bank statements. The 
checks showed Mr Rs income was around £1,400 a month; and that he had a number of 
active accounts of his credit file. The credit file show Mr R had two current accounts, three 
loans and a total of eight phone accounts. As these checks enabled Everyday Loans to see 
both his income and major outgoings; Im satisfied they gave Everyday Loans a good insight 
into his finances. As such I agree they were proportionate in this instance.
Even though Everyday Loans completed proportionate checks; it still had to carefully 
consider the information it had before deciding to lend to Mr R. And it needed to ensure any 
decision to lend was sustainable  meaning that Mr R could repay the loan without incurring 
further hardship or having to borrow further.  
The statements which Mr R provided showed that he was running a very tight budget 
(contrary to the disposable income calculation Everyday Loans had used). Often his balance 
was nearing nil and on one or two occasions it briefly entered his overdraft. They also show 
that Mr R was reliant on other forms of credit leading up to this loan application. For 
instance, he had taken a personal loan for £2,500; and two payday loans in the months 
leading up to this application. He was also regularly having to transfer money in from his 
savings account to help maintain his outgoings. Mr R was also paying for a number of 
mobile phone contracts (which were for various family members). 
Everyday Loans say the consolidation of some of Mr Rs debts mean that he had sufficient 
disposable income to meet the necessary repayments.
Whilst Everyday Loans is entitled to rely on the consolidation of the loans Mr R was 
intending to use this for; Im not persuaded the savings from this alone would be enough to 
suggest this loan would still be sustainable for Mr R. 
As I mentioned above Mr R still had commitments which would not have been settled by this 
loan  including the larger personal loan he had taken out. So the savings that he wouldve 
made from the consolidation from payday loans wouldve been minimal as well as short lived 
(when compared to the total term of the Everyday Loan). In addition to that Mr Rs 
statements demonstrated that he was already resulting in transferring money from his 
savings to maintain his current account. Everyday Loans is aware any lending needed to 
ensure Mr R didnt have incur hardship or having to borrow further to meet his outgoings. Im 
not persuaded that Mr Rs circumstances demonstrated this would be likely; and that he was 
already in financial hardship before the application; and this was likely to continue after the 
loan as well. So; with this is in mind; Im persuaded Everyday Loans decision to lend was 
unfair. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right; I require Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to:
Add up the total amount of money Mr R received as a result of having been given this 
loan. The repayments Mr R made should be deducted from this amount; as well as 
any charges or fees associated with the loan.
a) If this results in Mr R having paid more than he received, then any overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Lending Limited 
trading as Everyday Loans should attempt to arrange an affordable/suitable 
payment plan with Mr R.
After all adjustments have been made and once there is no outstanding balance, 
Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans need to remove any negative 
information recorded on Mr Rs credit file regarding this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to 
take off tax from this interest. Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans must 
give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Everyday Lending Limited trading as 
Everyday Loans.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman