DRN-3458054
The complaint
Mr Ds complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) relates to their decision not to 
refund an overpayment made he made to his mortgage account, and also the application of 
a Final Repayment Charge (FRC) when he redeemed his mortgage early.
What happened
Mr D had a mortgage with Barclays and also a mortgage current account with a mortgage 
reserve (MCA). In October 2020 he requested a redemption statement for his mortgage 
account and was told the sum outstanding was £503.89.
On 16 October 2020, Mr Ds direct debt (DD) left his account for the full contractual amount 
of £908.43 putting the mortgage account into a credit position of £404.46. Mr D asked 
Barclays to refund the credit into his current account but they refused and paid it into his 
MCA on which there was an outstanding balance.
In February 2021 Mr D contacted Barclays and asked for a redemption statement for his 
MCA which he was given. He then immediately paid that figure in full. 
Mr D also complains that he received a demand for £275 in relation to a FRC which he says 
he wasnt told about when he asked for a redemption figure. 
Barclays accept that it paid the mortgage account credit into Mr Ds MCA and said that when 
the mortgage account was redeemed it was expected that the full balance on the MCA 
would also be repaid. As such Barclays applied the credit on the mortgage account to the 
MCA to reduce the sum outstanding. 
Barclays also accept it issued a demand for the FRC, but that Mr D was aware of that 
charge as it is set out at Section 8 of his mortgage offer and was drawn to his attention 
during a phone call on 6 October 2020.
Mr D was unhappy with Barclayss final response and so approached this service to see if 
we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that Barclays hadnt done 
anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly, as it has applied the credit to a 
legitimate outstanding balance.
Mr D didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The accepted facts are that Mr Ds last payment was on 16 October 2020 in the sum of 
£908.43. This was the normal monthly payment he made by DD. This created the credit 
balance of £404.46 on his account. Mr D cancelled his DD through Online/Mobile banking on 
23 October 2020, which is after the DD payment was made. Barclays have not explained 
why it took more under the last DD than was actually due. It seems to me that it would have 
been only fair to Mr D that it took only what was required to redeem the mortgage, rather 
than creating a credit balance on the account.
I have also seen a letter Barclays wrote to Mr D dated 26 April 2021, which was in response 
to his request for the redemption statement. That letter explains that the redemption figure 
provided was illustrative only, because the precise figure would change depending upon 
when redemption actually took place. The letter also explains that payments made after the 
redemption statement was issued werent factored in and that Barclays would refund any 
such payments back to the account from which they were paid. 
The issue here therefore is whether it was fair and reasonable for Barclays to do what they 
did. I dont think it was. 
Barclays have confirmed that there is nothing in their internal policy or terms and conditions 
(T&Cs) where it states or was agreed that they could transfer the monies as they did. They 
argue that it was expected that the MCA balance would be repaid on the redemption of the 
mortgage, because the T&Cs provide for that. I dont think it can be disputed that Mr D 
agreed to repay the MCA if he redeemed his mortgage. 
But that is not the same thing as saying that Mr D agreed to either make an overpayment 
through his DD to the mortgage account or having done so that he gave permission for the 
credit to be applied to his MCA account. And I also note that Barclays initially told Mr D that 
the overpayment hed made could be refunded to him, or that he could choose to apply it to 
the MCA. What this means is that Mr D was led to believe he would in fact receive the 
overpayment back, and in addition to which he had also agreed a repayment plan for the 
MCA. All of this leads me to the conclusion that it wasnt reasonable of Barclays to transfer 
the overpayment to the MCA. I think it would have been reasonable, and fair, if Barclays had 
obtained his permission before making that transfer.
In so far as the FRC is concerned, I think Barclays were correct in charging this since Mr D 
did agree to the charge when he took out the mortgage. I have seen the mortgage offer 
which refers to the FRC at sections 8 and 10. I have listened to the call on 6 October I can 
hear that Mr D was told again of the existence and application of the FRC, so I am satisfied 
that he knew of it and it was right to apply it. It is clear from the call that Mr D was not happy 
about paying the charge, but it nevertheless remains the case that he agreed to it when 
taking out the mortgage.
I have considered whether it would be fair to ask Barclays to now repay to Mr D the credit 
balance of £404.46 but if they were to do that it would put his MCA account in debit, as it has 
since been redeemed. And the money which was transferred is clearly a sum which Mr D 
owed to Barclays in any event. So, I dont think its fair to ask Barclays to simply refund Mr D 
now.
Barclays and Mr D have responded to my provisional decision to say they agree with it.
Putting things right
What Mr D has really lost is the use of the money had it been transferred back to him. In this 
respect I think Barclays should therefore refund to Mr D interest on the £404.46 at the rate of 8%, less the interest he saved by having the £404.46 applied to the MCA. The calculation of 
8% should run from the date of last DD being the 16 October 2020 to the date of payment of 
the refund.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC must refund to Mr D interest on the £404.46 at the rate of 8%, less 
the interest he saved by having the £404.46 applied to the MCA. The calculation of 8% 
should run from the date of last DD being the 16 October 2020 to the date of payment of the 
refund.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman