DRN-2834968
The complaint
 Mr H has complained that Novaloans Ltd (trading as Cash4unow) gave him unaffordable
loans.
What happened
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Hs complaint. Mr H did not agree with the adjudicators 
opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was partly upholding Mr Hs 
complaint. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this 
and form part of this final decision. Both parties were given the opportunity to provide any 
further information or evidence it wanted me to consider. 
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mr H took five instalment loans from Cash4unow between July 2018 and September 2019. A
summary of his borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Cash4unow can be
found below:
Loan Date TakenDate 
RepaidNo of Monthly 
InstalmentsAmount 
BorrowedMax Monthly 
Repayment
1 17/07/2018 16/01/2019 6 £300.00 £99.66
2 16/01/2019 24/01/2019 6 £400.00 £132.01
3 26/03/2019 17/04/2019 6 £500.00 £156.37
4 03/06/2019 16/09/2019 6 £300.00 £88.40
5 16/09/2019 outstanding 6 £800.00 £266.15
It appears that Mr H ran into some difficulties repaying his last loan as an outstanding
balance remains.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Hs complaint. He didnt think Cash4unow were wrong
to approve Mr Hs first four loans based on the information it gathered about his financial
circumstances.
But when Mr H applied for loan 5, our adjudicator thought that Cash4unow ought to have
been verifying the information Mr H told it such as using his bank statements. The
adjudicator reviewed a copy of Mr Hs bank statements showing his circumstances at the
time of his loan 5 application. But he didnt think that further checks wouldve led to a
different for Cash4unow to lend to Mr H. So, our adjudicator did not think Cash4unow were
wrong to approve Mr Hs loans.
It appears that Cash4unow agreed with our adjudicators opinion.
Mr H disagreed and provided the following points to consider;
The number of loans issued in a short space of time should show the financial
difficulties Mr H was having.
Mr H says his bank statement clearly shows financial problems, such as being over
his overdraft limit, and that the loan issued by Cash4unow were unaffordable.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the loan was provided.
Cash4unow needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Mr H could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cash4unow should fairly and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr H. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cash4unow was required to establish
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Loans 1-4
When Mr H approached Cash4unow for his first loan it completed an income and
expenditure check, as well as a credit check. Mr H declared he had a monthly income of
£2,100 and his monthly expenditure amounted to £1,305. Cash4unow added a £100 buffer
to his expenses. This would have left Mr H with a disposable income of £695 from which to
meet his loan repayments which were no more than £99.66. So, I think the loan repayments
appeared affordable based on the information Mr H provided.
Cash4unow also completed a credit check. But I havent seen any information present on Mr
Hs credit file which suggested he could not meet his contractual repayments. So, I dont
think it was unreasonable that Cash4unow approved Mr Hs first loan.
Mr H went on to apply for his second loan on the same date he repaid loan 1. Mr H declared
his income remained the same and that his weekly expenditure had decreased to £608. This
would have left Mr H with a larger disposable income of around £1,392 after the additional
£100 buffer.
There was no concerning information as a result of the credit checks Cash4unow completed.
And as Mr H had made his repayments for loan 1 without any difficulties, I dont think there
were any concerns about his previous borrowing history at this point. So, I havent seen any
information which makes me think Mr H could not sustain the loan repayments he was
committing to make.
When Mr H applied for his third and fourth loans, Cash4unow completed the same level of
checks as it had done for Mr Hs previous loans. Mr H declared his income remained at
£2,100 for both loans and that his expenditure was now £1,320 and £1,312 for loans 3 and 4
respectively.
The loan repayments for loans 3 and 4 were no more than £156.37 and £88.40 respectively
to be repaid in six months instalments. So, I think Mr H had enough disposable income to
meet them. Furthermore, there was nothing in the information Mr H provided or the
information that Cash4unow gathered from the credit checks which suggested Mr H could
not afford or sustain the repayments he was committing to make.
For loans 1-4, I think Cash4unow was entitled to rely on the information Mr H provided to it
about his financial circumstances. I havent seen any information which makes me think the
Cash4unow needed to verify what Mr H was telling it by obtaining his bank statements. So, I
dont think Cash4unow was wrong to approve loans 1-4.
Loan 5
Mr H applied for his last loan on the same dated he repaid loan 4. It appears that
Cash4unow completed the same level of checks as it had done for Mr Hs previous four
loans.
Whilst the information Mr H provided suggest the repayments were affordable, at this stage
of Mr Hs borrowing, I dont think it was enough for Cash4unow to have just relied on what
Mr H was telling it. I say this because this was now Mr Hs fifth loan in 10 months without any
significant breaks between borrowing and repaying his loans. Furthermore, this was Mr Hs
largest loan to date with the repayments being over twice as large compared to what he
originally borrowed for loan 1. This is something which suggests Mr Hs overall indebtednessto the lender was increasing rather than improving.
At this stage in the borrowing relationship, I think Cash4unow ought to have been verifying
the information Mr H was telling it. Cash4unow couldve done this a number of ways, such
as asking for evidence of his income and expenditure or by obtaining copies of his bank
statements. This would have enabled Cash4unow to get an accurate picture of Mr Hs actual
financial position and whether he could afford to repay this loan.
Mr H has provided a copy of his bank statements showing what his circumstances were like
at the time of his fifth loan application. Firstly, Mr Hs income wasnt as high as Cash4unow
may have believed, being around £1,800 per month. I can also see Mr H had two
outstanding short-term loans as well as a loan repayment of £316 for a guarantor loan. In
total, his loan repayments came to about £425.
Furthermore, I can see that Mr H was making repayments to a debt management plan and
was significantly above his overdraft limit, and therefore in an unarranged overdraft and
incurring fees as a result, further suggesting that he was having some difficulties.
Ive also considered Mr Hs repayments for loans, credit cards, debts, rent and utility bills in
conjunction with the monthly income he received. And I dont think Mr H was in a position to
sustainably meet his repayments to Cash4unow. Because the loan wasnt affordable, I think
there was a real possibility that further lending was likely to be detrimental to his financial
situation. So I think Cash4unow were wrong to approve loan 5 for these reasons.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the loan was provided.
Mr H hasnt provided any additional comments or evidence in response to the provisional 
decision. Cash4unow has told us it agrees with the outcome that was reached. 
Ive therefore reached the same outcome in this final decision as I did in my earlier 
provisional decision, and for the same reasons. And I still think Cash4unow was wrong to 
have approved Mr Hs final loan. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Cash4unow should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not approved loan 5 as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr H may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, Mr H may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (orought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr H in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr H would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Cash4unows liability in this case for what
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
I think Cash4unow were wrong to approve loan 5. So, Cash4unow should do the following to 
put things right:
Cash4unow should remove all unpaid interest, fees and charges from the
outstanding loan balance on loan 5.
Cash4unow should then rework the account so that Mr H only has to repay the 
principal borrowed for loan 5. It should treat any repayments made by Mr H (and the 
third party if applicable) as if it went towards the principal balance. 
If and when Mr H has repaid enough to repay the principal, then any overpayment
should be refunded to him. To this overpayment, 8% simple a year interest should
be added from the date of the overpayment came due to the date of settlement*;
However, if after doing the above, an outstanding principal balance remains,
Cash4unow should try and come to an affordable arrangement with Mr H to repay
the balance. But Id remind Cash4unow of its obligation to treat him fairly.
Cash4unow should remove any adverse information recorded about this loan from
Mr Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Cash4unow should
give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im partly upholding 
Mr Hs complaint.
Novaloans Ltd (trading as Cash4unow) should put things right for Mr H as directed above.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman