DRN-1840578
The complaint
Mr G complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc handled and settled a claim 
he made under his home insurance policy for storm damage.
What happened
Mr G holds a household insurance policy with RSA. On 22 September 2018 he contacted it 
to make a claim under his policy for damage to his living room ceiling, which he said was 
caused by water leaking through the roof. Mr G thought this had happened following a day of 
gale force and heavy rain.
As Mr G had home emergency cover RSA appointed an agent to attend his property and 
undertake a temporary repair. This agent went up onto the roof and, after removing some 
tiles, said it thought the leak had been caused by a gap in the felt under the flashing. It told 
RSA that the leak had been caused by poor workmanship as the felt hadnt been fitted 
properly.  
RSA also appointed a buildings inspector, which Ill refer to as B, to undertake an 
inspection of the damage and assist it in dealing with the claim. B visited Mr Gs property on 
29 September 2018 to determine the cause of damage.
B inspected Mr Gs property from ground level using a camera on a telescopic pole and it 
also photographs of the living room ceiling. B felt this leak had been caused by age related 
deterioration in the lead flashing, which had resulted in water ingress via the felt beneath it. 
B explained that it couldnt find any evidence of storm damage and it thought the ceiling 
damage was consistent with multiple ingresses through the roof over a period of time. 
Mr G refuted what B had said about the damage to the ceiling and condition of the lead 
flashing. And he shared a report with RSA, which was from a company which Ill refer to as 
A here. A had undertaken repairs to the roof in 2016, which included replacing the felt 
under the roof tiles. It had also inspected the roof following the damage Mr Gs property had 
sustained in September 2018. 
As inspection report stated that the felt under the tiles was the correct length. However, it 
had been shortened due to it being folded by wind. It said this had resulted in water ingress 
and caused the damage to Mr Gs ceiling. And Mr G said after A had unfolded the felt no 
further leaks had occurred.
RSA considered the reports from B and A but declined Mr Gs claim as it was satisfied the 
damage hed reported had been caused by age related wear and tear, which was excluded 
by his policy.   
Mr G wasnt happy with how RSA proposed to resolve his claim. He felt, as thered been 
high winds at around the time the damage occurred, a storm had caused the damage to his 
property. And he thought his repair in 2016 was evidence that the leak couldnt have 
happened due to wear and tear. He also raised concerns that B hadnt undertaken a 
thorough inspection as it had based its opinion on the cause of damage from photographs, which had been taken from ground level only. So, he complained that RSA wouldnt meet his 
claim. 
RSA investigated Mr Gs concerns. But, while it agreed there were storm conditions 
prevalent at the time the damage was sustained, it maintained its stance that the damage 
wasnt caused by a one-off storm event as was required by his policy. It explained the 
photographs B had taken were clear and reliable. And it felt there was cogent evidence to 
demonstrate that the ceiling damage was a result of water ingress over a period of time, 
which was reflected in the heavy staining that B had observed. RSA therefore didnt uphold 
Mr Gs complaint about the way it had settled his claim.  
Being dissatisfied with how RSA had dealt with his complaint Mr G referred it to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened but didnt recommend upholding this 
complaint. They werent persuaded the damage caused was consistent with a one-off 
identifiable storm event. And they thought it was, most likely, due to issues with the lead 
flashing and felt as had been identified with B in its report. Overall, they thought RSA had 
dealt with Mr Gs complaint fairly and done nothing wrong in declining his claim. But Mr G 
disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I can see Mr G has gone to some trouble to provide our service with some very detailed 
submissions about why he believes RSA should meet his claim. I want to assure him that 
Ive read everything hes sent us. I hope Mr G will understand if I dont address every 
comment hes made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider is key to the 
complaint. 
My role is to assess whether I think RSA made a mistake in deciding Mr Gs claim, or treated 
him unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about 
everything Mr G and RSA have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. I appreciate Mr 
G will be disappointed by this outcome. But I hope he can understand the reasons behind 
my decision.
Theres no dispute that damage occurred to Mr Gs property. However, theres disagreement 
between him, RSA and its appointed agents about the cause of the damage and the correct 
outcome of this claim. 
Mr G would like RSA to cover the damage to his property because he feels it was caused by 
adverse weather. His policy with RSA provides cover for damage caused by a range of perils 
that might happen. These are specific one-off events and include storm, for example. But, for 
a claim to be successful, Mr G would have to show that the damage hes claiming for was 
caused by one of the perils listed in his policy.
There are three conditions that need to be met before this service would say a claim for 
storm damage should succeed. Those are:  
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
I have re-assessed Mr Gs complaint and all the evidence with these three questions in 
mind. And I should also clarify that the answer to all three questions needs to be yes for this 
service to be able to recommend that a storm complaint is upheld.
In weighing up the first question, I can see that Mr Gs policy doesnt define the word storm. 
This isnt unusual. And in that scenario this service takes the view that a storm generally 
involves violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow. So, this is what Ive 
thought about when deciding whether there were storm conditions on or around the date of 
Mr Gs claim.
Mr G has pointed to a gale force and heavy rain that occurred on around 22 September 
2018, which was the date he thought damage was most likely caused. I can see RSA 
checked the weather reports relevant to Mr Gs locality for storm conditions and these show 
that at around the time the damage occurred the highest wind speeds recorded were 53 
mph. 
Like RSA, Im persuaded the weather recorded at around the date of the damage meets the 
conditions of what our service would consider to be a storm. So, Im satisfied I can answer 
question one affirmatively.
Turning to question two, Ive thought about whether the damage claimed is consistent with 
damage a storm typically causes. In this case there was water ingress and damage to the 
lounge ceiling. Like our investigator, Im satisfied this type of damage is something that could 
be expected following a storm. So, Im able to answer this question affirmatively.
I now need to consider whether the storm was the main cause of the damage in this 
instance. Bs opinion is that storm conditions werent the main cause of the damage. Instead 
it thought the damage Mr G reported was due to age related deterioration of the lead 
flashing, which had caused the felt underneath to allow rainwater to ingress.
Mr G disputes what B has said in its report and cites the report prepared by the A who 
undertook repairs to his roof in 2016. A stated the felt it had fitted was the correct length and 
had shortened only because of the winds Mr G experienced in September 2018. That, 
however, is contrary to the opinion of both B and the home emergency agent that effected 
temporary repairs to Mr Gs roof.
Mr G questioned the thoroughness of B inspection. And hes raised concerns it inspected his 
roof from ground level. But it isnt unusual for buildings inspectors not to go up onto a 
policyholders roof due to health and safety, and other, reasons. 
Based on the report Ive seen, Im satisfied B undertook an appropriate and adequate 
inspection of Mr Gs property. A number of photographs were taken of the relevant areas of 
the roof and living room ceiling. And, impartially, I think these photographs support Bs 
findings that there was deterioration in the lead flashing and issues with the felt beneath.
I know Mr G feels RSA didnt take As opinion into account when it declined his claim. And I 
understand why he might question the impartiality of B. But B is a recognised organisation 
that regularly assesses property damage on behalf of insurers. So, it isnt unreasonable for 
RSA to use Bs expertise in assessing a claim for roof damage. 
Having carefully considered the report RSA obtained from B, Im satisfied that it has shown 
our service reliable evidence to demonstrate that the damage, most likely, occurred due to 
the pre-existing condition of the roof. Ive reviewed the report Mr G provided from A. But, like our investigator, Im not as 
persuaded by the content of that report. And I dont think As view renders Bs opinion 
unreliable. 
Overall, I prefer what B has said about the cause of damage here. I say this because lead 
flashing deterioration doesnt happen due to a one-off storm event. I say this because 
correctly applied and maintained flashing should be weather resistant and unaffected by 
storm related weather  although it will deteriorate over time when exposed to extremes of 
weather. Its clear to me from what B has said, and the photographs it took, the damage here 
was caused by poor maintenance of the roof.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its most likely that the adverse weather that Mr G 
experienced in September 2018 exposed the underlying deterioration of the lead flashing. 
And this explains why there was water ingress.  
RSAs policy booklet makes it clear that loss or damage caused by faulty workmanship, age 
related wear and tear or anything that happens gradually is specifically excluded under Mr 
Gs insurance policy. This is in common with most home insurance policies because 
insurance is intended to cover the unforeseen. And something wearing out or requiring 
maintenance isnt unforeseen. 
I know Mr G will be disappointed with this decision. I know he feels very strongly about the 
issues raised in his complaint. And I appreciate the reasons why he brought his complaint to 
our service. But RSA has shown that the damage that occurred isnt covered under the 
terms and conditions of Mr Gs insurance policy. I therefore dont think its decision about his 
claim was unreasonable. And this means it wouldnt be fair to require it to pay this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman