DRN-4424384
The complaint
Mr P has complained about damage charges applied by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance (MBFS) under a hire agreement.
What happened
In 2019 Mr P acquired a new car under a three-year hire agreement with MBFS. Rentals 
were around £360 per month. Mr P arranged for the car to be handed back in January 2023. 
It was inspected with Mr P on 3 January 2023, and it was inspected again on 5 January 
2023. 
MBFS wrote to Mr P to say he owed £1,100.90 for damage charges because the car had 
been returned outside of MBFSs vehicle return standards. This is made up of the following:
Number plate front incorrect type/spec £15
Number plate rear incorrect type/spec £15
Wheel left hand front rim damaged £110
Wheel left hand rear rim damaged £110
Wheel right hand front rim damaged £110
Wheel right hand rear rim damaged £110
Bumper front scratched £210
Door shut inner right hand front dented £130
C post trim lower right hand scuffed £50.40
Door right hand rear scratched £210
Steering column shroud lower air freshener 
damage£30.50
Mr P complained but MBFS thought the charges had been applied fairly, so he referred his 
complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into things and thought the charges 
were fair and while he noted only some of the damage areas were spotted during the first 
inspection, he didnt think it likely the other areas of damage highlighted on the second 
inspection happened after the car was collected from Mr P. 
Mr P disagreed. He said the initial inspector spent an hour inspecting the car and that he 
didnt think it was fair to decline the case on balance because it was unlikely for the damage 
to have taken place after the car was collected. He said MBFS was taking advantage of him 
as a consumer. And he mentioned faults he had with the car shortly after taking possession. 
I issued a provisional decision that said:
Mr P acquired the car using a regulated consumer hire agreement, and our service is able to 
consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. This decision focuses on Mr Ps 
complaint about damage charges because this is the complaint that MBFS has had the 
chance to consider. 
The car was new when it was supplied to Mr P, so I think its reasonable to assume it was 
supplied free from even minor defects. Therefore, any damage that was on the car when it 
was returned wouldve likely happened during the time it was with Mr P. 
I note the vehicle return standards are set out within the hire agreement itself. The 
agreement sets out that when the car is returned it must be in line with the vehicle return 
standards. And it also says if the vehicle has not been returned within those standards 
MBFS is able to charge costs either of repairing and/or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost 
of the consequent reduction in the sale of the vehicle, as compensation. It also says When 
the vehicle is returned to us, a Vehicle Return Standard Inspection will be carried out by 
trained technicians at the nominated Defleet Centre. 
As a starting point, Im satisfied that by signing the agreement, Mr P agreed to the terms. I 
therefore dont find MBFS is acting unfairly by applying charges for damage that falls outside 
of fair wear and tear, as per the return standards. Moreover, I dont think MBFS acted 
unfairly by carrying out another inspection at the Defleet Centre. 
Ive gone on to think about whether (or not) the damage falls outside of those standards. 
Before I do that, Ill highlight what the vehicle return standards says about the sort of 
damage MBFS is seeking to charge for. 
The return standards say everything that was originally supplied with the car must be 
returned with it. And that cherished plates must be put on retention. 
For alloys the return standards say that minor scuffing or damage under 25mm to the alloy, 
rim edge or wheel face is acceptable.
With regards to body and paint it says minor dents are acceptable if theyre less than 13mm 
in diameter, theres a maximum one dent per panel, or two dents per panel for vehicles up to 
two years old, and a maximum of four dents for vehicles over two years old. It says any 
excessive chipping or scratching of paintwork thats penetrated the base coat isnt 
acceptable. It also says dents on swage lines, folder edges or high-profile panels arent 
acceptable. 
The vehicle return standards also say scuff marks up to 50mm are acceptable as long as 
they dont affect the overall appearance of the vehicle. 
For the interior the return standards say that stains or discolouration of a permanent nature, 
damaged interior mouldings and trim pads arent acceptable. 
 
Turning first to the number plates, Mr P hasnt disputed he didnt put his cherished plates on 
retention. And hes not disputed the charges. I dont find the £15 charges to be unfair. 
I think both reports show scuffing or damage to all of the wheels over 25mm. I think all the 
charges have been applied fairly, and I dont consider £110 to be unreasonable for each 
wheel. 
Both reports highlight a scratch to the front bumper. And the second report that was taken in 
daylight shows a scratch that looks like its over 50mm. I think this charge has been applied 
fairly and I dont consider a charge of £210 to be unreasonable. 
Both reports highlight damage to the right hand front inner door. And it looks like theres a 
dent or scratch thats penetrated the base coat. I think this falls outside of the return 
standards, and I dont think the £130 charge is unreasonable. 
The damage to the C post trim isnt shown on the first report. But its quite clear on the 
second report. The trim is quite badly scuffed. On balance, I dont think its likely that all the marks happened after the car was collected. The photo Ive seen looks like the scuffs have 
happened over a prolonged period. I think the damage is outside of the return standards and 
I dont think the £50.40 charge is unreasonable. 
I can see on the 2nd report that theres a clear scratch on the right-hand rear door. And this 
looks to have penetrated the base coat, so I think it falls outside of fair wear and tear. But the 
issue with this scratch is that it wasnt noted on the first inspection. I appreciate it looks like 
the first inspection was carried out at night so it wasnt ideal conditions. But the inspector has 
noted other areas of damage that dont look as significant. Im not sure why this scratch 
wasnt noticed. Mr P has highlighted the inspector took about an hour to take a detailed look 
at the car. Its possible this door was damaged after the car was picked up from Mr P. Ill 
never know. But given it wasnt shown on the first inspection, and the inspector noted other 
areas of damage that werent as obvious or significant Im minded to say that MBFS should 
remove this charge. 
Finally, with regards to the marks caused by an air freshener, this wasnt noted on the initial 
inspection. And I cant see the damage clearly on any of the photos. Im also intending to say 
this charge should be removed as well. 
MBFS accepted the proposal. I cant see weve received a response from Mr P. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Seeing as though Ive not been supplied anything materially new to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance to remove the charge for the right-hand rear 
door (£210) and the steering column shroud (£30.50). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman