DRN-3961956
The complaint
Mrs A has complained, on Mr As behalf, that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited 
has said that he would need to obtain financial advice in order to move his Free Standing 
Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) policy into an income drawdown arrangement.
Mrs A has said that Prudential should have informed Mr A that the terms of the policy 
changed in 2015 (with the advent of pension freedoms) and that he would need to take 
costly financial advice to capitalise on being able to enter drawdown. Had it done so, Mrs A 
has said, Mr A could have transferred the policy to a drawdown policy with another provider 
at the normal retirement date of 65 (instead of deferring this to age 70 as he did) with no 
prospect of a market value reduction (MVR) being applied.
But if Mr A were to do this now, before his deferred retirement age of 70, he may face an 
MVR to do so.
What happened
When the pension freedoms were introduced in 2015, the legislation enabled policyholders 
to take (in most circumstances, but with exceptions) their pension benefits as a lump sum or 
to draw them down by way of income as and when required, rather than needing to take the 
benefits as an annuity, as had previously been the case.
When Prudential told Mr A that he would need to obtain financial advice before it would 
convert his FSAVC plan into a drawdown policy, Mrs A complained on his behalf on the 
above basis.
Prudential didnt uphold the complaint, however, saying that it had taken the commercial 
decision to require financial advice for policyholders who wished to enter drawdown. It also 
confirmed that, as at the date of issuing its final response letter, an MVR wasnt applicable to 
Mr As policy.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mrs A referred the matter to this service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld, saying the 
following in summary:
As the options introduced by the pension freedoms in 2015 werent available when 
the policy began, this wouldnt have been covered by the policys original terms and 
conditions.
It was up to Prudential as to whether it required, as a business decision, its 
policyholders to seek financial advice before entering income drawdown.
Although he would expect Prudential to have informed Mr A of important changes 
affecting his policy, it wasnt reasonable to expect Prudential to write to all of its 
customers in advance of them thinking about how they might wish to access their 
pension benefits. This could instead be communicated to the relevant policyholders 
who wished to take that particular course of action.
He considered Prudentials position on the application of the MVR  in that it could be 
applied at any point other than the selected retirement date  to be reasonable. It 
wasnt unusual for providers to not be able to confirm whether an MVR would apply 
at a later date, or how much the MVR might be.
Mrs A disagreed, however. Whilst Mrs A accepts that an MVR might apply unless the policy 
is taken at certain points, her point remains that, had Mr A been told in 2015 when the 
legislation changed that they would need to seek financial advice to enter drawdown, they 
would have transferred the policy in 2021 to a provider which didnt require financial advice, 
MVR free. Now Mr A will have to wait until his 70th birthday to ensure that his pension 
benefits arent reduced by the MVR.
As agreement hasnt been reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully noted what Mrs A has said in response to the investigators view on the matter, 
predominantly in the telephone call which she had with the investigator, in which she set out 
her objections as described above.
And so, I think the fundamental question here is whether Prudential should have told Mr A 
when the legislation changed to enable access to the FSAVC beyond an annuity that he 
would need to seek financial advice to go into drawdown. 
But as with the investigator, I dont think that Prudential needed to proactively do so. It 
wasnt a change to the policy terms  the policy itself didnt change. The different ways of 
accessing pension benefits at retirement age changed as a result of the pension freedoms, 
but Prudential didnt change the terms of its policy. And as noted by the investigator, as the 
pension freedoms hadnt been implemented when the policy began, these different ways of 
taking pension benefits, and the requirements to do so, couldnt in any case have been 
incorporated into those original policy terms.
I also dont think Prudential needed to alter its policy terms to include the requirement for 
advice if a policyholder wished to enter into drawdown  and then contact all policyholders to 
confirm this. What Prudential needed to do, when people were seeking to take their benefits, 
was set out the range of options available to them. But I dont think that it needed to contact 
all policyholders to tell them about the requirement for advice if they were thinking of 
entering drawdown at some point in the future. As commented by the investigator, this is 
something which could have been clarified if a particular policyholder such as Mr A wished to 
enter into drawdown when it came to taking their benefits.
I understand Mrs As point about the policy possibly being subject to an MVR before the 
deferred retirement age of 70. But Prudential has confirmed that, as at the date of issuing 
the final response letter, no MVR was applicable on the policy. And its of course open to Mr 
A to seek confirmation of this once more if he wishes to transfer his benefits before age 70. 
Prudential will then be able to confirm whether an MVR currently applies to his policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman