DRN-4386683
The complaint
Miss M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC promised to apply blocks on her 
account to service providers but failed to do so, allowing Miss M to spend money she 
couldnt afford.
 
What happened
Miss M asked Tesco, as a vulnerable customer, to block payments to food delivery services. 
Tescos adviser told her a block would take one week. But after this she said a transaction 
went through. Miss M complained and said Tesco told her it wasnt able to block service 
providers and rejected her complaint. But she noticed a few days later that it had blocked the 
delivery service providers. Tesco rejected her complaint again by saying it wasnt at fault.
Tesco said the service provider for whom the block was requested had used different 
credentials for Miss Ms subsequent transaction, meaning the payment would go through. 
Tesco said a block wont prevent a one-off transaction if there is sufficient credit.
Miss M was unhappy with Tescos reply and referred her complaint to us. Our investigator 
recommended it be upheld. She said Miss M could have better explained her vulnerability to 
Tesco, who should have asked for more details and provided more information about the 
requested blocks. The investigator said Miss M wasnt aware the service provider could use 
different credentials. She said Tesco should pay Miss M £50 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience she experienced due to its lack of transparency.
Miss M accepted this outcome, but Tesco did not and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. Tesco said Miss M requested blocks but said she impulse buys when upset. A 
block wouldnt have prevented similar purchases with any other similar provider, such as the 
ones she has previously transacted with. Tesco said it didnt think it could differentiate 
between a genuine spend and an impulse buy so as to guarantee an effective block.
Another investigator also upheld the complaint due to Miss Ms call with Tesco, which she 
described as brief and generic with no attempt to understand the issue. She said it would 
have benefitted Miss M to know from Tesco that the blocks might not be fully effective, and 
Tesco wouldn't be able to distinguish between compulsive and normal spending. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco told Miss M that the blocks she had requested would be applied but this wouldnt be 
immediate. Miss M complains that she was then able to make payments to the relevant 
service providers. 
I can see the blocks were applied by Tesco, but a different merchant ID was used by the 
service provider allowing Miss Ms transaction to be completed. Tesco has no control over 
this, and I accept its points about the less than total effectiveness of these controls.
Tesco also makes a fair point about the difficulty it faces in trying to distinguish between 
normal spending and compulsive spending and has given an example of Miss Ms 
transaction to a similar service provider in respect of which she didnt subsequently request 
a block. I can see Tescos difficulty here and that would apply to any account provider.
Ive listened to the call where Miss M requested Tesco apply the blocks and the follow up 
call when Miss M discovered the transaction had completed. I think Tescos adviser should 
have told Miss M that the blocks could be attempted, but it couldnt guarantee effectiveness. 
These conversations can help a consumer make more informed decisions about compulsive 
spending, such as potentially contacting the service provider directly to see if there's 
anything else that would help.
I also think its unfortunate that the adviser didnt check with Miss M as to why she wanted 
the blocks applied, as this would have elicited her vulnerable status, i.e. spending money in 
this way when she is upset.
I agree with the investigator that Miss Ms brief reflections on her difficulty should have given 
rise to some questioning from the adviser, and for this reason I think the complaint should be 
upheld, rather than because the block wasn't effective. I think £50 compensation to Miss M 
is fair and reasonable for the confusion and disappointment she suffered when not 
understanding the limitations of the blocks she thought were in place. 
Tesco provided us with a copy of its Vulnerable Customers Policy. This states that advisers 
are to understand the needs of customers in vulnerable situations and circumstances and to 
provide the appropriate support for their individual needs and to do that by asking sensitive 
or personal questions. I dont think that happened in the calls with Miss M and so I uphold 
this complaint. 
Having said the above, Im pleased Tescos adviser signposted Miss M to help and advice 
about being in debt and she declined to speak to Tescos Financial Assistance Team. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I require 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC to pay Miss M £50 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman