DRN-3497304
Complaint
Mr P has complained about a guarantor loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as George 
Banco.com) provided to him. 
He says he took this loan to consolidate debts but it should have been noted that he was 
using various companies to take out loans with high interest rates and so he shouldnt have 
been provided with this loan.
Background
George Banco provided Mr P with a loan for £10,000.00 in October 2019. This loan was due 
to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of just under £395. The purpose of the loan at the 
time of the application was recorded as debt consolidation.
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr P and George Banco had told us. And he thought 
that George Banco hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr P unfairly. So he didnt 
recommend that Mr Ps complaint be upheld. Mr P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman 
to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr P complaint.
George Banco needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is George Banco needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr P could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
George Banco says it agreed to Mr Ps application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and copies of bank statements which Mr P was 
asked to provide. In its view all of this information showed Mr P could to comfortably make 
the repayments he was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr P has said he should never have been provided with this guarantor 
loan because of his existing financial position.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr P and George Banco have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that George Banco clearly asked Mr P to provide quite a bit 
documentation to support his application. So I dont think that this was a case of George 
Banco simply accepting an over-optimistic declaration of monthly disposable income at face 
value. Indeed, Mr P was asked to provide copies of his bank statements. And George Banco 
appears to have used the lowest amount credited to Mr Ps account to determine his monthly 
income.
George Bancos credit searches also showed the existing debts Mr P has referred to. But 
having reviewed the bank statements obtained, I cant see anything on them which indicated 
Mr P wouldnt be able to make the repayments to this loan had he consolidated his existing 
debts in the way he said he was going to. 
Indeed, although this loan was expensive, it had a lower interest rate than some of Mr Ps 
existing debts. And while it did increase the length of time Mr P had to make payments for, 
theres no doubting that Mr P would have been able to afford the repayments and would 
have had an increased monthly disposable income as long as Mr P cleared his existing 
debts.  
Equally, as this was Mr Ps first loan with George Banco, Im satisfied that it was reasonably 
entitled to believe that Mr P would settle his existing debts with the proceeds from this loan. 
And that it wouldnt be increasing Mr Ps existing indebtedness in a way that was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful. I accept that Mr P says he experienced difficulty making 
the payments. And I suspect the reason is because Mr P says he used some of the funds to 
buy a car and for home improvements and so didnt clear all of his existing debts. 
But George Banco could only make a reasonable decision based on the information it had 
available at the time. It wont have known Mr P wouldnt clear all his debts once he was 
provided with the funds. All George Banco could do was take reasonable steps to ensure the 
payments would be affordable should Mr P clear his other debts like he said he would, which 
for reasons Ive already explained, Im satisfied it did so.
As this is the case, I dont think that George Banco did anything wrong when deciding to lend 
to Mr P - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that George Banco treated Mr P unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr P. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Jeshen NarayananOmbudsman