DRN-2700101
The complaint
Ms D makes a number of complaints about Nationwide Building Society.
What happened
Ms D says Nationwide didnt update her address or telephone number correctly and this led 
to a number of account access problems and a delay in receiving a new credit card. She 
says the problems took some time to sort out and that she made a number of calls to 
Nationwide about the problems.  Ms D would like a sincere apology and appropriate 
compensation and says the mistake could have affected her credit score and did affect her 
good name.
Nationwide accepts it made mistakes in updating the address and sending out statements 
incorrectly. It also accepts it didnt remove a restriction marker from its records that meant 
the new credit card was delayed. Nationwide has apologised for what took place and paid a 
total of £250 compensation.
Ms D brought her complaint to us and our investigator accepted Nationwide had made 
mistakes but had apologised and paid a fair and reasonable compensation amount of £250. 
The investigator didnt think Ms D had suffered any financial loss and that the problems have 
now been sorted out.
Ms D doesnt accept that view and in summary says Nationwide didnt resolve anything and 
it was her that told it about the problems. She says it was fortunate she kept her credit rating 
and says we should be keeping an eye on institutions. Ms D would like further 
compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Nationwide has paid a fair and 
reasonable compensation amount. I appreciate Ms D will be disappointed by my decision 
and I appreciate how strongly she feels about what took place.
There is no dispute here that Nationwide made a number of mistakes in updating its records 
and by not removing a marker from Ms Ds account. I have no doubt Ms D was caused 
inconvenience and distress as a result and can see that she called Nationwide on a number 
of occasions. But Im satisfied that Nationwide has fairly apologised for what took place and 
has given Ms D an explanation about the events.
The key issue is the level of compensation. I dont think Ms D suffered any financial loss as a 
result of what took place and I have not seen any evidence that her credit score suffered. I 
appreciate Ms D says that credit score could have been reduced but I have to consider what 
did happen rather than would could have. Im satisfied that Nationwide has paid a fair and 
reasonable compensation amount of £250. I think that award reflects that it took some 
months for the problems to get sorted out.
I make clear to Ms D that we are not Nationwides regulator and so its not our role to punish 
or fine a business. And our role is not, as Ms D says, to keep an eye on financial institutions 
but to look fairly at a complaint and reach an independent decision.
Overall, I accept Nationwide ought to have dealt with, what I think are, relatively 
straightforward matters far sooner and more appropriately. But Im also satisfied its paid a 
fair and reasonable compensation amount and so I cant fairly order it to increase that 
amount. I think this brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can 
do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman