DRN-3818083
The complaint
Ms E complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (MHCC) supplied her with a car that 
wasnt fit for purpose, and charged her excessive fees when she terminated the hire 
agreement early.
 
What happened
In October 2017 Ms E was supplied with a new car through a hire agreement with MHCC. 
The agreement was for 36 months, with a first monthly payment of £899, followed by 35 
monthly payments of £299.94.
The agreement was for a minimum period of 36 months. It included a total mileage cap of 
30,000 miles. The agreement had an excess mileage charge, payable at 13.76 pence for 
every mile travelled over the 30,000 mile cap.
In February 2018 Ms E discovered the air bags in the car couldnt be turned off manually. 
She said she was never told this.  She said this was inconvenient for her as it meant she 
couldnt fit a child car seat in the front passenger seat, as it was difficult to fit the rear 
seatbelts around two car seats. She also said she couldnt have her dog in the front seat, nor 
any of her pregnant friends. 
She said she asked MHCC if she could change to a bigger car and if she could increase the 
mileage allowance. She said they wouldnt allow this, but she said they did offer to reduce 
the early termination fee. She said she didnt accept the offer as she couldnt afford to buy a 
new car and pay the excess mileage fee. She told MHCC that it wasnt economically viable 
due to the excess mileage shed done.
In November 2018 Ms E complained to MHCC about an issue with the engine management 
light (EML). Ms E also asked about the cost to terminate the agreement early. 
On 7 January 2019 Ms E asked MHCC for the cost of terminating the agreement as she said 
she could no longer afford it. 
She said shed returned the car to MHCC, 14 months into the agreement. Shes unhappy as 
she now has to pay 50% of the outstanding monthly payments as an early termination fee, 
plus an excess mileage charge of more than £1,000.  She said she wanted these charges to 
be waived. She also said they wouldnt allow her time to pay and said theyd note this on her 
credit file. 
MHCC issued their final response to Ms Es complaint about the airbag on 10 April 2018. 
They said shed never raised this issue with the supplier before acquiring the car. They said 
it was the manufacturers decision to restrict the option to switch off the air bag, and they 
understood this had been done this for child safety reasons.
In the same letter theyd offered to reduce the early termination fee to £2,661 and said this 
offer was available until 15 May 2018.
On 12 September 2018 MHCC issued another final response letter to Ms E. This repeated 
their position on the air bag issue as set out in the letter of 10 April 2018. It also explained 
why they were unable to offer the earlier voluntary termination charge due to the time that 
had passed. They explained the fee due on voluntary termination would now be £3,749.24. 
They said this was equal to 50% of the remaining rentals and was valid until 15 September 
2018. They said they would calculate the mileage on a pro-rata basis and excess mileage 
charges would be invoiced separately, along with any charge for damage to the car.
On 22 November 2018 MHCC responded to Ms Es complaint about the engine 
management light issue. MHCC said the fault was diagnosed on 15 November 2018, and 
the DPF sensor was replaced, at no cost to Ms E. They told her the cost to terminate the 
agreement early would be 50% of the outstanding rentals.
In January 2019 MHCC provided Ms E with details of the early termination charges. They 
told her they were willing to accept her request to repay the amount over 24 months, and 
there was likely to be a negative impact on her credit file. They said she told them she would 
pay the amount in full.
In March 2019 Ms E told our investigator she had returned the car. She said she couldnt 
afford the reduced voluntary termination charge due to the addition of the excess mileage 
fee. She also said shed asked to increase the annual mileage allowance but was told this 
would increase her monthly payments to £600, and she couldnt afford this amount. She said 
shed originally taken a low mileage allowance as she commuted to work by train. She said 
she started driving to work when the train became unreliable, and this took her over the 
allowance. 
Ms E was unhappy with MHCCs response, and she brought her complaint to this service for 
investigation.
Our investigator said that he couldnt look at Ms Es complaint about the air bags issue 
making the car not fit for purpose. He said this was because MHCC had issued their final 
response on this matter to her in April 2018, and she didnt bring her complaint to this 
service until January 2019. This was outside the six month time limit set out in the rules 
under which this service operates.
He did consider the other complaint issues shed raised. He said he didnt think MHCC had 
done anything wrong when it didnt offer the discounted rate for voluntary termination it had 
offered in April 2018 when she asked later in August 2018.
He said that he thought the engine management light issue made the car of unsatisfactory 
quality. He said that the repair carried out was a reasonable resolution of the complaint. He 
noted that Ms E had to take the car to the garage twice over a short period of time. He said 
that MHCC should pay Ms E £100 to reflect the distress and inconvenience this caused to 
her.
He also considered the amount MHCC charged Ms E for exiting the hire agreement early. 
He explained why he felt that MHCC was unfairly benefiting from the amount it was 
charging. He said MHCC should deduct the amount of £1,212.02 from the combined early 
termination (£2,999.40) and excess mileage fees (£1,221.42).
Ms E didnt accept our investigators outcome. She said that the basis of her complaint was 
that the car was not fit for purpose due to the airbag issue. She said shed investigated this 
with the supplier, and with MHCC. She said they agreed with her that the issue could not be 
resolved so she tried to negotiate with them to avoid litigation. She said she repeatedly asked to upgrade the car to something more suitable and to increase the mileage allowance 
so that she would not be left with a car that wasnt suitable, or excess mileage charges.
She said she tried to exhaust all avenues before bringing her complaint to this service.
She said MHCC adopted a cavalier attitude and left her with no choice but to terminate the 
contract.
MHCC agreed to pay the amount of compensation for distress and inconvenience our 
investigator had suggested. They also agreed to credit £1212.02, without applying 8% 
interest, leaving an outstanding balance of £3008.79. They said they did not agree with the 
fairness of the Early Termination fees.
They later agreed to accept our investigators approach to resolving this complaint.
Because Ms E didnt agree with the investigator, the matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Ms E was supplied with a car under a hire agreement. This is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about 
it.
Fit for purpose
Ms E says that car wasnt fit for purpose because she discovered she couldnt deactivate the 
front airbag. She said this meant she couldnt fit a child car seat in the front of her car  
making it not fit for purpose. She said this should make the contract void. 
Why I cant look into this complaint.
The time limits Im required to consider and are relevant to this case are set out in DISP 2 of 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook. The specific rule that is relevant here is 
DISP 2.8.2. It says; 
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service: 
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the 
complainant its final response, redress determination or summary 
resolution communication 
Im satisfied that MHCC issued their final response to Ms Es complaint about the air bag 
issue on 10 April 2018. In that letter they acknowledged the difficulties she had fitting child 
seats in the car. And they explained why they were not upholding her complaint.Ms E said that she continued to discuss the issue with MHCC to avoid litigation. That doesnt 
change the fact that MHCC clearly explained that she had six months from the date of the 
letter to bring the complaint to this service. And in bold letters, they say that they will not 
permit this service to consider the complaint if she didnt bring the complaint within six 
months of the date of the letter.
Ive seen that final response letters issued in September 2018 and November 2018 also 
referred to this matter. These did not change MHCCs position and merely reiterated the 
position they had set out in the April 2018 response. So I cant say these letters extended 
the deadline.
Because Ms E brought her complaint to this service on 22 January 2019, more than six 
months after the initial Final Response Letter, its been brought too late.
 
Our rules say that I can set that time limit aside if Im satisfied that the failure to comply with 
it was as a result of exceptional circumstances. The rules give an example of exceptional 
circumstances as where a consumer might have been incapacitated. Ms E says she 
continued to try and resolve this with MHCC.
 
I accept that was what she was doing. But it didnt prevent her from raising the complaint 
with our service within the six month period. And she hasnt told us about any other 
circumstances which wouldve effectively prevented her from bringing the complaint in time. 
So, I find no reason to set the time limit aside.
I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Ms E, but I cannot consider this part 
of her complaint against MHCC.
Gesture of goodwill offer
Ms E complained that MHCC wouldnt honour the early termination quote it provided in April 
2018 when she made the request again in August 2018. 
Ive reviewed the relevant correspondence. Im satisfied that MHCC made it clear to Ms E 
that the figure quoted was only available until 15 May 2018. They also explained that the 
lower amount of £2,661 was lower than she would normally have to pay and was offered as 
a gesture of goodwill.
On 21 May 2018, Ms E confirmed to MHCC that she did not wish to terminate the agreement 
early. 
When Ms E contacted them again in August 2018, they told Ms E that the discounted fee 
offered in April 2018 was no longer available. I dont think that was unfair or unreasonable. 
MHCC had made it clear to Ms E that the offer made in April 2018 was time limited. And 
because it was a goodwill gesture, they were not bound by it.
So I wont be asking them to do anything more in relation to this part of the complaint.
Quality of goods
Ms E complained that there was an issue with engine management light (EML). MHCC 
arranged an inspection in October 2018, but no fault was found.
The EML light came on again in November 2018. A further inspection was carried out and 
identified a fault with the DPF sensor. This was then replaced under warranty.MHCC supplied the car to Ms E under a consumer hire agreement. This makes them 
responsible for the quality of the goods.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
MHCC are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by what a reasonable person 
would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant circumstances.
 
The CRA says the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of goods.
MHCC supplied Ms E with a brand new car. So I think its fair to say that a
reasonable person would expect the level of quality to be higher than a used car.
Im satisfied there was a fault with the car. A fault with the DPF sensor was identified, and it 
had to be replaced. Im satisfied that this means the car was not of satisfactory quality. I say 
that because I wouldnt have expected to see a fault like this occurring in a car of this age  
not yet 12 months old.
The appropriate remedy under the CRA is for the car to be repaired. That is what was done 
so I think that part of the complaint was resolved fairly and reasonably.
But I do think this caused some inconvenience to Ms E. She had to take the car to the 
garage on two separate occasions to have the fault identified and fixed. Having considered 
the impact this had on Ms E, Im satisfied that MHCC should pay £100 to reflect the 
inconvenience to Ms E.
Early termination of the agreement
Ms E asked to exit the agreement early. This hire agreement does not include an option to 
exit the agreement early. MHCC agreed to allow Ms E to exit the agreement early on 
payment of both an excess mileage and an early termination charge.
Ms E is unhappy with the amount being charged. I need to consider whether or not the fee 
being charged is fair and reasonable. But I also have to be mindful of the legal position.
The right to terminate a hire agreement is covered by Section 101 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1977 (CCA). But this section does not apply to agreements where the hirer is required to 
make payments exceeding £1,500 in a year. Because Ms Es payments total more than 
£1,500 a year, I do not consider Section 101 applies here.
So is what MHCC charging Ms E fair and reasonable.
 
Here both parties have consented to an early exit from the hire agreement. The agreement 
has no cancellation rights, and the agreement only explains the liability on Ms E should 
MHCC terminate the agreement early. It appears early termination is only an option for 
MHCC. So the contract makes no allowance for these circumstances.
MHCC has charged Ms E two fees  an excess mileage fee and an early termination charge. 
Theres no dispute that Ms E exceeded the mileage cap set out in the original agreement. I 
agree with the assumption made by our investigator that MHCC has charged both fees to 
compensate for the loss arising from the devaluation of the car through Ms E exceeding the 
expected mileage, and from her not fulfilling the agreed payments for the contractually 
agreed duration of the agreement.I think that the fee charged by MHCC should fairly and reasonably represent the position 
MHCC wouldve been in had the agreement run to its full term. Its important for me to say 
that I think this approach meets whats expected by the industry regulator the Financial 
Conduct Authority. Im referring to their Principles for Businesses, in particular Principle 6, 
which say that A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
Im satisfied that the formula used by our investigator fairly does that. 
Ms E returned the car around 20 months before the agreement was due to be completed. 
This meant she had £5,998.80 left on the agreement to pay.
The agreement was terminated in January 2019, and MHCC charged Ms E £2,999.40 in
an early termination charge.
Im satisfied the figures provided by our investigator are reliable. And neither party has 
disputed them. So Ill use those figures in my calculation. He used the motor trade guides to 
consider the likely selling price of the vehicle had the agreement run for the full term based 
on the total mileage allowance. He then compared this to the likely selling price of the 
vehicle when it was actually returned, based on the actual mileage Ms E used. 
The approximate market value for the car had the agreement run its full course and shed 
driven the expected 30,000 miles was £13,720. The approximate market value for the car 
when it was actually returned and had driven 22,313 miles was £16,710. This means the 
approximate trade value is £2,990 more than MHCC would have likely expected to receive 
had the agreement run full term and within the mileage allowance stated.
Had the agreement run its intended full term, and had Ms E remained within the annual 
mileage cap, MHCC, in addition to the likely sale price of £13,720 would have received a
further 20 months of rentals totalling £5,998.80. So, I calculate the total amount MHCC were
expecting to receive, had the agreement run its course and the car been driven no further
than its maximum mileage, can be worked out as follows:
£5,998.80 MHC were expecting in the 20 remaining rentals, plus
£13,720 MHC would have likely made in selling the vehicle at the intended end of the
agreement,
making a total of £19,718.80.
In this matter, Ms E terminated the agreement 20 months early and with excess mileage. 
Based on the valuation obtained, MHCC could have achieved a likely higher sale price of the 
vehicle of £16,710. MHCC also asked Ms E to pay £2,999.40 in an early termination fee, and 
£1,221.42 for excess mileage. So, the total amount that MHCC wouldve received, through 
the agreement ending early, can be worked out as follows:
£2,999.40 in an early termination fee that MHC applied, plus
£1,221.42 in excess mileage charges, plus
£16,710 it would have likely made in selling the vehicle on early termination of the 
agreement,making a total of £20,930.82.
So it appears that MHCC would have benefitted by around £1,212.02 from the agreement
ending earlier and the car being driven further than agreed, when compared to what would
have likely been received had the hire agreement run its original full term as expected.
Im satisfied that its reasonable for MHCC to charge Ms E for terminating the agreement 
early. But the fees they proposed to charge Ms E for terminating their agreement did not pay 
due regard to the interests of Ms E and treat her fairly (as it was required to do by Principle 
6) by requiring her to pay what I consider to be a high and disproportionate charge. 
Putting things right
It appears that MHCC has benefitted by around £1,212.02 from the agreement ending early 
and the way it applied both an excess mileage charge and an early termination charge 
As Ive explained above, I dont think this is reasonable. To put things right MHCC should:
deduct the amount of £1,212.02 from the combined early termination (£2,999.40) and 
excess mileage fees (£1,221.42). 
In addition to this, I think MHCC should pay Ms E £100 for the inconvenience arising 
from the fault with the DPF.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Ms Es complaint. Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc must 
follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman