DRN-2395364
The complaint
Miss L complains that Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited declined her critical 
illness claim. 
What happened
Miss L applied and took out a life and critical illness policy with Scottish Friendly through an 
insurance broker on 10 September 2019. The day after her application Miss L was referred 
to a breast clinic after she went to her local urgent care hub to review lumps she had found. 
When she applied for the policy, Miss L answered No to the following questions;
In the last 3 months  Have you noticed or been aware of any breast changes including but 
not limited to a lump, swelling or firmness?
Have you had a lump or growth of any kind, or a mole or freckle that has bled, changed 
colour or become painful?
Sadly, in October 2019 Miss L had to make a claim under the policy for breast cancer. 
Scottish Friendly considered the claim but decided to decline it. It said Miss L had 
deliberately or recklessly misrepresented her medical history when taking out the policy. 
Specifically, it said Miss L shouldve answered yes to the above questions and if she had 
done so, it wouldnt have offered her a policy. So, it decided to cancel her policy and return 
her premiums. 
Miss L was unhappy with this decision, so she made a complaint. Scottish Friendly reviewed 
the complaint but maintained its decision. So, Miss L brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said he thought Miss L had 
made a careless misrepresentation but from the evidence provided by Scottish Friendly, the 
outcome wouldve been the same  that Miss L wouldnt have been offered a policy and her 
premiums wouldve been returned. 
Miss L disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said there wasnt a lump on 
her breast, and she didnt have any change to its size. She said there werent any physical 
swellings or firmness and she was checked and told there was nothing wrong. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Im not upholding it. I know this will be very disappointing for 
Miss L. Id like to assure her I havent made this decision lightly. In doing so, Ive looked at 
and considered all the evidence Miss L and Scottish Friendly have provided to this service  
and Id like to assure her that if I dont mention a particular point, its not because I havent 
considered it, but because Im focusing instead on whats important to the outcome. 
In reviewing this case Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding approach to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and insurer when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading), provided 
the insurer has asked a clear question. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions accurately, CIDRA sets out the remedies available to the insurer.
So, the issues for me to consider are whether Miss L has misrepresented her medical history 
when taking out this policy. And if so, Scottish Friendly needs to show it wouldnt have 
offered the policy at all or on different terms. 
Was there a misrepresentation in relation to Miss Ls medical history?
CIDRA requires me to consider whether a reasonable person wouldve made 
Scottish Friendly aware of Miss Ls medical history when applying for the policy. Having 
done so, I dont think a reasonable person wouldve forgotten about the lumps when 
completing the application and considering the questions Scottish Friendly asked. 
I understand Miss L has said she saw her GP in 2018 for a lump but was given the all clear. 
But that isnt the issue here. On 12 September 2019, the day after Miss L applied for the 
policy, she was referred to a breast clinic after she visited her local urgent care hub. She 
was seen in the breast clinic on 20 September 2019. A letter from this appointment 
mentioned Miss L being aware of two discrete lumps in her left breast for the last month or 
so and being aware of a lump in her left axilla for the last couple of weeks. Miss L had an 
ultrasound and biopsies were taken. Following the referral, she was diagnosed with breast 
cancer in October 2019. 
Having reviewed the questions Miss L was asked, Im satisfied it was sufficiently clear to 
allow her to answer them correctly. She was referred, following an appointment at her local 
care hub, the day after the policy started which mentioned she had been aware of the lumps 
before applying for the policy. And she was sent a copy of the answers she had given 
Scottish Friendly the day after she went to the urgent care hub. But she failed to amend any 
of her answers, despite being asked, and being made reasonably aware of the 
consequences if she failed to do so. 
So, I believe Miss L did make a misrepresentation here. 
What would Scottish Friendly have done differently? 
Scottish Friendly has treated this misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless. But its applied 
a careless remedy under CIDRA, which is to cancel the policy and refund the premiums. Im 
not satisfied Miss L deliberately or recklessly misrepresented her medical history. So, I 
believe its appropriate to categorise her actions as careless here. And under CIDRA, when 
its found a consumer has made a careless misrepresentation, Scottish Friendly can take 
whatever action it wouldve taken if the correct answers had been given at the point of 
application. 
Based on what we know about Miss Ls lumps and referral at the time of the application, 
Scottish Friendly has provided its underwriting criteria which shows if it was made aware of 
this, it wouldnt have offered a policy until Miss L had attended her referrals and an outcome 
had been known. Ive seen from the medical evidence that it was this referral and 
investigations that led to her breast cancer diagnosis. This means Scottish Friendly wouldnt 
have offered Miss L any cover here. I know my decision leaves Miss L in a difficult position following her diagnosis and her 
current state of health. Im sorry to disappoint her, but overall, I dont think shes been 
treated unfairly. So, Im not going to ask Scottish Friendly to take any further action here.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman