DRN-3543286
The complaint
Mr A complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited (Haven) has turned down his claim 
on his commercial car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr As car suffered damage after he drove it through water during localised flooding. Having 
had the car towed to a manufacturers garage, Mr A was told the engine needed to be 
replaced. Mr A had this done around a month later and paid for the repairs himself. 
Around a week after the incident, Mr A claimed on his car insurance policy. A few months 
later, Haven turned down Mr As claim.  When Mr A complained about this, Haven didnt 
uphold his complaint. It said Mr A had chosen to drive through deep water and so failed to 
safeguard his car. It pointed to an exclusion in Mr As policy saying he wasnt covered for 
loss or damage caused by driving through deep water. And Haven also said its engineers 
couldnt assess the damage to Mr As car, because hed got the repairs done himself before 
it could do so.
So Mr A brought his complaint to us. The investigator who looked at it didnt uphold it. He 
said Haven ought to have had a fair opportunity to assess the damage. But he also thought it 
most likely, had it done so, Havens assessment wouldve been similar to that of Mr As 
garage. So he didnt think this had prejudiced Mr As claim. But our investigator also thought 
Havens policy exclusion was clear. And he thought there was also clear evidence the 
damage to Mr As car had been caused by driving through deep water. So he thought Haven 
had acted fairly and reasonably in turning down Mr As claim.
Mr A disagrees. He asks how he could tell there was deep water when he was driving at 
night? He also says he wouldnt have gone through the water deliberately since it meant he 
was unable to work until his car was repaired. So Mr As complaint has come to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
When an insurer doesnt pay a claim, our role is to see if we think its been fair in turning it 
down. When doing so well look at the circumstances, the policy terms and any applicable 
industry guidelines. So thats what Ive done here.
Mr A says the damage to his car was caused when he drove through some localised 
flooding on a road he didnt know well. The repair estimate Mr A got from his garage said the 
car was reported to have run through flooding, that water was present in the air filter and 
housing and that the engine wasnt turning. It says the engine had seized and needed to be 
replaced. Although Haven couldnt assess the damage to the car itself, I dont think there 
can be any dispute that driving through the water is what caused Mr As car engine to seize. 
The terms of Mr As policy say he isnt covered for loss or damage caused by driving through 
deep water. Deep water isnt defined in the policy  and, understandably given the 
conditions Mr A says he was driving in, he hasnt been able to say how deep the water was. 
But given that the water was deep enough to cause Mr As car engine to seize, I think Haven 
has acted fairly and reasonably in saying Mr A drove through deep water. And I say this 
even if, as Mr A suggests, it was splashback from the car ahead (which he says also broke 
down) that contributed to the damage to Mr As car. From this it follows that I think Haven 
acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with Mr As policy terms and conditions, in turning 
down his claim.
I appreciate Mr A didnt intend to damage his car when he drove through the water and that 
he was driving when it was very dark in an unfamiliar area. And I can understand Mr A had 
an expectation that his car insurance policy would pay out in these circumstances. But car 
insurance doesnt cover every situation. And, in this instance, Mr As policy had a clear 
exclusion which I think Haven has applied fairly and reasonably in these particular 
circumstances.
I should also say I agree with our investigator that Mr As claim wasnt prejudiced by Haven 
not being able to assess the damage to the car before it was repaired. The information from       
Mr As garage in its repair estimate is unequivocal, and from this and what Mr A says 
happened, I think its likely Haven wouldve reached similar conclusions had it assessed the 
damage.
Mr A had the repairs done around a month after the incident and Haven turned down the 
claim around three months afterwards. Mr A has asked why it took so long for Haven to turn 
down a claim that, initially, it seemed to accept. But for at least some of this time, Haven was 
waiting for repair estimates and invoices from Mr A and/or his garage. So while it was 
unfortunate that, for some time, Mr A quite reasonably thought his claim was going through, I 
cant say Haven delayed unreasonably in making its decision to turn it down. Ive looked at 
all of Mr As other comments on this complaint but they dont change my conclusions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr As complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 
28 July 2022. 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman