DRN-2276204
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy with the way ERGO Reiseversicherung AG handled a claim she made on 
her travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs D was on a cruise with her husband. She had taken out insurance with ERGO  only 
Mrs D was named on the policy.
Unfortunately, Mrs D had a fall and had to go to hospital on the mainland  she was 
diagnosed with a fracture to her vertebrae and returned to the ship the next day. Mrs Ds 
husband contacted ERGO who said they needed a more detailed medical report. They 
agreed to call Mr and Mrs D early the following morning.
Mrs D is unhappy with the level of assistance she received from ERGO. She says that she 
spent the rest of the cruise in bed. She said she had limited access to pain relief and ERGO 
didnt arrange a more comfortable seat home for her.
In their final response letter ERGO said that theyd requested medical evidence to try and 
help Mrs D but they hadnt received it. So they werent able to assist her without that 
information. They also said that there was a claim which remained open, but a completed 
claim form hadnt been received.
Mrs D made a complaint to our service because she was unhappy the claim hadnt been 
settled and with the support shed received whilst abroad. Our investigator looked into what 
had happened and didnt uphold Mrs Ds complaint. She thought ERGO had asked for more 
medical information and theyd made it clear to the cruise welfare team they were 
contacting, that they needed more information in order to help Mrs D.
In September 2020 I issued my provisional decision which said I was intending to uphold 
Mrs Ds complaint. In summary I said that Mrs D hadnt received a good service from ERGO 
including not receiving a call back and not being clearly told what medical information was 
needed. I also thought that ERGO could have been more proactive about getting the 
medical information they needed. I concluded that ERGO should put things right by paying 
£300 compensation. I also said that ERGO should treat Mrs Ds holiday as effectively 
curtailed at the point she fell and refund her a proportion of the cruise costs together with 
outstanding taxi and phone bills. 
Mrs D responded to say that she was still suffering and was taking medication. She also 
explained that her husbands holiday was ruined because he had to take care of her. She 
said that she felt the compensation could be higher. 
ERGO responded to say they would agree to pay the £300 compensation because they 
accepted they could have communicated more clearly with Mrs D about what information 
was needed and why. However, they didnt agree to pay the cruise costs because they said 
that there was no medical evidence to confirm the cruise ended on medical grounds and 
Mrs D had returned home as planned. So, I now need to make my final decision. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision ERGO has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Ive taken into account all of the further evidence and arguments raised by both parties. But 
Ill focus on those which I think are central to the outcome of Mrs Ds complaint.  
The further points made by both sides havent changed my thoughts about the outcome of 
this complaint. I say that because: 
Mrs Ds husband isnt a policyholder. As hes not party to the contract of insurance, I 
cant make any award to him for financial losses or distress and inconvenience. In 
deciding what compensation to award Ive already taken into account the impact of 
Mr Ds distress and inconvenience on Mrs D as the policyholder 
The policy covered Mrs D for curtailment of her holiday if she had to return home 
early. The claim would be calculated based on the number of complete days of her 
trip she didnt use. Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable for Mrs Ds trip to be 
considered effectively curtailed at the point she had her accident for the reasons Ill 
go on to explain
Im satisfied its most likely Mrs D spent the remainder of the trip in bed in her cabin 
following her accident. The available medical evidence confirms she had a fracture to 
her back. Ive found Mrs Ds testimony about being in a lot of pain to be plausible, 
persuasive and consistent. ERGO also confirmed that the accident report form also 
confirms Mrs D spent most of her time in her cabin which further supports Mrs Ds 
testimony
Mrs D wasnt able to utilise the majority of the cruise facilities. ERGO says theres no 
confirmation Mrs D was unfit to continue the cruise or that she should be bed bound. 
But, as I outlined in my provisional decision, I dont think ERGO were sufficiently 
clear with Mrs D and her husband about what medical information they needed. I 
appreciate that ERGO asked for medical reports and the cruise ships medical team 
would know what a medical report is  but I dont think ERGO made it clear what the 
scope of that report should be or what information was missing. As ERGO has 
acknowledged it might have helped if their medical team had been approached to 
support the assistance team with what information was needed to assess Mrs Ds 
case properly
Ive not been provided with any further medical evidence except for the comments of 
ERGOs medical director. I appreciate that there isnt medical evidence that states it 
was medically necessary for Mrs D to stay in her cabin. But thats partly due to the 
failings on ERGOs part. And, based on the available evidence, I think its most likely 
Mrs D was confined to her cabin due to the pain caused by a fracture to her back. 
So, I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to conclude that 
the trip was effectively curtailed after the accident.
Whilst the cruise ship may have some records remaining I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to ask for more detailed information from the cruise ships medical team given the passage of time. It seems unlikely that theyd be able to answer detailed 
queries about Mrs Ds condition, in the same way that ERGOs agent was unable to. 
And ERGO has had the chance to obtain any further information prior to my decision 
being issued. 
  
Putting things right
Im intending to say that ERGO should put things right by:
Paying Mrs D a total of £300 compensation for the poor service she received 
during the period of time when she sought help from ERGO. This includes, for 
example, ERGO not returning calls within the timescale give and failing to take a 
proactive approach to supporting Mrs D with getting an updated medical report
Upon receipt of the cruise invoice and schedule paying Mrs D a proportion of the 
cost of her cruise, subject to the policy limit. I think ERGO should calculate this by 
taking the total cost of the cruise and calculating the daily cost of it. They should 
then pay half of the daily cost of the cruise from the 19 April to the final date of the 
cruise to reflect Mrs Ds proportion of the cost. If Mrs D was due to go on any 
excursions priced separately during that part of the cruise those costs should be 
removed from the cost of the total cruise and her share of those costs should be 
paid in full (subject to the policy limits)
Paying the cost of the taxi fares and phone calls if it hasnt done so already
ERGO should pay 8% simple interest on the cost of the cruise, taxi fares and 
phone calls from the date the claim was paid to the date of settlement.
If ERGO considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs D how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs D a 
tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 My final decision
Im upholding Mrs Ds complaint and direct ERGO Reiseversicherung AG to put things right 
in the way Ive outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman