DRN-4249078
The complaint
Miss R complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) refuses to refund her losses after she fell 
victim to a scam.
Miss R is represented by a claims management company. 
What happened 
Miss R saw a link online for an advert for a cryptocurrency company. She saw some reviews 
that were positive, so she registered on the scammers website. She was put into contact 
with a financial adviser from the company who was to help her to invest and trade. 
Miss R made payments from her Monzo account to a third-party exchange which Ill call K. 
From there, she sent money onto the scammers trading platform. The company turned out to 
be a scam company and she lost the money she had invested in that company. 
Miss R asked Monzo to return the money saying that, while it had flagged a transaction as 
suspicious, it hadnt spoken to her over the phone, and hadnt asked her suitable questions 
when it contacted her regarding one of her payments via a Monzo chat function. Miss R had 
been coached by her financial adviser (from the scam company) on what to say in response 
to the questions Monzo had asked. She felt that had Monzo called her and asked more 
appropriate questions, the scammer couldnt have coached her in the way it did, and Monzo 
could have prevented her falling victim to the scam. 
Monzo said it had flagged her second transaction as suspicious and asked her sufficient 
questions, but the answers given were not true  so it was not able to discover the scam. It 
felt that it acted in good faith, but Miss R had been dishonest. It felt it had done nothing 
wrong and should not be held liable for the losses. 
Unhappy, Miss R referred the complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into 
the complaint and felt that Monzo should refund the final payment with a 50% deduction for 
contributory negligence. Our investigator felt that Monzo should have intervened in the final 
payment as it was larger than her previous ones and Monzo should have asked questions 
about it. She felt that if Monzo had called her to discuss this transaction, it would have 
discovered the scam and prevented the loss. But she felt Miss R should also be held liable 
for 50% of the losses as there were signs this was a scam which she ought to have 
recognised. She also agreed Miss R had misled Monzo with her answers. 
Monzo didnt agree. It re-iterated that it had done nothing wrong, that even if it had called 
Miss R, she would have provided dishonest answers like she had done previously in the chat 
function. Overall, Monzo didnt think it could have prevented the loss and didnt feel it should 
be held liable for the losses.  
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me. 
In my provisional decision of 3 July 2023, I set out why I was minded to not upholding the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Monzo accepted the provisional decision while Miss Rs 
representative made some additional comments which Ill address below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
To begin with, where customers authorise payments from their accounts, businesses such 
as Monzo are under an obligation to process such transfers. If consumers authorised the 
transactions, the starting point is that theyre responsible. To be clear, Monzo did not scam 
Miss R and it is not the perpetrator of the scam.
 
However, financial businesses also have a duty to try to prevent their customers falling 
victim to scams. Businesses therefore need to strike a balance between intervening in 
payments to prevent scams or financial harm against the risk of unnecessarily 
inconveniencing or delaying legitimate transactions. 
In order for me to uphold a complaint of this nature, and hold Monzo liable for the losses 
instead of Miss R, Id need to be satisfied that Monzo failed in its duty to protect Miss R in 
some way, and that if it had instead done what it should have done, this either would have 
stopped the losses from occurring in the first place or helped to mitigate the losses once 
notified of the potential scam (by retrieving the money for example). 
Miss Rs first payment was only £20, and all parties appear to agree that this payment was 
so small (and otherwise unremarkable), that we wouldnt expect Monzo to intervene. The 
second payment Miss R sent was for £3,000 paid on 21 February 2022. Usually, in the 
absence of any other concerning factors, in a case like this, I dont think this sum is large 
enough alone to have expected Monzo to intervene. However, Monzos systems did flag this 
transaction as suspicious and it did contact Miss R about it before processing it. 
Monzo didnt call Miss R but spoke to her via a chat function. This conversation took over 
two hours and Monzo asked her (amongst other things), what research shed done, what her 
experience in cryptocurrency was, whether the cryptocurrency account was in her name and 
whether she was being assisted by any third parties. Miss Rs responses included:
I generally researched online and have been interested in investing when I had some funds 
to do this
I haven't had any help from anyone on this".
Monzo asked her to confirm again whether shed been contacted or assisted by a third party 
She said: / am working for myself and not engaged in any help."
Having a manager or financial advisor or a coach is a typical theme of this type of scam, so 
this is likely why Monzo was asking this question. Monzo also asked Miss R twice and both 
times Miss R was dishonest in her answers. I understand she was being coached by the 
scammer, but I have to assess what Monzo knew and did at the time and I think its 
intervention via a chat function was proportionate given the sum at risk. And based on Miss 
Rs answers, I dont think it was unreasonable for Monzo to have not discovered the scam at 
this stage. So, I dont think Monzo failed in its duty of care during the intervention and I dont 
think it should be held liable for this loss or the one before it. Before processing this payment Monzo also gave Miss R this warning. 
if you've provided us with any misinformation across our chat that results in you sending a 
fraudulent payment, we will not be able to refund you for the money lost.
On 2 March 2022, Miss R sent the scam company her final payment of £5,020. Monzo says 
this payment didnt flag as suspicious given its earlier dealings with Miss R. Our investigator 
felt given the amount of money now being sent, and that it was sent shortly after the £3,000 
payment, Monzo should have intervened again and asked more probing questions on the 
phone. Our investigator also felt that it ought to have warned her that a legitimate company 
would not tell her to be dishonest with her bank and that Monzo could have discovered the 
scam at this stage. As she thought Monzo could have prevented this payment from being 
sent, she felt Monzo should refund 50% of the payment. 
However, based on everything Ive seen, Im afraid I dont agree. By the time Miss R made 
the payment of £5,020, the payee had been established as this was the third payment being 
sent. Monzo had already satisfied itself that Miss R was not at risk of financial harm as shed 
sad she was acting independently. So, I think given the facts available to Monzo, it had less 
reason to be concerned. 
But even if Monzo had contacted Miss R on the phone and spoken to her, in line with what 
we normally would expect from Monzo, for a sum of this amount, I dont think an intervention 
would have discovered the scam. By this time Miss R had already been coached by the 
scammer not to mention their involvement. Miss R was happy with how her investment was 
performing and she didnt have any concerns and hadnt recognised any risks of being 
scammed. Like Monzo says, I think the conversation on the phone would have mirrored what 
she had said on the chat function. I also have to bear in mind that Miss R had, by her own 
admission, built a strong rapport with the scammer. Theyd had several informal 
conversations about their family and friends and Miss R had also planned to go out for drinks 
with the scammer. 
Monzo had also previously warned her of the risks of providing incorrect information and it 
did not alter her behaviour in any way. So, I dont think given the trusting relationship she 
had developed with the scammer, that any further warnings would have convinced Miss R to 
behave any differently. 
I dont think its likely that given Miss Rs state of mind at the time, the trust that she had with 
the scammer and the coaching shed received during the previous discussion, that she 
would have suddenly been forthcoming with the truth. I think its more likely that she would 
have continued to mis-lead Monzo as shed been told to by the scammers. So, I dont think 
an intervention here would have discovered the scam or stopped Miss R from sending this 
amount of money at this time. 
Monzo also tried to retrieve the money from the exchange after being alerted to the scam but 
was told nothing remained. So, overall, I dont think its fair for Monzo to be held liable for the 
losses. 
Id like to clarify that I believe Miss R has genuinely been the victim of a sophisticated scam. 
And she likely gave the answers to Monzo because of the faith that she had in this scammer. 
I have no doubt she hasnt just suffered financial losses but also suffered a significant 
amount of distress to be deceived in this way by someone she clearly trusted. Im very sorry 
that shes fallen victim to this scam. However, as Ive explained above, Monzo did not scam 
Miss R and I dont think it could have prevented the losses here. So, I dont think its fair to 
hold it liable for the losses she has suffered.Miss Rs representative re-iterate that Monzo ought to have contacted Miss R during the 
£5,020 payment. They add that Monzo could have asked more specific and probing 
questions around whether she was being assisted by a third party and also provided more 
context as to why they were asking that question  and how cryptocurrency scams work. 
I do understand Miss Rs representatives point of view and appreciate that businesses like 
Monzo are expected to be aware that consumers sometimes get told to lie and ask more 
probing questions if they feel there is a risk a consumer may be lying or being coached to lie. 
Its also very useful to give consumers context and explain legitimate companies will not tell 
consumers to lie to their bank. Navigating these sorts of interventions isnt an exact science 
and there will always be other questions that could have been asked. Business have to 
balance being thorough whilst being careful not to interrogate their customers who may be 
carrying out legitimate transactions. 
In my opinion, Miss R was very clear and determined in her answers during the chat, at one 
point saying she didnt feel she had to disclose information about her private matters but did 
so begrudgingly because she wanted to proceed with the transaction. And, bearing in mind 
Miss Rs state of mind at the time, how deeply trusting she was of the scammer, and the 
close friendship she appeared to have built with them, I dont think its likely that she would 
have disclosed the truth to Monzo even if it had asked more probing questions. By this point 
shed been coached to lie, and Ive still got no reason to doubt that she would have 
continued to answer dishonestly on the phone, as she did so in the chat.
So, overall, while I have thought carefully about Miss R representatives comments, based 
on the particular circumstances of this case, Im still not persuaded that its likely Monzo 
would have discovered the scam during an intervention call, and prevented the loss. So, I 
am still of the view that Monzo shouldnt be held liable for the loss
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman