DRN-3366984
The complaint
Miss M complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans (ELL) lent to 
her in an irresponsible manner. She further complains that ELL told her that the interest rate 
on the loan would reduce as her credit score improved. She says no reviews took place for 
some time, and then she was told that a recent credit search by a mobile phone company 
meant that her credit score hadnt improved.
What happened
Miss M was given a loan by ELL in November 2020. She borrowed £2,000 and agreed to 
repay the loan in 24 monthly instalments. A balance remained outstanding when Miss M 
made her complaint.
Miss Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that the 
results of ELLs checks should have led the lender to conclude that Miss M was facing 
problems managing her money. So he didnt think the loan should have been agreed, and he 
asked ELL to put things right for Miss M. And because our investigator had asked ELL to 
remove any interest that it had added to the loan he didnt think he needed to consider the 
part of Miss Ms complaint about what ELL had said to her about the interest rate of the loan 
reducing as her credit score improved.
ELL didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, 
it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If 
Mr M accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Miss Ms complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time ELL gave this loan to Miss M required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she 
owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so ELL had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss M. In practice 
this meant that ELL had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Miss M undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Miss M. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether ELL did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Miss M.
ELL gathered some information from Miss M before it agreed the loan. It asked her for 
details of her income, and her normal housing costs. It then used some industry statistical 
data to estimate the remainder of Miss Ms expenditure. And it checked her credit file to see 
how much she was paying to other lenders, and how she had managed credit in the past.
Miss M was entering into a significant commitment with ELL. She would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of two years. So I think it was right that ELL wanted to 
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Miss Ms financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I think that the checks Ive described above 
were sufficient to achieve that aim  I think that ELLs checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. And 
that is what I think should have happened in this case.  
Miss Ms credit file showed that she had faced problems managing her money in the 
relatively recent past. She had two defaults from less than six months before her loan 
application. And two other defaults from the year previous to that. As ELL will be aware it is 
often the case that consumers who have faced problems managing their money in the past, 
face similar problems again in the future.
I accept that Miss M explained to ELL that some of the recent adverse credit information 
from 2019 was as a result of the breakdown of a relationship. But I dont think that explains 
the problems that had happened more recently. I think the presence of such recent issues 
would suggest that it was likely that Miss M was facing problems managing her money. And 
it would have been responsible for ELL to allow a longer period to elapse for Miss M to 
demonstrate that her finances were back on track.Miss M told ELL that she wanted to use the loan to consolidate some other borrowing. But, 
when looking at what Miss M owed, including those accounts that had been defaulted, the 
loan from ELL would still leave her with a substantial amount of debt to service. I dont think 
it would have been reasonable for ELL to conclude that its loan would mean that all Miss Ms 
debt had been refinanced.
So, on balance, I dont think it was reasonable for ELL to conclude that Miss M would be 
able to repay any new borrowing in a sustainable manner. Her bank statements showed that 
she was persistently overdrawn, and appeared to have little ability to reduce that, or any of 
her other debts, in a meaningful way. That would suggest that she had little disposable 
income each month that she could use to finance additional loan repayments. So I dont 
think ELL should have given the loan to Miss M and it needs to put things right.
As Ill go on to explain below, I dont think ELL should profit from the loan it gave to Miss M. 
So I will be directing that ELL doesnt charge Miss M any interest on her borrowing. Once 
that is done, like our investigator, I think that will resolve any complaint that Miss M might 
have about the rate of interest she has been charged on the loan, or that it hasnt been 
reduced. So I dont need to consider that part of her complaint any further.
Putting things right
I dont think ELL should have agreed to lend to Miss M in November 2020.
ELL should remove any interest and charges still outstanding on the loan and treat all 
the payments Miss M made towards the loan as payments towards the capital
if reworking Miss Ms loan account as Ive directed results in Miss M effectively 
having made payments above the original capital borrowed, then ELL should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement. 
Miss M has told us that she is finding it difficult to meet her repayments on the loan. 
So if reworking Miss Ms loan account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, 
I remind ELL that it should take a sympathetic view should she ask it to agree an 
affordable repayment arrangement for the revised balance.
remove any adverse information already recorded on Miss Ms credit file in relation to 
the loan
 HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give 
Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ms complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman