DRN-2244648
The complaint
Mr Y says Novaloans Ltd, trading as cash4unow (cash4unow), irresponsibly lent to him.    
Mr Y says he had multiple debts and a bad credit rating.
What happened
This complaint is about three payday loans cash4unow provided to Mr Y between January 
and April 2014. Mr Ys borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 17/01/2014 04/03/2014 1 £110.00 £143.00
2 07/03/2014 14/04/2014 1 £550.00 £715.00
3 29/04/2014 15/05/2015 1 £450.00 £585.00
The second of our adjudicators partially upheld Mr Ys complaint and thought loans two and 
three shouldnt have been given. This was because Mr Y had problems repaying loan one 
and further checks should have been carried out which would have shown Mr Y had 
borrowing with other short-term credit providers.
cash4unow disagreed with the adjudicator and ask for the complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
cash4unow needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr Y 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that cash4unow should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that cash4unow was required to establish 
whether Mr Y could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr Y didnt comment on the second adjudicators opinion that loan one shouldnt be upheld. 
Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about this loan. So, I wont 
be making a decision about this lending. But the loan was part of the borrowing relationship 
Mr Y had with cash4unow. So, it is something I will take into account when considering the 
other loans he took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ys complaint. And after doing so, Ive decided to 
uphold the complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
The loan agreement for loan one shows that the amount borrowed was £110 and taken on 
17 January 2014. There was to be one repayment with the loan being repaid in full. The date 
for that repayment was 28 January 2014 (which looks to be the same date as Mr Y was 
paid).  But the repayment schedule cash4unow has given us shows a significant number of 
failed attempts to collect repayment as they were declined by Mr Ys bank. Mr Y wasnt able 
clear the debt until 4 March 2014.
This should have caused concern for cash4unow. The amount borrowed was a relatively low 
sum when compared to Mr Ys income of £1,900. And the fact that he had to delay payment 
for around five weeks  when it was due to be repaid in 11 days  should have indicated to 
cash4unow that Mr Y was potentially having problems managing his money. 
When Mr Y applied for loan two he was asking for nearly five times the amount borrowed at 
loan one and he was applying for it only three days after loan one repaid. So even though 
the loan two application was still at the early stages of the lending relationship, I think 
cash4unow should have taken additional steps to build a clearer picture about Mr Ys 
financial circumstances. He was applying for a much larger sum, was reborrowing shortly 
after his previous loan was repaid and had had problems repaying loan one which was for a 
much smaller amount.Cash4unow should have looked to clarify the information either it had obtained or the 
information that Mr Y had already provided about his financial circumstances. It could have 
done this by asking for copies of his wage slip, bills or bank statement as examples. If it had 
done so, I think it would have seen that Mr Y was having problems managing his money.   
Mr Y has given us copies of his bank statements from the time of the lending with 
cash4unow and these make clear he was borrowing from at least five other short-term 
lenders. I think this would have made it clear to cash4unow that Mr Y was unlikely to be able 
to sustainably repay loan two  and any subsequent lending. 
This turned out to be the case as Mr Ys repayment for loan two was delayed and I 
understand that for loan three, the repayments were made via a debt collection agency and 
it wasnt cleared until May 2015. I dont think cash4unow should have agreed to loans two 
and three. 
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans two and three and cash4unow should put things 
right.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr Y paid on loans two and three;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans two and three from Mr Ys credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires cash4unow to take off tax from this interest. cash4unow 
must give Mr Y a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ys complaint. Novaloans Ltd should 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman