DRN-1379332
 
complaint
Mr V says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) (Halifax) mis-sold him a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr V took out a mortgage with Halifax in 2003. Mr V paid a monthly amount for the PPI 
which, if he made a successful claim, would have paid out a benefit for up to 24 months. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr V disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Vs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Vs complaint, and Ill explain why. 
It is not easy deciding cases where there is limited or no paperwork available from the sale. 
In this case, neither Halifax nor Mr V have been able to provide paperwork from the sale, 
which isnt surprising given the sale took place more than 16 years ago. So I need to think 
about whats most likely to have happened. 
Mr V says that the PPI was added without his consent. So Ive thought about that and Ive 
also taken into account what I know about how Halifax sold these policies around this time 
and the documents we have seen in the past and Ive considered the time thats past since 
the sale. Having done so, I havent seen sufficient evidence to be able to uphold this 
complaint on this point. So I think its more likely that Halifax got the agreement of Mr V to 
take the policy and that he did so knowing he had a choice to do so. 
As Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr V, they had to take reasonable steps to make sure 
the policy was suitable for him. And the policy seems to have been right for him based on 
what Ive seen of Mr Vs circumstances at the time. I say this because:
 
He was eligible for PPI. And I cant see that he would have been affected by any of 
its main restrictions and limitations. For example, he didnt have any unusual work 
arrangements or pre existing medical issues. 
 I think Mr V had a need for the policy. I say this because whilst Mr V told us he had 
excellent sick pay he has not been able to provide any evidence to support his 
testimony. Mr V told us he had some savings, although some of it was earmarked for 
a car purchase. In any event, I have thought that Mr V chose not to use those 
savings to have a smaller mortgage; he decided to protect them at the time of the 
sale. The policy would have paid out for up to 24 months in the event of accident, 
sickness or unemployment, and would have paid out in addition to whatever sick pay 
arrangements Mr V enjoyed and whatever amounts he would have expected from his 
lodgers, and it would have further protected his savings. So, thinking about all of this 
and the potentially serious consequences of defaulting on a loan secured on your 
home, I think the PPI could have been useful to Mr V. 
 
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar policies at the time 
and it appears to have been affordable.
 
As well as a suitable recommendation, Halifax had to give Mr V enough information so he 
could decide if he wanted the PPI. Due to the limited documentation from when the policy 
was sold, I cant be sure that Halifax gave Mr V all the information they should have done. 
But for the same reasons given above that made me thing the policy was suitable for him, I 
dont think that better information would have put him off taking out the policy. 
So even though Halifax might not have done everything it should have done, I dont think Mr 
V has lost out because of this.
Ive thought about everything Mr V has said but these points dont change my decision.
I have looked at all of the information available to me and for the same reasons as given by 
the adjudicator, and set out above, I do not think the policy was mis-sold. So Bank of 
Scotland plc doesnt need to refund everything Mr V paid for it. 
But Bank of Scotland plc has already offered to give Mr V back some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs to do anything more. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman