DRN-3504563
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) wont refund payments
he made after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In March 2020, Mr P was contacted via an online messaging website by a company Ill refer
to as O. O was offering Mr P an opportunity to invest, and said that in return for investing
£100 he would receive $1,000USD per week.
Mr P made an initial payment from his Halifax account on 6 March 2020 for £103.29. In total
Mr P made over 17 payments between 6 March and 15 April 2020. All of the payments
went to a new account he opened in his name with a cryptocurrency exchange  which Ill 
refer to as D. The funds were then transferred from his account at D to O for investment. In 
total Mr P sent over £49,000.
Mr P says:
When he was initially contacted, he thought the return sounded too good to be true. 
But the contact at O worked hard to convince him it was genuine, including arranging 
for previous customers to ring Mr P and tell him how theyd received money through 
investing with O.
Mr P was told to set up an account with D, and to move funds from his Halifax 
account to his account with D and then onto O.
After the first days trading Mr P tried to withdraw the profit hed made but was told 
that he needed to upgrade his package and needed to deposit more funds in order 
to take his funds out. He was told his profit was $10,000USD and that he needed to 
pay $1,000USD in order to upgrade.
Mr P was continually told that he needed to pay more and more fees, before he could 
withdraw his profit. All of the payments made after the first one of £103.29 were for 
fees or charges including an exchange fee, broker permit fee, schedule fee and a tax 
fee to the United States Inland Revenue Service.
By the end of March 2020, Mr P was told his investment had grown and was worth 
$630,000USD
Eventually the contact at O stopped responding to Mr P when he wouldnt send any 
further money, at which point Mr P became aware he was the victim of a scam.
Mr P reported the fraud to Halifax and asked them to refund him.
Halifax investigated Mr Ps fraud claim but declined to refund him. Halifax explained that only
two of the payments were made with Mr Ps card, and therefore could be considered under a
chargeback. However, Halifax declined to raise a chargeback on the basis it would be
unsuccessful, because Mr P had received the service he paid for  hed used the card to put
bitcoins in his account with D which he received. With regards to the other payments, Mr P
wasnt eligible under the Contingent Reimbursement Code (the CRM Code) as the funds 
went from an account in Mr Ps name at Halifax to an account in Mr Ps name with D  and 
the CRM Code specifically doesnt cover payments in that situation. Halifax did pay Mr P 
£200 for not providing him with a better service while investigating his fraud claim, and for 
not getting back to him sooner.
Mr P wasnt happy with Halifaxs response, so he brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint. Ultimately, they decided Mr P wasnt entitled to
a refund and felt the £200 paid by Halifax regarding the level of service Mr P received was
fair. So, the investigator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint.
My provisional findings
On 3 May 2022 I issued a provisional decision due to reaching a different outcome than our 
investigator had. I asked for both parties to provide any more comments or evidence that 
they wanted to be considered before issuing my final decision.
In my provisional decision I said:
Are the transactions covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code)?
I started by considering whether Mr P is entitled to a refund under the Lending Standards
Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code), which Halifax are
signed up to.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who
is the victim of an authorised push payment (APP) scam. But the Code is quite explicit that it
doesnt apply to all push payments. The Code only covers APP scam payments when the
funds are being transferred to another person and not to a consumers own account. In this
case, Mr P sent the money to a digital wallet held with D in his name, before it moved onto
the fraudster. This means I dont think Halifax is responsible for reimbursing him because of
any obligation under the CRM Code.
I recognise that Mr P was coerced into sending money to D to buy cryptocurrency for the
investment, and that the funds ultimately were obtained by the fraudsters. But as far as I can
see the digital wallet with D belonged to Mr P and he had ultimate control over what
happened to the funds in it, albeit that the fraudster mayve also had access to it.
I understand this can be a bit confusing. But in order for me to consider Halifax liable under
the CRM Code the funds would have to have gone from Mr Ps Halifax account to an
account held by the fraudster - that Mr P had no control over. I realise that ultimately it
ended up in the fraudsters account, but the digital wallet is a stop off point on that journey
and means the loss occurred at D.
But I went on to consider whether Halifax shouldve prevented the payments from being
made.Should Halifax have prevented the payments from being made?
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when looking into
what is fair and reasonable in this case. But a bank also has to be on the lookout for, and
help to prevent payments, that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
So, Ive taken all of that into consideration when looking through Mr Ps complaint.
The first seven payments that Mr P made were each for less than £700 and totalled just over
£1,800. The largest individual payments in that series, were the last two payments of £698
each. Having reviewed Mr Ps previous account use, Im not satisfied that these payments
were particularly unusual or out of character. Mr P had previously made payments for
between £500 and £1,300. So, there isnt enough about the first seven payments that I think
they shouldve concerned Halifax.
The next payment Mr P made was for £3,100 on 27 March 2020. While this is significantly
higher than the previous payments hed made as part of the scam, I dont consider it to be so
significantly different to his previous genuine payments whereby it shouldve stood out.
However, the next payment of £8,100 was particularly out of character. It was the second
payment made on 27 March 2020 and meant the total Mr P had transferred that day was just
over £11,000. This is significantly higher than any previous payments, and Im satisfied that
at this point Halifax shouldve identified that Mr P was potentially the victim of a scam.
I wouldve expected Halifax at this point to get in contact with Mr P and ask him some
questions about the purpose of the payment to satisfy themselves that the payment was for
a genuine purpose. I can see that Halifax provided a warning on the mobile banking app
when Mr P was making the payment, but Im not satisfied that this went far enough to say
Halifax fairly met their obligations.
I think that any conversation with Mr P wouldve identified that he was the victim of a scam
and that Halifax couldve and shouldve prevented him from making any further payments. I
say this because the base information Mr P wouldve given them had all the tell-tale signs of
a scam. He was cold called by a company about investing, the investment involved 
cryptocurrency and required him to set up an account with a crypto exchange. By March 
2020, this was a common scam scenario and one I think Halifax shouldve been on the look- 
out for. Also, the returns that Mr P was promised were too good to be true, and the continual
pressure to pay fees in order to access his profits or make a withdrawal  again is a common
tactic in scams of this kind.
So, I think Halifax shouldve intervened and such intervention would have prevented Mr P
from making any of the payments - from the payment of £8,100 onwards.
However, I also have to consider whether Mr P couldve or shouldve done anything to
mitigate his loss.
Could Mr P have done more to mitigate his losses?
Ive also considered whether Mr P should bear some responsibility by way of contributory
negligence.
Mr P has told us that right from the start he thought the return was too good to be true, and I
think he shouldve been concerned with the returns he was being promised. He was initiallypromised a $1,000USD per week return on a £100 investment. Later he was told that his
£100 initial investment had become worth $10,000USD and then $630,000USD. I dont think
a reasonable person would think that this type of return on an investment in the economic
climate at that time was possible in any legitimate investment. Also, Mr P voiced concerns
over being asked to pay ever increasing fees in order to withdraw his money, when he hadnt
been told that any fees would be payable upfront.
At the time Mr P made his initial payment there were warnings published by the Financial
Conduct Authority and Action Fraud about cryptocurrency scams. And while I wouldnt
expect Mr P to have visited these websites as a starting point, following his concerns I think
an online search about the company and crypto investments wouldve provided at least
some results which wouldve indicated that the offer was probably fraudulent. And, although
Mr P had numerous concerns both at the start and during the time he was making payments
 I cant see that he completed any checks to satisfy himself that it was a legitimate
investment.
On that basis, I think its reasonable for Mr P to share the responsibility with Halifax and
reduce the refund on the payments already mentioned by 50%. Therefore, I intend to
recommend that Halifax refund 50% of the payments Mr P made from the payment of £8,100
onwards, and Halifax should pay 8% simple interest on those payments.
Mr P raised some concerns about the service he received from Halifax, and Halifax
acknowledged he had received poor service  making a payment of £200 in compensation.
Having reviewed everything, I consider the £200 fair compensation for the poor service Mr P
received and wont be asking Halifax to pay any more in this regard.
To put things right
To put things rights Ill be asking Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to:
Refund 50% of all the payments Mr P made as a result of the scam, from the 
payment of £8,100 onwards.
Pay interest on the above refund at 8% simple interest from the date the payments 
debited the account, until the date of settlement.
Halifax responded to my provisional decision, saying they agreed with my recommendation. 
Mr P replied with a very detailed response explaining why he disagreed with the outcome Id 
reached. Id like to assure Mr P that Ive read his entire response. I wont comment on each 
individual point hes raised, but I have considered how they affect the answer Ive reached in 
his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has raised a number of concerns under the CRM Code and quoted several sections of 
the Code. However, as Ive already explained as the money went from Mr Ps Halifax 
account to another account held in his name with D, his payments arent covered by the 
CRM Code. Therefore, I cant apply any of the Codes provisions to his payments.
Mr P also feels that Halifax have failed under their duty of care to him, referring to several 
regulations and industry guidelines that were in place at the time he made his payment. Id 
like to reassure Mr P that in deciding whats fair and reasonable in his complaint, Im required to take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry 
practice at the time. So, I have considered what obligations and expectations were on 
Halifax at the time, with regards to them protecting Mr P from potentially falling victim to a 
scam and monitoring his account for payments that may indicate this. 
Mr P has emphasised why he feels the payments were unusual and out of character and 
says that if Halifax had given him a warning or discussed the payments with him  the scam 
wouldve been uncovered. However, Im not satisfied that the first eight payments shouldve 
raised concerns for Halifax or suggested to them that Mr P mayve been the victim of fraud. 
All of the payments made between 6 March and 27 March were for quite low values, with the 
highest payment being £698 until the eighth payment of £3,100. There were also gaps 
between the payments, with the first payment made on 6 March, the second payment made 
on 7 March and then the next payment not made until the 23 March. While there were two 
payments made on 23 March, they only totalled £30, and the following three payments made 
on 25 March, totalled less than £1,400. Having considered all the aspects of these 
payments, their value, the frequency, the type of payment etc, Im not satisfied that there is 
enough about them that I think they shouldve concerned Halifax.
Mr P also raised a concern that he hadnt previously purchased cryptocurrency, but that still 
isnt sufficient for me to say the payments shouldve stood out to Halifax and caused them 
concern. In this case, I dont think Halifax should have intervened or talked to Mr P before 
processing the first eight payments. 
However, I did consider that the payment made on 27 March for £8,100 was significantly out 
of character and shouldve warranted intervention by Halifax. And, Im satisfied that had 
Halifax contacted Mr P to discuss that payment, the scam wouldve been uncovered and     
Mr P wouldnt have made any of the payments that followed. Im still persuaded (for the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision above) that its reasonable for Mr P to share the 
loss with Halifax, and therefore Halifax should only refund 50% of the payments made from 
the payment of £8,100 onwards. 
Having very carefully considered all of the points Mr P has raised and his depth of feeling 
around why he feels Halifax should refund him fully, Im not persuaded to reach a different 
answer or recommendation than I did in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
To put things rights Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should:
Refund 50% of all the payments Mr P made as a result of the scam, from the 
payment of £8,100 onwards.
Pay interest on the above refund at 8% simple interest from the date the payments 
debited the account, until the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman