DRN-2260267
The complaint
Miss F is unhappy that Legal & General Assurance Society Limited declined a claim under 
her income protection insurance policy (the policy).
What happened
Miss F says that in March 2019, a drastic and unpleasant experience occurred at work which 
led to her employment being terminated. After this she said she had a breakdown and fell 
into a depressive state. She also says, since then, shes been suffering with depression and 
anxiety. The experience Ms F describes happening at work coincided with the time she was 
due to start maternity leave. 
As Miss F felt too unwell to work, she made a claim on the policy a few months later. The 
policy can pay out a monthly benefit after shed been off work sick for 13 weeks (the 
deferred period). 
L & G requested information from Miss Fs GP at the end of July 2019 and arranged for her 
to undergo an assessment in August 2019. It then arranged for an independent medical 
expert to meet with Miss F in January 2020, report on her health and the impact it had on 
her. 
L & G declined Miss Fs claim in February 2020. It didnt think she met the policy definition of 
incapacity throughout the deferred period. Miss F didnt think that was fair, so she appealed 
the decision. L & G concluded that it was right to decline the claim.
Unhappy, Miss F complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. As 
Miss F disagreed, her complaint has now been passed to me to look at everything afresh 
and decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. Ill explain why.
L & G has a duty to handle claims promptly and fairly  and it mustnt unreasonably decline a 
claim. 
Subject to the remaining terms of the policy, for L & G to pay out the monthly benefit, Miss F 
must meet the policy definition of incapacity. 
Incapacity is defined as:
Own occupation If you are in gainful employment or gainful self-employment at the 
time of incapacity we will consider you to be incapacitated once we have assessed 
your claim as set out in the section headed 'Assessing your claim' and are satisfied 
that you have no capacity for working in your own occupation on any basis, as a 
direct result of your injury or illness.
Activities of Daily Living If you are a house person at the time of incapacity we will 
consider you to be incapacitated once we have assessed your claim as set out in the 
section headed 'Assessing your claim' and are satisfied that you are unable to 
undertake at least three of the tasks from the activities listed below for a sustained 
period and as a direct result of your incapacity.
Walking - The ability to walk more than 200 metres on a level surface.
Climbing - The ability to climb up a flight of 12 stairs and down again, using the 
handrail if needed.
Lifting - The ability to pick up an object weighing 2kg at table height and hold for 60
seconds before replacing the object on the table.
Bending - The ability to bend or kneel to touch the floor and straighten up again.
Getting in and out of a car - The ability to get into a standard saloon car, and out 
again.
Writing - The manual dexterity to write legibly using a pen or pencil, or type using a
desktop personal computer keyboard.
L & G has assessed Miss Fs claim against the own occupation definition of incapacity.
It accepts that the activities of daily living definition of incapacity might be more relevant 
given that it was the termination of her employment which seems to have prompted Miss Fs 
stress. However, given the timeframe between her employment ending and the onset of the 
symptoms shes described, L & G considered it fair and reasonable to assess the claim 
against the own occupation definition of incapacity.
I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular claim, particularly 
given that there is no suggestion from the medical evidence Ive seen that Miss F was 
unable to undertake at least three of the tasks from the activities which formed part of the 
daily living definition of incapacity for a sustained period during the deferred period. So, she 
wouldnt have met that definition.
Its for Miss F to show that she met the policy definition of incapacity under the policy.
Im not a medical expert so Ive relied on the evidence available to me when considering 
whether L & G has unfairly declined Miss Fs claim. 
In a letter to L & G dated August 2019, Miss Fs GP says that Miss F was diagnosed with 
work related stress in early April 2019 but she wasnt on any medication and they hadnt 
issued Miss F with a note to say she was too unwell to work. They were also unable to 
answer L & Gs question about the impact her stress was having on her ability to undertake 
everyday duties.
Miss Fs GP notes from April 2019 do reflect that shed reported she was experiencing low 
mood; feeling tired and forgetful, not motivated and generally not herself. Its also reflected 
that she was sometimes tearful but that she didnt have any suicidal thoughts. The GP notes 
conclude that there was no obvious indication for meds at this time  seems like the 
underlying issue is her dismissal from work.Im conscious that Miss F was breastfeeding at the time so may not have wanted to take any 
medication. Im also aware that a mental health referral was made in April 2019. 
Miss Fs symptoms from around this time are largely self-reported. But an assessment was 
undertaken by a registered nurse, on behalf of L & G, in August 2019. At that time, Miss Fs 
depression and anxiety were assessed to be severe. But in conclusion, its said that the 
level of symptoms Miss F was experiencing didnt correlate with the self-reported high PHQ / 
GAD scores. They recommended obtaining a report from Miss Fs GP to get a better 
understanding of how her ill-health was affecting her.
As the GP wasnt able to comment on the impact Miss Fs ill-health was having on her, I 
think it was fair and reasonable for L & G to ask Miss F to meet with a consultant clinical 
psychologist in January 2020. After meeting Miss F they concluded that:
Miss F was in a good enough way to look after herself, her children and her home. 
No significant cognitive impairment was observed.
The prognosis for her mental health was positive as she wasnt formally ill in their 
opinion.
There werent any formal mental health factors severe enough to prevent a return to 
work.
She could be working now, and she was looking for work via at least two employment 
agencies.
Im conscious that this report was carried out around ten months after Miss F says her 
mental health started to deteriorate. And over six months after the end of the deferred 
period. Its possible that her health did improve significantly by January 2020 and I note the 
report reflects that her mood wasnt as bad as it was. However, given the contents of the 
IME report, and the totality of the medical evidence Ive seen from during the deferred 
period, Im satisfied L & G has reasonably concluded that Miss F wasnt incapacitated 
throughout the deferred period. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman