DRN-3688783
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Accord Mortgages Limited applied an Early Repayment Charge 
(ERC) when they redeemed their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B agreed to a fixed rate mortgage product with Accord around July 2020. Their 
interest rate was fixed at 1.83% from 1 August 2020 until 31 October 2022.
In August 2020, Mr and Mrs B arranged a three-month covid-19 payment deferral. In their 
complaint form Mr and Mrs B say they did this because by that time it was forecast that their 
incomes would reduce. Three months later, they agreed to a further three-month payment 
deferral.
In December 2020, Mr and Mrs B contacted Accord and asked if they could port their 
mortgage. Theyd decided to sell their property at this point so they could use the money 
they got from the sale to redeem their existing mortgage, buy a smaller property and repay a 
significant amount of unsecured debt.
Accord agreed to port their mortgage and ended their covid-19 payment holiday. This 
happened because Accord said Mr and Mrs B couldnt apply to port their mortgage if they 
were on a covid-19 payment holiday.
Mr and Mrs Bs property sale fell through in the end as the property chain they were in 
collapsed. They explored their options with a broker and eventually decided to re-mortgage 
with a specialist lender. The interest rate on their mortgage with the specialist lender was 
higher than it had been with Accord, but the re-mortgage would allow them to pay off their 
unsecured debt.
In August 2021, Mr and Mrs B redeemed their mortgage with Accord and it applied an ERC 
of £8,256.72. Mrs B had already asked Accord to reduce the ERC that would be applied, but 
it had refused. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt think it was fair for Accord to apply the ERC so they complained to it. 
Accord said it hadnt done anything wrong, so Mr and Mrs B raised a complaint with the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into the matter. He didnt think Accord had made a mistake when it 
applied the ERC. He was satisfied that Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage offer said that an ERC of 
2.5% of the outstanding balance would apply if the mortgage was redeemed on or before 31 
October 2021. An ERC of 1.5% of the outstanding balance would apply if the mortgage was 
redeemed between 31 October 2021 and 31 October 2022.
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy and asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide. Mr B made a number of points that Ive 
considered below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as out investigator. Ill explain why.
Ill begin by saying that the ERC was clearly documented in the 2020 mortgage offer that 
was sent Mr and Mrs B before they took out the mortgage product. Im satisfied that they 
accepted that offer and the ERC associated with it. So when Mr and Mrs B redeemed their 
mortgage, it wasnt unreasonable for Accord to charge the ERC that theyd accepted as part 
of the contract theyd entered into. 
Mr and Mrs B told us how their incomes were adversely affected by the covid-19 pandemic. I 
can see that in the months before they redeemed their mortgage they told Accord that they 
were concerned they wouldnt be able to meet their mortgage payments along with their 
unsecured debt payments. 
Im sorry to hear about the financial difficulties Mr and Mrs B have experienced. Ive no doubt 
that theyve gone through a very stressful time. However, I dont think its fair to say that 
Accord should have waived the ERC it applied when Mr and Mrs B redeemed their 
mortgage. To explain why I think its helpful for me to explain why lenders such as Accord 
are allowed to charge ERCs. 
In order to be able to lend to consumers, lenders will borrow money themselves. As with 
loans made to customers such as Mr and Mrs B, there are costs associated with borrowing 
that money. If customers repay their borrowing early  as happened in this case  the lender 
wont receive some of the money it expected to receive. But the lender remains liable for its 
own cost of borrowing the money. So lenders are allowed by the regulator to charge ERCs 
to cover the costs to them of consumers repaying borrowing early.
In the circumstances I can understand why Accord wasnt willing to waive the ERC. Nor do I 
think its fair to say that the ERC was a penalty as Mr and Mrs B have suggested. An ERC is 
a charge imposed on customers to enable lenders such as Accord to recover their costs 
when customers redeem their mortgage early  as Mr and Mrs B did in this case. 
Mr and Mrs B have said that they repaid their mortgage a couple of months before the ERC 
reduced from 2.5% to 1.5%, so they think the 1.5% rate should apply. I appreciate their 
frustration about this. However, I can see that the mortgage offer and completion letter 
clearly set out the ERC and when it reduced from 2.5% to 1.5%. As they agreed to that when 
they got the product, I cant say that Accord was obliged to reduce the ERC.
Mrs B says Accord didnt offer her and Mr B enough support when she told it about their 
difficulties. In particular she says that if Accord had offered her and Mr B support to manage 
their September and October 2021 payments (perhaps by deferring them or making partial 
payments) they could have found a way to save around £3,300 on the ERC by redeeming in 
November 2021 when the ERC of 1.5% would have applied. She suggests they could have 
done that by asking Accord to reduce the ERC (but it had already said it wouldnt do this) or 
asking the specialist lender to extend their mortgage offer so that they could re-mortgage 
later. However, in their complaint form Mr and Mrs B say that they agreed to go ahead with 
the re-mortgage in August 2021 even though they knew that Accord wouldnt reduce the 
ERC to 1.5%. They say their broker said that any re-mortgage extension request would need 
to be fully reassessed by the lender and there was a risk of a different outcome as the lender 
had changed its interest rates. So they chose to complete the re-mortgage early in August 
2021 to avoid further higher interest charges on their unsecured debt.In the circumstances, its not clear to me that if even if Accord had done more to help Mr and 
Mrs B manage their September and October 2021 payments that they wouldve have been 
in a position (bearing in mind Mr and Mrs Bs other debts and the other lenders involved) to 
wait until November 2021 to re-mortgage.
So it follows that while Im sorry to hear about the problems Mr and Mrs B experienced in 
2021, I cant say that Accord acted unreasonably at this time. Ultimately Accord wasnt 
required to agree to come up with a solution that enabled them to pay a lower ERC.
For completeness I will also cover Mrs Bs point that Accord ended Mr and Mrs Bs covid-19 
payment holiday before theyd been able to defer their payments for six months  something 
they say they were entitled to. 
Its clear from Accords notes that Mr and Mrs B were told that they couldnt apply to port 
their mortgage if they were on a repayment holiday, as this was against Accords lending 
rules. Ive considered Accords lending rules and can see that they support this. Having 
looked at the information Accord has provided I can see that such a restriction was in place 
to prevent it putting customers in financial difficulties (such as Mr and Mrs B) in a worse 
position. In this case I can see that Mr and Mrs B wanted to port their mortgage to help 
improve their financial situation. So I cant say that Accord made a mistake when it acted to 
help Mr and Mrs B port their mortgage. Unfortunately that meant that Mr and Mrs Bs 
payment holiday had to end. It follows that I dont think Accord made a mistake on this point 
either.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman