DRN-3766484
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt do enough to protect him from the loss of 
money to an investment scam.
What happened
Mr A has explained that in 2021 he made a payment of £2,250 to Paybis (which attracted a 
transaction fee of £67.27), using his Barclays credit card, to fund what he thought was a 
legitimate investment with Cryptrader. Mr A later got in touch with Barclays to report hed 
been scammed. Ultimately, Barclays didnt reimburse Mr As lost funds. Remaining unhappy, 
Mr A referred his complaint about Barclays to this service. As our investigator was unable to 
resolve the matter informally, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for the same reasons. Ive 
decided not to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Im sorry if Mr A lost this money to a scam. But losing money like this doesnt automatically
entitle Mr A to a refund from Barclays. It would only be fair for me to tell Barclays to 
reimburse Mr A if I thought it reasonably ought to have prevented the payment, and/or if it 
hindered recovery of the funds.
Prevention
I dont think Barclays can reasonably be expected to have prevented the payment. This is 
because at the time generally, banks were expected to process payments a customer 
authorised it to make. And under The Payment Services Regulations and terms and 
conditions of the account, Mr A is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance, in 
circumstances where he authorised the payment. That said, as a matter of good industry 
practice, Barclays should have taken proactive steps to identify and help prevent 
transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions  that could involve fraud 
or be the result of a scam. However, there is balance to be struck: banks had (and have) 
obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests, but 
they cant be involved in every transaction. And here Im satisfied the payment (of £2,250) 
wasnt sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for me to say it was unreasonable for Barclays 
to process this payment instruction from Mr A without speaking to him first.
Mr A says there was has been an influx of these types of cryptocurrency scams since 2018; 
that Barclays has had ample opportunity to prepare and put in place systems of detection; 
and hes pointed to the lack of activity on his credit card account from January to March 
2021, and the fact the payment was to a merchant outside of the UK as further reasons why 
Barclays ought to have recognised the transaction as unusual and uncharacteristic. 
However, as Ive explained, there is a balance to be struck. I understand Paybis was and is 
involved in cryptocurrency, but not all payments made for cryptocurrency are a result of a 
scam. Further, customers may not use their credit cards regularly and may be likely to use 
them for larger purchases (sometimes internationally). So I just dont think it would be fair, 
bearing in mind the balance Ive mentioned that needs to be struck, to say Barclays ought to 
have been obliged to have paused the payment pending further enquiries with Mr A before 
allowing it through. This means Im satisfied I cant reasonably say Barclays unreasonably 
missed an opportunity to prevent the payment (and therefore the transaction fee) before it 
was sent. 
Recovery
After the payment was made, I couldnt reasonably expect Barclays to have done anything
further until Mr A notified it hed been scammed. Then, because this was a credit card 
payment, the two potential avenues for potential recovery of the payment would have been 
chargeback, and section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
However, Mr A made the payment from his Barclays credit card to Paybis (and not directly to 
the scammers). This means the merchant here, for chargeback and section 75 purposes, 
would be Paybis (and not the scammers). Paybis legitimately provided the services intended 
(which was the purchase of cryptocurrency and then moving it on as per Mr As choosing). 
The subsequent transfer of the cryptocurrency/funds onto the scammers would not give rise 
to a valid chargeback claim through Barclays, and there would be no valid claim under 
section 75 either, as the debtor-creditor-supplier link is broken given Mr A paid Paybis  a 
legitimate merchant. So I dont think this payment was recoverable through Barclays once it 
had been made.
I realise this means Mr A is out of pocket. But I think this was ultimately caused
by the scammers here, and not Barclays. I cant reasonably ask Barclays to reimburse Mr A 
in circumstances where I dont think it did anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022. 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman