DRN-1633658
 
The complaint
Ms D complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading at the time of sale as Halifax) mis-sold 
her a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Ms D bought a MPPI policy along with life assurance that Halifax called a Total Payment 
Protection Plan. The MPPI started in November 2006 to protect Ms Ds mortgage 
repayments. The policy was sold during a meeting with Halifax. Ms D was covered against 
accident, sickness and unemployment.
Ms D believes Halifax mis-sold the policy. She says she was not aware she had PPI. She 
says that she was paying a monthly premium for something she was not aware of. She says 
she finished work at some point due to stress and never made a claim on the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. As Ms D doesnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ds complaint because of the following reasons:
I cant be sure how the policy was presented to Ms D during the meeting. But Ive 
looked at what she said about how the policy was sold  including that she was not 
aware she had PPI. I think, after considering the documentation provided and what 
I know of how Halifax sold policies at that time, I am persuaded that she was advised 
it was a good idea to have the insurance to protect her mortgage repayments, and 
she took it on that advice.
 
I have come to this conclusion because the sales documentation I have suggests to 
me that the policy was presented as optional. I have been able to see a demands 
and needs statement. I can see that, when the demands and needs form was being 
completed, that some discussion most likely would have been had around the 
suitability of having a policy, rather than it be added without Ms Ds knowledge. So I 
think on seeing this, it is more likely Ms D was given a choice to have MPPI.
 As I have already concluded I think Halifax recommended the MPPI to Ms D, but it 
doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time. Ms D says she had reasonable sick pay (at least 6 months 
sick pay). But she would have been able to claim for benefit that the policy offered in 
addition to her sick pay and for longer. She would have found the policy useful for 
extended periods that she was sick or if she had been made unemployed. I can also 
see no other reasons such as a significant or restrictive term that would make the 
policy unsuitable.
 
I can see from the sales documentation provided that Ms D was more likely than not 
provided with clear costs associated with the policy. It was reasonably priced 
compared to similar policies available at the time and to the monthly mortgage 
repayment. And Ms D could have cancelled the PPI if it did become unaffordable. Im 
not persuaded Ms D would have avoided protecting her repayments given the 
serious consequences of defaulting on a debt secured against her home.
 
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Ms D wouldve been affected by any of these based on her circumstances at 
the time.
 
Finally, Ms D says she finished work due to stress and never made a claim. Ms D may wish 
to approach the insurer to see if it would be prepared to accept and consider a retrospective 
claim. If she does pursue a retrospective claim and feels that she has concerns in this 
regard, then she should first express these concerns to the insurer. If she is unable to reach 
a satisfactory conclusion she may be able to bring a complaint relating to the retrospective 
claim to this service as a separate matter.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Ms D, but in conclusion I do not uphold her 
complaint for the reasons that I have given.
my final decision
I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman