DRN-4269285
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt paid a claim under their travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy that covered them between 
15 December 2021 and 14 December 2022. The insurer was Great Lakes.
Mr and Mrs M had booked a trip abroad between 13 and 23 January 2022. They travelled as 
planned, but upon arrival on 14 January 2022, Mr M tested positive for Covid-19. So, both 
Mr and Mrs M had to self-isolate for 10 days in their accommodation. Mr M wasnt cleared to 
end the isolation by the countrys health authorities until 24 January 2022, so Mr and Mrs M 
had to extend their trip by two days. They returned to the UK on 25 January 2022. The 
airline allowed them to reschedule the flights at no additional cost.
Great Lakes paid for half of Mr and Mrs Ms additional accommodation costs. It said this was 
because only Mr M had Covid-19. Great Lakes also paid for the additional parking fees 
incurred, and a £20 per day Covid-19 self-isolation benefit. But Mr and Mrs M say this isnt 
enough because their holiday was effectively cancelled. They want Great Lakes to 
reimburse the full cost of their holiday.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having done so, he thought that 
Mr and Mrs Ms holiday was effectively curtailed from the date Mr M tested positive for 
Covid-19. And he thought it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to treat Mr and 
Mrs Ms claim as covered under the curtailment section of the policy.
Mr and Mrs M were happy with our investigators findings, but Great Lakes didnt respond. 
As no agreement was reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I then issued my 
provisional findings in July 2023. Heres what I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Firstly, as our investigator explained, Mr and Mrs Ms cancellation cover ended once they 
started their journey. So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to ask Great 
Lakes to consider their claim under the cancellation section of the policy as Mr and Mrs M 
had started their journey.
Great Lakes considered Mr and Mrs Ms claim under the Covid-19 section of the policy. Ive 
looked to see if this was fair and reasonable.
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) says the following, on page 1 under 
the heading What is not insured?: 
Covid-19, or any related/mutated form of the virus. Unless cover is specified within 
the policy wording.  
And the General Exclusions section of the terms and conditions of the policy has the 
following exclusion:
Claims arising from, or related to any coronavirus including but not limited to COVID-
19, or any related/mutated form of the virus unless specifically listed as covered by 
this policy.
Having considered both the above policy documents, I think Great Lakes has acted fairly 
and reasonably by considering Mr and Mrs M claim under the specific COVID-19 Cover 
section of the policy, as this section is where theres specific cover for circumstances relating 
to Covid-19. 
The COVID-19 Cover section for Emergency Medical and Repatriation expenses says 
that: 
We will pay up to the amount shown in the table of benefits under section 3a 
Emergency Medical & Repatriation expenses for each insured person who contracts 
COVID-19, as proven by a medically approved test showing a positive result for 
COVID-19, during an insured trip outside the United Kingdom for the following:
[]
d) additional travel and accommodation costs as authorised by our Assistance 
Company up until our Medical Officer advises that you can be repatriated home.
[]
e) a benefit payment of £20 per complete 24 hour period up to £300 where you are 
ordered into self-isolation in your holiday accommodation by a relevant Government 
authority, as a result of you contracting COVID-19.
I think these are the terms that apply to Mr and Mrs Ms situation, and under which Great 
Lakes has paid their claim. Great Lakes has only paid half of the additional accommodation 
costs, as the above terms only provide cover for the insured person who contracted Covid-
19  which was Mr M. I think Great Lakes has settled this part of the claim fairly and 
reasonably in the circumstances.
But I note that the next section of the Covid-19 provides cover for Cutting Short Your Trip 
(curtailment) and covers the following:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the table of benefits for either Section 1. 
Cancellation, or Section 2. Cutting Short Your Trip per insured person for any 
irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs (and other prepaid charges) 
which you have paid or are contracted to pay [] where you have to Cut short your 
trip as a result of:
a) the death as a result of COVID-19, of a close relative or a member of your 
household living in the United Kingdom.
b) the hospitalisation as a result of COVID-10 for treatment with mechanical 
ventilation, of a close relative or a member of your household living in the United 
Kingdom.c) you are unable to continue with a pre-booked excursion following your self-
isolation as ordered by a relevant Government authority due to contracting 
COVID-19, up to a maximum of £350 for all excursions.
Great Lakes has said that Mr and Mrs M didnt cut short their trip, and therefore, the above 
cover doesnt apply to them. However, I think its clear that the above term c) covers the 
exact situation that Mr M was in. So, I currently think Great Lakes should reassess this part 
of Mr and Mrs Ms claim (pre-booked excursion costs) in line with the remaining terms of the 
policy.
But unlike our investigator, I dont currently think it would be fair or reasonable for me to ask 
Great Lakes to step outside the terms and conditions of the policy and pay a claim for 
curtailment. I understand that Mr and Mrs Ms trip was, in their mind, cut short. There are 
certain, exceptional situations where I might consider that it would be fair and reasonable for 
an insurer to consider a policyholders trip as having been in effect curtailed where theyve 
been forced to isolate in their accommodation. 
But travel insurance policies dont cover loss of enjoyment and I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to direct Great Lakes to step outside of a strict application of the policy wording 
in circumstances such as this. This is because the circumstances that Mr and Mrs M found 
themselves in are specifically covered by the Covid-19 policy terms as Ive set out above, 
and Great Lakes has already paid for part of the extended accommodation costs. 
Great Lakes said it accepted my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs M didnt, and in summary, 
they said the following:
As Great Lakes didnt contest the investigators findings, I could infer that it was 
happy to accept these;
Mrs M should receive the £20 per day benefit as well as she had been instructed to 
self-isolate too;
The room charge applied to the room and Mr M wouldve had to pay the same 
amount even if hed been there alone;
Their Cancellation Cover was invoked once they landed abroad and they had to 
self-isolate, and the holiday never commenced.
As both parties have now had the opportunity to comment on my provisional findings, Im 
issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, its clear this was a frustrating situation for Mr and Mrs M and their family. It must 
have been so disappointing to go on a holiday yet not actually be able to enjoy it due to 
having to self-isolate. Especially when Mr M has said he believes his Covid-19 test results 
were mixed with another traveller. But whilst I sympathise with Mr and Mrs M, my role is to 
remain impartial and reach a decision thats fair and reasonable to both parties.
Great Lakes didnt comment on the investigators findings, but it also didnt accept them. 
Great Lakes did correspond with us to explain how it had settled the claim and why. So, I 
looked to see if it had done so in line with the terms of the policy, as well as fairly and 
reasonably.I quoted the relevant terms on the self-isolation benefit, and this clearly says its payable 
when the policyholder is ordered into self-isolation as a result of you contracting COVID-19. 
As Mrs M didnt contract Covid-19, I dont think Great Lakes acted unfairly by not paying her 
the benefit as well.
Mr and Mrs Ms flights and accommodation were booked as a package for both of them. And 
when they extended their stay, they extended the accommodation booking for both. But the 
policy only covers expenses for each insured person who contracts COVID-19. So, as the 
booking was for both Mr and Mrs M, and only Mr M contracted Covid-19, I think Great Lakes 
acted fairly by only paying half of the room cost.
As I explained in my provisional decision, Mr and Mrs Ms cancellation cover ended when 
they started their journey. The policy says this cover ends when the policyholder starts their 
trip, and a trip begins when the policyholder leaves home. Home is defined as the 
policyholders principal place of residence. So, Mr and Mrs Ms cancellation cover ended as 
soon as they left their home. I also explained in my provisional decision why I didnt think it 
would be fair and reasonable for me to ask Great Lakes to consider Mr and Mrs Ms trip as 
having been effectively curtailed either, in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, Ive reached the same findings as I did in my 
provisional decision, and for the same reasons. Overall, I think Great Lakes acted fairly and 
reasonably when it settled Mr and Mrs Ms claim under the Covid-19 section of the policy in 
the way that it did  except for the pre-booked excursion costs, for the reasons I explained in 
my provisional decision. So, Great Lakes should now reassess this part of Mr and Mrs Ms 
claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint in part, and direct Great Lakes 
Insurance SE to reassess their claim for pre-booked excursions in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman