DRN-4119425
The complaint
Mr H complains about a delay in receiving an international transfer into his Nationwide 
Building Society bank account. 
What happened
On 31 August 2022 a family member who lives abroad sent a transfer of £75,000 to Mr Hs 
account with Nationwide. Mr H has explained that this was one of a number of transfers he 
was expecting to receive and that the funds were intended to help with a property purchase. 
Mr H started to contact Nationwide to chase receipt of the funds. But Mr H says Nationwide 
was unhelpful and referred him back to the sending bank to try and find out what had 
happened to the funds. An outbound trace was ultimately completed by the sending bank 
which found the transfer had been sent to Nationwides intermediary bank (H) on 31 August 
2022, the date the transfer was instructed. 
Mr H has explained he regularly chased Nationwide for updates but felt it was reluctant to 
assist. Ultimately, Mr H raised a complaint and Nationwide was able to trace the missing 
funds and applied them to his account on 27 September 2022. Nationwide issued a final 
response and explained the delay had been caused by its intermediary bank using an 
incorrect reference for the payment. Nationwide paid Mr H £175 for the delay and 
inconvenience caused. 
Mr H referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They upheld 
Mr Hs complaint and asked Nationwide to pay an increased settlement of £300 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. Nationwide agreed but Mr H requested 8% interest on 
the missing funds and an increase to the compensation offered. Nationwide agreed to pay 
8% interest. The investigator remained of the view that £300 fairly reflected Mr Hs 
experience and didnt ask Nationwide to increase the award further. Mr H asked to appeal 
and said he remained of the view that £300 was too low. 
As Mr H asked to appeal his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
I can understand why Mr H was very concerned when the funds sent to him to assist with a 
property purchase went missing for around a month. The sums involved are substantial and 
purchasing a property can be a stressful experience. I agree with Mr H that Nationwide 
couldve been more proactive when he initially raised the issue with it. Im pleased the 
sending bank was quickly able to show the funds had been sent to H. And whilst it took 
around a month, Im pleased the funds were ultimately found and applied to Mr Hs account. 
In response to the investigators view, Mr H asked Nationwide to pay 8% interest on the 
funds for the period they were unavailable. Nationwide agreed and has told us the payment 
has now been made to Mr Hs account. Im satisfied the payment of interest is a fair 
settlement to reflect the time Nationwide retained Mr Hs funds and they were unavailable for 
use. 
The complaint has been referred to me predominantly on the basis that Mr H feels the £300 
award for the distress and inconvenience caused is too low. As Ive said above, I agree with 
Mr H that the issues raised did cause a reasonable level of trouble and upset over a period 
of around a month. And I agree its fair for Nationwide to compensate Mr H in the 
circumstances of his complaint. Ive considered the overall impact of the delays and service 
provided on Mr H. I accept the funds took around a month to be credited and that Mr H was 
referred back to the sending bank for investigations. I also accept Mr H was very concerned 
about the potential loss not just of the funds sent but the property purchase he intended to 
complete. 
Whilst I dont doubt how frustrated and concerned Mr H was, I think the investigators 
recommendation that Nationwide pays him £300 is a fair and reasonable reflection of the 
issues raised. I want to assure Mr H Ive considered the impact of the delay and service on 
him and taken our approach to awards of this nature into account when reaching my 
decision. Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but as Im satisfied the award of £300 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused plus 8% interest on the funds whilst they were missing is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances, Im not increasing the award further. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society to pay 
him £300 plus 8% interest on the funds between 31 August 2022 and 27 September 2022.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman