DRN-3075921
The complaint
Mr K (on behalf of the estate of his late wife Mrs K) feels that Barclays Bank UK Plc 
(Barclays) incorrectly set up an automated transfer service between Mrs Ks current account 
and savings account, he says this error led to Mrs K incurring charges and fees on her 
current account that she shouldnt have. Mr K also feels that, overall, it was unfair for 
Barclays to be applying charges to Mrs Ks account. 
What happened
Mrs K held a current account and a savings account with Barclays. In around 1999 she set 
up a service where if her current account was at risk of going below a certain balance then 
money would be automatically transferred from her savings account to bring the current 
account balance back to a pre-agreed level. Mr K says this service should have kept the 
current account at a minimum of £50 in credit. 
Mr K has now become aware though that actually the service was set up to prevent the 
current account from going more than £450 overdrawn, and as a result of this Mrs K incurred 
overdraft fees and charges over several years. Mr K feels this was an error by Barclays ant 
that therefore these charges were unfair.
Mr K has also noted that he feels Mrs K should not have been incurring other charges on her 
account either. And hes specifically referred to the period after 2014 (when Mrs K was 
diagnosed with a serious illness) where her finances were significantly impacted and he 
feels Barclays should have stepped in to help rather than continuing to apply a charging 
structure which financially disadvantaged Mrs K.
Barclays has said that the automated transfer system was correctly set up on Mrs Ks 
account, and that this transfer system was removed when her savings account changed to a 
different type in 2011. Barclays says Mrs K was advised of this change at the time. Barclays 
has also noted that it believes this part of Mrs Ks complaint has been referred to our service 
too late and so has objected to us considering the merits of this complaint point.
Regarding the charges in general, Barclays says that the charges applied to Mrs Ks account 
were done so fairly and in line with its terms and conditions.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ks concerns, she agreed that Mr Ks complaint about 
the automated transfer service had been bought to us too late. She also explained that she 
didnt think Barclays had acted unfairly in applying the charges to Mrs Ks account from 2013 
onwards. Mr K disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules I must apply say that, where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint
made more than six years after whats being complained about happened, or if later, more
than three years after the complainant knew, or should reasonably have known, that they 
had reason to complain. This is set out in Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R which can be found 
online.
Mr K, acting on behalf of his late wife Mrs K, has complained about the implementation and 
operation of an automated account transfer system that was added to Mrs Ks account in 
around 1999 and removed from the account in 2011. Mrs K (and subsequently Mr K on her 
behalf) had, at least, six years from when the issue being complained about happened in 
order to complain. So, in this case, Mrs K (or Mr K on her behalf after she passed away) 
would have needed to complain by between 2005 and 2016. Mr K didnt complain until 2019. 
So, he complained more than six years after the events he is complaining about.
But DISP 2.8.2R (2)(b) can potentially provide a consumer with longer than six years to
complain, as long as they complained within three years of when they were aware, or they 
ought reasonably to have been aware, they had cause to. So Ive considered whether DISP
2.8.2R (2)(b) provides longer to complain here.
I think that in order for me to find that Mrs K (or Mr K after she passed away) knew, or ought 
reasonably have known, that she had cause to complain, I need to be satisfied that she was 
aware of how the automated transfer system was operating, aware that she was incurring 
charges as a result of that, and aware that it was Barclays who was responsible for applying 
the charges.
Mrs Ks statements showed the automated transfers happening, and the balance of her 
account when those transfers took place, shed also have seen any charges she incurred 
being debited from her account on her statements. So if the transfer system had been set up 
incorrectly then I think shed have known then that the balance of her account was lower 
than she wanted it to be and that this was causing her to incur charges. So I think Mrs K 
would have known she had cause to complain as soon as the automated transfers stared 
being made, which means the three year rule doesnt provide Mrs K (or Mr K on her behalf) 
with longer to complain overall. And with this in mind, I think that this complaint was made 
too late.
I can look at a complaint made outside of the time limit if Im persuaded that this was
because of exceptional circumstances. Mr K has said that he wasnt aware of the issues with 
her account until after she passed away. He says this means he couldnt have complained 
earlier. 
But prior to her passing, it would have been for Mrs K to complain if she was unhappy with 
her account, and as explained above, I think she would have known early on whether she 
was unhappy with the arrangements on her account or not. Mrs K passed away in 2018, 
after the period when she would have had to complain to be in time. So I dont think that 
Mr K not being aware of what was happening on Mrs Ks account is relevant, as it was not 
him who would have needed to complain during the period in question, and with that in mind 
I dont think that exceptional circumstances apply here.
Overall and having carefully thought about everything provided, I think that Mr Ks
complaint (on behalf of Mrs K) about the automated transfer system was made too late and 
exceptional circumstances werent responsible for this.
Turning to Mr Ks general concerns about the charges applied to Mrs Ks account, our 
adjudicator explained that, for similar reasons to those detailed above, we can only look at 
charges going back six years from when this complaint was made to Barclays  so from 
2013 onwards.Weve set out our general approach to complaints about charges applied to overdrafts - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And
Ive thought about this when deciding Mr Ks complaint. Having considered everything 
provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint about the charges applied from 2013 
onwards. Ill explain why.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the 
various amounts Barclays charged Mrs K over the years were fair and reasonable. 
Ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. 
That said, while Im not looking at Barclays charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mrs K if it applied any interest, fees and charges to her 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been 
aware, that she was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were 
instances where Barclays didnt treat Mrs K fairly and reasonably.
I dont think that Barclays did treat Mrs K unfairly or unreasonably though. Looking at her 
account statements I dont think theres anything that should have given Barclays particular 
cause for concern. Mrs Ks account regularly saw a credit balance, received regular credits, 
and didnt see excessive amounts of returned direct debits or missed payments. Mrs K was 
also actively managing payments into her current account from her savings account using 
the telephone banking service. So there was nothing that would have suggested to Barclays 
that Mrs K needed help with managing her account. I note that Mr K says Mrs K did tell 
Barclays about her illness at the time, but while I dont doubt that Mrs Ks illness had an 
impact on her financial position, she was able to go on to manage her account well for a 
number of years, so I cant see that there was any need for Barclays to step in at that time.
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for Barclays to proceed 
with adding the interest, fees and charges it did or that should have prompted Barclays to 
contact Mrs K to ask if she needed help. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for 
Mr K, but Im satisfied that Barclays didnt do anything wrong in applying overdraft charges to 
Mrs Ks account from 2013 onwards. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K (acting on 
behalf of the estate of Mrs K) to accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman