DRN-4289296
Complaint
Ms P has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) incorrectly calculated the amount 
she needed to pay when she asked to settle her loan early in November 2021. 
Background
In August 2018, Ms P successfully applied for a loan for £15,000.00 from HSBC. The loan 
had an APR of 7.9% and a term of 60 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid 
of £18,091.75, which included interest, fees and charges of £3,091.75, was due to be repaid 
in a first monthly instalment of £301.48 followed by 59 monthly instalments of £301.53.
Ms P contacted HSBC about settling her loan early in November 2021. However, she was 
unhappy at the settlement figure she was quoted as she thought that it didnt include enough 
of an interest rebate given how much of the loan term was left. As a result of this, Ms P 
decided against settling her loan and complained about the amount she was being asked to 
repay.
HSBC investigated Ms Ps complaint and didnt think it had done anything wrong when 
providing Ms P with her settlement figure. In its view, it had calculated the amount Ms P was 
asked to pay in line with the appropriate regulations. Ms P remained dissatisfied and referred 
her complaint to our service.
When Ms Ps complaint was referred to one of our investigators, HSBC offered to pay Ms P 
£200 in compensation for any distress and inconvenience this may have caused. Our 
investigator thought that HSBCs offer was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
case. In his view, Ms P hadnt paid any extra interest as a result of any error in calculating 
the settlement figure for her loan because she didnt settle the loan early. 
Ms P disagreed with our investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms P believes that at the time she requested her early settlement figure she should have 
received an interest rebate of £1,133.64. Ms P says this is because she was due to pay 
£3,091.75 in interest over the course of her loan. And this meant that £51.53 of her monthly 
repayment was going towards interest and £250 towards the £15,000.00 she was initially 
lent. As Ms P had 22 repayments left to make, this meant that £1,133.64 of her outstanding 
balance of £7,032.01 was made up of interest she shouldnt have to pay as a result of 
settling her loan early.
On the other hand HSBC said that Ms P was only entitled to an interest refund of £95.02. 
And while it said that the settlement amount complied with the regulations in place, it hasnt 
really been able to demonstrate how this is the case. 
Ive carefully thought about what both Ms P and HSBC have said.  
In truth, as Ms P didnt settle her loan in November 2021 the amount HSBC asked her to pay 
is no longer of critical relevance to this complaint. Nonetheless, given its clear that Ms P still 
feels strongly about this matter, Ive looked into the amount HSBC asked Ms P to pay in 
order to settle her loan early and whether this was worked out in accordance with the 
applicable early settlement provisions.
The rules regarding early settlement
I think that it would help for me to start by explaining that Section 94 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 allows a borrower to settle a regulated credit agreement  such as Ms Ps 
agreement with HSBC - and discharge their indebtedness early. And where a consumer 
requests to settle a credit agreement early, like Ms P requested to do here, the Consumer 
Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004 (the regulations) set out how a lender should 
work out what the customer needs to pay in order to settle the amount outstanding.
Section 5 of the regulations allows a lender to calculate a settlement for (and valid until) a 
date 28 days after the request for a settlement figure was made. And interest would be 
charged for this 28-day period. Furthermore, if the agreement in question has a term for 
longer than a year, like Ms Ps five year agreement did, section 6 of the regulations allows 
the lender to defer the settlement date, for the purposes of calculating an interest rebate, by 
a further 30 days. 
Therefore, as Ms Ps request was a request to settle an agreement which had an original 
term of longer than one year early, the regulations permitted HSBC to charge interest for a 
period of 58 days from the date of the settlement request. And this immediately means that 
while Ms P had 22 months left to run on her loan, she wouldnt be entitled to a rebate for the 
interest that would have been due over that entire period.
Amortisation - how loan repayments are applied to outstanding balances
Its important to note that all loans  irrespective of whether interest is added upfront or on a 
daily basis - are based on an amortisation schedule where each instalment is made up of 
some of the interest and charges and some of the capital advanced. And this usually means 
that even though a monthly payment may appear relatively large - in proportion to the 
amount borrowed - a much smaller proportion of this payment goes to repaying the capital in 
the early stages.
So many consumers in Ms Ps position may believe that theyve paid off more of their loan 
than they have due to the cash amount of the total payments made, because theyre 
unaware of the way that their loan would be amortised and a larger proportion of the early 
payments were going towards the interest. 
In Ms Ps case her own calculations indicate that she believes that £250 of each of her 
monthly repayments was going towards repaying the capital balance from the outset. And 
the remaining £51.53 of her monthly payments was going to the interest that needed to be 
paid. As explained, Ms P has arrived at this figure by dividing the total interest payable by 
the number of monthly payments she had to make.  
But Ive explained that this isnt the way that payments are treated. And the amortisation 
schedule for Ms Ps loan correctly shows that £179.17 of Ms Ps first payment, which was 
made on 28 September 2018, went towards the interest accrued since she received her 
£15,000.00 advance on 2 August 2018. This was an unusually larger amount of interest 
because Ms Ps first payment was made almost 2 months after her advance. Nonetheless the proportion of Ms Ps second payment that went towards interest was 
£96.38 as the capital balance owing was £14,877.69, which is £122.31 less than it was at 
the start. And as the amount Ms P owed reduced with each payment she made, the 
proportion of her payments that went towards repaying interest also reduced. But it would be 
some time further down the line before only £51.53 of Ms Ps payment would be going 
towards interest and £250 to the amount owed.
Indeed when Ms P paid instalment number 18, in March 2020, £72.41 of this payment went 
towards interest. And having looked at the amortisation schedule used, Im satisfied that 
there were no issues with HSBCs calculations up until this point.
Ms Ps three-month payment deferral in April 2020 and the effect it had on the outstanding 
balance going forward
As I understand it, Ms P successfully applied for a pandemic payment deferral in April 2020. 
As a result she, with HSBCs agreement, didnt make loan repayments in April 2020,           
May 2020 and June 2020. Its worth noting that the regulators guidance did permit lenders 
to charge interest during any pandemic payment deferrals. 
Although this wouldnt have made any difference to the total amount Ms P had to pay had 
the loan run to term because HSBC simply added three extra payments at the end of the 
term to account for the three deferred payments. Nonetheless by the time Ms P resumed her 
loan repayments in July 2020, the amortisation schedule was thrown out of kilter by the fact 
that interest would have accrued on a balance that hadnt reduced in line with the initially 
proposed schedule. 
From what I can see, HSBC appears to have tried to correct this by apportioning £277.11 of 
Ms Ps July 2020 payment towards interest. This may well have been what the total interest 
amount for Ms Ps combined April 2020, May 2020, June 2020 and July 2020 payments 
would have been. And I can to some extent understand why HSBC did this.
However, this served to apportion a much smaller amount of Ms Ps payment to the 
outstanding balance. And I dont think that things were ever readjusted in a way that brought 
the balance back in line with the initial schedule. I think that this resulted in higher proportion 
of Ms Ps monthly repayment being allocated towards interest rather than reducing the 
capital going forward.           
The position when Ms P asked to settle her loan early in November 2021
As Ive explained, the fixed-sum nature of Ms Ps loan, which meant that no further interest 
could be added, meant that the failure to return to the initial amortisation wouldnt have been 
a problem or cost Ms P more had she repaid her loan in 60 monthly instalments  - albeit 
repaying her final instalment in November 2023. But Ms P asked to settle her loan early in 
November 2021. And when she did so she was faced with 58 days worth of interest being 
added to an unexpectedly larger outstanding capital balance. 
HSBCs calculations dont appear to have corrected for this. And while, for reasons Ive 
already explained, I dont agree that Ms P was entitled to an interest rebate of £1,133.64  
her calculations dont take into account amortisation, an effective extension of the term as a 
result of the pandemic payment deferral and shes failed to take into account that HSBC was 
entitled to add 58 days worth of interest to the outstanding balance, I dont think that 
HSBCs settlement figure is correct either. I fail to see how an outstanding balance of £7,236.72 on a loan being settled 19 months 
early (while Ms P might have been looking to settle her loan 22 payments ahead of schedule 
she deferred three payments as a result of her pandemic payment deferral) was only eligible 
for an interest rebate of £95.02 when the loan had an APR of 7.9%. 
Indeed HSBCs early settlement calculations show that Ms P only had £204.71 of interest to 
pay in November 2021 despite her still owing £7,236.72, having 24 payments of £301.53 to 
make and the loan having an APR of 7.9%. Im afraid that HSBCs numbers simply dont add 
up here.
Why what Ms Ps settlement figure should have been in November 2021 isnt critical to the 
outcome of her complaint 
Ms P didnt pay an increased amount to settle her loan. She declined to do so when told how 
much HSBC thought she needed to pay to settle her loan in November 2021. Ms P says that 
she had the funds to settle her loan early and would have done so had she been provided 
with a correct settlement figure.
However, for reasons Ive already explained, Ms P incorrectly believed that her settlement 
amount should have been some £1,000.00 lower than she was asked to pay. Furthermore, 
given the circumstances, Ms Ps correct settlement figure is likely to have been closer to the 
amount that she was asked to pay, rather than the amount she believed she had to pay. So I 
cant reasonably reach the conclusion that Ms P would have settled her loan had she been 
provided with a correct settlement figure.
In any event, and perhaps even more importantly its only fair and reasonable for me to ask 
a respondent firm to compensate a consumer for financial loss that they actually suffered, 
rather than a loss that they could have but did not end up suffering. Ms P is effectively 
asking us to place her in the position that she would have been had she settled her loan in 
November 2021. And Im satisfied that Ms P would have overpaid to settle her loan had she 
done so at this stage.   
But the fact remains that Ms P didnt settle her loan in November 2021 and therefore didnt 
overpay  notwithstanding the fact that she may have had the funds at this time. So Im 
therefore satisfied that Ms P didnt suffer a financial loss as a result of HSBCs failure to 
provide her with a correct early settlement figure in November 2021. In these circumstances, 
I see no value to asking HSBC to retrospectively calculate this amount and I make no 
direction in regard to this matter.  
The service HSBC provided when Ms P asked to settle her loan in November 2021
It isnt in dispute that HSBC didnt provide the best level of service to Ms P in                    
November 2021 and in the period since. But HSBC has already offered to pay Ms P £200 for 
this. Ms P hasnt accepted HSBCs offer and in truth it isnt entirely clear whether this is 
because she believes the amount to be insufficient or because of her continued unhappiness 
at what she was asked to pay to settle her loan in November 2021.  
In any event, Ive considered whether HSBCs offer of compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience caused by its actions is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Ms Ps 
complaint. 
I do accept that Ms P has experienced an amount of frustration and annoyance as a result of 
HSBCs actions. I also understand why the number of errors Ms P has referred to would 
have been upsetting and that the impact on Ms P was more than just minimal. However, I do think that £200 does adequately reflect the gravity of what has happened. 
Indeed, given Ms Ps starting point for determining how much she should have to pay to 
settle her loan was based on a misunderstanding of the regulations and how loan payments 
are treated, I think that shes, in any event, likely to have been unhappy at a correctly 
calculated early settlement figure. 
Most importantly, the amount that HSBC has agreed to pay for any distress and 
inconvenience caused by its actions is in line with the type of award I would make, in 
circumstances where I were to have upheld the complaint along these lines.
So overall, Im satisfied that the £200 already offered is an adequate amount of 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience Ms P experienced here  although I do 
appreciate that Ms P doesnt agree that this is the case. Im therefore satisfied that what 
HSBC has already offered to do to put things right for Ms P is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of her complaint and I leave it up to her to decide whether she wishes to 
accept HSBCs offer. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Ms P  as she clearly feels strongly about 
this matter. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least 
feel her concerns have been listened to  particularly as she has now had an explanation of 
how her early settlement amount should have been calculated at the time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what HSBC has already offered to do to put 
things right for Ms P is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and Im not requiring it to do 
anything more or anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman