DRN-4153888
The complaint
Mr K complains that West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay) decided hed made a qualifying 
misrepresentation when he took out his motorcycle insurance policy and, as a result, theyve 
avoided his policy and declined his claim for the theft of his motorcycle. 
What happened
Mr K was involved in a road traffic accident where the police and ambulance services were 
called. Mr K says he was admitted into hospital and the police then moved his motorcycle to 
a place they assured him was safe. While receiving treatment in hospital, Mr Ks motorcycle 
was stolen, so he made a claim under his insurance policy. West Bay declined the claim and 
avoided Mr Ks policy on the basis hed made a careless misrepresentation when taking out 
the policy. Mr K complained about West Bays decision. West Bay responded and explained 
the misrepresentation related to Mr Ks answer to a question asking where his motorcycle 
will be kept overnight. They explained Mr K answered this saying it would be in a locked 
private garage, but it was instead kept in a shared building. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr K. He thought West Bay hadnt acted unfairly in 
avoiding the policy and declining the claim. Mr K disagreed so the matter has come to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr K will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Mr Ks motorcycle insurance policy which sets out the terms and 
conditions. In the introduction section it says, This contract is entered into on the basis 
thatyou have taken all reasonable care to answer all questions asked honestly, accurately 
and to the best of your knowledge.  Then, under a section headed General Conditions it 
says failure to take reasonable care to avoid misrepresentation in relation to the information 
provided could result in the policy being cancelled or a claim being rejected.   
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). 
The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. And if a consumer fails to do this, the 
insurer has certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - 
a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to 
show it would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt 
made the misrepresentation.
 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. 
West Bay thinks Mr K failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when, 
during the sales journey, he didnt disclose that his motorcycle would be kept in a locked 
building which is accessible to other residents. West Bay say this doesnt meet their 
acceptability criteria, so they had to void the policy. 
  
The first point Ive considered is whether Mr K took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. Ive looked at the information Mr K was presented with during the online 
sales journey and this shows he answered Locked garage when asked about overnight 
storage of his motorcycle. West Bay say had Mr K answered this question Locked 
compound  as they believe he shouldve done  then they wouldnt have provided cover. 
So, Ive looked at Mr Ks circumstances to see whether he could reasonably have been 
expected to answer the question in the way West Bay have described. Mr K says, when 
applying for the policy, he confirmed his motorcycle would be kept in a garage  which he 
says it was. He says the definition of a garage being a private, locked garage is something 
which was inferred by West Bay and wasnt made clear to him at any stage of the application 
process. 
A screenshot of the sales journey shows, when answering the question above, Mr K was 
presented with a drop-down box listing options to answer this question. Theres a help text 
box which provides a description of each option available. The description of Locked 
garage includes This should be a garage used only for you and people living with you, not a 
shared garage for multiple residences Theres no dispute here that Mr Ks motorcycle was 
kept in a locked building but one that is accessible to other residents. I can see, when West 
Bay asked for clarification of this arrangement, Mr K explained hes not the only one who has 
access to the garage, but everyone who was provided with a key. One of the other options 
available on the drop-down box is Locked compound and the description of this is A secure 
site, fenced all the way round and gated, with access only available to key or code holders.   
While I acknowledge the differing opinions between Mr K and West Bay about the 
description of a locked garage, I think the question was clear  particularly because of the 
descriptions provided in the help text box. I think the key feature here to help a customer 
distinguish between a locked garage and locked compound is the reference to who has 
access. The former describes it should only be accessible by the person applying for the 
policy and people living with them. Whereas the latter option allows for it to be accessible to 
other people with a key. I think its also important to add, the description for locked garage 
says, specifically, it shouldnt be a shared garage for multiple residences - and I believe this 
further helps to distinguish between the two options and would reasonably remove any 
ambiguity. So, while I do acknowledge Mr Ks points, I think theres no doubt Mr Ks 
motorcycle wasnt stored overnight in a way which falls within the description of a locked 
garage. And, I think West Bays suggestion for how Mr K shouldve answered this question is 
reasonable. So, given that I believe the question was clear and specific, I dont think Mr K 
took reasonable care when answering it. 
Theres been a misrepresentation here but an insurer will only be entitled to take action if its 
a qualifying misrepresentation in accordance with CIDRA. So, Ive now considered whether 
the information provided by Mr K amounts to a qualifying misrepresentation. 
The next point Ive looked at is whether the misrepresentation actually made a difference to 
West Bay. In other words, if the information West Bay received had been accurate, would they have offered the insurance policy at all or only on different terms - including whether 
they wouldve charged more. 
West Bay say Mr Ks motorcycle being kept in a locked compound is an unacceptable risk 
based on their underwriting criteria. And, had this been disclosed by Mr K when taking out 
his policy, they wouldnt have offered cover. West Bay have provided our service with their 
underwriting criteria and, having reviewed this, I think they wouldnt have provided cover had 
Mr K disclosed that his motorcycle would be stored overnight in a locked compound. I say 
this because the circumstances of Mr Ks case, when compared against the underwriting 
criteria, show that cover wouldve been declined. Theres a few factors here which relate to 
Mr Ks circumstances and link to West Bays underwriting acceptability criteria. Ive looked 
through these carefully, and this demonstrates West Bay wouldnt have offered Mr K a 
policy. I understand Mr K will want to know more detail around the underwriting criteria but 
this information is commercially sensitive so I cant refer to specific parts of the underwriting 
criteria. 
So, taking this information into account, I think Mr K has made a qualifying 
misrepresentation. I can see West Bay believe the qualifying misrepresentation was careless 
and Im minded to agree. West Bay have also provided evidence which shows they wouldnt 
have offered a policy. So, I dont think they have acted unreasonably in voiding Mr Ks policy 
from the inception date. And, given thats the case, CIDRA allows West Bay to refuse any 
claim and return any premiums paid. And, I can see West Bay have made arrangements for 
the broker to refund the premium. 
I note Mr K says his selection was set out in the Proposal Form  which he says forms the 
basis of the contract of insurance. He says this makes reference to his car being kept 
overnight in a garage but theres no definition here. Mr K says theres a difference between 
a garage and a private garage and refers to the former being a covered structure used for 
parking vehicles and the latter being a structure accessible only to the owner of a private 
house or flat. Mr K says he made it clear in his claim that his motorcycle was kept in a 
garage  which implies it was kept in a covered structure for parking vehicles and not in a 
private garage. Mr K says West Bay have changed this into a private garage  which isnt 
what he disclosed as being the parking arrangement for his motorcycle. 
Mr K took out the policy online, so the Proposal Form was generated following Mr K 
providing all relevant information. I accept this does say Garage beside a question asking 
where Mr Ks motorcycle will be kept overnight. So, I do understand why Mr K is concerned 
West Bay are treating this as a private garage rather than a garage. I can see Mr K makes 
reference to distinguishable features between the terms and definitions of garage and 
private garage. I have carefully considered Mr Ks points, but Im not persuaded West Bay 
have acted unfairly. I say this because, the information on the Proposal Form has been 
taken from answers Mr K provided when applying for the policy. And I can see Mr K selected 
locked garage from the options available. As mentioned above, there were, I believe, clear 
explanations provided for locked garage and locked compound. Without any explanatory 
information, I agree this can create some confusion and ambiguity for customers when 
deciding which option to choose  as this would no doubt lead to a customer relying on their 
own interpretation and definition of those terms. But in this case, I believe any ambiguity was 
removed, particularly as the description for locked garage says this option applies where the 
garage is used only by Mr K and people living with him  and that wasnt the case here. 
I acknowledge Mr Ks point that the question of where his motorcycle is kept overnight isnt 
relevant here as it was stolen following an accident, and not from where its kept overnight. I 
do understand Mr Ks point here and I can see there is an endorsement showing on Mr Ks 
policy schedule headed Excluding theft when not in private garage. This says, You have 
agreed that you will keep your vehicle in your private locked garage or building, at your 
home address, to which only you and anyone with your permission have access. If a theft or attempted theft of your vehicle happens at any time and within a 500 metre radius of your 
home address when the vehicle is not locked in this garage or building we will not pay the 
claim. This restriction does not apply to any loss or damage occurring whilst your motorcycle 
is parked away from your home during the course of a journey. 
The first point I would make in relation to this is that this endorsement demonstrates that 
West Bay are of the understanding that Mr Ks motorcycle is being kept overnight in a 
private, locked garage  which is only accessible to him and anyone with his permission. So, 
I dont think West Bay brought in the requirement for Mr Ks motorcycle to be in a private 
locked garage themselves or after he made a claim. And its clear this applied from the start 
of the policy and was based on Mr K selecting the locked garage option when taking out the 
policy. The second point is that, while I accept where Mr Ks motorcycle was kept overnight 
isnt material to the circumstances of the theft, West Bay havent declined the claim on the 
basis of any breach of this endorsement. Instead, the reason theyve voided the policy and 
declined the claim is because they wouldnt have offered a policy had Mr K not chosen the 
locked garage option. These are steps theyre able to take under CIDRA where a careless 
qualifying misrepresentation has been made, so I cant say theyve acted unfairly. 
I acknowledge Mr K queries why the information on the Proposal Form  which says his 
motorcycle is kept in a garage  isnt treated as the basis of the contract rather than 
information he provided when applying for the policy. The Proposal Form sets out the key 
information which an insurer will take into account when offering a policy. As mentioned 
above, I agree this refers to garage rather than private garage but this was on the basis of 
the answers Mr K provided when applying for the policy. 
I understand Mr K will be disappointed, and I acknowledge his reasons for why he believes 
West Bay have acted unfairly in voiding his policy. I wish to reassure Mr K Ive read and 
considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of 
evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need 
to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection 
of the informal nature of our service. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman