DRN-3268650
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as A complains that Santander UK PLC (Santander) took £100 from
its account and returned it to the sender. It says Santander wasnt entitled to do so without
its consent.
A is represented by one of its directors, Mr M.
What happened
On 15 June 2021, a payment of £100 entered As account by faster payment. On 9 August
2021, Santander was contacted by the bank that had sent the payment, to say it had been
made in error. Santander says it wrote to A on the same day, asking A to contact Santander
within 15 days to discuss the matter further.
Santander didnt receive a reply from A, so it returned the money to the sending bank. When
Mr M realised Santander had taken money from As account, he called to ask why it had
done so. Mr M was told Santander had returned the money in accordance with its terms of
business, because the sender had reported the payment had been sent in error.
Mr M complained, saying Santander wasnt entitled to take the money without his consent,
and that he hadnt received Santanders warning letter. Santander issued its final response
on 15 September 2021. It said it hadnt made a mistake and that it had followed the correct
process, in accordance with the terms and conditions of As account.
Mr M didnt agree, so he brought As complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold
its complaint. She said shed seen a copy of the letter Santander had issued, and couldnt
hold it responsible if the letter had got lost in the post. And that it wasnt obliged to give A an
opportunity to defend the claim in any event. She said Santander had acted in accordance
with its terms of business, so she didnt think it had acted unfairly.
Mr M didnt agree. He maintained Santander wasnt entitled to take money out of As
account without his consent. He asked for an ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
On 23 December 2021, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santanders terms of business, which A agreed to when he opened the account, do entitle it
to remove money from As account, without its consent, in certain limited circumstances.
Section 9.6.1 (b) provides that Santander can take a faster payment out of As account if
Santander reasonably believes the sending bank or sender made the payment in error, and
if the sending bank or sender tells Santander within two months of the payment crediting As
account. The terms expressly state that Santander doesnt need As permission to do so.
So I dont agree with Mr M that Santander cannot deduct payments from As account without
Mr Ms express authority. With that being said, Im not persuaded it was entitled to do so on
this occasion.
While Santander can undo payments like the one in question in certain circumstances, its
terms and conditions say it can only do so if it reasonably believes the sending bank or
sender made the payment in error.
I asked our investigator to invite Santander to provide the evidence it relied on when
satisfying itself the payment it removed from As account had been sent in error. But all it
said in reply was that it had acted on instructions. And Ive seen no other evidence that
demonstrates Santander reasonably believed the money had been sent in error.
If Santander isnt able to demonstrate it reasonably believed the money had been sent in
error, it cant rely on section 9.6.1 (b) of its terms of business to return the money. And so, it
should return the money to A.
I asked both parties to provide any further evidence or submissions. Santander repeated that 
it had received information from the sending bank, but didnt provide any further evidence. 
Mr M didnt have anything to add to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Santander says it received information that entitled it to return the payment to 
the sender, but it hasnt provided our service with evidence to support its position. Our 
investigator asked Santander to submit evidence in support before I issued my provisional 
decision, and I invited it to do so in the provisional decision itself. But Santander hasnt 
provided any evidence beyond simply repeating its claim that it was entitled to. And it hasnt 
given a good reason as to why it cant provide such evidence.
Without seeing evidence to demonstrate Santander had a reasonable belief that the money 
had been sent in error, I cant reasonably say it acted in accordance with its terms and 
conditions. 
So, because Santander didnt provide any further evidence in response to my provisional 
findings, it follows that my findings remain unchanged.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things 
right, Santander UK PLC must pay A £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman