DRN-2238929
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Miss E holds with Kensington Mortgage Company 
Limited. Shes unhappy with how Kensington treated her during a period of financial 
hardship when she fell behind with her payments.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round. In doing that, I dont take instruction from either party to the complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator, and for 
much the same reasons.
When Miss E asked how much her arrears were, she was given the right information. The 
reason she was still in arrears after she paid the amount shed been told, which happened 
around 16 days later, was because by then the next months payment had fallen due.
When a lender agrees to accept a reduced amount, it doesnt mean that the difference 
between it and the contractual payment isnt still owed. It still accrues as arrears; the 
distinction is that does so with the lenders prior consent.
Kensington agreed to a reduced payment for two months because thats how long Miss E 
told it she anticipated needing to resolve the problem she had with her benefits. Given that 
the difference between the reduced and contractual payments accrues as arrears, its 
sensible to keep such an arrangement as short as possible.
Overall, I dont think Kensington treated Miss E unfairly, but like the investigator, I agree it 
could have shown a little more empathy. His proposal that compensation be increased from 
Kensingtons initial offer of £150 to £250 (which Kensington has agreed to) is fair in all the 
circumstances
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part only. In full and final settlement, I direct Kensington Mortgage 
Company Limited to pay Miss E £250 compensation. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 November 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman