DRN-3407483
The complaint
Mr C has complained that HFC Bank Limited mis-sold him PPI on a number of loan and 
credit card accounts.
What happened
HFC was unable to find any record of financial products sold to Mr C, or associated PPI, 
when it carried out various searches.
Mr C provided evidence of having some loans, although HFC said this did not show that Mr 
C had been sold PPI to cover those loans. Mr C was then able to provide a statement dated 
1 August 1997 for a revolving credit account ending 7043 which did show a charge being 
made for insurance. Based on that information, HFC upheld Mr Cs complaint in May 2020 
and made him an offer of £3,542.36 for PPI premiums on that account for the period 1 
September 1993  1 November 1997, with associated interest.
Mr C is dissatisfied with HFCs offer on two counts. Firstly, that it has not offered to refund all 
PPI attached to all loans and secondly, that the offer made on account 7043 does not cover 
the entire period that he held PPI on that account.
I wrote a provisional decision earlier in March 2022 in which I explained why I was minded to 
partly uphold Mr Cs complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they 
may wish to make before I reached a final decision. HFC has not provided anything further 
within the time allowed. I had a lengthy phone call with Mr C in which he made some 
comments about my provisional decision that I will address below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, as it is here, I make my decision based 
on the evidence that we do have, plus what I consider is most likely to have happened.
HFC hasnt been able to find any records of accounts held by Mr C. Mr C is unhappy about 
that, particularly as HFC did find a record of his wifes credit card account and because HFC 
has previously made an offer relating to another type of insurance (that Mr C refers to as 
handbag insurance), so he must have had a credit card account to have that insurance on. 
In conversation about my provisional decision, Mr C expressed his continued dissatisfied 
that HFC said it had no information about him. However, businesses are not expected to 
keep records indefinitely, especially when the accounts themselves have been closed for a 
long time. Although Mr C doesnt agree, I dont find anything unusual or untoward in HFCs 
lack of historic records.
Mr C has provided evidence of having some borrowing with HFC in the form of statements 
showing repayments. He has also provided copies of a personal log he kept of his financial 
outgoings at the time which, although incomplete, provides some insight into his borrowing 
from HFC.
Mr C has also provided his recollection of his borrowing and how this would have tied into 
certain personal events. Without going into too much detail, his relationship with HFC would 
have started around the time of his daughters birth in December 1986, and indeed Mr C has 
a record of a loan beginning in November 1986. Mr C also has bank statements showing a 
standing order for another loan from September 1992. There is a credit report showing that 
the revolving credit account 7043 started in August 1993 and, as already mentioned, a 
statement for that account from August 1997 showing a payment for PPI.
With regard to the early borrowing around the time of their daughters birth, Mr C says he 
and his wife took out double PPI because they cared about what they were doing as new 
parents and were treating the situation very seriously. Mr C has also said that, because of 
his autism, he would have taken out PPI whenever he was advised to.
In response to my provisional decision Mr C said that the PPI didnt appear just like that in 
1993. We discussed how his personal log shows themes and patterns and that there was, as 
he calls it, an ongoing monitoring of threads from 1986. Furthermore, he has said that there 
were specific channelled loans which seems to indicate that PPI would fit.
Mr C also provided more insight into his experience of having autism, coupled with what was 
happening in his family life at the time, to further explain why he believes he would have 
taken out PPI with all other borrowing.
Mr C had provided one piece of evidence that he felt proved that he had PPI on at least one 
other loan. This is a bank statement from January 1991 showing two standing orders going 
out to HFC on the same day  one for £37 and one for £7. In his personal log, Mr C has 
noted regular payments of £44 (being a sum of the two figures). Mr C believes the £7 to be a 
PPI premium covering the £37 repayment amount. I explained to Mr C over the phone why I 
was not persuaded that the £7 related to a PPI policy. Mr C ideally wanted me to be able to 
tell him what the £7 was for, if not PPI. Im afraid I do not know what that payment relates to. 
But for the purposes of this decision I am only deciding whether or not I am able to conclude 
that it was for PPI, and I have been unable to conclude that based on the available evidence.
Ive thought more about what Mr C has said and I have reviewed the evidence again. 
However, whilst I am satisfied that Mr C had a number of financial products with HFC from at 
least 1986, I havent seen sufficient evidence that would lead me to conclude that he had 
PPI on any other products apart from on account 7043.
HFC has upheld Mr Cs complaint about mis-selling of the PPI on that account. The question 
is whether the offer it has made is reasonable.
HFC has offered a refund of premiums from 1 September 1993  1 November 1997. There 
is evidence from the credit report provided by Mr C that the account began in August 1993, 
therefore it makes sense that the first PPI premium was paid the following month. However, 
it is unclear as to how HFC has settled on an end date of 1 November 1997, particularly as it 
had previously said that it could find no information at all about any products that Mr C had 
held.
Mr C has provided three pieces of evidence that show account 7043 continuing beyond 1 
November 1997. There is a bank statement showing a direct debit for HFC leaving his 
current account on 14 November 1997. There is the credit report dated 24 May 1998 
showing the revolving credit account as still active at that time and there is an inactive 
records summary from 2002 showing the direct debit for the account as still active in 1999.HFC says that account 7043 still being active is not proof that the PPI continued beyond 
November 1997, which I accept. But I havent seen any evidence that Mr C cancelled the 
PPI early and HFC has not explained its rationale for making an offer of premiums only until 
1 November 1997, despite previous requests to do so. 
Mr C has provided a cheque stub dated 30 August 2000, made out to HFC for £5,410.89. Its 
difficult to read but it seems to say something like Close acc. 
We know from the credit report dated 24 May 1998 that the outstanding balance on the loan 
was £3,549 at that time. The inactive records summary shows that Mr C was paying £138.56 
to HFC by direct debit at some point during 1999. This is consistent with an outstanding 
balance of around £4,100 (because we know from the account statement dated August 1997 
that an outstanding balance of £4,430.31 resulted in a direct debit amount of £146.87). The 
balance on the account could go up as well as down so its not unreasonable that the 
balance should have been £5,410.89 in August 2000. Based on the available evidence, Mr C 
didnt have any other substantial borrowing with HFC at that time. So, overall, I consider it 
more likely than not that the cheque payment was made to pay off the outstanding balance 
and close account 7043. I also consider it more likely than not that the PPI continued on the 
account until it was closed. Therefore, my view is that HFC should recalculate its offer to 
include a refund of premiums from September 1993 to August 2000.
Putting things right
HFC should put Mr C in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. 
Because there is very little data available, HFC will need to make some reasonable 
assumptions when doing its calculations. But in principle HFC should:
Find out how much Mr C would have owed when he closed his account on 30 August 
2000 if the policy hadnt been added to it.
So it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of PPI  as well as any interest on those charges.
HFC should then refund the difference between what Mr C owed when he closed his 
account and what he would have owed if the policy hadnt been added to it.
HFC should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr C would have 
owed when he closed his account from when he closed it until he gets a refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
HFC should tell Mr C what its done to work out the above calculations.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HFC to take off tax from this interest. HFC must give Mr 
C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mr Cs complaint. I have been unable to conclude that 
Mr C had PPI on any other financial products and therefore I do not require HFC Bank 
Limited to pay redress in respect of those. However, the redress offered for the PPI on 
account ending 7043 fails to cover the entire period that the account and PPI ran for. 
Therefore, I require HFC Bank Limited to pay fair compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022. Carole Clark
Ombudsman