DRN-2895508
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc hasnt agreed to pay the full claim under his 
building insurance for accidental damage.  
What happened
Mr S told AXA that his bedroom ceiling had collapsed, which also caused damage to the 
electrics and flooring. The cause of the collapse was the result of water ingress via the roof. 
The damage to the roof was subject to a separate claim with AXA and does not form part of 
my consideration here. 
What I have been asked to look at is the claim under the accidental damage cover provided 
by the policy. This relates to damage caused to the bedroom ceiling, electrical wiring and 
damage to the flooring beneath. 
AXA reviewed the claim for accidental damage. It accepted the claim in part. This included 
the cost of re-plastering and redecorating the ceiling as well as some re-wiring. However, it 
rejected the claim for damage to the carpet. And for the cost of hiring two skips to dispose of 
the damaged materials. 
Mr S arranged for repairs to take place eight days after the ceiling collapsed. It was five days 
after this that AXA carried out an inspection of the damage. The company refers to the terms 
of the policy, which allow it to inspect any damage prior to accepting a claim. Mr S says the 
carpet was in a skip at the time of the visit. AXA maintains it was not allowed the opportunity 
to inspect the damage to the carpet and so will not pay this claim. 
AXA has also referred to extensive renovations taking place at Mr S home at the time of its 
inspection. It believes the skips Mr S refers to were needed for these renovations. It does not 
believe they were necessary to dispose of the debris resulting from the insured damage. 
Our investigator upheld Mr S claim. She felt there was a requirement to dispose of damaged 
materials, which formed part of the claim that AXA had accepted. In her view it was fair for 
AXA to provide a payment to cover the cost of hiring one skip. 
However, the terms of the policy meant AXA should have had the opportunity to inspect the 
carpet. As this did not happen, she did not ask the company to pay for this part of the claim.   
AXA accepted our findings. Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided to uphold Mr S complaint for broadly the same reasons as 
our investigator. Let me explain why.
My remit here is to decide whether it was fair for AXA to decline part of Mr S claim for the 
reason it gave. Specifically, whether the cost of skip hire and damage to the carpet should 
have been covered under the policy. 
Carpet
AXA has rejected Mr S claim for damage to his carpet, relying on the following wording from 
the policy document. This says:
After you have made your claim: DONT Dispose of any damaged items or conduct 
permanent repairs. We may need to inspect the damage.
Mr S says the carpet had been removed from the bedroom at the time of AXAs inspection. 
He says it was in the skip, and that AXA had the opportunity to inspect it at this time. 
Photographs of a skip were taken when AXAs agent visited Mr S home. Unfortunately, from 
these images I cannot identify a carpet. The skip is clearly full and contains various materials 
that were being disposed of. I do not dispute Mr S account that the carpet was in the skip. 
But I cannot be satisfied that this was accessible to AXAs agent at the time of the 
inspection. 
The policy wording is clear that damaged items should not be disposed of prior to inspection. 
I cannot be satisfied that inspection of the damaged carpet was possible, given the photos 
suggest it was concealed beneath other debris. Mr S has confirmed that renovations were 
underway at the time of the AXA inspection. This is clear from the inspection photographs 
and explains the quantity of waste materials visible in the skip. 
I note AXA also points to the wooden flooring Mr S bought prior to the date the damage 
occurred. This is shown in a bank statement he provided. It comments that this was being 
installed when it inspected his home.
I acknowledge Mr S wanted to get on with the repairs to his bedroom, which is why the 
carpet had been removed at the time of the inspection. However, there are no photographs 
of the carpet after the ceiling collapse. And in the absence of an inspection of its condition 
there is no way to independently verify the damage caused to the carpet. 
In summary I am satisfied that AXA acted in line with the policy terms in rejecting the claim 
for the carpet, for these reasons. 
Skips
As above, AXA rejected Mr S claim for the hire cost of two skips. It maintains that the 
insured damage, so the collapsed part of the ceiling and the damaged carpet, did not justify 
a skip. AXA also referred to the renovations Mr S was carrying out to his home. It says that 
because of this a skip would have been required in any case to dispose of the waste 
materials resulting from this work.   
Extensive renovation work was being carried out, as evidenced by the AXA inspection 
records. I am satisfied that skips were required to dispose of material associated with these 
works. However, debris from the ceiling collapse will also have required disposal. The cost of 
its disposal should form part of the claim for the insured damage.  
Our investigator decided it would be fair for AXA to pay for the cost of hiring one skip. I note 
it did accept this proposal, prior to Mr S referral for an ombudsmans review.As above, it is reasonable to accept the debris from the insured damage required disposal, 
and that this should be covered within the claim. However, based on the information 
presented, including the photographs of the repairs to the bedroom, I think it likely that one 
skip would be sufficient to dispose of the damage specific to this claim. 
In summary I dont think AXA acted fairly in rejecting the claim for skip hire costs. As the 
evidence points to the need for insured damage debris to be disposed of. I am satisfied that 
AXA should pay for the hire of one skip, once confirmation of this cost has been provided to 
it.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint, and AXA 
Insurance UK Plc must:
provide a payment to cover the cost of the hire of a skip on provision of a relevant 
receipt.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman