DRN-2222263
The complaint
Ms F complains that National Westminster Bank Plc removed the debit card and other
facilities on her savings account.
What happened
In or around June 2019 NatWest decided to remove certain services which had previously
been available on its savings accounts. They included the facility to use the accounts to
make payments to third parties and to withdraw money from cash machines. It wrote to
customers in June 2019 to outline the changes, explaining this was part of a strategy to
differentiate clearly between its savings products and its current accounts.
The bank also explained that the services and facilities it was removing from its savings
accounts would still be available on its current accounts. Customers could therefore
continue, for example, to make payments and withdraw money from their savings accounts, 
by passing them through a current account.
Ms F wasn't happy about the proposed changes, which were due to be introduced from
October 2019, and complained to NatWest. The bank wrote to her on 26 July 2019. It said it
had taken a strategic decision to change the savings account so it was used for savings
only. That letter explained that Ms F could refer the matter to this service, but that she
should do so within six months of the date of that letter - that is, on or before 26 January
2020.
Ms F continued to correspond with NatWest, which wrote again on 6 August and 16
September 2019, reminding her that she had six months from 26 July 2019 to refer her
complaint to us. She continued however to correspond with the bank, which wrote to her
again on 13 December 2019. In an email of that date, which the bank said should be read
with its letters of 26 July and 6 August 2019, it wrote that it was satisfied a fair outcome had
been reached, but that Ms F could refer the matter to this service, as long as it did so within
six months - that is, on or before 13 June 2020.
Ms F referred her complaint to this service in February 2020. One of our investigators
concluded however that we had no power to consider it, since it had been referred to us
more than six months after the bank's letter of 26 July 2019. He explained that this meant it
had been referred to us outside the time limits laid down by our rules. Ms F responded to say
that NatWest had indicated that its email of December 2019 had been its last word on the
matter and asked that an ombudsman review the case.
I did that and indicated that, contrary to the investigators findings, I thought this service did 
have power to consider Ms Fs complaint. Whilst the letter of 26 July 2019 met the definition 
of a final response, I thought the letter of 13 December 2019 had been written with the 
intention of giving Ms F six months from then to bring her complaint. Since she had referred 
her complaint to this service within that time, we had power to consider it. 
I expressed the view however that the banks decision to make the changes it had to Ms Fs 
savings account  along with the accounts of many other customers  was one it was 
entitled to make; it was a legitimate commercial decision for the bank to make. 
Ms F responded to my provisional decision with two comments. First, she said that the letter 
of 26 July 2019 wasnt a final response because it didnt describe itself as one. Second, she 
said that the bank should have addressed her legitimate concerns about the effect the 
changes would have on her.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms F says first of all that the letter of 26 July 2019 wasnt a final response. Because I believe 
that the effect of the banks letter of 13 December 2019 was to extend the time by which Ms 
F needed to refer her complaint to this service, that issue doesnt affect our powers to 
consider this complaint. The definition of final response is however set out in that part of the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook that deals with dispute resolution (known as DISP), 
at DISP1.6.2. That definition doesnt require the letter to say its a final response; the key is 
what information the letter contains, not what it calls itself. As I say though, it makes no 
difference here, given my findings about the later correspondence.
I said in my provisional decision that, having explained the changes it was making, NatWest 
didnt have to address the consequences of them as they affected Ms F. She doesnt accept 
that. Ive no doubt that her concerns were and are legitimate and that the changes may 
mean shell have to change the way she uses her account in some respects. But, having 
made what I consider to be a legitimate commercial decision, I dont believe the bank was 
under any obligation to discuss in detail with Ms F the consequences for her. As far as my 
consideration of this dispute are concerned, those consequences would only be relevant if I 
thought the bank had acted unfairly in making the changes it did. As Ive explained though, I 
believe the changes were made as a result of a legitimate commercial decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require National Westminster Bank Plc to 
do anything further to resolve Ms Fs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or reject my decision before 
28 October 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman