DRN-2812344
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs S are unhappy about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc declining their 
subsidence claim under a home insurance policy.
Mr K and Mrs S are the executors dealing with a claim after the unfortunate passing of the 
original home owner Mrs K.
Even though Mr K and Mrs S have appointed expert representatives to deal with this case I 
will refer to them throughout.
Any references to RSA includes its appointed representatives.
What happened
Mr K and Mrs S made a claim when cracking was noticed at the extension to the property. 
RSA appointed specialists to review the damage and validate the claim. After review RSA 
declined it. RSA said the property extension had inadequate foundations and faulty design. It 
said it could also tell that the property had suffered damage and been repaired previously.
Mr K and Mrs S said RSA hadnt seen the original design so how could it tell this was faulty. 
They also pointed out that the extension had been acceptable to local council building
control.
As agreement couldnt be reached Mr K and Mrs S brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the claim. She said the experts had found the extension had 
been built on made ground. And the experts pointed out this wasnt suitable foundations. 
With regard to the building regulations she accepted a point RSA made that if a property has 
strip foundations the regulations would be satisfied if theres no made ground underneath.
Mr K and Mrs S didnt accept this and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a decision.
In my provisional decision I said:
Mr K and Mrs S have pointed out that theres more to the regulations than just the point 
about made ground. But more importantly theyve pointed out that the local authority building 
control was happy with the construction at the time and local building control has confirmed 
this is the case.
Mr K and Mrs S have also pointed out that several neighbouring properties are suffering 
similar subsidence problems which they say confirms there isnt an issue with the way the 
extension was built.
I think thats fair comment. This service would expect to see confirmation that extensions 
have been built in line with local authority building control and, in this case, I think it has.
RSA has fairly pointed out that it isnt involved in investigating the other local properties. But 
I think it certainly wouldnt have done any harm in this instance to have checked with other 
insurers or neighbours to help the investigation and to be certain about the true cause of the 
local damage in case there is a common link. In fact, it might have helped RSAs decision. 
However, I dont accept Mr K and Mrs Ss point that RSA didnt do enough investigation. In 
relation to the property itself I think RSA did carry out suitable work.
The RSA policy wording said:
We will pay for loss or damage to the building caused by the following:
6. Subsidence or heave of the site on which the building stands or landslip. But not loss or 
damage caused byfaulty design, foundations which did not meet building regulations at 
the time of construction.
The building regulations said:
If the foundations of a building are constructed as strip foundations of plain concrete 
situated centrally under the walls, the requirements of regulation D3 shall be deemed to be 
satisfied if:
a. There is no made ground or wide variation in the type of subsoil within the loaded area 
and no weaker type of soil exists below the soil on which the foundation rest within such a 
depth as may impair the stability of the structure.
So, although I can understand why RSA feel the policy allows it the option to decline the 
claim, I dont think its provided evidence to show the foundations didnt meet the regulations 
at the time of construction. RSA has referred to certain figures that it said wouldve made the 
foundations suitable but theres nothing in the building regulations to support these figures. 
The policy wording above very clearly refers to requiring building regulations to be met. But I 
think Mr K and Mrs S have provided evidence from local building control showing checks 
were carried out and building control were happy to allow the extension. So, I dont think 
RSA has applied its wording reasonably or fairly.
Its clear that RSA said the extension is on made ground. But based on the evidence 
provided from local building control who inspected the property at the time of the build there 
was no issues with signing off on building regulations. I dont see how RSA can say that 
despite local building regulation granting sign off for the property it can now decline a claim.
Just to confirm this local authority building control said:
The regulation is as stated in D3, and the Deemed to Satisfy provisions do exactly that. If 
the works meet the deemed to satisfy provision the works are deemed to satisfy the 
requirements of the regulations. It was and remains possible to comply with the 
requirements of the regulations, by a method other than the Deemed to satisfy provision.
So here building control is agreeing with Mr K and Mrs S that the wider regulations do apply, 
and that there was no issue with the work done at the time the extension to the property was 
built. Mr K and Mrs S have pointed out that local building control is the prosecuting 
authority regarding regulations and therefore is the key authority. I think thats fair comment.
In view of this, I dont think RSA can exclude this claim by applying its wording. As required 
by the policy wording local building regulations at the time were met. Theres clearly also 
some current local issues and I think using a clause around faulty design or workmanship is 
quite difficult to do approximately 40 years after the work was completed.Responses to my provisional decision
Mr K and Mrs S had nothing to add.
RSA responded and the main points it made were:
Foundations didnt meet building regulations at the time of construction.
Building control isnt building regulations.
The extension was built on made ground contrary to building regulations.
Building regulations must be adhered to and if it isnt then by default it would be 
considered faulty design.
Legal cases say responsibility for compliance rests with those carrying out the work, so a 
building control certificate doesnt override defective design.
Age of the build isnt a factor.
Other properties dont enter into the debate and perhaps they too have inadequate 
foundations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think building control is a function carried out to effectively guarantee that building works 
align with building regulations. As far as Im aware this is done by building control officers 
checking details and plans and inspecting works during the build. I dont think RSA dispute 
that building control was involved throughout the process in relation to this property and its 
extension.
Local building control was clear that deemed to satisfy means in relation to the 
requirements of building regulations. If local building control werent satisfied that the 
building regulations had been met and the policyholder had still gone ahead then I think RSA 
would rightly be able to apply the exclusion.
But in this case, despite the policyholder doing exactly as required by building control RSA 
wish to apply some further, higher standard. It wishes to set aside local building control 
requirements and insist customers have to take some other and further action to ensure that 
their policy will operate at any point in the future. I dont think thats fair or reasonable.
I see no reason to change my provisional decision.
Putting things right
deal with the claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to:
deal with the claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs S 
and the estate of Mrs K to accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman