DRN-3340725
The complaint
Mr J complains that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly rejected the claim he made on his 
property owners insurance policy. Reference to Mr J will include that of his representative.
What happened
A property owned by Mr J suffered damage in January 2021, with a retaining wall adjacent to 
a brook collapsing. Mr J claimed for the damage on his insurance policy.
Ageas assessed Mr Js claim, but concluded that it wasnt covered by his policy. They didnt 
think it had been caused by a one-off event  such as a storm  and said it was more likely 
to have been bad weather highlighting a maintenance issue. Ageas said ivy that had grown 
on the wall suggested it had been weakened.
Mr J obtained a surveyors report which countered Ageas theory around the ivy, but Ageas 
still said the loss wasnt covered.
The case was brought to our service and an investigator initially agreed with Ageas, but Mr J 
then provided a further report from his surveyor, which suggested the cause of damage was 
a prolonged period of high wind and precipitation. And they said the adjoining wall  which 
was still intact  was in acceptable condition with no significant wear and tear.
Because of that, the investigator said Ageas should cover the loss. But Ageas didnt agree, 
maintaining that the wall wasnt damaged by a storm.
Agreement couldnt be reached, so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Ageas has treated Mr J unfairly, Ill explain why.
The first port of call in cases such as this is what Mr Js policy covers. Given the cause 
suggested by Mr Js surveyor  high winds and precipitation  the appropriate sections of the 
policy are storm and flood.
So, as Mr J has cover for damage caused by storm and flood we then go on to look at the 
weather conditions on and around the date the damage was discovered. Mr J has said that 
there was a storm Christoph at the time and that he thinks that was the cause.
I acknowledge that there was a storm Christoph at the time, but Mr Js property was on the 
edge of that storm  which had affected other areas of the country much more significantly. 
As we have seen recently, storms are named where weather is exceptionally bad, but that 
weather wont generally affect all areas of the country equally. So, in cases like this we also 
look at local weather records which show wind speed and the level of rainfall.
They show the maximum gust of wind recorded in the area was around 41-44mph. This isnt 
a level I would expect to cause significant damage to a structurally sound wall. According to 
the Beaufort Scale, structural damage doesnt occur until wind speeds reach around 47mph. 
Likewise the rainfall recorded at the time  a maximum hourly rate of 3.8mm or a maximum 
24 hourly amount of 19mm  doesnt appear to have been exceptional.
I appreciate the wind speeds recorded arent far off 47mph and conditions at the specific 
location of Mr Js property may have been lesser or worse than those recorded by nearby 
weather stations. But from what Ive seen there was quite significant damage caused, and 
winds of 47mph would more likely cause minor damage  unless there was an underlying 
issue such as a lack of maintenance or poor workmanship.
In Mr Js case, there are conflicting opinions around whether or not there was an underlying 
issue. Ageas has suggested the ivy may have been a factor, whereas Mr Js surveyor says 
otherwise. I also appreciate Mr Js surveyor says the adjoining wall was in an acceptable 
condition, but it doesnt necessarily follow that the section Mr J is claiming for was the same.
Unfortunately, theres nothing to show what condition Mr Js section was in, immediately 
prior to the loss. But if Mr Js section had been in good condition, I wouldnt expect it to have 
collapsed due to a period of bad weather  which is what the records suggest. Insurance 
policies which cover storm and flood are generally in place to provide assistance following 
exceptional weather events, and this doesnt appear to me to have been the case here.
While the weather can rightfully be described as poor, I dont think the levels recorded at the 
time were exceptional enough to have caused significant damage to a structurally sound 
wall. Rather, it seems more likely to me that the poor weather has simply highlighted a 
weakness, leading to its eventual collapse. It is worth noting that the wall has been said to 
be approximately 80 years old, and adjacent to a brook, I think its reasonable to say that its 
more likely to have failed due to wear and tear over that time. Especially as there is no 
evidence of ongoing maintenance and the weather wasnt exceptional at the time.
I appreciate Mr J has said that the only qualified person to have carried out a site visit was 
his surveyor, and he concluded that the damage was caused by a prolonged period of high 
winds and precipitation. But the initial surveyor report prepared for Mr J focussed on the 
argument that ivy hadnt been a factor in the walls collapse, rather than what had caused it. 
And while the second report suggests bad weather as a cause it doesnt include data which 
counters that which Ive seen recorded  and which suggests a storm didnt occur.
Mr J has also said that Ageas never made the argument that there was no storm. But their 
loss adjusters letter says an insured peril didnt cause the damage, and Ageas final 
response letter said the damage wasnt caused by a one-off storm. So, I cant agree Ageas 
hasnt made this argument  even if they did put a fair amount of focus on other possible 
causes.
Overall, while I have sympathy for Mr Js position, I dont think the weather was bad enough 
to have been the overriding cause of the damage. And so, I dont think Ageas was unfair to 
have rejected his claim.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022. 
Will Weston
Ombudsman