DRN-1834752
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr B took out the card and PPI in 2000 via an internet application.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr B says he was told that taking out the PPI would increase his chances of getting the 
credit card agreed. 
Mr B applied for the credit card and PPI online. Weve seen copies of the web pages that Mr 
B would have seen during the application process. There was a specific section for PPI and 
Mr B would have needed to select either a yes or no option to request or decline the 
policy. These options have equal prominence and neither has been pre-selected. Therefore I 
consider that Mr B would have understood from the wording and layout of the page that the 
PPI was optional. There was also a link to the terms and conditions. The application process 
couldnt be progressed until an applicant had selected either yes or no. Barclays has 
provided a copy of Mr Bs application report which recorded the answers that he gave  and 
this shows that he chose the yes option for PPI.
The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Bs recollection of the 
sale has faded. Looking at the available evidence, it seems to me that he decided to take out 
the policy, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
Mr B has highlighted another complaint, relating to a different business, that an adjudicator 
has recently upheld. We look at each complaint on its own merits so I havent looked in 
detail at that other complaint. However, I note that the sale in that case was a branch sale in 
which the business advised Mr B to buy the policy.
As this was an online sale, it was an information only sale (as opposed to an advised sale), 
meaning that Barclays didnt need to ensure that the policy met Mr Bs needs. So Barclays 
didnt need to ask Mr B any questions about his circumstances to establish whether or not 
the policy was suitable for him.But Barclays did need to provide enough information for Mr B to make an informed choice 
about whether or not the policy was right for him.
I think that Mr B would have known something about the PPI  that it would cover his card 
repayments if he was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  because 
I dont think hed have decided to take it out without knowing anything at all about it. 
Rather than being advised to buy the policy, Mr B had to weigh up in his own mind the cost 
of the policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure 
against the risk of being unable to work. 
As I have found that Mr B chose to take this policy out, I consider its reasonable to conclude 
he had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. 
The PPI page of the online application process did provide a summary of the basic cost. And 
of course Mr B would have known about his own circumstances in terms of his sick pay 
entitlement and his level of savings at the time.
Mr B has told us that his employer would have given him six months full pay if he was off 
sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer than Mr 
B would have received full pay for. Mr B has told us that he had fairly substantial savings at 
the time. He did originally say that these were earmarked in case he wanted to buy a 
property. Hes now said that wasnt the case and that he was using the money to buy and 
sell cars at the time. Regardless of this, having the policy would have allowed Mr B to retain 
any savings or use them to cover other outgoings or for their original purpose.
Its possible that Barclays didnt provide as much information as it should have about the 
policy, particularly the things that it didnt cover. But Mr B wasnt affected by any of those 
things. As I consider that Mr B had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think 
that further information would have caused him to change his mind. 
This means that Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
 
When the policy was sold, Barclays expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr B about 
that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr B, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman