DRN-3183158
The complaint
Miss F has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) did not downgrade her 
fee-paying packaged bank account when she complained in 2016 that itd been mis-sold and 
RBS agreed that it had been.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she did not think that RBS had acted 
incorrectly or unfairly. And so she didnt think that a refund of the account fees that Miss F 
has paid since 2016 was warranted.
Miss F disagreed, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint.
Miss F says that shed written to RBS in 2016 to complain that her account had been mis-
sold and included in this letter was a request that her account be downgraded to a fee-free 
account. I can see that RBS upheld Miss Fs complaint and arranged for the account fees to 
be refunded. But the account was not downgraded.
RBS says that the reason why the account was not downgraded, was because the signature 
on Miss Fs complaint letter did not match the one it held on file. Miss F has questioned why 
this was not rectified before the complaint was resolved. But I understand that RBS did 
speak to Miss F about this on 14 June 2016 i.e. before the final response letter had been 
issued. 
Unfortunately RBS has not been able to provide our service with a copy of that call. But the 
final response letter does mention that conversation, so I think it was likely to have taken 
place. 
The final response letter says that RBS had explained to Miss F that her account had not 
been downgraded and explained to Miss F that if she wanted to do so, shed need to speak 
to the downgrade team. RBS says that Miss F confirmed in the telephone call that shed go 
to an RBS branch to downgrade the account herself. 
Following this call, there is no evidence to suggest that Miss F did make a request for the 
account to be downgraded in branch, or that she called the downgrade team either.
Furthermore, I can see that RBS provided the telephone number for the downgrade team in 
the final response letter, should Miss F not be able to make it to a branch to do this.
Therefore, I think that RBS did what it needed to do, to explain to Miss F how she could 
downgrade her account.
I note that Miss F says that she didnt receive the final response letter. But it was correctly 
addressed, and most correctly addressed mail is received. And if it was the case that the 
letter was lost in the post, this is not something that I can hold RBS responsible for. But even 
if the letter wasnt received by Miss F, Im satisfied that RBS had verbally explained to Miss 
F how she could downgrade her account. 
Therefore I think that RBS did what it needed to do to explain to Miss F in 2016 about how 
she can downgrade her account and I cant say that it mis-led Miss F into thinking that the 
account had been downgraded. As such, I dont think a refund of the packaged account fees 
since 2016 is warranted in this case.
Finally, I can see that Miss F says that the packaged account was sold in 2016, because 
RBS continued to charge her for the account. But that is not the case. The packaged 
account was not sold to Miss F in 2016, it was the case that her account remained as a 
packaged account. So I dont think that Miss Fs comments about a packaged account being 
sold to her in 2016 apply here.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman