DRN-2490003
The complaint
Mr D complains about the way Simplyhealth Access has settled a claim he made on his 
corporate private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D holds a private medical insurance cash plan policy through his employer, which is 
insured by Simplyhealth. He was initially enrolled onto the plan in 2007 and this plan ran until 
March 2018. At that point, Mr Ds plan became an annually renewable policy. Mr D also has 
a separate private medical insurance policy which is underwritten by a company Ill call B.
Between November 2017 and April 2018, Mr D underwent physiotherapy. The total cost of 
his treatment was £485. Mr D made a claim on his policy with B, which settled £388 of the 
total claimed amount. So Mr D made a claim to Simplyhealth for the shortfall balance of £97.
Simplyhealth accepted the claim. But it said the policy terms stated that it would only pay 
75% of the amount a policyholders claimed. In this case, as Mr D had claimed £97, it 
calculated that 75% of this amount was £72.75. It paid Mr D this amount (although some of 
the treatments took place under the original plan and some under the new plan, so the claim 
settlements were allocated against these plans).
Mr D was unhappy with Simplyhealths decision. He said hed paid 20% of the original £485 
physiotherapy fees and B had paid the other 80%. He didnt think it was fair for Simplyhealth 
to only pay him 75% of the 20% claim value hed paid out. He asked us to look into his 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Simplyhealth had treated Mr D unfairly. He thought the policy 
terms for both the original and new plans made it clear that Simplyhealth would only pay 
75% of a policyholders physiotherapy claim. He was satisfied that Simplyhealth had paid 
75% of the claim Mr D had made to it. So he didnt think it needed to pay Mr D anything 
more.
Mr D disagreed. He felt he was entitled to recover the full amount of his loss. And he felt 
Simplyhealths policy terms were unfair.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Simplyhealth has settled Mr Ds claim fairly. Ill explain why.
Simplyhealth has provided us with a copy of the claim form Mr D sent it when he made his 
claim for physiotherapy treatment. This includes a breakdown from the physiotherapist of the 
invoice total; Bs contribution and the shortfall amount. I can see that the total amount billed 
was £485 for treatment Mr D underwent during a five-month period. B paid £388 and the 
shortfall amount listed is £97  the amount Mr D claimed from Simplyhealth.
So Ive looked closely at the terms of Mr Ds policies, as these form the basis of his contracts 
with Simplyhealth. The physiotherapists overall invoice shows that Mr D received treatment 
during the term of his original plan and the plan which began in March 2018. So the costs of 
any treatment Mr D received between November 2017 and the end of February 2018 were 
assessed under the original policy and costs post-dating 1 March 2018 were assessed under 
the new contract. 
The original contract set out how Simplyhealth will settle physiotherapy claims. It says:
We will pay you 75% of the total cost you pay directly to a physiotherapistfor treatment up 
to the appropriate maximum entitlement available in your claiming year under your chosen 
level.
The March 2018 contract says that Simplyhealth will pay 75% of your receipt up to your 
annual limit for physiotherapy claims.
In my view, both sets of the terms and conditions make it clear that Simplyhealth will only 
pay 75% of a policyholders physiotherapy claim. I think it was reasonable for Simplyhealth 
to treat the physiotherapists invoice as a receipt when it calculated the settlement due and 
this invoice showed that the total amount Mr D was claiming from Simplyhealth was £97. I 
say that because it was the shortfall amount that was left to be paid to the physiotherapist. 
So I think it was entitled to accordingly calculate the settlement due based on 75% of the 
shortfall amount Mr D evidenced.
I appreciate Mr D feels strongly about his complaint and that he feels Simplyhealth has 
treated him unfairly. But Im satisfied its policy terms are clear and I think it was fair for 
Simplyhealth to rely on them when it calculated its liability under the policy. I dont think this 
term is inherently unfair and I dont think that Simplyhealth has treated Mr D unreasonably. 
This means Im not telling it to pay Mr D anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman