DRN-3233282
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) have 
mishandled their legal expenses insurance claim.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the reasons set 
out below.
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy with the service they received from DAS throughout their claim. 
As such, I have considered all aspects of the way DAS has handled the claim, including their 
decision to withdraw further funding, as well as whether any distress and inconvenience has 
been caused by their general handling of matters.
First, I note that some of the concerns raised by Mr and Mrs R relate to the quality of advice 
they received from their appointed panel solicitors about their claim. However, DAS is the 
legal expenses insurance provider, not the suitably qualified expert dealing with the case 
(i.e. the panel solicitor). As such, our role is to assess the insurers handling of the claim in 
light of the policy terms to determine whether theyve fulfilled their obligations reasonably 
and dealt with the claim fairly. As already highlighted by the investigator, were unable to 
consider the quality of legal advice (unless it is patently wrong) or the actions of a law firm as 
this falls under the remit of the Legal ombudsman.
Mr and Mrs R do not think DAS have acted reasonably by relying on their panel solicitors 
advice to refuse further funding, because the solicitors considered the £250 offer made by 
the defendant to be a reasonable offer that they should accept. However, the policy terms 
and conditions state:
Offers to settle a claim
If you do not accept a reasonable offer to settle a claim, we may refuse to pay further 
legal costs.
Given that DAS is not legally qualified to determine what a reasonable settlement would be, 
they are entitled to rely on the advice of those who are. An insurer is a custodian of pooled 
funds which have to be managed responsibly. And with such a fiduciary duty, an insurer 
cannot be expected to defend or pursue cases at any cost, purely as a matter of principle of 
behalf of the policyholder. And given the potential costs and inherent uncertainties 
surrounding litigation, it seems a prudent and reasonable strategy to accept a settlement if 
the legal professionals involved consider it to be a reasonable offer, which they did in this 
instance. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs R may not agree with the solicitors legal assessment of their 
claim or advice regarding the settlement offer, because they do not consider £250 to be 
reasonable as they will need to refit their entire bathroom. But as it stands, I havent seen 
that they have submitted a more favourable assessment  other than their own opinion  to 
show that the offer is not reasonable, or that the contractors would be legally liable to pay for 
an entire bathroom refit rather than the cost of a replacement bath panel. 
As Ive set out previously, our service is not able to consider the actions of solicitors or the 
quality of the legal advice they have provided. And generally, we consider it is fair for the 
insurer to rely on the advice of appropriately qualified legal professionals, unless there is 
anything to suggest that the legal advice provided was patently wrong, such that it was 
unreasonable for the insurer to rely on it. 
However, there is nothing in this case to suggest that the legal advice was patently wrong, 
so theres currently no basis on which to conclude that DAS have acted unreasonably by 
relying on it to decline the claim. I appreciate Mr and Mrs R may have a different opinion, but 
their own views on this matter cannot reasonably outweigh the assessment of the solicitors; 
for example, even where a policyholder is herself legally qualified, she cannot act as an 
independent expert in her own cause. DAS have also said they will reconsider matters if Mr 
and Mrs R submit a more favourable assessment, and that they would cover the costs of this 
if it showed the claim had reasonable prospects of success, which I think is fair in the 
circumstances. Given they have already funded a legal assessment from their panel 
solicitors, I dont think it would be reasonable to expect them to incur further costs for 
another assessment which could likely return the same outcome.
So, given that the panel solicitors concluded that Mr and Mrs Rs should accept the 
settlement offer  and given that they have not submitted any alternative legal opinion to 
show that this is unreasonable  Im satisfied that DAS have fairly declined the claim in line 
with the policy terms and conditions, which state that the insurer can decline a claim if the 
policyholder refuses a reasonable offer. I note that DAS also referred the matter back to the 
panel solicitors when Mr and Mrs R felt the circumstances had changed, where the insurer 
then paid for a further prospects assessment. So Im satisfied DAS has acted fairly and 
reasonably in their handling these matters.
I understand that Mr and Mrs Rs key concern here is the poor service they feel they 
received from DAS throughout the claim, such as being given incorrect advice by the insurer 
about the panel solicitor (and whether they should be asking for a senior fee earner to 
assess their claim) as well as being given conflicting advice about the need for a second 
opinion from a barrister. They have also said theyve had to make a significant amount of 
calls to DAS, of which many were cut off, and have sometimes not been called back by the 
insurer.
I appreciate how frustrating this must have been for Mr and Mrs R. However, DAS 
acknowledged that the service provided had not always been of a satisfactory standard, for 
which they apologised and offered £100 compensation. I understand Mr and Mrs R may not 
consider this amount to be commensurate to the experience they have had. But in order to
award further compensation, I would have to be satisfied that DASs wrongful actions
have had a greater impact than just moderate inconvenience or upset, which Im not 
persuaded it has in these circumstances. And having considered the service Mr and Mrs R 
received (accepting their version of events in this instance) Im satisfied that £100 represents 
fair compensation in the circumstances, so I do not think a higher award is warranted.
I note that Mr and Mrs R have also raised concerns about the way DAS handled their 
complaint, such as the lack of acknowledgement of their acceptance of the compensation offered. However, complaint handling is not an activity regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority, so Im afraid this service is unable to comment on such matters.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman