DRN-3180943
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that Morses Club PLC (Morses) has incorrectly recorded adverse 
information on her credit file after she approached it for help and support caused by
COVID-19 pandemic in January 2021. Mrs W says this issue is causing her stress.
What happened
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Mrs W didnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was also intending to uphold 
Mrs Ws complaint but I provided further reasons. A copy of the background to the complaint 
and my provisional findings follow this in italics and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
This complaint is about the arrears information as well as the help and support Morses
offered to Mrs W. This help and support relate to a loan Mrs W took on 7 October 2020 for
£760. She was due to make 53 weekly payments of £26.60.
She appeared to have some problems repaying this loan, and so in January 2021 she
agreed a repayment plan with Morses to repay £10 per week. This was regularly reviewed,
and based on what Morses told us, Mrs W initially returned to normal contractual
repayments at the end of June 2021.
Mrs W made a complaint to Morses about the arrears information on her credit file and the
letters shed received about the arrears. Mrs W says this information shouldnt have been
recorded on her credit file, because her issues were caused by the pandemic.
Morses investigated her complaint and issued a final response letter (FRL) on 8 June 2021.It
explained that arrears starting to build on her final loan from December 2020. It says the
information reported to the credit reference agencies is accurate and it therefore wouldnt be
making any changes.
Mrs W, unhappy with this response referred her to complaint to this Service.
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mrs Ws complaint. She didnt think it should be upheld,
and she made the following points;
She outlined the measures the industry regulator (Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)) 
put in place to assist lenders and consumer with payment deferrals.
The adjudicator pointed out, that at the time, the guidance wasnt applicable to Mrs W 
because the support offered through a payment deferral expired at the end of
October 2020  which is before Mrs W approached Morses for support.
The help and support offered to Mrs W was in line with the Consumer Credit
Sourcebook (CONC) and she thought Mrs W had been treated fairly.
Due to the repayment plan, Morses didnt add any further interest or charges to the
balance.
She thought the information Morses reported to the credit reference agencies was
accurate  she also confirmed with Mrs W that her account hadnt yet defaulted.
Morses appear to have accepted the adjudicators findings.
Mrs W didnt agree, in summary she had said;
She had been told that if she needed help with making the payments she should 
ask.
Mrs W says she was affected by the lockdowns and shes a vulnerable person.
This Service hasnt appreciated the impact on her credit file of having 
arrears recorded on it for six years.
Had the agent explained the consequences of accepting a repayment plan 
she wouldnt have approached Morses for help.
The agent has confirmed with Mrs W that her credit file should be amended.
Morses hasnt followed the FCAs COVID -19 payment deferral guidance correctly.
Mrs W acknowledges she missed some payments but was told not to worry 
because she was a vulnerable consumer.
Mrs W confirmed she wasnt currently making any repayments towards her balance.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loan was provided.
Im sorry to hear about Mrs Ws health problems I do hope things have improved for her.
This complaint is solely about the help and support Morses provided to Mrs W when she
approached it for assistance in January 2021. So, when thinking about whether Morses has
done everything it ought to have done, Ive considered CONC, the FCAs Payment Deferral
Guidance and what the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says about reporting
information to the credit reference agencies. The ICO is the body responsible, for issuing
guidance to lenders about how information should be reported to credit reference agencies.
So, its only right I consult and see what these different documents have to say.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mrs Ws complaint.
It's important to note, that given the way the loan is structured, it wouldnt have made any
financial difference to Mrs W which options were provided to her (in terms of repayment or
deferrals) because Morses didnt add any extra interest as a result of the payment plan, and
neither would any had been added if a deferred plan was added. The crux of the issue here
is the impact on her credit file.
Ive already outlined above, that Mrs W took a loan for £760 in October 2020 and she was
due to make 53 weekly payments of £26.60. Looking at the account history I can see that
initially Mrs W was making her repayments broadly in line with the credit agreement, she had
missed a payment and made a couple of payments late during the first few weeks of having
the loan. Then into November 2020, Mrs W made her first three payments broadly in line
before missing the last payment in November 2020.But Mrs W didnt make any repayments towards the loan from 17 November 2020 until she
agreed the repayment plan with Morses on 14 January 2021.
So, at the point Mrs W contacted Mores on 14 January 2021 she was approximately six to
seven weeks in arrears and had missed around 50% of the payments that were due to be
made in that period.
I understand, that Mrs W says she was classified as medically vulnerable, I do hope things
have now improved for her. However, at this time, it doesnt appear that she told Morses
this, and given the amount of arrears, Morses wouldve been entitled to record this on her
credit file, but I can see what it has chosen not to do that.
I can see that Mrs W spoke to Morses on 14 January 2020. Unfortunately, a copy of the call
isnt available, which isnt helpful. But Ill have to be guided by what the call notes say. For
the call on 14 January 2021 the following note has been made by Morses;
..customer phone to say she has had problems & requested a payment plan the
customer feels she can only afford to pay £10pw at present a customer will pay £10
week for next few months.
This call note shows that Mrs W contacted Morses because she was having problems
repaying her loan which was reflected in the missed payments to date. There is no mention
of COVID and / or the pandemic. But that doesnt mean to say it wasnt discussed only the
notes doesnt suggest that it was.
As Ive said the calls arent available, so I dont know for sure whether it was discussed. But,
whether COVID was mentioned in my mind doesnt change the view that Ive reached,
primarily because it wouldve appeared to Morses that Mrs W had longer term financial
problems.
In January 2021, Morses had a decision to make, based on what Mrs W said it couldve and
was required to at a minimum follow the forbearance guidance detailed in CONC or it
couldve looked at what the FCA was saying.
Ive looked at the FCAs Personal loans and coronavirus: Payment Deferral Guidance 
November 2020. This guidance was released in November 2020 and was applicable for
consideration at the time that Mrs W contacted Morses. This guidance extended the help
and support through payment deferrals that the FCA had initially announced in April 2020
and further extended in July 2020.
The FCA updated the guidance in November 2020 to enable further payment deferrals to be
entered into before 31 March 2021. So, unlike the conclusions reached by the adjudicator,
the option for a payment deferral was at least available to Mrs W  but that doesnt mean it
would be the correct course of action to offer her one.
The FCAs guidance says;
1.4 The guidance provided immediate and temporary support for customers to help
them deal with short-term financial difficulties
Mrs W says she needed the help and support as a result of the pandemic affecting her
income, and a recent change to her health status. So, it would seem, that this support may
have been appropriate for Mrs W. But the guidance goes on to say;1.18 This guidance applies where customers are experiencing or reasonably expect
to experience temporary payment difficulties due to circumstances arising out of
coronavirus. Where a customer was in pre-existing financial difficulty unrelated to
coronavirus, our existing forbearance rules and guidance in CONC 7 would continue 
to apply. Forbearance under CONC 7 would include for example the firm considering
suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest or charges, deferring
payment of arrears or accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time.
And
2.4 A firm should not give a payment deferral under this guidance in relation to a
regulated credit agreement: where the firm determines (acting reasonably) that it is
obviously not in the customers interests;  where the customer was in pre-existing
financial difficulty unrelated to coronavirus in respect of which they are entitled to
forbearance under our rules and guidance in CONC 7
Looking at what Morses was aware of at the time, (given the phone note) and the fact the
account was already in arrears, I think in this case, the support and help offered to Mrs W
through a repayment plan was reasonable. I say this because, I think given the number of
missed payments and for the length of time that it was ongoing for, wouldve likely led
Morses to conclude that Mrs W was having longer term difficulties rather than short term
difficulties.
On 22 February 2021 a further call was made between Mrs W and Morses, this time the
notes say (this is verbatim);
Call back P cs has been affected by covid as used to do odd jobs to earn extra cash
and had to move her horses had extra expenses. Required pp 10.00 week till end of
march A 10.00 wk review 4 weeks
This appears to be the first time that the pandemic was mentioned (or at least recorded).
This also given an indication that the problems Mrs W was experiencing were short term in
nature.
But what I cant ignore, is that Mrs W had been having problems repaying the loans from the
outset, so its likely that the problems she was having were (and likely to be) longer term.
This means, that when Mrs W approached Morses for help, it would need to consider what
help and support was applicable under CONC. The relevant section of CONC for
consideration is 7.3.
CONC 7.3.5G gives examples of how a lender, like Morses could assist a customer once it
becomes aware of financial difficulties.
Examples of treating a customer with forbearance would include the firm doing one 
or more of the following, as may be relevant in the circumstances:
(1) considering suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest or 
charges (for example, when a customer provides evidence of financial difficulties and is 
unable to meet repayments as they fall due or is only able to make
token repayments, where in either case the level of debt would continue to rise if 
interest and charges continue to be applied);
[Note: paragraph 7.4 (box) o f ILG](2) allowing deferment of payment of arrears:
(a) where immediate payment of arrears may increase the customer's
repayments to an unsustainable level; or
(b) provided that doing so does not make the term for the 
repayments unreasonably excessive;
(3) accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow a 
customer to recover from an unexpected income shock, from a customer who
demonstrates that meeting the customer's existing debts would mean not being able 
to meet the customer's priority debts or other essential living expe ses (such as in
relation to a mortgage, rent, council tax, food bills and utility bills).
Looking at the actions of Morses, Im satisfied that it did treat Mrs W fairly. It discovered that
she was having repayment problems and agreed to help her by reducing her weekly
payments to £10 per week rather than paying the contractual amounts of £26.60 per week.
Indeed, the amount for £10 per week appears to be what Mrs W says she could afford to pay
towards this loan, and its entirely reasonable, given what Morses knew at the time for it to
have accepted this amount. As part of this plan, Morses was entitled to report these arrears
on Mrs Ws credit file.
Given that Mrs W was put on a payment plan, then adverse information will be reported to
the credit reference agencies. This is entirely consistent with the guidance issued by the ICO
entitled Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit
Reference Agencies. The relevant section that I have to consider is principle three entitled;
If you offer or make a reduced payment, how it is reported will depend on whether it 
is agreed with the lender.
This principle deals with arrears and how these are reported, the principle says;
Agreed reduced or revised payments If, due to financial difficulty, your lender
agrees a reduced or revised payment with you, this will be reflected on your credit
file. How revised or reduced payments are shown on your credit file will depend on
whether it is a temporary or permanent change to the agreement...
Looking at the information that Morses reported to the credit reference agencies, I can see
Morses reported the balance has decreased in line with the payments that Mrs W made. It
also has reported the arrears, which is consistent with the ICO guidance which says;
when such an arrangement is made and maintained, that it will show on your
credit file and that whilst arrears may accrue and increase a default will not be
recorded.
So, given the plan was stuck to by Mrs W the information that Morses reported to the credit
reference agencies appear to have been accurate and in line with the support offered to
Mrs W under CONC as well as the reporting guidance issued by the ICO.
Therefore, based on the guidance and rules that Im following, I dont think Morses has made
a mistake in Mrs Ws case. It therefore follows that Morses doesnt need to make any
adjustments to Mrs Ws credit file.
Morses has told us the current balance. But Morses calls these arrears but I believe it to be
the balance given what the amount as showing outstanding on Mrs Ws credit file is £953.80.If Mrs W is still experiencing financial difficulties, she may wish to discuss these with Morses.
Id also remind Morses of its obligation to treat Mrs W fairly and with forbearance.
So, Im not upholding Mrs Ws complaint about her credit file. I appreciate Mrs W will be
disappointed by the outcome of this complaint, but I hope my explanation has been useful in
explaining why Ive reached the outcome that I have.
Response to the provisional decision
Both parties were asked to provide any further comment or evidence by 19 November 2021.
 
Morses told us it had received the provisional decision and it didnt have anything further for 
this Service to consider.
 
Mrs W didnt agree with the provisional decision. In response she said;
Morses agents approached her to see if any help was needed. 
Mrs W wasnt told that by accepting the help adverse information would appear on 
her credit file. 
Mrs W advised this Service and although was applied the figures of months in 
Arrears did not state true facts.
She expected to be helped and protected as the FCA outlined. 
The government offered help into 2021 and didnt end in 2020. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about Mrs Ws comments, but in this instance, they havent changed my mind 
about the outcome of the case. I still dont think Morses made an error when it dealt with 
Mrs Ws request for help. Ive explained why below. 
Firstly, I do agree with Mrs W about what help was potentially available to her in January 
2021. The FCA did extend specific support as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic to the end 
of March 2021  as outlined in the updated guidance that was issued in November 2020. As 
I explained in the provisional decision, it was available as an option to Morses at the time 
that help was offered to Mrs W in January 2021.  
And the general rules and guidance, around treating customers fairly when in forbearance 
are outlined in CONC (as I mentioned in the provisional decision) and these are always 
applicable  regardless as to when help is either sought or enquired about. 
In the provisional decision I mentioned the telephone calls that Morses was able to provide 
notes for. I dont, and I cant, rule out that there was further contact between Mrs W and the 
agent(s) managing her loan. 
But whether Mrs W was approached by Morses or she contacted Morses first, in my view 
doesnt have a bearing on the outcome. This is because, Morses had an obligation to treat 
her fairly and with forbearance considering whether the FCAs COVID-19 guidance was 
appropriate (given what it knew) or whether it needed to help Mrs W with a repayment plan  
with the regulatory basis of this being found in CONC.  And I have already made findings about the type of help that was offered to Mrs W, and why, in the provisional decision, so I 
wont report that information here. 
Mrs W also said she wasnt told the plan wouldve had an impact on her credit file. I dont 
have the copy of the calls between Mrs W and Morses. So, I cant be sure exactly what she 
was or wasnt told about the implications of the repayment plan. But, Morses has told us that 
arrears letters wouldve been sent. Morses says these letters informed of her status of the 
account.  
In addition, Ive already outlined in the provisional decision why I think the information 
recorded on her credit file by Morses is in line with the guidance issued by the Information 
Commissioners Office. So I dont think Morses needs to make any adjustments to her credit 
file. 
In this instance, Mrs Ws further comments havent persuaded me to change the outcome 
that I reached in the provisional decision. I still dont think Morses made an error and it 
therefore doesnt need to update Mrs Ws credit file. 
As I mentioned in the provisional decision, an outstanding balance does appear to remain. 
So, Mrs W may wish to contact Morses to discuss a way forward. If Mrs W needs further 
help and support I remind Morses of its obligation to treat her fairly and with forbearance. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman