DRN-3302133
The complaint
Mrs L held an account with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax UK (Halifax). She 
complains that Halifax blocked a payment made by her and this impacted her being able to 
transfer her account to a different bank. 
 
What happened
Mrs L held an account with Halifax since 2001. 
In July 2019 she tried to make a payment from her account to a tradesman, but it was 
stopped for a routine fraud check. Halifax contacted Mrs L but customer verification couldnt 
be completed and the transaction was blocked.  
As Mrs L was unhappy with Halifax about the fraud check she decided to transfer her 
banking elsewhere. In early August 2019, Mrs L opened an account with another bank and 
asked them to switch her account from Halifax. 
Mrs L heard nothing and assumed it was being processed. 
On 28 August 2019 Mrs L contacted the new bank to find out what was happening. She was 
told the switch had been blocked by Halifax. 
Mrs L contacted Halifax and was told that her account switch was blocked because she 
hadnt completed the fraud checks on the transaction in July, and she needed to go into a 
branch with identification documents. 
On 29 August 2019 Mrs L went into the branch with documents and closed the account 
personally. 
Mrs L complained to Halifax about this.    
Halifax didnt uphold Mrs Ls complaint. They confirmed that a payment was stopped in mid 
July for security checks and as Mrs L didnt want to complete the fraud checks over the 
phone she was told that the block wouldnt be removed unless she went into branch.
 
However, they did accept that they should have told Mrs L that the account switch had been 
blocked because of the incomplete fraud check, and so they offered to pay her £100 for the 
distress an inconvenience caused by this failing, and £40 to cover expenses including call 
costs. 
Mrs L was unhappy with this response and brought her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into this, and she thought that Halifaxs offer was fair.  
  
Mrs L disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so it 
has come to me to review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld the complaint and I will explain my reasons below. 
I have reviewed all information provided by both Mrs L and the business.
The security checks
Banks are required by their regulator to undertake random checks on payments made out of 
personal accounts to protect customers against fraud. This doesnt imply that the account 
holder is acting fraudulently but is a check to ensure that the payment is genuinely being 
made by the account holder and not a third party. The check normally involves contacting 
the account holder and asking them to go through some security questions to verify their 
identity and confirm that the payment is genuine.  
I can see from the account notes provided that the payment in question was flagged for 
checking on 13 July 2019, but Mrs L did not respond to Halifaxs request for contact until 30 
July 2019.  She was unhappy about undertaking the security checks as she thought that it 
was unnecessary for her to prove her identity, having done so when she opened her account 
and also in 2016 in a similar situation. While I can understand Mrs L was unhappy about this, 
it is a normal bank process, and is designed to protect her from fraudulent use of her 
account, and so I cant say Halifax have acted wrongly here.  
As a result of the security checks not being completed, the payment remained blocked.
The delay in switching the account
There was a delay in switching Mrs Ls account to her new bank. The application was made 
on 8 August 2019 and wasnt completed until 29 August 2019 when she went into the 
branch. The reason it couldnt be completed was because accounts cant be transferred 
when there is an outstanding blocked transaction on the account. 
As the block on the payment was applied correctly, Im satisfied that Halifax didnt do 
anything wrong in not completing the switch. 
However, I do agree with the investigator that they should have notified Mrs L as soon as it 
was denied. 
Halifax themselves have recognised this and paid Mrs L £100 for inconvenience and distress 
caused by this failure to notify her, and £40 to cover the cost of any phone and travel 
expenses. 
I can see that after being notified of the issue on 28 August 2019, Mrs L attended the 
branch, provided her documents, and closed her account on 29 August 2019.  The 
inconvenience was therefore of short duration and resolved easily, and so I am satisfied that 
Halifaxs offer of £100 for distress and inconvenience is sufficient. 
I appreciate that being required to go into branch would have been frustrating and 
inconvenient for Mrs L, but in the circumstances it was necessary.
   
In view of the above I wont be recommending that Halifax do anything further.     My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint about 
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax. 
   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman