DRN-3437884
The complaint
This complaint is about Mrs Gs mortgage with Barclays Bank UK PLC. Its a joint mortgage; 
the other borrower is Mrs Gs husband, from whom she is separated. Mrs G says Barclays 
has blocked her from accessing the mortgage and has allowed an extension to the debt that 
has resulted in her losing £325,000 of equity.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs G and Barclays. Im also aware 
that the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, which has been 
shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mrs G being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points and then 
focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be 
because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
The mortgage began in 2015; Mrs G and her husband later separated, and in 2020, he 
closed their various bank accounts. Were looking at a separate complaint about the bank 
accounts; this complaint is about the mortgage account. Mrs G is unhappy that she cant 
gain access to the mortgage account online since Barclays put a marker on the account 
about the marital dispute. She says this is stopping her from getting information she needs. 
Also, after receiving a copy of a redemption statement requested by her estranged husband, 
Mrs G says decisions have been taken on the mortgage by him without her participation. 
Barclays rejected the complaint, so Mrs G brought it to us. Our investigator didnt think 
Barclays had done anything wrong. Mrs G asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my conclusions, and the reasons for them are as follows.
Firstly, I should make clear that this decision is solely about the joint mortgage account. 
Mrs Gs concerns about the closure of the joint bank accounts are being dealt with in a 
separate complaint.
The essence of the complaint, if Ive understood Mrs Gs emails of 9 February and 
1 April 2022 correctly, is that she considers herself the victim of economic abuse and 
controlling behaviour. She believes Barclays response to being notified of a marital dispute 
has left her in a vulnerable position where she has lost her part in the mortgaged property.
Mrs G has written openly and very eloquently about how events have affected her. Her 
honesty and frankness are commendable and have left me in doubt about how strongly she 
feels. Shes in a horrible and distressing situation; what I have to decide is whether Barclays, 
by either its actions or inactions, has treated her unfairly and made an already bad situation 
worse. Having considered everything that both parties have said and provided, Im not 
persuaded thats the case.
Once notified that Mrs G and her husband had separated, Barclays had no option but to 
attach the marital dispute marker to the account. Its a means of ensuring that neither 
borrower can make changes to the mortgage without the participation of the other. In that 
context, its intention is actually to protect each borrower from the risk of economic abuse by 
their co-borrower. Attaching the marker to the joint mortgage account was not a mistake; 
failing to attach it would have been.
A consequence of the marker being attached is that online access to the mortgage account 
is blocked. I appreciate Mrs G has found this highly inconvenient, but the block doesnt just 
affect her; her estranged husband shouldnt be able to access the account online either. So, 
in that context, Mrs G hasnt been singled out for different treatment; Barclays action applies 
to her and her estranged husband equally, which is exactly how it should be.
The reason this is only done with online access is so that one party cant log on to Barclays 
systems and make changes to the account without the others agreement. If everything has 
to be done by letter, on the phone or in a branch, Barclays can be sure that both parties 
agree before it makes any changes  and this protects Mrs G by ensuring that her husband 
cant change the mortgage in any way without her agreement. I do understand that this is 
inconvenient for Mrs G, because she wants to be able to access information about the 
mortgage to pass to her solicitors for use in the divorce proceedings. But I can see that 
Barclays have set her a full set of annual statements on two occasions, and our investigator 
did so too. Hopefully Mrs G now has the information she needs, but if either she or her 
solicitors require anything further Barclays should be able to provide it on request.
The division of any equity in the property is a matter for Mrs G and her estranged husband to 
decide; that may be something they can do peaceably, or it may need to go to court and be 
decided as part of a divorce settlement. The online block might prevent Mrs G looking up 
information that she needs for a financial claim between her and her estranged husband. But 
it doesnt stop her obtaining the information by letter; and its worth repeating the point that 
he is subject to the same restriction. 
Meanwhile, Ive seen the account statements for the period from 2015 to 2021. They dont 
reveal anything that might suggest Barclays had authorised further borrowing without Mrs 
Gs knowledge or consent. The statement sent at the end of 2021 confirms that the balance 
has reduced from the initial borrowing in 2015 as I would expect. And Barclays has 
confirmed that there have been no other changes to the terms of the account  such as 
extending the mortgage term  either. 
I do understand that Mrs G is in a difficult and upsetting situation. But having looked carefully 
at everything, Im satisfied that Barclays has acted fairly to protect her (and her husband) 
while they resolve the dispute between them, through the courts if necessary. And while the 
steps it has taken to do that have inconvenienced her, I dont think that outweighs the need 
to take those steps while the dispute remains unresolved. So I dont think I can fairly uphold 
this complaint. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman