DRN-4034016
The complaint
Mr F complains that Legal & General (Portfolio Management Services) Ltd (L&G) failed to 
keep him sufficiently informed about the value of his pension savings as they fell due to 
market conditions. And he further complains that some inaccurate information he was given 
by L&G in August 2022 meant that he didnt change his pension investments into cash as 
soon as he might have done.
What happened
Mr F held pension savings with L&G. Those pension savings had arisen from benefits he 
had accrued whilst working for an employer, and had been invested in accordance with a 
general lifestyle strategy. That meant that, as Mr F approached his selected retirement age, 
his pension savings would be moved to less volatile investments. Mr F supplemented that 
strategy by moving almost all his pension investments into a Gilt fund in March 2020.
In August 2022 Mr F contacted L&G via its online messaging service to discuss the 
performance of his pension investments. He expressed his disappointment about the fall in 
their value, and that L&G had failed to get in touch with him as the value declined. L&G 
explained that the performance of his pension investments reflected falls in the market value 
of the fund into which he was invested. But it explained that the fall in the unit price meant 
that units could be purchased at a lower price and that meant his pension pot would benefit 
when prices rose again.
Mr F says the took that comment to mean that the investment fund he was using was 
actively purchasing new units on his behalf. So he says the decided to leave his pension 
savings invested rather than change them into cash as had been his original intention. But in 
fact Mr F hadnt made any contributions to his pension since 2015. So no new units were 
being added to his investments. L&G accepts that the comment it made was not as specific 
to Mr Fs circumstances as it should have been. But it didnt agree that the comment in itself 
had caused Mr F to act differently, and lose out. So Mr F brought his complaint to us.
Mr Fs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think it would be 
practical, or reasonable, to expect L&G to contact each of its customers when there was a 
change in the value of their pension investments. And he said he hadnt seen any evidence 
to suggest that the response L&G had provided to Mr Fs question in August 2022 had 
caused Mr F to act differently. So he didnt think that L&G was responsible for any 
investment losses that Mr F had experienced, or that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr F didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr F and by L&G. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, 
I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked 
at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what 
I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a 
consumer and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask 
the business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
The regulator, the FCA, sets out some minimum standards for when valuations should be 
provided to consumers. Generally consumers should expect to receive an annual statement 
showing the performance of their pension investments. But consumers are also free to 
request valuations at any time. And I can see that Mr F had access to L&Gs online systems 
that allowed him to review the investment performance as often as he wished.
L&G wasnt providing any advice to Mr F about his pension investments. It was simply acting 
as the administrator of his pension plan, and managing the investment fund in which the 
majority of his pension savings were held. So it was up to Mr F to make his own decisions 
about the performance of his pension savings, and to decide whether the investments he 
held remained suitable for his circumstances. I can see that he made a decision of that 
nature in March 2020 when he instructed a change to his pension investments. 
I appreciate that Mr F would have been very disappointed with the performance of his 
pension investments. But I havent seen anything that makes me think that performance was 
impacted by something that L&G did wrong. Instead, around that time, a number of external 
factors coincided that resulted in unprecedented volatility of the bond markets, and so 
caused the losses that Mr F says he experienced.
Given that L&G wasnt providing any advice to Mr F it is possible that it might have breached 
its regulatory permissions by contacting him when his investments fell in value. L&G would 
need to determine what thresholds to set for communications to be made  and of course 
those thresholds would likely be different for each consumer. And by making contact, a 
consumer might reasonably conclude that L&G was providing advice, or a recommendation, 
that changes to an investment approach might be required. On balance I think it was entirely 
Mr Fs responsibility to monitor the performance of his pension investments and to instruct 
L&G to make changes to his investments if he thought it appropriate.
Ive looked carefully at what L&G told Mr F in response to his questions at the end of 
August 2022. Although the response was longer than the extract I produce below, both Mr F 
and L&G appear to accept that it was these specific words that might have caused some 
confusion. Specifically L&G said;
The losses you've suffered are a result of the unit prices falling. As the unit price 
falls, this is reflected in the fund value. However, it also means that units are 
purchased at a lower price, which means that your pot will benefit when the prices 
rise again.
In itself the statement L&G made is not incorrect. New investments made at a time of lower 
unit prices will cost loss. And, as unit prices rise, those rises will be reflected in higher 
valuations of the investments that have been made. But that statement didnt accurately reflect Mr Fs situation as he was no longer adding any 
new contributions to his pension savings. Mr Fs last contribution had been made a number 
of years earlier in 2015. So he would see little, or no, benefit from falling unit prices. 
L&G has apologised to Mr F for its response not fitting his circumstances. But Mr F says that 
the information he was given meant that he decided to leave his pension savings invested, 
rather than changing them into cash. Im not persuaded that would have been a reasonable 
conclusion to draw from the comment that L&G made, nor does it appear to reflect the 
general nature of the subsequent messages that Mr F sent to L&G over the following weeks. 
Those messages were more concerned about whether or not Mr F had provided his 
authority to the investment switch that took place more than two years earlier.
On balance I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that it would be reasonable to 
conclude that Mr F was persuaded that he shouldnt proceed with what he says was his 
investment intention at the time  to move his pension funds into cash  as a result of the 
information L&G gave to him. Whilst the information was less specific than it might have 
been, it was factually correct. I cannot agree that the information suggested that the 
investment fund was acquiring additional units on behalf of Mr F without him needing to 
make any new contributions.
I understand that my decision will be disappointing for Mr F. He has seen the pension 
savings he had made over many years significantly reduce in value. But I am not persuaded 
that those reductions are as a result of something that L&G did wrong. I dont think it would 
have been appropriate, or reasonable, for L&G to contact Mr F to specifically advise him that 
his pension savings were reducing as a result of market conditions. And I dont think the 
imprecise information L&G gave Mr F in August 2022 was sufficient to cause him to not 
make changes to his pension investments. So I dont think the complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Legal & General (Portfolio Management Services) Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman