DRN-3880505
The complaint
Mrs S complains about Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (MSF) and the interest they 
have applied to her credit card account, as she feels MSF failed to change her direct debit at 
her request.
What happened
Mrs S held a credit card account with MSF. In May 2019, Mrs S called MSF to arrange a 
balance transfer onto her account, in order to make use of a promotional offer. On this call, 
Mrs S agreed for her direct debit to be changed from the full balance being taken each 
month, to a fixed amount of £34.50, to ensure she received the benefit of the 0% interest 
offer over the 15-month period it was valid for.
Mrs S maintained these fixed amount payments, and her balance transfer amount was 
cleared. But Mrs S continued to use her credit card for purchases during and after this time. 
And the fixed direct debit payment of £34.50 didnt clear the balance of these purchases in 
full. So, interest was applied to Mrs S account. Mrs S was unhappy about this, so she raised 
a complaint in October 2022.
Mrs S initially complained that she hadnt authorised for the direct debit amount to be 
changed from a full balance payment, to a fixed amount. So, Mrs S wanted the interest 
charged to her account from May 2019 to be refunded to her. 
MSF responded to the complaint and didnt agree. They listened to the call between 
themselves and Mrs S when the balance transfer was set up. And they were satisfied Mrs S 
agreed for the change in direct debit. They also explained that Mrs S hadnt contacted them 
since to change the direct debit and so, they thought they were fair to continue to take this 
amount and, where it didnt clear the full balance on the card, apply interest in line with the 
credit agreement Mrs S entered into initially. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything 
more. Mrs S remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He explained hed listened to 
the call between Mrs S and MSF and he was satisfied Mrs S had agreed to the change in 
direct debit to a fixed amount of £34.50. And as Mrs S continued to use the card for 
purchases, and the fixed amount didnt clear the full balance on the account, he thought 
MSF acted fairly when applying interest. So, he didnt think MSF needed to do anything 
more.
Mrs S didnt agree. She explained her belief that shed contacted MSF in 2021 to change the 
direct debit from a fixed amount of £34.50 to the full balance in order to prevent interest 
being applied. So, she thought MSF had failed to follow her instructions by not actioning this 
request.
Our investigator considered this point and provided MSF with several contact numbers Mrs 
S may have used when calling MSF to make this request. But MSF were unable to locate 
any calls between May 2019 and October 2022, when Mrs S raised her complaint. So, our 
investigator didnt think he had evidence to show Mrs S had made this request and so, he 
didnt think he was able to reasonably say that MSF had acted unfairly. Mrs S remained 
unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Ive first focused on Mrs S main original concern, which centred around her belief that her 
direct debit shouldve been set up to take the full balance amount each month and that shed 
not authorised a fixed amount.
Ive listened to the call between Mrs S and MSF, where Mrs S balance transfer was set up. 
Mrs S set up this balance transfer to take up the promotional offer in place at the time, which 
was 0% interest on any balance transfer amount for 15 months. To make use of this offer, 
MSF explained to Mrs S that her direct debit, set to take the full balance at that point, would 
need to be changed. Otherwise, the total balance transfer amount would be taken the 
following month and so, Mrs S wouldnt be able to make use of the promotional rate of 
interest. 
Mrs S accepted this and agreed to amend the direct debit to £34.50 a month, as making this 
payment each month for 15 months would clear the balance transfer balance. As Mrs S 
accepted this amendment, I think MSF acted fairly when altering the direct debit and so, I 
dont think I can say they have done anything wrong here.
Also within the call, MSF explain that the payment Mrs S makes each month would go to any 
purchases made on the account before the balance transfer amount. So, I think MSF made it 
reasonably clear to Mrs S that, if she used the card for purchases over the next 15 months, 
she would need to make additional payments to ensure that purchase amount was cleared, 
on top of the £34.50 she was paying with the intention of this clearing the balance transfer 
amount. Within the call, Mrs S clearly asks what she would need to do to pay off any 
additional purchases she made, and it was made reasonably clear additional manual 
payment could, and would need, to be made.
Ive seen in the statements provided by MSF, that were sent to Mrs S each month, that Mrs 
S did make a manual payment of £50 in August 2020, on top of the £34.50 she agreed to be 
taken by direct debit. So, I think she was aware that she was able to do this and that she 
would need to clear any purchase amounts in full to ensure no interest was applied to the 
account. And where Mrs S didnt clear these purchases in full, I think MSF were fair when 
applying interest, in line with the terms of the credit agreement Mrs S entered into.
Ive then turned to Mrs S second concern raised with our investigator, where she has stated 
she contacted MSF to amend her direct debit back to taking the full account balance, instead 
of the £34.50 agreed in May 2019. Mrs S says she made this call in 2021, but shes been 
unable to evidence that a call was made.
Ive seen evidence provided by MSF which shows that they have no record of any calls 
being received from Mrs S between May 2019 to October 2022, on any of the contact 
numbers shes provided to our service so far that she might have used during this period of 
time. As Mrs S has been unable to provide evidence, such as a call log, to show a call being made to a valid contact number of MSFs, I have to based my decision on what I think is 
most likely to have happened, based on the balance of probabilities.
And in this situation, I have no evidence to show any calls were made. Instead, Ive seen 
screenshots of searches MSF have completed which show there were no calls made. So, I 
think its most likely Mrs S hasnt called MSF to amend her direct debit from the fixed amount 
payment of £34.50 agreed to in 2019. And because of this, I think MSF have acted fairly and 
reasonably when continuing to collect this payment each month. And where this payment 
hasnt cleared the full account balance, I think MSF were fair to apply interest to the account, 
in line with terms of the agreement Mrs S entered into.
For completeness, Ive read the terms of the credit agreement which explains We charge 
interest from the date of each transaction or charge is added to your account until the 
amount you owe us has been repaid in full so Im satisfied MSF were able to apply interest 
to the account and that they did so in a fair and reasonable way.
I think its also important to note that Mrs S received a monthly statement from MSF during 
this time. And I think these statements wouldve made it reasonably clear to Mrs S that she 
was failing to clear the full balance, as she feels she directed MSF to do. I think Mrs S had a 
responsibility to ensure she understood how her account was being managed and so, had 
Mrs S instructed MSF to take a payment to clear the full balance in 2021, I wouldve 
expected Mrs S to challenge MSF about why this wasnt done sooner than October 2022. 
Again, Ive seen no evidence to show Mrs S did so.
So, because of all of the above and based on the evidence available to me, I dont think I 
can say MSF have done anything wrong when handling Mrs S direct debit payments or 
applying interest to Mrs S account. Because of this, I dont think MSF need to do anything 
more on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs S complaint about Marks & Spencer 
Financial Services Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman