DRN-3130796
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy Allay Claims Ltd are asking her to pay their success fee for a payment
protection insurance (PPI) claim. Mrs R said shed made her PPI claim directly with her
lender.
What happened
Mrs R said shed received an offer of redress form her lender Ill call L for a PPI claim shed
made with them. But later received an invoice from Allay asking her to pay their success fee
for this PPI claim. Mrs R said she hadnt asked Allay to act on her behalf and had made her
claim directly with L. She complained to Allay.
Allay said Mrs R had made enquiries with them about PPI in November 2018 and July 2019.
And when they followed up on her enquires, she authorised them in August 2019 to pursue a
PPI claim on her behalf.
In November 2019, Allay said theyd told Mrs R theyd found PPI with L and asked her in
December 2019 to complete a PPI questionnaire to strengthen her claim. They said they
found in March 2021 Mrs Rs claim with L had been successful and so they asked her to
pay their success fee.
Mrs R wasnt happy with Allays response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said on balance Mrs R had instructed Allay in August 2019 to act on her
behalf in pursuing her PPI claim. And as Mrs R hadnt cancelled the agreement Allays fee
was justified.
Mrs R didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.  
I issued a provisional decision in October 2021. That said: 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Allay feel strongly that the success of Mrs Rs claim was because of the submission they
made for her. Mrs R is adamant that she contacted her lender directly and hadnt authorised
Allay to act on her behalf.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on
one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information
were given. Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I base my
decision on what I consider most likely happened.
The Financial Conduct Authority deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for PPI claims to
be made. Leading up to the August PPI deadline many claims management companies (CMC)
amended their terms and conditions in recognition of the expected high volume of claims.
And reflected that lenders could investigate any claim based on a data subject request. Any
information provided in a PPI questionnaire could be used to strengthen the claim that the PPI
policy was mis-sold.
From Allays records I can see they sent a reminder on 23 August 2019 to Mrs R about the
approaching deadline as she hadnt followed up on the enquiries shed made with them in
November 2018 and July 2019. From this I can see that an application was submitted on 28
August 2019, with a signed letter of authority (LoA). Specific details were provided in the
application including date of birth, current and previous addresses, and contact details. The
personal details in this application correlate with personal details Mrs R has given to us. So, Ive
no reason to doubt the application was completed by Mrs R. And I can see that Allay submitted
Mrs Rs details to L the next day.
On 27 November 2019, Allays record shows they found that Mrs R had PPI, Allays reference for
this claim ended *9561. The note also says that PPI hadnt previously been claimed. On 28
November 2019 Allay sent Mrs R an email to notify her that PPI had been found. Mrs R has said
she didnt read the emails from Allay but I cant hold Allay responsible for Mrs R failing to read an
email theyd sent. In December 2019, Allay asked Mrs R to complete a PPI questionnaire. Mrs R
said she didnt complete the questionnaire, as I outlined above the PPI questionnaire wasnt
intrinsic to the PPI claim but useful to provide supporting information that the PPI had been mis 
sold.
And by Mrs R simply disengaging form the process Allay wouldnt have known she didnt
want then to act for her.
Mrs R has shown she received a letter from L dated 20 November 2019. The reference
number was given as PPI***6243. And L informed Mrs R that they were looking into her
PPI claims about four accounts that she held with them. They also said theyd provide an
update to her by 18 December 2019. There isnt any reference made to a claim having been
submitted by Allay. And Allays records dont show that L sent a copy of this notification to
them.
I can see two notifications from L to Allay, dated 3 July 2020 which gives Ls reference as
PPI***6243, the same as that on the notification sent to Mrs R. One says for two of Mrs Rs
accounts, no PPI had been found, and makes reference to a final response letter sent 23
January 2020. The notifications give a different reference number for the claim made by
Allay. The other, again gives Ls reference number as PPI***6243, with a reference for Allay
for this claim ending *9569, the same as noted in Allays records. This confirms the claim has
already been considered under reference PPI***6243 and a final response letter sent 23
January 2020. 
I havent seen any record of L sending a final response letter to Allay in January 2020. And
all the records show the claims had been closed either because no PPI was found or the
claim had already been settled with Mrs R. Allay has noted on 8 July 2020, Already
Claimed. And show that Mrs R received the redress from L in February 2020.
While Im satisfied that Allay were instructed by Mrs R to act for her to pursue PPI claims. In
considering the evidence I think Mrs R had also started the process directly with L. And
from the notifications from L Im persuaded that it was Mrs Rs direct claim with L that was
successful.
The agreement Mrs R would have had with Allay was on a No win No fee basis. Thismeans Allay charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work
they did. This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free.
Where a claim was successful, Allays fee maybe more or less than the value of the work
they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. As I think its
Mrs Rs direct claim with L that was successful, this means Allays claim wasnt. And so, as
their claim was unsuccessful Allay cant charge Mrs R their success fee.
Responses to my provisional decision
Allay accepted my findings and agreed to waive their success fee.
Mrs R added no further comments.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and ask Allay Claims Ltd to waive their success fee. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman