DRN-3323813
The complaint
Mr L complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL) delayed the 
administration of a corporate action, preventing him from selling shares and incurring a loss 
for him in the process.  
What happened
Mr L held Longview Acquisition Corp shares, purchased in January 2021, in an ISA and 
SIPP with HL. In February 2021, he noticed he was unable to obtain a price for Longview on 
HLs platform. He sent a secure message to HL to enquire about the issue on 18 February 
2021 and followed up with a phone call the following day, 19 February 2021. 
It was confirmed to him on the call that thered been a merger of Longview with Butterfly 
Networks, with a resulting name change on 16 February 2021, and that new shares were 
being issued by way of a corporate action. The call handler explained that the new shares 
were being processed and would be applied to Mr Ls account later that day, around 4pm - 
5pm, when they would then be available to trade. 
Mr L called back later to get an update and was told that the administration of the corporate 
action was still ongoing and that the new shares might not actually be applied that day. The 
shares were eventually applied to Mr Ls account on the afternoon of the next working day, 
Monday, 22 February 2021. 
Mr L complained to HL that a delay in processing the shares had prevented him from selling 
his holdings on 19 February 2021. HL didnt uphold the complaint, drawing attention to its 
terms and conditions, which said where securities were due as a result of a corporate action 
they would be applied to account as soon as practicable (which might also be longer for 
non-UK stocks, like Butterfly Networks). HL said it had received the new shares on 17 
February 2021, and theyd been applied by 22 February 2021, three working days later, 
which it felt was a reasonable time frame. It did, however, acknowledge that Mr Ls queries 
couldve been handled better and offered him £50.  
Mr L referred his complaint to this service, but our investigator reached broadly the same 
conclusion as HL. She felt it had handled the corporate action in accordance with its terms, 
that no guarantee of timing had been given and that HL had provided a reasonable 
explanation of why the application of shares had taken several days, as it involved a manual 
reconciliation process and sign-off from senior staff. 
Mr L didnt accept the investigators view. He said, in brief, that regardless of the terms, HL 
still had a duty of care to act in a timely manner, given the sensitivities of timings in a moving 
market. And it appeared that other providers had been able to administer the process more 
quickly and efficiently. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the matter was referred to me 
to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
While I can appreciate Mr Ls frustration at not being able to access his shares for a period, 
Im not persuaded HL acted unreasonably or contrary to its terms and conditions. The terms 
explained that where securities are due to an account as a result of a corporate action they 
will be credited to accounts as soon as practicable after theyre received.
HL has said it received the shares on Wednesday 17 February 2021 and they were credited 
to Mr Ls account by the afternoon of 22 February 2021, three working days later. HL has 
also explained the manual process it follows with such share allocations. Of course, the fact 
that the relevant term doesnt guarantee how long the process will take doesnt give HL free 
range to take as long as it wants. And had the process become more drawn out, without a 
reasonable explanation, I might have concluded differently. But in this case, I dont find that 
the time taken to apply the shares to Mr Ls account was unreasonable.
I note what Mr L has said about other providers carrying out the process more quickly. But 
Ive seen no evidence to support this and, in any event, its HLs process and actions that are 
under consideration here. And as Ive said, I dont think either was unreasonable or contrary 
to its terms.  
It was unfortunate that in Mr Ls initial call of 19 February 2021 he was given an expectation 
that the shares would become available the same day. That clearly shouldnt have 
happened, and he should instead have been informed as he was when he called back a few 
hours later  that the process was ongoing but there was no confirmed time at which it would 
be complete. I appreciate the initial call will have added to Mr Ls frustration, but I think HLs 
offer of £50 to acknowledge the misinformation is fair in the circumstances.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman