DRN-3632564
The complaint
A company Ill call T has complained that U K Insurance Limited trading as National 
Insurance and Guarantee Corporation (UKI) unfairly turned down its business interruption 
insurance claim after it was forced to close its business premises due to the Covid-19 
pandemic.
T is represented in this complaint but, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and 
comments as being those of T.
What happened
T held a business interruption insurance policy with UKI. It operates a food and drinks 
business.
As a result of the restrictions imposed by the Government in response to Covid-19 T closed 
its business following the Prime Ministers announcement on 20 March 2020. 
T claimed on the policy. UKI declined the claim. It said T hadnt shown thered been physical 
damage to property as a result of Covid-19. It also said the policy covered business 
interruption caused by a number of specified diseases but Covid-19 wasnt one of them.
T complained to UKI. It thought its claim should be covered under various sections of the 
policy. Unhappy with UKIs response, T brought a complaint to us. It thought the claim 
should be covered under the following different sections of the policy and made the 
following points:
 
Accidental damage
T said the policy covers business interruption resulting from accidental damage. It 
referred to the case of MDS Inc. v Factory Mutual Insurance Company (2020) in support 
of its view that the policy should cover a loss of use of its premises even where there 
wasnt physical damage. T said there were no exclusions in the policy which applied to 
the claim. 
Unspecified suppliers 
T said that it had suffered a loss as a result of damage to the premises of its suppliers.
Denial of access
T said due to the outbreak of Covid-19 within the local area access to the premises had 
been hindered and it had suffered a loss as a result.
Public emergency
T said the premises had had to close due to a public emergency likely to endanger life or 
property.
Defective drains or other sanitary arrangements
T also said the closure of the premises was due to sanitation issues as it wasnt safe for 
people to be in close proximity to each other.
Disease
T said the list of diseases set out in this extension of the policy wasnt an exhaustive list and 
theres nothing in the policy to say that new diseases cant be added or are excluded. T said 
the list of diseases are very similar to the Governments list of notifiable diseases and 
therefore its reasonable to conclude that Covid-19 should be added. It added that two 
members of staff had to self-isolate in March 2020. One had Covid-19 symptoms and the 
other had a family member with symptoms. Neither were tested.
Other factors
T pointed out that pandemics werent excluded by the policy.
Our Investigator investigated Ts complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she 
didnt think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of its claim.
T asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
T has made a number of detailed points. I wont address them all but will instead focus on 
what I see as the central issues to this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Ts business. But I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether UKI has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Ts claim.
Accidental damage
One of the grounds of Ts claim is for business interruption caused by accidental damage. In 
the policy Damage is defined as Accidental loss, destruction or damage.
Section 1 of the policy covers Damage at the Premises to any Property Insured in 
connection with the Business caused by any one of the Perils. 
The relevant perils include Any Accidental Cause.
Therefore, for cover to apply, Ts property would need to have been accidentally damaged 
by Covid-19. I havent seen anything to persuade me that Covid-19 caused accidental 
damage to Ts property.
T has referred to the Canadian case of MDS Inc. v Factory Mutual Insurance Company 
(2020) which I understand has since been overturned. In any event Ive considered other 
cases which I think are relevant to the circumstances of this complaint, including TKC 
London Ltd v Allianz Insurance PLC [2020] EWHC 2710 (Comm), Merlin v British Nuclear 
Fuels Plc [1990] 2 QB 557 and Hunter v London Docklands Development Corporation [1996] 
2 WLR 348.I think for damage to have occurred, there would need to have been a physical change or 
altered state to Ts property which made it less valuable. There is no evidence that this 
happened. So, I am not persuaded that there was accidental damage to its property. And it 
follows that UKI was correct to say its claim is not covered under this part of the policy.
Unspecified suppliers and Denial of Access
There are a number of extensions in the policy for business interruption, including losses 
caused by unspecified suppliers and denial of access. Before setting out the various 
extensions the policy states:
Any cover for lossresulting from interruption to or interference with the Business in 
consequence of Damage to property is extended to include such loss at or in the 
undernoted situations and will be deemed to be loss resulting from Damage to property 
used by the Insured at the Premises for the purposes of the Business... 
I think it is clear from the construction of the policy that references to Damage mean 
physical damage that affects a suppliers premises or prevents/hinders access to Ts 
premises. As I havent seen any evidence that Covid-19 caused physical damage to 
property, I dont think these extensions cover Ts claim.
Public emergency
Although there is some cover for loss arising from a public emergency, this extension has 
a specific exclusion for infectious or contagious disease. Since Covid-19 is an infectious 
or contagious disease, this extension does not apply.
Defective drains or other sanitary arrangements
This extension covers:
Loss resulting from interruption to or interference with the Business at the Premises in 
consequence of closure of any part of the Premises, commencing during the Period of 
Insurance, by a competent Public Authority due to defective drains or other sanitary 
arrangements.
T said that its premises closed because safe social distancing couldnt be maintained and 
that was a sanitation issue. T thought sanitary should be interpreted widely as relating to 
health. 
I dont think the inability to social distance would reasonably be considered a defect in 
sanitary arrangements. Ts policy was entered into in 2019 before any restrictions were 
introduced in the UK on account of Covid-19. I dont think a reasonable person in the 
position of the parties at the time the policy was entered into would understand the 
reference to sanitary arrangements as intended to cover an inability to ensure that people 
were socially distanced. For this reason, I think UKI treated T fairly in refusing the claim 
under this section of the policy.
Disease
Another extension covers business interruption due to the occurrence of certain diseases at 
Ts premises. The list of diseases doesnt include Covid-19. As Covid-19 isnt on the list, it is 
not covered by the policy. 
While there is nothing in the extension that specifically says any new diseases are excluded, 
there is also nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for diseases not 
included, including any new diseases which emerge. The policy says that it covers the 
following diseases which I think indicates that it is a closed list. I dont think this extension can fairly be read to cover any and all notifiable diseases and therefore this doesnt cover 
Ts claim.
It follows from the fact that Covid-19 isnt covered by the policy that it is irrelevant whether 
there was anyone on the premises with Covid-19.
Other factors
I know T feels UKI should have drafted a pandemic exclusion if it wanted to exclude 
something like Covid-19 from cover. But it would be impossible for UKI to list all the different 
circumstances that it didnt intend to cover. I think the policy was sufficiently clear in setting 
out what was and wasnt covered. And in the light of what it had agreed to cover, I dont 
think it would be fair to require UKI to cover Ts business interruption losses caused by 
Covid-19 just because UKI hadnt specifically excluded pandemics.
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing to T. But, having considered the matter 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require UKI to pay its claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman