DRN-3896740
The complaint
Mr W has complained that abrdn Client Management Limited, formerly known as Standard 
Life Aberdeen Plc, didnt provide him with financial advice in the period from May 2015 to 
November 2018, during which time there was poor performance of the fund in which he was 
invested through his self invested personal pension (SIPP). 
This, Mr W has said, has caused him financial loss, for which he considers he should be 
compensated. Mr W has also requested a return of the advice fees he paid during that 
period.  
What happened
Mr W has held his SIPP with abrdn for many years, and it offered a service known as Private 
Client Management (PCM), which later changed to 1825 Financial Planning in 2018, to its 
SIPP holders. abrdn proposed a Private Client Manager for Mr W, which he accepted. 
Mr W has said that, prior to 2013, he made personal decisions to invest in several different 
cash accounts and that he took no advice from abrdns in house advisers regarding those 
decisions.
This then changed, as set out in a letter from abrdn in August 2012, in which it said the 
following:
 I agree that it is reasonable to assume that during periods of market volatility, your new 
PCM (financial adviser) should be readily available to discuss your concerns and to help you 
take any appropriate action to preserve the value of your fund. 
It further said:
[The abrdn adviser] is an extremely experienced PCM and customer focussed. He will help 
you determine an investment strategy, appropriate to you.
According to abrdns contact history, on 28 February 20123, Mr W had a financial review 
with his abrdn adviser. Records of the meeting indicate that Mr W was considering using the 
discretionary fund management (DFM) service available to him through Standard Life 
Wealth (SLW). 
A meeting was then held between Mr W and his SLW adviser on 19 April 2013, in which it 
was explained by the SLW adviser that he wouldnt be providing financial advice  this was 
the responsibility of the abrdn adviser.
Following this, £174,000 of his SIPP holdings was transferred to SLW at the beginning of 
May 2013.  A further £80,000 was transferred to SLW in September 2013.
The SLW adviser introduced Mr W to the Target Return Fund (TRF), which was designed to 
return a specific percentage (3%) above LIBOR, through DFM, and Mr W invested into that 
fund.
A further review was then conducted on 12 February 2014, in which it was recorded that Mr 
W would be releasing additional tax free cash and income over the next few months.
At the next review on 26 February 2015, it was recorded that Mr W would let the abrdn 
adviser the level of income hed require for the next year.
Mr W has said that, following a review with the SLW adviser, rather than the abrdn adviser, 
his risk profile was agreed as being low-medium rather than medium as agreed in 2013. 
But, he added, this was simply reaffirmation of the same risk category as set out in the 
original investment proposal dated 4 April 2013.
The next review occurred with Mr Ws abrdn adviser on 19 February 2016. In March 2018, 
following a query from Mr W relating to an income payment, the abrdn adviser replied to say 
that they were due a catch-up, which didnt then happen, but the adviser did reference the 
performance of the TRF and noted that it was behind target. But this was placed into the 
context of underperformance of financial markets generally at the time.
A new abrdn adviser contacted Mr W at the end of 2018, and explained that the TRF no 
longer formed part of its investment proposition for abrdn customers. He recommended a 
switch from this to the Pension Portfolio 2, in line with Mr Ws low-medium attitude to risk. 
But where it was determined that the TRF still met client objectives, other clients were 
advised to retain that investment.
Mr W complained to abrdn on the above basis in March 2020, but abrdn declined to uphold 
the complaint, saying in summary that it was satisfied that reviews had been undertaken 
during the period in question and that fund performance wasnt guaranteed.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr W referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators assessed the matter, but didnt think it should be upheld, saying the 
following in summary:
He noted that abrdn had been unable to access the records of review meetings or 
phone calls due to their migration to a new system, and so he would need to 
determine whether contact did occur between the abrdn adviser and Mr W in the 
relevant period on the basis of the available evidence.
Hed seen email communication between Mr W and the abrdn adviser between 
March and April 2018, however, and there was nothing in this which suggested that 
Mr W was unhappy with the level of contact between them up to that point.
Specifically, the adviser answered Mr Ws query about fund performance, saying that 
it was behind target but that assets such as bonds were also underperforming at the 
time.
The role of the abrdn adviser was to be available for Mr W if he had queries or further 
instructions. And the investigator was satisfied that he was.
In exchange for the ongoing adviser fee, abrdn agreed to contact Mr W on an annual 
basis to determine whether there had been any changes in his circumstances or 
attitude towards risk, and to update him on investment performance.
Email communication suggested that there was contact on an ongoing basis and this, 
combined with the regular reviews with SLW, meant that Mr W was aware of how his investment was performing.
It wouldnt have been suitable advice for Mr W to switch out of the TRF on the basis 
of poor fund performance as this would have resulted in Mr W selling at a loss 
without the possibility of recovery in the fund.
The TRF remained in line with Mr Ws risk profile and so remained a suitable 
investment.
Although the abrdn adviser would assess whether there had been any changes in Mr 
Ws circumstances or attitude to risk, and pass this on to the SLW adviser, if there 
was no change then no reassessment would be necessary.
Mr W could have contacted abrdn at any time if he wished to review his risk profile.
In terms of the responsibilities of the respective advisers, up until September 2018 
the abrdn advisers responsibility was to introduce a client to SLW if it was believed 
they would benefit from the service.
SLW would then assess investment suitability, covering know your client, attitude to 
risk, goals and objectives and making a proposal on an appropriate investment 
portfolio. SLW would then have the ongoing responsibility to reaffirm investment 
suitability on an annual basis.
The TRF information confirmed that that it was only available to clients who were 
using the SLW service. The investigator was satisfied that, over the period 
complained of, SLW was responsible for providing ongoing suitability advice.
Although it couldnt be proved that there was any contact between Mr W and the 
abrdn adviser between 2015 and 2018, it also couldnt be disproved. But abrdn had 
provided evidence of email communication, which suggested that Mr W was 
comfortable asking the abrdn adviser for advice - and that the adviser provided this 
on a regular basis.
As such, there should be no refund of the advice fees.
Even if there was less proactive contact than Mr W would have liked, he wouldnt 
have recommended a change in the investment portfolio as there was no change in 
Mr Ws circumstances since the last risk review in 2015.
abrdn didnt issue its notification to its advisers about the suspension of the TRF until   
September 2018. 
abrdn acted appropriately in assigning a new adviser to Mr W, and that adviser then 
suggested an alternative investment.
Fund performance wasnt an aspect that this service could consider  and the 
position here was that the TRF aimed to meet a target and there was no guaranteed 
return.
There had been no reason for the abrdn adviser to recommend a change prior to 
notification of the TRFs suspension to clients, as there had been no change in Mr 
Ws circumstances.Mr W disagreed, however, saying the following in response:
He had no record of a fact find from a review in February 2013, and he requested 
sight of any such document. His recollection was that a meeting was arranged with 
the SLW adviser as there werent any suitable cash funds at the time. That advisers 
file note clearly explained the position, in that he didnt provide advice and that this 
would be the responsibility of the abrdn adviser.
The absence of records of the meetings held between 2015 and 2018 should count 
against abrdn. There were no records because meetings to discuss poor fund 
performance didnt take place between May 2015 and May 2018.
He paid an additional management charge to cover the meetings with SLW and the 
SLW portfolio manager repeatedly informed him that he wasnt Mr Ws financial 
adviser.
His risk profile had never changed  it was reaffirmed as being low-medium in the 
review held with the SLW adviser (not the abrdn adviser) in 2015.
But this in any case missed the point, which was that the TRF performed nowhere 
near expectations and a 20% drop from its target return wasnt within his risk profile 
tolerance. He wasnt advised to change his investment between 2015 and 2018 
despite there being an alternative suitable fund  the 1825 Portfolio 2. This 
outperformed the TRF significantly.
Although the letter from August 2012 set out that the abrdn adviser would be readily 
available for him and to take appropriate action to preserve the value of his fund, this 
didnt happen between 2015 and 2018. The performance of the two funds must have 
been known to abrdn and the adviser should have provided him with the comparative 
information so that he could consider an investment change.
The March 2018 email from the abrdn adviser said that the return was flat but hadnt 
incurred a loss  but it had in fact dropped by 10% between May 2015 and February 
2016. The adviser said that he would make an adjustment later in the year but said 
that Mr W was in a good place  following which the TRF dropped another 10%. The 
email was therefore misleading and factually wrong.
Unbeknown to him, there had been complaints about the performance of the TRF 
with this service during 2016 and it had been conceded by the fund manager that it 
was on track to miss its target for two years running. But this information hadnt been 
shared with him by abrdn or used to recommend that he move to the Portfolio 2 fund 
and minimise his losses over the period in question.
He understood that no fund performance was guaranteed, but his abrdn adviser had 
access to a number of funds, such as the Portfolio 2. He received no information on 
the better performing alternatives until early 2019.
Although contact may have occurred between him and abrdn in the disputed period, 
this had never been about fund performance.
The last email hed received from the abrdn adviser was in March 2018, which was in 
response to his request for tax free cash and income for 2018. 
At the beginning of each year, Mr W made an email request for tax free cash and income for the coming year. This was a specific request, although it was rarely acted 
upon in good time and hed also complained many times about this.
The adviser was often not available, contrary to the assurance that he was meant to 
be if Mr W had any queries or instructions. The letter from August 2012 set out that 
abrdns adviser would aim to make its business more efficient and to enable it to be 
more proactive and respond to its customers needs. 
But although SLW may have provided information about the funds performance in 
isolation, there was no proactive management by the abrdn adviser over the period in 
question. This meant that he was unaware of how it was performing compared to 
other available funds. abrdn was paid to be proactive to preserve the value of his 
fund.
Mr W disagreed with the investigators comment that it wouldnt have been suitable 
advice to recommend that he transfer out of the TRF, due to the prospect of locking 
in losses already incurred, saying that the TRF had been specifically designed to 
minimise market fluctuations and could therefore never recover a 20% drop in 
performance in comparison to its target of LIBOR plus 3%.
In the email from the SLW adviser in January 2020, he commented that the gap 
between actual performance and the target was significant and too big to chase 
without taking greater risks than would be appropriate for him.
The TRF didnt remain in line with his risk profile and he should have been made 
aware when it dropped substantially below its target  especially when another 
alternative had performed better.
Although his circumstances and risk attitude didnt change in the relevant period, the 
performance of the TRF certainly did  and it should have been communicated to him 
that an alternative fund within his risk profile was performing very well.
The investment proposal confirmed at several points that information contained in the 
report didnt amount to an investment recommendation or advice and that ongoing 
advice would be provided by the abrdn adviser.
The TRF was only available to clients who had received a recommendation from an 
adviser  in this case the abrdn adviser.
The evidence provided by abrdn didnt demonstrate that he was comfortable seeking 
advice from its adviser  on the contrary, he had concerns about the advisers ability 
to perform he simplest of requests. And information hed provided  for example 
relating to the TRFs performance - had been misleading and wrong.
abrdn had the ability and knowledge to have advised him to switch funds, as 
evidenced by the recommendation in 2018, but it should have done so earlier. The 
complaints to this service about the fund demonstrated that awareness of the poor 
performance existed.
The Summary of Discussion notes from September 2019 said that 1825 no longer 
believed that target return portfolios were an appropriate investment solution, a 
decision which had been made due to that proposition failing to meet the stated 
objectives, and failing to meet clients and 1825s expectations. But this failure had 
been evident since early 2015 and Mr W hadnt been advised on this for three years.There was further communication between the investigator and Mr W, in which the former 
said that she wasnt persuaded to change her view on the complaint, and to which Mr W 
reiterated the points above, adding that a loss of 20% had damaged his financial 
circumstances, which should in any case have prompted a review of his investment and 
available (better performing) alternatives.
As agreement couldnt be reached on the matter, it was referred to me for review.
I issued a provisional decision on the matter dated 5 December 2022, in which I set out my 
reasons as to why I thought the complaint should be upheld. In summary, my view was that 
Mr W should have been advised to change his investments earlier  at the point of the 
annual review in February 2016.
The following is an extract from that provisional decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The responsibilities of abrdn and SLW
It hasnt been a straightforward matter to distinguish the respective responsibilities here. But 
having sought further clarification from abrdn on the matter, my understanding is as follows.
According to abrdn, either the abrdn or SLW adviser could have been responsible for 
suitability. If SLW was responsible, this would involve an understanding of Mr Ws 
investment requirements, financial situation, attitude to risk, investment time horizon and 
investment experience. This would enable it to determine Mr Ws objectives and risk profile, 
which would in turn enable it to determine whether it could provide a suitable investment 
solution.
In other words, the financial advisers primary responsibility was to ensure that they 
understood Mr Ws circumstances and objectives, along with his attitude to risk, and then 
ensure that the overall financial proposition, or strategy, was in line with this. 
In essence, they would provide a mandate to the DFM (SLW) that Mr W wished to invest in a 
particular way, or had specific investment objectives, and that they had a particular risk 
attitude/tolerance.
Then, regardless of which arm  abrdn or SLW  provided the financial adviser function, 
SLW would be responsible for ensuring that the underlying investments within the strategy 
was suitable for the agreed mandate and that it continued to manage the assets in 
accordance with that.
As to which arm provided the financial adviser function to Mr W, this seems to be quite 
complicated, and abrdn hasnt been able to offer much clarity on this. The adviser who I 
understand represented SLW met with Mr W each year to review his investments and 
conducted such meetings as suitability meetings, although I agree with Mr Ws point that the 
advisers understanding of his own function seems to have been at odds with this, as set out 
in the note from April 2013.
Nevertheless, the abrdn adviser had also been contacting Mr W on an annual basis, 
according to abrdn to conduct suitability assessments. In the email from the SLW adviser in 
20 January 2020, he said that: as a reminder, we made significant changes to your Target Return portfolio in 2018 and 
the result is proving very positive. 
And then:
I recollect from each meeting that your final decision is not to change and based on your 
approach to risk this is sensible. It is pleasing to see the Target Return deliver returns in line 
with expectations and in line with the market conditions we are experiencing. Therefore, we 
need to maintain the portfolio and monitor the progress of your portfolio in 2020. We will 
meet as normal to review matters and if appropriate we can make changes. (my 
emphasis)
The first comment reasonably would refer to the portfolio itself, and the changes which were 
made in 2018 and contributed to an upturn in its performance. The second comment would 
suggest that, after the initial referral and portfolio recommendation by abrdn, it was SLW 
which would take on the responsibility for making any changes in the individual clients 
investment strategy to maximise performance on their behalf.
And this is lent further credence by Mr Ws own comments in his complaint to abrdn dated 
28 April 2021, in which he said that the initial proposal document and the notes made by the 
SLW adviser at each of the annual meetings between 2015 and 2018 all served to establish 
and maintain my attitude to risk and that the Target Return Fund of LIBOR + 3% was a 
suitable target. I reiterate that [the abrdn adviser] wrote none of these documents. 
This is the type of annual review in which the suitability of the investment strategy would be 
reassessed. And before the discontinuation of the overlap in 2019, it was seemingly 
conducted by SLW, if not also by abrdn.
Following the review of the TRF in 2018, the decision was made to return the advisory 
function  again, I appreciate the contradictions here, given the apparent overlap existing 
beforehand - and so the annual risk rating/suitability assessment moved exclusively to 
abrdn, and this also coincided with the recommendation to clients of the TRF to sell out of 
that proposition.
The overlap seemingly discontinued in 2019, and thereafter the SLW adviser was 
responsible for explaining the investment approach, with the suitability assessments being 
conducted by abrdn only. 
But I have to say, this is a distinctly confusing picture of who was actually responsible for 
providing financial advice to Mr W  and I cant see that the respective responsibilities of the 
advisers was clearly set out to Mr W. 
Did Mr W receive suitable advice?
Irrespective of the rather complicated picture as to which party was responsible for advising 
Mr W, my understanding is that it was the abrdn adviser who, having initially assessed 
suitability, identified the Target Return strategy as being suitable for Mr W. And I think the 
aims of that strategy, as recommended by abrdn, were likely to have been appropriate for Mr 
W  a low-medium risk investor - at the outset. I think its important to note that Mr W was 
seemingly consistent in his outlook on his tolerance to risk and, as such, the investment 
strategy would seem to have been agreed with both the abrdn and SLW adviser as being 
appropriate.
As Ive said above, it would then have been for SLW to determine which particular 
investments or funds to be used within the Target Return strategy or portfolio. And the aim of the TRF portfolio, to achieve 3% above LIBOR, whilst minimising the fluctuations due to 
market movements, would in my view have been suitable for a low-medium investor.
The actual returns of the portfolio werent in line with expectations - neither Mr Ws nor 
SLWs, and this is the point at which Mr Ws view is that the portfolio should have been 
changed. 
And irrespective of which arm of abrdn was responsible for suitably advising Mr W, one of 
them was  or should have been. Ive noted that Mr Ws complaint has been aimed squarely 
at abrdn, with no suggestion of wrongdoing on the part of SLW, but they are part of the same 
organisation, and so Im able to consider the responsibilities of both in this complaint.
And so Ive then thought carefully about the actual period complained of  May 2015 to 
November 2018  and what should have happened.
I think its more likely than not that, at the annual reviews held with the abrdn adviser, any 
changes in Mr Ws circumstances and objectives would have been discussed  this is the 
purpose of such meetings, but it also seems as though performance issues were also 
discussed, for example in the February 2016 meeting. The record of that meeting is as 
follows:
Client Wanted to review this week. Call completed on mobile. No changes to clients 
position worried about markets and performance. [The SLW adviser] to speak to [Mr W] 
immediately after my call. Decision was made to use some of clients cash ISA to fund 
income this year to reduce the amount taken from the SIPP whilst fund value is down. Client 
to email me his income need once he decides.
This confirms that the communications werent always restricted to the specific matter of tax 
free cash and income withdrawals for the coming year.
But Ive in any case considered whether either the abrdn or SLW adviser should have gone 
further and advised Mr W to switch out of the TRF on the basis of its returns. Mr W has said 
that the abrdn adviser had access to many different funds, including the 1825 Portfolio 2 
fund which performed significantly better. 
As Ive said above, the abrdn adviser needed to ensure the investment proposal was right 
for Mr W in the first place and that it was consistent with his circumstances and attitude to 
risk, and its fair to say that they would have been able to compare the ongoing fund 
performances of different portfolios. 
So the question is whether either arm of abrdn should have advised Mr W to switch into a 
different fund before this ultimately happened in 2018. 
As Ive also said above, the initial consideration should have been whether the TRF was 
suitable for Mr W  and Im satisfied that it would have met his objectives. 
And ordinarily, I might conclude that, so long as the aims of the portfolio remained suitable 
for Mr W, there would be no reason to recommend that he switch out of an ostensibly 
suitable portfolio. If there were no material changes in Mr W's circumstances and attitude to 
risk, nor the portfolio's aim, then the portfolio would likely have remained suitable for him. 
Further, a 20% reduction in the portfolio's value wouldnt in itself reasonably be deemed to 
be a change in Mr W's circumstances which should have prompted a reassessment of the 
investment strategy. And in terms of the actual performance, there was a drop of 20% below 
the target, not on the value of his funds, which remained broadly stable. Additionally, Mr W has said at various points that abrdn failed to be proactive in preserving 
the value of his fund, but as far as I can tell, the value of his fund was preserved. Although 
the fund fluctuated in value and experienced some significant drops at times, at no point in 
the contested period was the fund value below that at which Mr W had invested. 
But I think theres an additional consideration here, irrespective of the initial and seeming 
ongoing suitability of the portfolio, at least in terms of its aims being consistent with Mr Ws 
circumstances and objectives. Mr W should effectively have had two sets of eyes on his 
investment, and was paying for both investment advice and portfolio management. 
And if Mr W was having annual reviews with both the abrdn and SLW adviser, I think this 
ought reasonably to have prompted consideration around whether there was an alternative 
to the TRF which would serve him better, especially when it would have been reasonably 
clear that the TRF was, after a reasonable amount of time, failing to meet its objectives.
abrdn has said that the 1825 Portfolio 2 is a completely different investment strategy to the 
TRF. But it nevertheless recommended that Mr W switch into this in 2018, and so it must 
have satisfied itself that it was suitable for Mr W. Therefore, given that there have been no 
material changes to Mr Ws circumstances or objectives, I must conclude that it would have 
been suitable for him beforehand as well.
And so I think that below par fund performance over a reasonable timeframe ought to have 
prompted  from an active portfolio management, with two annual reviews seemingly 
occurring - a reconsideration of Mr Ws investment. As Ive set out above, performance 
issues were clearly discussed between Mr W and the abrdn adviser during the annual review 
of February 2016. By this point, judging by the performance record of the TRF, it was trailing 
its target return by around 5%. 
And I think if this was an equity based fund, underachievement by 5% wouldnt necessarily 
have prompted cause for concern. But my understanding is that a TRF operates differently, 
and caters for the more cautious investor, in that it should broadly track the target return on 
the basis of more predictable fixed returns. That it consistently failed to do so is the reason, 
as far as I can tell, that investors were later advised to switch out of it.
My current view, therefore, is that either the abrdn or SLW adviser should have 
recommended that Mr W transfer out of the TRF at the end of February 2016, which I think 
constitutes a reasonable timeframe for the TRFs underperformance to have been noted and 
would have coincided with the annual review, at which point Mr W spoke to both the abrdn 
and the SLW adviser  and at which performance issues were definitely discussed, as per 
abrdns records.
And given that abrdn ultimately advised Mr W to switch into the 1825 Portfolio 2 in 2019, and 
that this seems to have been available in 2016, I think this would have been a suitable 
replacement.
Putting things right
Abrdn should therefore determine the notional value of Mr Ws SIPP, as at the date of any 
final decision along these lines, had he switched out of the TRF and into the 1825 Portfolio 2 
on 28 February 2016, which I think would have afforded time for a recommendation to be 
made, considered, and for the switch to then occur. The notional value should factor in any 
actual switches, contributions and withdrawals made since.
This should be compared against the actual value of Mr Ws SIPP at the same date. If there is a loss, abrdn should in the first instance make the value of the SIPP up to its notional 
value as identified above, taking into account any available tax relief, charges, and any 
protections in place.
If its not possible to pay the amount into Mr Ws SIPP, it should be paid to Mr W, but with 
a notional deduction to reflect the fact that he would have paid income tax on the pension 
benefits. My assumption is that Mr W would be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, and so 
the notional deduction of 20% should be applied to 75% of the loss (to account for the tax 
free cash)  resulting in an overall notional deduction of 15%.
In response, Mr W said that he agreed with my findings. abrdn submitted further 
documentation, including notes of review meetings, and said the following:
It sought to clarify the roles and responsibilities between the SLW and PCM 
advisers, saying that SLW wasnt authorised by the FCA to provide investment 
advice or recommendations to retail clients. This was the role of the PCM adviser.
This was confirmed to all prospective clients at the outset of new relationships and 
on an ongoing basis during meetings.
In respect of investment suitability, clients relationships and agreements with 
financial advisers are based upon one of two arrangements, which is separate to 
any advice received by a client from a financial adviser. Either the adviser is 
responsible for assessing investment suitability  or SLW is.
If SLW is responsible, this would involve an understanding of the clients 
investment requirements, financial situation, attitude to risk, investment timeline 
and knowledge/experience to ascertain their investment objectives and risk profile 
 and to enable SLW to determine whether it can provide a suitable investment 
solution for their requirements.
Regardless of the arrangement, SLW is responsible for ensuring that the 
underlying investments within the strategy are suitable for the agreed mandate and 
that the assets are managed in accordance with this.
It was satisfied that a low-medium risk profile was appropriate for Mr W, along with 
its assessment for his capacity for loss. This position was continually reviewed 
during the period Mr W was invested with SLW and at no time was it deemed 
appropriate for the risk profile to change.
The portfolio was managed in accordance with the investment mandate and at no 
time was Mr W exposed to a greater risk. 
Mr W was also fully aware of the performance issues. The evidence demonstrated 
that, in 2018, Mr W further discussed performance with the SLW adviser, who 
acknowledged that the last three years performance hadnt been good enough 
and that changes to the asset allocation and funds were taking place. Mr W 
confirmed that he was happy to hear this.
In Mr Ws complaint letter of February 2021, he confirmed that he was aware of 
the difference between SLW and PCM. In the same letter, he confirmed that he 
wasnt worried about the funds performance, but that his concern was that the 
PCM adviser hadnt highlighted this performance.
But the review notes demonstrated that performance was discussed, which cant 
be overlooked. Without the benefit of hindsight, performance hadnt been an issue 
and there was no need for change.
The redress proposal  that the exercise begin from February 2016 - was 
surprising, given that the TRP performance had only begun to move away from its 
target in the later part of 2015. A rash recommended change wouldnt be 
expected if a portfolio didnt achieve its goal for a few months or more  instead, it 
would continue to work on the medium to long term in accordance with the agreed 
timeline.Although, due to system changes, it didnt have access to all historical records, the 
available evidence did suggest ongoing contact with both the PCM and SLW 
advisers, which demonstrated full awareness of how Mr Ws portfolio was 
performing.
Mr W was advised to exit the TRF, as the business had made a decision that it no 
longer supported this option. But Mr W declined that advice on a couple of 
occasions.
Mr W was aware of the poor performance and was willing to continue with the TRF 
in the hope that it would improve over time  albeit with no guarantees that this 
would be the case.
The available evidence didnt support a rationale for advising a switch prior to 1825 
no longer endorsing that option.
The clear statement from Mr W that performance wasnt an issue could raise an 
issue in relation to time barring the complaint  under the 3 and 6 timeliness 
rules.
What Ive decided  and why
Jurisdiction
Ive firstly noted abrdns closing comments relating to there potentially being an issue with 
this service considering Mr Ws complaint due to timeliness considerations. Specifically, 
abrdn has said that, as Mr W had confirmed that performance wasnt an issue, this might 
mean that it was out of time under the rules which govern the operation of this service.
These are known as the DISP rules within the FCAs handbook, and under DISP 2.8.2, we 
wouldnt be able to consider a complaint if a firm has objected to us considering it on the 
basis that it can be demonstrated to have been raised more than six years after the event 
complained of, or, if later, more than three years after the complainant either became aware, 
or ought reasonably to have become aware, of having cause for complaint.
But Im not entirely sure I follow the reasoning as to why this complaint might fall foul of 
either of these provisions, as if Mr W wasnt complaining about performance, then 
awareness of performance issues more than three years before he actually complained 
wouldnt reasonably have constituted grounds for that complaint. 
My understanding of Mr Ws complaint, as set out above, is that, although all parties were 
aware of performance issues, it was the responsibility of the abrdn adviser to provide him 
with the advice for which he was paying and to suggest an alternative investment  and one 
which was capable of producing the targeted returns.
I think its strongly arguable that Mr W only reasonably became aware of having cause for 
complaint about this matter when he became aware of the possibility that he could have 
moved into the alternative fund he was later in any case advised to switch into  the 1825 
Portfolio 2  much sooner than was the case.
This would have been in late 2018, and as Mr W raised his complaint in February 2021, this 
would have been within three years of him having become aware of cause for complaint.
But notwithstanding issues relating to the time elapsed since awareness of cause for 
complaint, given that Mr Ws complaint is that he received no advice relating to the poor 
performance of the fund from May 2015 to November 2018, and that the event complained 
of would therefore reasonably be the beginning of that period, Mr W in any case raised his 
complaint within six years of that point.As such, Im satisfied that the complaint falls within our jurisdiction and is therefore one 
which we can consider.
The merits of the complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that abrdn has offered additional clarity regarding the respective roles of the PCM and 
SLW advisers. 
Its said that SLW wasnt authorised to provide investment advice or recommendations to a 
retail client such as Mr W. But on the other hand, abrdn then says that either the PCM 
adviser is responsible for assessing investment suitability, or the SLW adviser is. And where 
it is the latter, it says that this involves understanding a clients requirements, financial 
situation, attitude to risk, investment timeline and knowledge/experience to ascertain their 
investment objectives and risk profile in order to enable it to determine whether it can 
provide a suitable investment solution.
I have to say I dont think this sounds very far removed from providing financial advice, but 
as far as I can tell, I think the meaning is that SLW would take all of a clients circumstances 
and objectives  as ascertained by the PCM adviser (who was responsible for the initial 
recommendation)  into account and ensure that the investment strategy is aligned with this.
Im still unsure as to how the clarity offered by abrdn can comfortably coexist with the 
apparent decision taken by abrdn in 2018 to return the advisory function to PCM from SLW. 
This must surely imply that, prior to this, there were circumstances in which SLW was 
providing the advice to clients. And if, as suggested by abrdn, Mr W understood the 
respective roles of the two advisers, then Id need to credit him with a better ability to 
understand the overall position than my own.
But this isnt in any case the central point here. My view, as expressed in the provisional 
decision, is that one or other, or both, of the advisers within PCM or SLW, ought to have 
appreciated, given the regular (at least annual according to abrdn) reviews which were being 
undertaken, that Mr Ws objectives (and indeed those of the TRF) werent being met.
Mr W may have been aware of the performance issues  I dont think this is disputed, and as 
noted in the provisional decision, he himself raised these at at least one of the reviews. And I 
agree that the review notes reflect this. But as set out above, his complaint doesnt 
specifically relate to this. His complaint is that, given the prevailing awareness of the 
performance issues, he should have been advised to switch into a different fund.
And I still think he has a point. If anything, I think Mr Ws awareness of performance issues 
and that he raised this at reviews enhances his claim. As the professional parties, both the 
PCM and SLW adviser were better placed to understand that the effects of the TRFs poor 
performance, which Mr W had himself noted, could be mitigated by a switch into a different 
fund  and one which was in any case later recommended to him as being suitable for his 
objectives. As I said in the provisional decision, if it considered that it could suitably have 
been recommended to him in 2018/19, then I dont see why, given that his own 
circumstances and objectives hadnt changed, it couldnt have been suitably recommended 
earlier.
And I dont think this position is undermined by Mr Ws later decision to remain in the TRF. 
This was based upon an upturn in its performance, which as far as I can tell had been 
produced by an amendment to the underlying assets, and which its noted Mr W commented on approvingly. And so this isnt therefore indicative of the decision he would have made, 
had he been made aware of, and advised to transfer into, the alternative portfolio when the 
TRF was performing below expectations. Rather, this is demonstrative of his keenness to be 
invested in a fund which was producing something closer to the expected returns.
abrdn has suggested that the comments within the review notes indicate that Mr W was 
comfortable with the performance of the TRF, but I think its more likely than not that these 
conclusions were in response to reassurances offered by the respective advisers (relative to 
volatility in other markets), and notably are couched in relation to the level of risk which Mr W 
was prepared to accept, with his preference for greater certainty over volatility. But had Mr W 
been made aware of stronger performing alternatives which nevertheless adhered to his 
attitude to risk and capacity for loss, I think he would have capitalised upon this. 
Addressing the comment relating to the start date of the proposed redress calculation, I 
understand the point being made and, as set out in the provisional decision, had this 
perhaps been a largely equity based fund, I might be inclined to consider a longer wait and 
see period to be appropriate. But for the reasons also given in that decision, I think the 
nature of the fund in question and the circumstances here were different, and that by 
February 2016, given what Mr W was himself saying about the funds performance and that 
the fund had been missing the target by around 5% (and increasing) since October 2015, 
this would have been an appropriate point at which to suggest to Mr W that he consider an 
alternative.
And so, for the reasons given in both this and the provisional decision, my view remains that 
the complaint should be upheld.
Putting things right
abrdn Client Management Limited should therefore determine the notional value of Mr Ws 
SIPP, as at the date of this final decision, had he switched out of the TRF and into the 1825 
Portfolio 2 on 28 February 2016, which I think would have afforded time for a 
recommendation to be made, considered, and for the switch to then occur. The notional 
value should factor in any actual switches, contributions and withdrawals made since.
This should be compared against the actual value of Mr Ws SIPP at the same date. If there 
is a loss, abrdn Client Management Limited should in the first instance make the value of the 
SIPP up to its notional value as identified above, taking into account any available tax relief, 
charges, and any protections in place.
If its not possible to pay the amount into Mr Ws SIPP, it should be paid to Mr W, but with 
a notional deduction to reflect the fact that he would have paid income tax on the pension 
benefits. My assumption, as set out in the provisional decision, is that Mr W would be a 
basic rate taxpayer in retirement, and so the notional deduction of 20% should be applied 
to 75% of the loss (to account for the tax free cash)  resulting in an overall notional 
deduction of 15%.
Payment of any redress should be made within 28 days of abrdn Client Management 
Limited being notified of Mr Ws acceptance of this decision. If it isnt, abrdn Client 
Management Limited should add 8% pa simple interest to any loss from the date of this 
decision to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct abrdn Client Management Limited 
to undertake the above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman