DRN-2645527
The complaint
Ms D complains about the way that U K Insurance Limited dealt with her home insurance 
claim for subsidence damage. The actual handling of the claim was by loss adjusters, 
though for convenience, except where otherwise stated, Ill refer to UKI throughout. 
What happened
In September 2018 Ms D noticed cracking to her conservatory and porch. She contacted 
UKI but as she thought the repairs would be less than the £2,000 excess on her policy she 
decided to get her own structural engineers report. This identified a likely problem with 
council owned trees, but as the required repairs appeared to be minor Ms D attempted to 
deal with the matter herself. When she realised that repairs were likely to considerably 
exceed the excess she lodged a formal claim with UKI in late December 2018.  
UKI appointed loss adjusters who carried out a site visit and arranged for monitoring to start. 
They arranged for a survey of the trees to be carried out. Ms D was advised of the results of 
this survey in May 2019. This was that some trees needed to be removed and others 
pruned. There were three categories of trees, those belonging to a neighbour, to the local 
council and to Network Rail. UKI anticipated completion of the matter in July 2020.
However UKI didnt start contacting these parties until October 2019. In November Ms D 
provided it with a contact address for the neighbour who didnt live at his property. However 
UKI continued to write to the property address. In February 2020 Network Rail confirmed 
removal of its trees. In March 2020 UKI said the damage had escalated and given its lack of 
response from the neighbour, decided that the best option was to take down and rebuild the 
porch and conservatory on deeper foundations. The local authority confirmed removal of its 
trees in April and July 2020. 
Given the Covid situation Ms D was asked to take photos of the building to enable drawings 
to be made. UKI noted that planning permission would be required. It duly made an 
application, Ms D being given the impression that this was fast tracked, when it actually 
wasnt.
In late September 2020 conditional planning permission was granted subject to a further 
arboricultural impact assessment being provided. The council said this should have been 
provided as a part of the original application, but UKI said this couldnt have been 
anticipated. The further assessment was done and provided to the council in November 
2020. Unconditional planning permission was granted in mid-December 2020. In the 
meantime a party wall agreement had to be drawn up and signed by the neighbours.
The repairs then went ahead, Im unsure of their current progress. UKI hasnt issued a 
formal final response letter, as it left it to this service to progress as Ms D had lodged her 
complaint. 
Ms D had planned to put the house on the market and decided she would go ahead and 
move in with her partner. For part of the time she let the property to friends though she had 
to get special permission from her mortgage company to do this. Although she received 
some rent, it wasnt a market rent and she had to pay for landlords insurance. As the matter 
was taking so long, her fixed term mortgage rate expired which meant she incurred extra 
costs because of it being transferred to variable rate. 
On referral to this service our investigator thought that UKI was responsible for serious 
delays and poor communications with Ms D. She didnt think UKI was liable to pay her extra 
costs incurred because of her personal arrangements. She did however think that Ms D 
should be awarded compensation for distress and inconvenience of £1,000.
UKI agreed to this but proposed to deduct it from the excess not yet paid (which is £2,000). 
Ms D didnt agree and though that she should be awarded compensation in our serious 
category, of over £2,000.
The matter has been referred to me for further consideration.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
delay
Subsidence claims inevitably take a long time to resolve, particularly as monitoring usually 
needs to be carried out over a prolonged period. In Ms Ds case, the length of time the claim 
took to get to the point of repairs being carried out was prolonged by the necessity first of all 
to get trees removed by three external parties and then to get planning permission. But UKI 
did add to the delays:
It took a month to carry out the first site visit
A plan of action was agreed in early May 2019, but UKI didnt start writing to the third 
party tree owners until 22 October. Given that the trees were identified as being the 
cause of the subsidence this was an unnecessary five month delay.
UKI continually wrote to the neighbour at their property address despite having been 
supplied with a correspondence address by Ms D. I understand that this was because 
the loss adjusters mitigation team were dealing with the matter separately from the 
claims team and the information wasnt shared between them. 
Drawings for the design and rebuilding of the porch and conservatory were completed by 
16 June 2020 but planning permission wasnt applied for until 22 July.
Ms D was assured that UKI would pay for a fast-tracked application for planning 
permission. She was told a standard application would take eight to twelve weeks but 
that in cases where a request had been fast tracked, it would take three to five weeks. 
She was eventually told that the application hadnt been fast tracked, because it wouldnt 
have been any quicker. I dont know if that was the case as I would think it varies 
between local authorities. But Ms D should clearly have been told that in the first place.
When planning permission with conditions was granted, the reason for the conditions 
was because of UKIs failure to lodge an arboricultural impact assessment. Whilst it was 
later said by UKI that this couldnt have been anticipated, the indications from the internal 
exchanges on the file show that the loss adjusters were aware of the need for this before 
lodging the application. As it took from 28 September until 18 December to get the 
conditions removed I think this was another unnecessary delay.Its difficult to assess how much the delays added to the timeline for this claim as, for 
instance, the Covid lockdown has to be taken into account. Looking at the above instances 
of delay, I think about 11-12 months delay was caused by UKIs inaction.
poor communication 
Ms D constantly had to chase around to be kept updated. In July 2020 she was written to at 
the property address despite having advised that she had moved out. She didnt get that 
letter for a month. She also had to contact the various parties herself to get information. 
UKIs file shows that the claim handler tried to get information out of the loss adjusters and 
was on the one hand assuring Ms D the planning application had been fast tracked, while 
the loss adjusters knew it hadnt. She also tried to get updates about the arboricultural 
impact assessment. The claim handler commented that Im starting to feel that I dont have 
the support from [the loss adjusters] in progressing this, all the while liaising with the insured 
who is becoming more and more distressed and upset.
Ms D also felt that she was pushed into escalating her complaint to this service, instead of 
UKI dealing with the complaint. As Ive noted UKI didnt issue a final response letter which I 
find surprising particularly when the claims handler attempted to chase matters up for her. 
Ms D asked to speak to the team leader and was told that as they had been part of a 
conference call with Ms D they couldnt add anything. While I cant look at UKIs complaint 
handling in itself, I do think that her difficulties with the progress of the claim could have been 
addressed and the fact that they werent just added to Ms Ds distress and anxiety.
compensation
I know Ms D feels she has made financial losses, by the extra costs to her of having the 
property tenanted, and by her mortgage payments going up. But, while wholly 
understandable, it was her decision not to live there. And its difficult to anticipate how long 
repairs will take and how long it will take to sell a property. I wont award financial losses.
As for compensation, our investigator proposed £1,000. Firstly the information I have about 
the progression of the claim goes up to 12 January 2021, so I havent considered anything 
after that date. I bear in mind that Ms D didnt have to live in an unrepaired property and that 
the cracking affected only the porch and the conservatory. I also have to take into account 
that the claim itself would have caused distress and inconvenience. 
£1,000 is a substantial award and bearing in mind awards we have made in other similar 
cases, I think thats appropriate for the delays and poor communication. I understand that 
UKI proposes to deduct this from the excess, which I think is reasonable as Ms D would 
have to pay that anyway. 
Putting things right
I think UKI should pay Ms D £1,000 compensation, which it may deduct from the excess 
payment due. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require U K Insurance Limited to provide the remedy set out 
above at Putting things right.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman