DRN-3263947
The complaint
Mr V complains about the service he received after he approached Sainsburys Bank Plc 
(Sainsburys) for support due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
In December 2017, Mr V entered into a loan agreement with Sainsburys, for a term of 36 
months. He maintained the monthly payments on the account. But in March 2020, Mr Vs 
income was impacted by Covid-19 and this affected his ability to meet the loan repayments. 
Mr V contacted Sainsburys on 30 March 2020 and asked what it could do to help. His 
understanding following this call was that a payment break would be applied to his account. 
But, just a few days later, the April payment was taken from his account. He was very 
unhappy about this and called Sainsburys to complain. It explained that the payment could 
be reversed, and this happened a couple of days later.
Immediately after this, Mr V began receiving letters from Sainsburys saying that his account 
was in arrears. Between April and July, Sainsburys sent Mr V several letters chasing 
payment, including a Notice of Arrears and a Default Notice. Sainsburys applied a missed 
payment charge and additional interest to Mr Vs account and reported missed payments to 
the Credit Reference Agencies. Mr V says he found the letters very threatening and they 
caused him a great deal of stress, at a time when he was struggling with health issues and 
the effect of the Covid-19 pandemic.
In July 2020, Sainsburys issued its response to Mr Vs complaint. It said that, when Mr V first 
called to seek support, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) hadnt yet issued its 
coronavirus guidance. So it said it couldnt have offered a payment holiday at that stage. But 
it accepted that it should have found an alternative solution for Mr V. It said that there hadnt 
been time for it to change the April payment date and that the advisor had told Mr V this 
during the call. But it accepted that it had made mistakes in the way it dealt with Mr Vs 
account.
Sainsburys took the following steps to resolve the complaint: (a) credited Mr Vs loan 
account with £1,578.69; (b) arranged to remove adverse information which had been applied 
to his credit file between April and July 2020; (c) refunded the additional interest and charges 
which had been applied to his account; and (d) paid him £300 as an apology.
£1,578.69 was the amount outstanding at that time, being the three payments which Mr V 
hadnt been able to make. Sainsburys says it credited this amount to the account as a 
temporary measure to stop the account being in arrears and stop the missed payments 
being reported to the Credit Reference Agencies. It says that Mr V needed to repay this 
before the end of the loan term.
Mr V resumed his monthly repayments in August 2020. The loan term has now come to an 
end. Although Mr V maintained the monthly repayments from August 2020 until the end of 
the term, Sainsburys says he hasnt repaid the temporary credit of £1,578.69.  In February 
and August 2021, it wrote to him asking for payment of this sum.
Mr V is very unhappy with the situation and asked this service to look into it. Our Adjudicator 
thought that Sainsburys response to the complaint was fair and didnt ask it to do any more. 
But Mr V didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. He 
says that compensation of £300 doesnt reflect the distress caused to him and he doesnt 
think he owes any money to Sainsburys.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In April 2020, the FCA released guidance which said that firms had to offer payment holidays 
for customers who were negatively impacted by the pandemic. It said that customers credit 
files shouldnt be affected by taking a payment holiday. These measures hadnt been 
announced when Mr V first called Sainsburys. So I wouldnt expect Sainsburys to have put a 
payment holiday in place at that point. But I would expect it to have shown forbearance to 
customers experiencing financial difficulty and to have suggested an alternative solution.
Sainsburys says that, when Mr V called, it was so close to his April payment date that it 
wasnt possible to cancel or change that payment. I dont think that was unreasonable. Ive 
considered what both parties have said about this and its clear there was some confusion 
over what was agreed during that call. On balance, I find it likely that Mr V was told that the 
April payment would be taken as usual and that it was the May payment which was deferred 
until June. So I dont think Sainsburys acted unreasonably by taking the April payment. 
This payment was then reversed. I find that Sainsburys was doing what Mr V wanted by 
reversing the April payment. But I dont think it told him how his account would be affected 
by this. 
Looking at the wider circumstances here, I dont think Sainsburys gave Mr V appropriate 
advice or dealt with his request for a payment break appropriately. I dont think he should 
have been disadvantaged simply because he sought help before the FCA guidance was 
announced. The resulting arrears letters and demands for payment exacerbated the 
situation and caused Mr V unnecessary distress. Sainsburys accepts that it made mistakes 
and that it should have found a solution for Mr V. So Im not going to go over the details of 
what it did wrong. Instead, Ill focus on whether it has done enough to put things right.
Mr V didnt make the April, June or July 2020 loan repayments. If Sainsburys had granted a 
payment holiday in line with the FCA guidance, Mr Vs credit file wouldnt have been 
impacted by missing these payments. But Sainsburys reported late payments to the Credit 
Reference Agencies. I think it would be fair for Sainsburys to remove those adverse entries. I 
understand it has already done so, so Im not going to ask it to do any more about this.
Turning to the loan balance, if Sainsburys had granted Mr V a payment holiday, he wouldnt 
have had to make repayments for three months. Those three instalments would have 
remained payable by him and, when the payment holiday ended, he would have needed to 
engage with Sainsburys to agree how they would be paid. But his account wouldnt have 
been treated as being in arrears or suffered the negative consequences which go with that. 
Here, because Sainsburys didnt set up a payment holiday, the missed payments were 
treated as arrears. This triggered adverse reporting to the Credit Reference Agencies and 
debt collection letters being sent to Mr V. 
In July 2020, Sainsburys accepted that it should have done things differently. So it took 
steps to stop the collections process and stop any further negative credit file reporting. The way it did this was to credit Mr Vs account with the amount which was overdue at the time, 
being £1,578.69. That meant the account was up to date, so the negative implications of the 
missed payments were stopped. I think that was a reasonable way to deal with the situation.
Sainsburys also reversed the additional interest which had accrued due to the payments 
being missed. I think that was fair. It meant Mr V was no worse off for having missed the 
payments.
The credit of £1,578.69 was a temporary measure which Sainsburys took to stop the 
negative consequences of Mr Vs missed payments. But Sainsburys wasnt writing off that 
amount from the loan balance. The payments which hed missed in April, June and July 
2020 still had to be paid by Mr V. Im satisfied that Sainsburys made this clear to him in its 
letter of July 2020. I understand that Mr V hasnt yet repaid the £1,578.69. I would urge him 
to contact Sainsburys and make arrangements for this to be paid.
If Mr V had been on a payment holiday, he would have had to pay the missed instalments by 
the end of the loan term or come to another arrangement with Sainsburys to repay them.
By taking the steps it did, Sainsburys effectively put Mr V in the same position as if hed had 
a payment holiday except, in his case, he hasnt had to pay additional interest. I think that 
was fair and I dont think Sainsburys needs to do any more in relation to the account.
Turning to the impact which this situation had on Mr V, he has explained how it affected him. 
Its clear that Sainsburys actions caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience. 
Sainsburys has already paid Mr V £300 for this. I think thats a fair amount. I realise Mr V 
doesnt think its enough and hes explained his personal circumstances. I sympathise with 
his situation and Im sorry to disappoint him. But Im only considering Sainsburys actions 
here and the distress and inconvenience which flowed from those. Taking everything into 
account, I dont think Sainsburys needs to pay any more.
So, because I think Sainsburys has already done enough to put things right, Im not going to 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman