The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage that Miss A held with The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
until recently. Shes unhappy at having to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) when she 
sold the property and redeemed the mortgage.
What happened
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so. No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the 
informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral. Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying the complainant company 
and/or its directors when my decision is published.
In late 2017, Ms A wanted a new rate on her mortgage. After some initial problems, she 
applied online for a five-year fixed rate of 2.60%. Miss A signed the offer for the product on 
28 November 2017. In 2019, after she redeemed the mortgage and incurred an ERC of 
around £1,800, Miss A complained.
It turned out that the offer Miss A had signed contained contradictory (and hence) 
ambiguous information regarding the ERC. In the relevant section of the document, the offer 
said: There are no early repayment charges. Then, immediately underneath this narrative 
was a table listing the sliding scale of ERCs that would be payable, depending on when 
redemption took place during the fixed rate period.
It also turned out that RBS had realised the error at the time, and had issued a revised offer 
to Miss A in early December 2017. However, Miss A hadnt signed and returned the 
amended offer confirming her agreement to the correct terms including the ERC. The letter 
had got caught up with some other mail and been overlooked. Miss A only found it in 2019 
when having a clear out. She says its not fair of RBS to hold her to an agreement she hasnt 
signed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
DRN-1915452Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
When a business gives out wrong information, thats called misrepresentation. If we find that 
a misrepresentation has happened, and someone has acted on it, we dont seek to put the 
person in the position theyd be in if the wrong information had been right. We put them in 
the position theyd be in if the right information had been given in the first place (or as here, 
given to correct the mistake). 
The right information was always that Miss As five-year fixed rate deal came with an ERC; 
she could not have one without the other. Miss As mortgage was charged interest at the 
fixed rate of 2.60% from December 2017 up to the redemption date in 2019. That being the 
case, the ERC was rightfully due.
Miss A asks what RBS would have done if she had opened the amended offer but refused to 
accept it once she realised it came with an ERC. I think the pertinent question I have to 
decide here is whether Miss A would have refused to continue with the fixed rate if shed 
opened and read the revised offer. In all likelihood, Im not convinced she would. On the 
balance of probabilities, I think Miss A would still have gone ahead with the new product.
In making my decision, I cant factor in Miss As later decision to sell the property and 
redeem the mortgage. I can only go by what was happening at the time; and its apparent 
that in late 2017, Miss A very clearly did want a new fixed rate. Shed been put to a lot of 
trouble by RBS in her efforts to get one. Yet she remained determined to do so and its easy 
to see why; the new deal offered a considerable cost saving over staying on the standard 
variable rate. 
Overall, I dont think Miss As position would have been any different if shed noticed the 
correction at the time, or indeed if the mistake had never occurred to begin with.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman