DRN-2417609
The complaint
Mr M complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) unfairly declined his 
landlord insurance claim. At the time of the actions Mr M complained about, Fairmead 
was known as Legal and General Insurance Limited but is now known as Fairmead.
In bringing this complaint Mr M has been helped by a representative. But for ease of reading 
Ill refer to the representatives comments as being those of Mr M.
What happened
In mid-March 2019, Mr M made a claim on his landlord insurance when the bathroom 
ceiling and floor in a property he owns and rents out to tenants were damaged by a 
massive amount of water coming through the ceiling. Initially he said he thought the 
damage was caused by a leak in the roof. Mr Ms property is on the ground floor of the 
building  there are also properties on the two floors above his.
Mr M also described poor weather in the area and Fairmead recorded the claim as one 
resulting from storm damage. It told Mr M hed need to get a cause of damage report and 
a quote for repairs. Mr M said hed have to start repair work straightaway, as his tenants 
werent happy with the state of the property. Fairmead told Mr M any work completed 
before it had considered the claim was at his own risk and that he should take 
photographs to support his claim.
Mr M sent Fairmead information to consider including quotes for bathroom and roof 
repairs and a cause of damage report from a roofer whod done an inspection. The 
roofer said heavy winds had lifted a row of tiles surrounding an overflow pipe that sticks 
out from the side elevation gutter. Theyd also lifted lead flashing causing water to enter 
the building. Fairmead thought the quote for bathroom repairs was high and noted it 
hadnt yet seen photographs of the external damage. So - towards the end of March 
2019 - it sent a loss adjuster out.
After considering the loss adjusters report Fairmead rejected Mr Ms claim in full. It 
didnt think the damage was caused by the storm. So it relied on a policy exclusion 
surrounding gradually operating cause to turn down the claim. Amongst its reasons 
for doing so Fairmead said:
it couldnt see how water that entered the building via the roof could have 
damaged Mr Ms ground floor flat - bypassing properties on the two floors 
above Mr Ms flat.
it couldnt understand how water would have caused the ceiling to collapse, 
when the ceiling wasnt flush with the outside wall.
the bathroom floor was spongy and close to collapse. The sealant around the 
shower base was black and damaged, which it thought was indicative of a long-
standing maintenance issue and should have been noticeable.
as the ceiling was re-plastered before the loss adjusters visit, Fairmeads 
position was prejudiced, as it couldnt inspect the area above the repair to 
identify other potential causes of the damage.
Mr M complained to Fairmead about its decision. In its reply it commented (amongst 
other things) on video footage that Mr M sent in, which showed water pouring into the 
property. It said it didnt think the amount of rainfall recorded in weather reports was 
likely to have caused that amount of water to come through the ceiling. It said it was 
satisfied its decision to decline the claim was the right one.
Mr M complained to us. He said hed told Fairmead there was a lintel, which prevented 
water going into the top floor property, and that might explain why there was no damage 
there. And hed also pointed out the property above his had sustained damage. In terms of 
the bathroom ceiling not being flush with the outside wall, Mr M said he told Fairmead the 
ceiling had been lowered before he bought the property, so that might account for why the 
damage happened in the way it did. He said he could supply evidence of this if necessary.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint and felt it was reasonable for Fairmead to 
decline the claim. The investigator felt the evidence supported Fairmeads decision that 
the damage wasnt caused by an insurable event. Overall, the investigator thought the 
fact Mr M had already had some repair work completed meant that it was difficult to now 
say what the cause of the damage was.
Mr M wasnt happy with our investigators assessment. In particular, Mr M didnt feel 
enough emphasis had been placed on the fact the loss adjuster took two weeks to inspect 
the damage. Mr M also questioned why the loss adjuster hadnt inspected the roof - which 
was easily accessible.
Our investigator considered the additional information Mr M provided. Overall, he said he 
didnt find the time taken for the loss adjuster to come out to be unreasonable  particularly 
as Mr M said he would be arranging for some of the repairs to be completed. The 
investigator accepted there was a storm and heavy rain in the days leading up to the claim, 
so felt Mr Ms claim satisfied that policy term. But the investigator thought Fairmeads 
decision to turn down the claim was reasonable, as it couldnt be sure the damage was 
caused by a one-off event.
Mr M didnt accept the investigators assessment and submitted other evidence, including a 
second report from the roofer and photographs of the roof and roof space. Our investigator 
sent further information to Fairmead. And whilst it accepted storm conditions were present 
around the time of the claim, it didnt think the information changed its overall decision. 
As Mr M doesnt accept our investigators assessment, the matters been passed to me to 
decide.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I sent Mr M and Fairmead my provisional decision on 2 November 2020. Ive included the 
relevant extracts from my provisional findings below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurance policies dont cover every eventuality. Theyre designed to offer cover against 
certain defined risks. Its for the policyholder to demonstrate that an insured event 
happened  in other words, that one of the risks included in the policy had materialised. 
Mr M initially thought thered been a leak in his roof. But based on the other events he described, Fairmead recorded the claim as one resulting from a storm.
Fairmead appears to have accepted storm conditions were present around the time of 
the claim - particularly as its weather checks indicated there were winds of up to 60mph 
in the days leading up to the claim. And, according to Mr Ms policy, a storm is strong 
winds of over 47mph which will sometimes be accompanied by rain, snow or hail. It told 
Mr M hed have to get a cause of damage report and a quote for repairs. Mr M got both of 
those things and sent them to Fairmead along with photographs of the internal damage 
and a quote for internal repairs. Fairmead sent a loss adjuster out, who wasnt then 
satisfied that water entering the building through the roof could have caused the type of 
internal damage reported. So, it declined the claim in full.
Im satisfied its fair for Fairmead to take account of the loss adjusters professional 
assessment along with other available evidence when making its claim decision. But I 
need to decide whether Fairmeads decision to refuse the claim was fair and reasonable 
in all of its circumstances. And in Mr Ms case, Im not currently satisfied Fairmeads 
decision was reasonable. Ill explain why.
Fairmead said its position was prejudiced because it couldnt complete its usual 
inspections to find out what had caused the damage. But, in the specific circumstances of 
this complaint I dont think it was fair for Fairmead to rely on that when rejecting the claim. 
I say that because Mr M made it clear upfront hed have to start the repair work promptly 
 and why. And given the potential safety risks to his tenants, I can fully appreciate why 
he felt he had little choice but to do that. And whilst Fairmead did tell Mr M there was a 
risk to him starting repair work if it later decided it couldnt meet all of the costs connected 
with the claim, thats not the same as saying it might later decide to reject the claim in full 
because hed done so.
The only other advice Fairmead appears to have given Mr M was to take photographs of 
the damaged areas. Mr M did that, so I don't think it's fair for Fairmead to decline the 
claim on the grounds that Mr M had already completed some of the work. If Fairmead 
thought there was a risk to the extent it might not be able to properly and fairly assess the 
claim, it should have sent a loss adjuster out much sooner. And had it been clearer about 
the potential risks involved - that Fairmead would potentially turn down the claim in full - I 
think Mr M would have insisted on that.
Further, as well as saying that Mr Ms actions had prejudiced its position, Fairmead has 
also argued that the damage wasn't caused by the storm but by a gradually operating 
cause, which Mr Ms policy excludes from cover. If an insurer decides to decline a claim 
based on a policy exclusion, its for the insurer to show why it thinks the exclusion applies 
and to explain the information its relied on. In other words, if Fairmead didnt think the 
storm was the cause of the damage as Mr Ms evidence suggested, its for it to say why it 
thought it happened gradually and what information it relied on. And, on balance, Im not 
currently satisfied its done enough to show that.
It's clear (despite what Mr Ms roofer said) the loss adjuster didnt think it plausible that 
water coming through the roof would have damaged a property two floors below - 
particularly as it bypassed a property on the top floor. But, that in itself doesnt explain 
why Fairmead thought the damage must have happened gradually. And, irrespective of 
the fact it said it couldnt inspect the area above the bathroom ceiling because of the 
repair work already done, I think an inspection of the roof and roof space would have 
indicated to Fairmead whether the problem was a more longstanding one. But Ive seen 
no evidence it inspected those areas. Nor is it clear to what extent it considered Mr Ms 
explanation about why the top floor property wasnt damaged, but the one above his was.
Instead, Fairmeads refusal to accept the damage to the ceiling was caused in the 
manner suggested, seems mainly based on the proximity of Mr Ms property to the roof. And, I dont think thats fair - particularly given the additional evidence Mr M supplied 
including two roofers reports together with photographs of the roof and roof space. If 
Fairmead wasnt persuaded by Mr Ms evidence, it could also have sought its own 
additional evidence to demonstrate that an exclusion should apply. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest it did that.
Similarly, Fairmead wasnt persuaded the amount of rainfall recorded in the days before 
the claim could have damaged the bathroom in the way Mr M described. Thats despite 
Mr M providing video footage showing water pouring through the ceiling and describing 
the adverse weather conditions in his area on the days before he made his claim. Again, 
an inspection of the roof and roof space, might have indicated what happened  and 
whether rainfall, which according to local weather reports, ranged from moderate to very 
heavy in the days before the claim - could have damaged the ceiling as the second report 
from Mr Ms roofer indicated. Or whether the cause was something else. I accept the loss 
adjuster inspected the bathroom and noted there was visible mold and damage to the 
sealant surrounding the shower base. And I also accept mold can be indicative of a 
maintenance issue thats been left unattended. But visible mold doesnt in itself explain 
why the floor felt spongy. And whilst its possible there were other reasons for that, from a 
lay perspective, it seems more likely that water gushing through the ceiling caused the 
damage to the bathroom, which might account for why the floor felt spongy - particularly 
as the loss adjuster didnt inspect the bathroom until around two weeks later. So, for the 
reasons Ive outlined, Im not currently satisfied Fairmead dealt with this aspect of the claim 
fairly.
But I think the key issue here is whether it was the storm or something else that caused 
the damage to Mr Ms roof and bathroom. Before Mr M made his claim, theres no 
evidence he knew of any problems with his roof or bathroom ceiling. And, as Ive already 
outlined, I think Fairmead had enough other evidence to indicate the damage was likely 
to have been caused by the storm. Or at least, Im not currently satisfied from what Ive 
seen that it had enough other evidence to say it wasnt.
It follows I dont think Fairmead acted fairly or reasonably when declining Mr Ms claim. 
So, to put things right, unless I receive other evidence, Im intending to say Fairmead 
should settle Mr Ms claim as Ive set out below. Its also clear that Fairmeads handling 
of Mr Ms claim has caused him some inconvenience. So, to address that it should pay 
Mr M £250 compensation.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr M described my provisional decision as good news. And Fairmead said it didnt have 
any further information to give me and would await my final decision.
My findings
As neither Mr M nor Fairmead had new information or comments to make, I see no reason to 
change what I said in my provisional decision 
My final decision 
I uphold this complaint. And I direct Fairmead Insurance Limited to: 
Settle Mr Ms claim, subject to him providing invoices to show that the repair 
work completed was to a similar specification as the items damaged by the storm 
and used similar materials. It should add simple interest to its settlement at a rate 
of 8% a year from the date of his claim to the date of final settlement.
Pay Mr M £250 in compensation for the inconvenience caused by Fairmeads handling of his claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021. 
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman