DRN-2136020
The complaint
Mr O complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) acted unfairly and 
unreasonably by charging him the legal costs relating to possession proceedings when no 
order was made by the court as to costs. He wants matters put right.
What happened
Mr O had a mortgage with Halifax and got into arrears. Halifax issued possession 
proceedings and at the end when a suspended possession order was made, the court didnt 
make any order as to who would pay the costs; it simply said £0 for costs when totalling 
when Mr O had to pay under the order. Mr O found out that his mortgage account was 
charged Halifaxs costs. He didnt think this was fair, given what the court had said; Mr O 
said he hadnt been told this would happen.
Mr O complained to Halifax. It explained that the costs werent court costs, but its solicitors 
costs relating to the arrears which it could claim under the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage accepted by Mr O when he took it out. Halifax pointed out Mr O had been sent 
several letters where he was warned this would happen before the solicitors were instructed.
Mr O complained to us. The investigators view was that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
She said that the court order said no court costs were to be claimed  the court hadnt 
charged Mr O any costs. The investigator noted that Mr O had agreed to pay Halifaxs costs 
caused by arrears under the terms and conditions of the mortgage and it had been 
necessary to instruct solicitors to get the court order. She said Halifax had simply passed on 
its costs.
Mr O disagreed. He said that Halifax told him he didnt have to pay the costs. When the 
investigator asked for evidence, Mr O said the court ordered no costs against him and it was 
when he first questioned why he was being charged, a member of staff agreed with him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the outcome recommended by the investigator for broadly the same reasons, 
but it might help make things clearer if I set out the background as well.
In mortgage repossession cases, courts dont generally make orders as to costs. This is 
because the standard terms and conditions of mortgages include provisions that any 
reasonable costs caused by arrears, which can include the costs of possession proceedings, 
are to be paid by the borrower. Its the responsibility of the borrower to pay on time as 
agreed, and lenders can claim the reasonable costs caused by any breach of this duty. 
Often lenders have a tariff of charges, but they cant make a profit out of such fees.
In Mr Os case, he did promise to pay his mortgage on time and he wasnt able to do so. 
This caused Halifax to incur costs, including solicitors fees and the court fee. Part of the 
terms and conditions was that Mr O would have to pay any costs Halifax had to pay to 
recover money owed to it, and in the borrowers summary (as well as in the terms and 
conditions), one example given was solicitors fees (which can include the court fees). 
Halifax had to pay such fees in order to get the order from the court to deal with the arrears.
Orders made by a court about costs is separate to agreements between the parties about 
costs. Mr Os order only dealt with what was ordered by the court, not the whole agreement 
between the parties. Theres no order before me where the court weighed up the legal 
agreement and found Halifax couldnt rely on it; it simply considered a possession case and 
made the order in Mr Os absence with just Halifaxs agent present. I cant interfere with the 
decisions of a court, but equally I cant say that the court said Halifax couldnt claim its fees; 
its simply not made an order about costs, knowing that the situation was dealt with by the 
terms and conditions of the mortgage and at the request of Halifax (who is unlikely to ask a 
court to order it couldnt claim any costs). On the contrary - Halifax says it warned Mr O 
about the costs before instructing solicitors and the information was in the borrowers 
summary as well as the terms and conditions.
I cant say that its unfair or unreasonable for Halifax to claim its costs as Mr O accepted to 
pay them by accepting the terms and conditions of the mortgage, and they appear from the 
evidence available to me to be the actual cost (I have seen the invoice). It didnt agree to 
waive them, the court hasnt ordered that the costs be written off, and Mr O was told in 
advance through the terms and conditions of the mortgage and the letters sent by Halifax 
before the solicitors were instructed he would be charged the costs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 
13 January 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman