DRN-3639731
The complaint
Miss H complains that Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon have unreasonably refused 
her claim for total and permanent disability (TPD) benefit under her personal protection 
policy.   
What happened
Miss H is now represented by a solicitor in bringing her complaint. She holds a critical illness 
policy with Aegon, which began in November 2008. It offers £200,000 total cover until 
October 2027. The policy also includes TPD benefit on an any occupation basis. 
Miss H began to suffer with fatigue. By 2017, her symptoms had progressed into pain in her 
limbs, dizziness and paraesthesia, and by 2018 she was suffering with cognitive impairment, 
initially suspected to be a form of dementia. She ceased working in mid-2018 and sadly has 
not been able to continue in her self-employment, working as a music specialist and teacher.  
In March 2019, Miss H was seen by a Consultant Neurologist (Dr P) and diagnosed with 
fibromyalgia. Miss H has also been diagnosed with Chronic Fatigue Syndrome/Myalgic 
Encephalomyelitis (CFS/ME) and referred to a CFS/ME Service by her GP in April 2020.  
By August 2019, Miss H had met twice with Dr R, a Consultant Clinical Neuropsychologist 
and was reported as suffering with severe pain, lack of dexterity in using her hands, issues 
with concentration and forgetfulness.  
She thereafter made a claim to Aegon for TPD benefit. At Aegons request in January 2020, 
Miss H underwent an independent medical examination (IME) with Dr W, a Consultant 
Occupational Health Physician. This took place in a neutral setting because Miss H had work 
being undertaken at her home. 
Dr W was provided with the medical evidence sent to Aegon. In his view, he believed Miss H 
needed to engage with pacing and activity to improve her functionality before an assessment 
of TPD could be properly made. He noted since Miss H had confirmed that she didnt have a 
routine, she slept at any time of the day and didnt have set mealtimes because of her 
illnesses. He felt this lack or routine could create substantial cognitive stress and fatigue 
which may be improved. Finally, he recommended that Miss H could undergo psychiatric 
assessment, which could also impact the effects of her condition(s). 
Miss H returned to Dr P in July 2020 where a comprehensive report on her condition was 
given, noting some lines of treatment she had tried including physiotherapy, cognitive 
behavioural therapy and the medications she had used since her diagnosis. 
In this report, Dr P also addressed the view of Dr W and said he did not accept the 
conclusion that Miss H could likely return to work. He said Dr Ws view did not accord with 
his clinical experience or the contemporary understanding of the likelihood of recovery in 
fibromyalgia. It was also countered by another assessment that Miss H had from Dr J, 
Consultant Rheumatologist. He felt Miss H had undergone recognised treatment strategies 
for fibromyalgia, but she hadnt improved. This meant that in his view, her chances of 
improving the extent where she could return to employment were very low.  
In October 2020, Aegon refused the claim. It said its Chief Medical Officer (CMO) had 
agreed with Dr W; despite the evidence supplied from treating doctors of Miss Hs reported 
conditions, options remained open to her which might mitigate the symptoms she suffered. It 
also did not think the medical information was sufficient to satisfy the policy wording.    
Miss Hs representative appealed Aegons decision. He said that three treating doctors (Dr 
R, Dr P and Miss Hs GP) had all set out that Miss H met the policys TPD definition. Despite 
this, the claim had been refused. And though Aegon had suggested Miss H may need 
psychiatric assessment, this had already been undertaken by Dr S, Consultant Psychiatrist. 
He had said Miss H was not suffering from any kind of mental health condition. 
The representative also supplied further confirmation from Dr M, Consultant Psychiatrist, 
where he noted that Miss H had not been able to carry out any paid occupation for two 
continued years. And, in his balanced view, he felt she could not carry out any paid 
occupation at all.  
In November 2020, Aegon confirmed it was unwilling to change its view on the complaint. It 
explained that it hadnt made its current decision from Dr W's report alone; instead it formed 
part of its overall assessment. 
It said that it continued to have two ongoing areas of concern. Firstly, it had several 
questions unanswered in relation to Miss Hs ongoing treatment, specifically:
in relation to the treatment Miss H is undergoing, details of when Miss H's 
appointments were, who they were with and where they took place;
a copy of the bench line assessment that Aegon understands was carried out which 
showed what Miss H could do pre-treatment;
details of how Miss H routinely spends her days each week since she has been 
unable to work;
evidence relating to the treatment Miss H has completed, specifically how she is 
putting her pacing techniques into practice. 
It also said that following this, Miss H needed to undergo an IME at her home  this was in 
order to discuss the treatment and understand her progress from attending support 
sessions; specifically, how she has put this in to action in her day-to-day life. It agreed it 
would comply with any guidance around COVID-19 restrictions at that time as required.  
It also asked a series of questions about Miss Hs charity work, as well as asking for Miss 
H's HMRC self-assessment forms for 2019 and 2020.  
So, Miss Hs representative brought her complaint to this service. He supplied additional 
information including a discharge letter Miss H had received dated March 2022 from a 
CFS/ME service, written submissions in respect of Miss Hs tribunal proceedings relating to 
disability benefits, and an assessment from Dr M dated 6 July 2022. 
The assessment set out how Miss H reported multiple sensory sensitivities which have 
affected her daily functioning in her personal, social and work life and have become 
exacerbated since she developed symptoms of Fibromyalgia and CFS/ME. 
An investigator from this service did not think the complaint should succeed. 
He noted that he understood why Aegon had questioned whether Miss H had been working in some capacity, as her medical records made three separate references to working for an 
animal charity and in a veterinary surgery. Though Miss Hs representative had clarified that 
Miss H had not worked for many years and previously fostered animals back only up to 
2010, there were references to her working and/or conducting charity work in 2018 and 
2019. 
He believed Aegon should do more to further the complaint. He felt that if it had any other 
outstanding query about Miss Hs charity work, it ought to put them to her without further 
delay. Otherwise, he felt it was fair for Aegon to require a further IME.  
Miss Hs representative said she did not agree with the investigators view on the complaint. 
He made a number of further comments, noting in summary that:
the entries in Miss Hs medical records are a mistake;
she has never worked in any capacity in the veterinary field;
her former occupation involved her working as a music specialist;
Miss H has supplied various medical information from a number of treating 
specialists and doctors;
these professionals all share the view that Miss H satisfies the policy definition for 
TPD, that she is unable to do any occupation, and that on a balance of probabilities, 
this is likely to remain the case for the future;
she has also supplied a further report from Dr M and information about benefits 
assessments;
there is only one dissenting view from Dr W, but this has since been addressed by Dr 
P in his report;
the weight of medical evidence should be sufficient for a claim to be paid;
on that basis, neither Miss H nor her representative can see the logic to a further IME 
being carried out;
they feel this is merely another excuse by Aegon to push the claim back and refuse 
to pay it;
they also feel that mediation may be a better route to resolving the claim  they 
questioned whether this service could provide that as an option.  
The representative also supplied two letters dated September 2022 from Miss Hs former 
accountant and a veterinary surgeon. The first letter set out that Miss H worked as a sole 
trader, with a trade of musical services/teaching and that was her only source of income for 
the years she had accounts prepared on her behalf (2000 to 2018). The second confirmed 
she had not been employed at either of his veterinary practices from the period 2014 to date.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. 
Having looked at everything before me, I am also of the view that this complaint cannot 
succeed. I realise this will be frustrating for Miss H and her representative, notably since the 
claim remains open. However, I do not find Aegon unreasonable in having refused the claim 
to date. Like our investigator, I do believe that there are steps for the parties to take to 
progress the claim, so Ill also discuss these below.  
I do not have reason to doubt the medical evidence Ive seen. And I realise that a number of specialists hold the view that Miss H cannot return to paid employment. But policyholder 
ceasing work or experiencing symptoms that impact their ability to undertake any paid work 
doesnt mean a claim is automatically payable.
The policy Miss H has is not one that gives income protection  so it cant simply pay out 
where the policyholder is too ill to work. It offers cover in the event of death or a listed critical 
illness. Unlike some of the other critical illnesses listed on the policy, TPD is not payable 
upon diagnosis of the underlying condition(s) a policyholder may have. Its based on when 
the disablement means the policyholder has no reasonable chance of undertaking any type 
of employment (not merely, Miss Hs own employment) and most importantly, that this will be 
the case permanently.
To satisfy a claim, the policy wording must be met in full. In Miss Hs policy, the wording 
says:
In the event that a Life Assured becomes Totally and Permanently Disabled as a 
result of sickness or accident as defined in the Policy Schedule, provided that that 
Life Assured survives for six months after the date on which Total and Permanent 
Disability is confirmed in writing to Scottish Equitable the Benefit Amount in relation 
to the Main Benefit will become payable; and 
The Life Assured has been unable to carry out any occupation for which they are 
paid because of total and permanent disability lasting for a continuous period of six 
months and there is and will continue to be no paid occupation of any kind at all 
which they are able to carry out.
Miss Hs charity/voluntary work
I recognise that in its response to Miss Hs appeal, Aegon set out a number of questions it 
had in relation to Miss Hs voluntary work with animals since there were three separate 
references to her undertaking work.
The policy wording I have set out above limits the claim to paid employment, and I can see 
the most recent information sent by Miss Hs representative has confirmed she was not in 
any remunerative employment of a veterinary nature or otherwise. 
Nonetheless, Aegon is reasonable in seeking to establish the extent of this work as it may 
have a bearing on Miss Hs functionality and to validate the claim in a reasonable manner. 
I would therefore suggest that this matter is resolved by 1) the sharing of the two most recent 
pieces of evidence from Miss Hs accountant and the veterinary practice with Aegon 2) that 
Miss H supplies Aegon with the two outstanding HMRC self-assessments; and 3) that Aegon 
compiles one final list of questions relating to the charity work and puts these to Miss H 
without further delay. It should then issue a claim outcome based on the information it has 
(subject to the additional medical information awaited below). 
Miss Hs current medical circumstances 
I know that the claim process has been frustrating for Miss H and I do appreciate the 
vulnerabilities her representative highlighted. However, establishing that a policyholder can 
never work again in any occupation may take a particularly long time; evidencing disability of 
this nature can require a long reference window given the variable nature of fluctuating 
conditions, as well as the need for assessments to establish a permanent lack of function. My remit is to make findings on what I believe to be fair and reasonable to both parties in the 
circumstances, and this does not follow a prescribed format. Instead, I will set out my 
reasons for my findings on what I consider are the central issues in this complaint, based on 
the evidence before me.
And to be clear, I cannot conduct a claim assessment or substitute my view for that of Aegon 
or its CMO. It is for me to decide if the complaint referred here in 2021 (the refusal of the 
claim) was a fair decision for Aegon and its medical officers to take, based on the evidence 
from both sides. If I felt this was not the case, I could direct it to pay a claim. However, I do 
believe the decision was reasonable; Aegon did not have a complete picture of Miss Hs 
circumstances as the occupational assessment conflicted with her medical information,  
I am not able to consider mediation as Miss Hs representative required. Also, the claim 
remains open, so that would not be an appropriate course where evidence is still awaited. 
The definition set out above is a high threshold to meet. This is true of TPD definitions 
generally  it is not specific to Aegon, but instead, set out as suggested wording by the 
Association of British Insurers (ABI) in model wordings for such policies. 
In the ABI Statement of Best Practice (the most recent being April 2006 before Miss Hs 
cover came into force), it is confirmed how Insurers are free to use any one or more 
definitions of disability they wish including but not limited to those shown in 6.1 above. 
Section 6.1 gives the types of TPD cover insurers can adopt in their policies based on risk. 
These are, in order:
6.1.1 The insured persons own occupation.
6.1.2 Suited occupations.
6.1.3 Any occupation whatsoever.
6.1.4 A number of specified activities  for example, activities of daily living or 
functional ability tests.
I have given this explanation because Miss Hs policy includes any occupation TPD cover. 
This is an inherently higher test than the measure of a persons own occupation or suited 
occupation  because there may be types of employment Miss H could undergo, with 
adjustments, from home, for example despite not being able to teach music anymore.  
For this to be ascertained, I believe Aegons request for a home IME is a fair and reasonable 
conclusion. As Ive said above, I see that a number of different qualified specialists have 
given written confirmation that Miss H cannot undertake paid work, and that this will be the 
case permanently. However, an IME offers a distinct assessment insofar as it provides 
observational evidence as to a persons functionality. This is crucial in Miss Hs case, 
because (quite understandably) her other medical assessments rely, in the main, on her self-
reporting the notable impact that these conditions have every day. 
The first observation of Miss H was unfortunately restricted because she met with Dr W in a 
hotel setting. So, there were notable restraints on observing Miss Hs functionality  and this 
is important where her medical evidence says that she has significant limitation on all day-to-
day activities; she cannot, for example, prepare meals. An IME needs to look at Miss Hs 
level of disability in that context, with access to her entire medical evidence as a basis on 
which to assess the TPD wording against her particular circumstances. I cannot therefore 
conclude that the request to conduct a further IME at home with Miss H is unreasonable. 
Additionally, Miss Hs situation has progressed since the refusal of her claim in 2020. She 
has now completed the treatment with the CFS/ME service in March 2022. And she has 
further confirmation of her psychiatric assessment from Dr M of July 2022, as used in relation to her assessment for disability benefits. Therefore, it is right that medical evidence 
from both of these avenues is supplied to Aegon for a further claim decision.
I do not believe that Aegon could reasonably have concluded that Miss H met the policy 
definition until it had seen satisfactory evidence that she had completed all reasonable 
treatment options open to her. It seems to me that Miss H has likely exhausted any 
treatment options that have been proposed. However, to successfully make a TPD claim, 
there needs to be evidence of permanency and totality as well as - in the case of any 
occupation cover - the insured person being unable to undertake any paid occupation at all 
because of the disability. 
It is my view that Aegon should provide one further, comprehensive list of any medical 
evidence it says it remains outstanding and a reasonable timeframe for Miss H or her 
representative to supply the relevant evidence, as well as any other information they feel is 
supportive of her claim. 
It should then pay for an IME to assess the TPD wording against Miss Hs medical evidence 
and observed circumstances. In doing so, it should give Miss H a choice of three suitably 
qualified examiners. Thereafter, it ought to provide an updated claim decision to Miss H. She 
of course remains free to pursue a second complaint about that decision, should a further 
claim outcome be unsuccessful.    
Otherwise, I dont find Aegon to have unreasonably refused the claim in October 2020  so 
in respect of this complaint so I cannot uphold it on that basis.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint, or make any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman