DRN-3774717
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as firstdirect (firstdirect) wouldnt accept him 
for a current account.
What happened
In July 2022, Mr S applied to open an account with firstdirect. Firstdirect declined. 
Mr S complained. He said he was declined without any explanation. If he had been able to 
open an account, he wouldve qualified for a switching bonus of £150. He said firstdirect 
should open his account and pay him £150. He also wants an explanation as to why his 
account wasnt opened.
Firstdirect said all the information provided during an application is assessed and an overall 
score indicated whether they could offer an account. Due to the commercially sensitive 
nature of their scoring systems, firstdirect said they wouldnt give any further information.
Mr S didnt accept what firstdirect said and asked for an explanation as to why his 
application was declined. He brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold his 
complaint. She said our service wouldnt expect firstdirect to disclose its eligibility criteria, nor 
could we ask firstdirect to change their decision. It was up to firstdirect to decide who they 
wanted to offer services to.
Mr S asked that an ombudsman look into his complaint  and so it has come to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has said to us that firstdirect are hiding behind spurious grounds of commercial 
confidentiality to hide their reasoning. So, Ive considered his complaint in the light of what 
happened and his further comments.
All banks, including firstdirect, are entitled to decide which customers they want to do 
business with  and they dont have to say why an application for an account has been 
declined. 
It is a fact that all banks, including firstdirect, have their own risk appetites and different 
criteria as to which customers they want to recruit. Each banks strategy differs, as do the 
criteria and approval processes each bank has. Firstdirect is no different in that regard, and 
they have said that they dont wish to disclose this information to Mr S. 
As a service, we dont ask to see firstdirects criteria (or indeed, any other banks)  and they 
wouldnt tell us in any case. Thats because it is a fact  that it is commercially sensitive. And 
we cant ask firstdirect to change their decision for Mr S (or indeed, any other customer)  
thats not our role.
And so  I can assure Mr S that there is no cover up as he says  its simply that firstdirect 
dont wish to disclose their acceptance criteria. And I think thats reasonable and 
understandable.
And so, while I know that Mr S will be disappointed by my decision, I am not going to ask 
firstdirect to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman