DRN-1068631
The complaint
Miss R says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) alongside a store card.
The store card and PPI were arranged by a retailer. Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) is the 
insurer, but has accepted responsibility for the sale of the policy.
What happened
In March 1993, Miss R applied for a store card. At the same time, the retailer sold her PPI. 
The cost of the PPI was charged to the account, so Mrs R would repay the cost with interest 
in line with the card's terms and conditions.
Miss R thinks the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and didn't think it should be upheld. Mrs R didn't 
agree. The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss R's case.
I've decided the PPI wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I've first checked if the retailer made it clear that the policy was optional. Miss R says the 
retailer didn't make this clear. She says she didn't have a chance to opt out of the policy - 
and so she was sold a policy she didn't want. So I've thought about what Miss R has said 
alongside the other information I've seen about the sale.
Allianz has sent us a copy of the application for the card. I see that to buy the PPI, Miss R 
had to complete a separate section of the application, under the heading "Payment 
protection". She needed to tick a box and enter her name and date of birth. Miss R has 
completed this section of the form. I also note that the application appears to have taken 
place by post, so Miss R completed the form herself without any involvement from anyone 
from the retailer. The form doesn't say the PPI was compulsory. So though Miss R says she 
didn't think the policy was optional, I think it's more likely that she knew she had a choice, 
and chose to buy it.
The sale took place by post. So I don't think the retailer advised Miss R to buy the policy. But 
it did have to give Miss R the information she'd need to work out for herself if she wanted it.
It's possible that the information the retailer gave Miss R about the PPI wasn't as clear as it 
should have been. But the application form said it would cover accident, death, redundancy 
or sickness - and as Miss R chose to buy the policy she appears to have wanted this type of cover. Miss R doesn't appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy 
didn't cover.
I recognise that Miss R got some sick pay from her employer - and has mentioned that she 
had savings. But if Miss R had made a successful claim, the policy would have paid 15% of 
the outstanding balance at the point she stopped work until her outstanding balance was 
paid off. This would have been in addition to her sick pay, and would have meant she could 
have used her savings for other things at what would have been a difficult time.
For these reasons, it looks as though the PPI would have been useful for her if something 
went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. I don't think better information about 
the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
I've considered everything else Miss R has said. But this doesn't change my conclusion.
My final decision
I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 November 2019.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman