DRN-3621664
The complaint
Mr A complains about a transfer of funds out of his savings account by Lloyds Bank PLC 
(Lloyds).
Mr A says this caused him distress and was also a security and GDPR breach. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The £1,739.30 was transferred into Mr As account by Lloyds in error. Im satisfied Mr 
A wouldve been aware of this mistake when he transferred the money out of his 
current account and into his savings account. I say this as Mr As balance went from 
around £600 to over £2000 after the credit. As we know he didnt make the deposit, 
he wouldve been aware it was a mistake and at that point shouldve contacted 
Lloyds. 
Lloyds correctly took the money back out of the account it was in and its terms and 
conditions allow it to do so. Given the money was never Mr As in the first place, I 
also dont find Lloyds have acted unfairly in doing this. Lloyds dont need to ask for 
Mr As permission before doing so but do need to let him know. Term 4.9 can be 
found on page 16 of Mr As account terms and conditions. 
Lloyds sent Mr A a letter on the date the debit was made notifying him of the transfer 
out. This is what Id expect Lloyds to do. 
Mr A banks with Lloyds and the money was debited from a Lloyds account. I havent 
seen anything within this complaint that amounts to a breach of GDPR or security. 
I understand Mr A has said his mental health has suffered, and Im sorry to hear this, 
but I havent found that Lloyds have done anything wrong when they have debited Mr 
As account. Essentially Lloyds have put Mr A back in the position he was in before 
the error occurred. So, Im satisfied that Mr A hasnt suffered any financial detriment 
when the debit was made. 
Lloyds have offered to pay Mr A £100 for the mistake of transferring the money into 
his account in the first place. As Ive explained above, I havent found Lloyds mistake 
has caused Mr A any financial detriment, so I think the offer of £100 is fair in the 
circumstances of the complaint and for the inconvenience of having to speak to 
Lloyds when the money was debited. 
In summary, Lloyds took back money that wasnt Mr As. I also havent seen anything 
that amounts to a security risk or a breach of GDPR.
For these reasons, although I understand Mr As frustration, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman