DRN-3990949
The complaint
Mrs B complains about aspects of Prism Financial Advice Limiteds (Prism) service, and 
the suitability of some of the investment advice it gave her.
What happened
Around late 2018, Mrs B sought financial advice from Prism as she was intending to 
take early retirement around February/March 2019. She was around age 56 at the 
time.
Mrs B was a member of her employer, Gs, occupational pension scheme and had 
accrued benefits in both a defined benefit (DB) and a defined contribution (DC -
contracted out money purchase  COMP) fund.
Prism noted that Mrs B had already decided to access her DB benefits (although Mrs B 
has indicated that Prism helped her fill in some paperwork to release the funds). Shed 
also completed a preferred benefits form in relation to the COMP indicating that she 
wanted to transfer her benefits to another provider. Included within a retirement pack sent 
by G was other information about accessing the benefits, including through an income 
drawdown arrangement. Prism noted that Mrs B was looking for advice about how to 
invest the tax-free lump sum from the DB pension and that she wanted a review of her 
existing investments.
It noted various details about Mrs B. Her main investment aim was to be able to maintain a 
good standard of living in retirement by making the most of the savings shed 
accumulated. She also wanted to hold funds that would support her lifestyle now and in 
the future and which would provide capital reserves to help her top up her income and 
capital as and when required. Mrs B expected to receive a lump sum of about £88,000 
from the DB pension and a net income of around £1,075 a month. Having completed an 
income and expenditure assessment, Prism noted that the monthly income wasnt enough 
for Mrs B to meet her expected expenditure of around £1,600 a month.
Prism completed an analysis of Mrs Bs existing investments and prepared investment 
and financial planning reports. Noting Mrs Bs cautious  moderate attitude to risk Prism 
made a number of investment recommendations. Those included:
Holding about £101,000 on deposit (including premium bonds already held 
and a cash ISA).
Shares worth £89,000 held with G - Prism suggested that Mrs B retain these 
and use the money to supplement her income. And whilst it felt that holding 
these presented more of a risk than Mrs Bs attitude to risk generally allowed, 
as they were only part of her portfolio, it didnt think there would be a great 
impact on her overall financial well-being if she held onto them. However, it 
then said that whilst it wasnt critical for Mrs B to sell the shares, it does make 
sense and is your choice.
Mrs B later signed various authorisation forms, which enabled Prism to progress 
things on her behalf. Prism sent an investment surrender instruction to H, one of Mrs 
Bs existing investment providers. It also sent a change of agency (COA) letter to 
another provider, A. As A wasnt able to accept the COA, apparently at As 
suggestion, Prism said Mrs B would need to arrange to surrender the funds and once 
cleared, shed need to write a cheque for the full amount (payable to A) which Prism 
would send to A.
Mrs B later complained to Prism about a number of different issues. She was 
particularly concerned that:
Prism told her to leave the COMP invested. As far as Mrs B was 
concerned, the funds would have been better invested elsewhere.
Prism ignored her request to take a regular income from her non-
pension investments.
Prism recommended she held onto the shares in G and use them to 
supplement her income. Mrs B said that if she sold the shares now, shed have 
to pay tax, when that wouldnt otherwise have been the case.
Prism suggested she should use her dividend income to top up her income.  
She said shed previously taken this income as additional shares to avoid any 
tax implications. On Prisms say so, this was changed to be taken as income on 
the basis that it wouldnt incur tax. However, this advice wasnt correct.
In addition, she raised concerns about administrative issues such as:
A form being sent for the wrong tax year.
An error concerning the account number used on one of the surrender forms to an 
existing provider.
Prism failed to set up ISAs for Mrs Bs grandchildren despite agreeing to do so.
In its response Prism acknowledged there had been some administrative issues. 
However, it didnt agree with other points that Mrs B made. It said:
A decision was taken not to transfer the COMP as that would attract an additional 
transfer cost of 2.5% of the overall value. Prism didnt think that was cost 
effective at the time. But it said the position could have been revisited if 
necessary.
Even though it wasnt critical for Mrs B to sell the shares (and the report 
suggested retaining them), the adviser felt it would make sense for her to do 
so. Ultimately it was Mrs Bs choice.
It didnt agree that Mrs B wouldnt have incurred tax if shed sold the shares 
previously given that all share sales are subject to capital gains tax (CGT) 
on any profit made.
Provider H incorrectly assumed that the entire portfolio was being surrendered 
when that wasnt the case. However, the matter was resolved before any 
problems materialised.
Mrs B hadnt started to take an income from dividends when Prism advised her. 
So, it wasnt possible to say what income would have been earned or whether it 
would have been above the dividend allowance. So, Prism didnt think the 
adviser could feasibly have anticipated whether Mrs B would incur a tax liability 
or not, and whether shed then be required to complete a self-assessment form.
Due to a system error on provider As part, it wasnt able to action a COA. A had 
suggested a workaround requiring Mrs B to surrender the full fund value before 
reinvesting. Prism was satisfied that what happened was due to an error on As 
part and was outside of its control.There would have been enough time to arrange ISAs for Mrs Bs grandchildren, 
even though that was separate from the main advice and Prism had agreed to 
cover it as part of the agreed advice fee.
Prism strenuously denied making a decision that went against Mrs Bs wishes 
as far as taking a regular income from her investments was concerned. It said it 
had no reason to deny her wishes on that front. And it felt that had Mrs B asked 
it to set up a regular income payment once various transfers were complete, it 
would have arranged this from the most tax efficient investments.
Mrs B wasnt happy with Prisms response, so she complained to our Service. One of 
our investigators looked into the complaint but he didnt feel that Prism needed to take 
any further action. He set out his detailed reasoning for reaching that conclusion. He 
also acknowledged Mrs Bs opinion that action should be taken against Prism. But he 
explained thats not the role of our Service.
Mrs B didnt agree with the investigators assessment. She was adamant, in particular, 
that Prism prevented her from taking an income from her non-pension investments, even 
though shed since been able to arrange this through another adviser.
There were several further exchanges between Mrs B and our investigator. Although the 
investigator considered the additional points that Mrs B made (and said there was a 
specific issue that we had no authority to consider), they didnt cause him to change his 
opinion overall. So, as agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was referred to an 
Ombudsman. Its been passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I sent Prism and Mrs B my provisional findings on 9 February 2023. Ive included the 
relevant extracts below:
Before I explain my provisional findings concerning the substance of Mrs Bs complaint, I 
first need to address issues to do with our authority to deal with other aspects of the 
complaint.
Our jurisdiction over occupational pension schemes
As our investigator explained, complaints to do with occupational pension schemes, 
including whether or not to access the benefits from an occupational pension, dont 
generally fall within our Services remit. Were only able to deal with complaints about 
those types of pensions in very limited circumstances.
Mrs Bs suggested it was a requirement of her occupational pension scheme that she 
took regulated advice before accessing her pension benefits, including the COMP. Shes 
also explained that she never intended to reinvest the COMP. So, whilst Prisms advice 
wasnt to reinvest, it did suggest leaving things as they were. Bearing in mind that Mrs B 
insists she wanted to access the funds, it might now explain why she was unhappy with 
Prisms advice to leave the COMP where it was. And whilst Mrs B did eventually access 
the benefits with the help of another adviser, she feels strongly that this is something that 
Prism could and should have arranged. She wants our Service to look into this matter.
Given the limited authority I alluded to earlier, I first had to decide whether this is a 
complaint we have the authority to consider.
Our Service only has jurisdiction over activities listed under section 2.3.1 of the Dispute 
Resolution section (DISP) of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) handbook. For the purposes of pensions that means regulated activities or any ancillary activities, including 
advice, carried out by the firm in connection with them.
The Regulated Activities Order 2001 says that where specified activities in the order 
are carried out on specified investments in the order, theyll constitute a regulated 
activity.
Article 89 of the regulated activities order sets out the circumstances in which rights or 
interests in investments count as a specified investment. However, article 89(2) 
specifically states that interests under the trust of an occupational pension scheme are 
excluded under that definition. Thats because pension schemes are typically written 
under a trust and this especially applies to occupational pension schemes. This means 
that the consumer doesnt actually own the underlying assets that the scheme is invested 
in. The assets are owned by the trustees of the scheme and are administered on the 
consumers behalf. The consumer and their beneficiaries have a right to those assets, 
sometimes called a beneficial interest, when the trustees pay them out on retirement or 
death. So, whilst a beneficial interest in a personal pension is a specified investment, a 
beneficial interest in an occupational pension isnt.
I thought about what all of this means as far as Mrs Bs complaint and our authority 
to consider it are concerned.
My provisional decision about our authority to consider Mrs Bs complaint
Mrs Bs complaint is largely about unsuitable investment advice and poor service. And 
thats something that falls within this Services authority to consider. But if Im able to 
comment on the suitability of Prisms advice and say whether it went about things in a fair 
and reasonable way, a key part of that will be commenting on its advice to do with the 
COMP.
Also, this Services authority covers acts or omissions on the part of financial businesses. 
And Mrs Bs complaint is effectively about Prism omitting to fully review her COMP despite 
it being part of the service she was expecting. Whilst Mrs B and Prism clearly recall there 
being some discussion about it, its not clear to what extent Prism reviewed the COMP, or 
considered whether it was suitable for Mrs B to transfer it into another regulated product 
such as a personal pension or another investment product. Had the evidence shown that 
there was a robust review of this part of the pension and consideration given to investing it 
in another regulated product, it seems likely that this aspect of the complaint would fall 
within our jurisdiction in any event.
After careful consideration, I think this matter is ancillary to Mrs Bs overarching 
complaint about unsuitable investment advice and I think DISP 2.3.1 allows me to look 
into it. So, it follows that Im intending to reach a different position to our investigator. Its 
my provisional decision that our Service does have the authority to consider this aspect 
of the complaint.
Ill now address the merits of Mrs Bs complaint.
Ive considered all of the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Bs strength of feeling about Prisms handling of things is pretty clear. And whilst I can 
appreciate why she might perhaps think I should take Prism to task for things that might 
have gone wrong, as our investigator explained, thats not the role of this Service. Even if 
we find that mistakes or shortcomings have happened, were not here to punish the business involved. Instead, well consider things such as the impact of the 
mistake/shortcomings on the consumer and whether the business has already taken 
reasonable steps to put things right. Where I find that a business hasnt taken reasonable 
steps, Ill set out what it needs to do to put things right.
What was Prism required to do?
When asked to give Mrs B investment advice, Prism had a number of 
important responsibilities. Those are set out in the regulators rulebook.
Specifically:
9A.2.1 of the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) says:
When providing investment advice or portfolio management a firm must:
(1) obtain the necessary information regarding the clients:
(a) knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific 
type of financial instrument, insurance-based investment product or 
service;
(b) financial situation including his ability to bear losses; and
(c) investment objectives including his risk 
tolerance, 
so as to comply with (2);
(2) only recommend investment services, financial instruments and insurance-based 
investment products, as applicable, or take decisions to trade, which are suitable 
for the client and, in particular, in accordance with the clients risk tolerance and 
ability to bear losses.
And 9A.2.2 says:
Firms should undertake a suitability assessment not only when making a personal 
recommendation to buy a financial instrument or an insurance-based investment product 
but for all decisions whether to trade, including making any personal recommendations 
about whether or not to buy, hold or sell an investment.
In practical terms I think this meant that Prism needed to understand things such as Mrs 
Bs goals and what she was looking to achieve by investing. Importantly, as any 
investment is subject to risk, it needed to understand that she had the means to absorb 
any losses  at least until such time as things recovered.
I note that Mrs B has said things such as she shouldnt have to give Prism a reason why 
she wanted to access her own money. And she clearly feels that Prism stood in the way of 
her doing that. I do have some sympathy with Mrs Bs view. Shed clearly been saving for 
her future by investing in a pension and other investments. So, I can see why, when the 
time came that she felt she needed to access those investments, shed be concerned at 
what she perceived to be Prism standing in her way.
However, it is important to explain that, despite what Mrs B might think, Prism wasnt 
there just to do what she wanted. It had a responsibility to make sure it understood Mrs 
Bs investment and retirement aims. And that included, where appropriate to do so, 
probing and challenging. Mrs B is right to say that ultimately, Prism couldnt stop her 
accessing her own money. But it at least needed to make sure that she had all of the 
information she needed to make an informed decision and that she understood the benefits and risks associated with any decisions she made.
So, thats the backdrop against which Ive considered whether Prism acted fairly 
and reasonably when giving Mrs B investment advice.
Did Prism do what was expected?
In general terms as far as an advice process goes, I think it did. Im satisfied that it 
carried out a fairly comprehensive analysis of Mrs Bs investments and thought about 
where they might be better invested to achieve the longer-term goals shed identified. 
But it also made recommendations aimed at Mrs Bs short-term goals too. That said, as 
Ill explain in more detail when addressing the specific elements of Mrs Bs complaint, 
at times I think Prisms record keeping lacked some of the detail Id otherwise have 
expected to see, given some of the conversations that apparently took place. That 
made it quite difficult to say with any certainty what happened at various points.
Was Prisms advice suitable?
Mrs Bs concerns about the suitability of the advice stem from a few key issues. So, 
theyre the issues Ive focussed on within this decision.
COMP
Mrs Bs position is that she never intended to reinvest the COMP and she says that Prism 
knew that. Thats despite her suggesting in other correspondence that Prisms advice 
should have been to reinvest the funds elsewhere. Of course, its entirely possible that 
having resigned herself to Prisms advice being to leave things as they were, Mrs Bs 
issue then became about where the funds were invested as opposed to whether they 
were invested.
In any event, given Mrs Bs initial position, Ive thought about whether the evidence 
shows that Mrs Bs intention was always to access her funds. And if so, whether Prism 
ought to have known that and helped her to achieve her goal.
Its notable that, according to Prisms financial planning report, Mrs B had already 
arranged to access the benefits from her DB scheme. That may also have involved Mrs 
B taking professional advice first. But theres nothing to suggest that it was Prism who 
gave that advice, or that it was involved in the early stages.
Thats relevant, because if Mrs B was always intent on accessing her COMP, I cant see 
why that couldnt have happened at the same time that she took advice, or if there was no 
advice, the point at which she engaged with the scheme trustees about accessing the DB 
part of the pension. The fact that Mrs B didnt do that  at least theres no evidence 
suggesting she did  could be indicative of the fact that this was something that Mrs B 
decided to do later on.
In any event, Ive also seen a preferred benefits form that Mrs B signed on 7 December 
2018 stating that she wanted to transfer her DC pension to a new provider. That was only 
a matter of weeks before Prism completed its financial planning report (and presumably 
close to the time that Mrs B discussed things with Prism). I appreciate that circumstances 
can and do change, but the fact that Mrs B filled in this form around the same time, or at 
least relatively soon after shed apparently arranged access to her DB pension benefits, 
does, I think, add weight to the fact that she probably was looking to reinvest the COMP 
when she first approached Prism for advice. On balance, Im persuaded thats more likely 
than not. And it seems to me that accessing her COMP was something that Mrs B probably decided to do later on.
So, Ive gone on to consider whether Prisms advice seemed suitable especially in light 
of Mrs Bs additional point that it would have been better invested elsewhere.
Prisms position is that it wasnt cost effective for Mrs B to transfer the COMP and incur a 
large transfer fee in doing so. So, bearing that in mind, the kinds of things that Prism 
needed to think about here were the ratio of this investment compared to Mrs Bs portfolio 
overall. And whether Mrs B was only likely to achieve the kinds of returns she was 
expecting in the longer term by moving the fund elsewhere.
Im not persuaded this was necessary in order to achieve her aims. Prism had already 
made a number of recommendations with Mrs Bs short and longer term goals in mind. 
And those recommendations were intended to be more in line with Mrs Bs attitude to risk. 
So, whilst the COMP could also have been transferred as well, there was no guarantee 
that it would achieve greater returns than it was currently. And given that, Im not 
persuaded it was a price worth paying for Mrs B to move her fund only to incur increased 
costs. I say that especially because on top of the transfer costs, there may well have been 
ongoing costs as well. That effectively meant Mrs Bs fund would have needed to work 
even harder for her.
So, all things considered, Im satisfied that this aspect of the advice seemed suitable, 
based on what Prism knew of Mrs Bs circumstances at the time.
Prisms failure to arrange a regular income from Mrs Bs investments
I think theres broad agreement between Mrs B and Prism to the extent that both 
parties acknowledge that Mrs B was looking to take an income from her investments. 
And Prism said as much in its financial planning report when it noted that Mrs B wanted 
the ability to secure income from the proposed portfolio as required. Prism also 
accepted this position when it responded to Mrs Bs complaint.
Whats less clear though is what each of the parties understood this to mean in practice 
and who was responsible for taking things further.
Mrs Bs account is that Prism knew she wanted a regular income (she hasnt specified 
how much she wanted to take) and she says she was expecting Prism to sort this out 
once the other transfers were complete. Whereas Prism has suggested that it was for 
Mrs B to get in touch to get the ball rolling as far as this aspect of her retirement planning 
was concerned. But as Mrs B didnt do that, it said things didnt progress any further.
Given that both parties agree this is something discussed at the outset, its not clear 
why there isnt a more detailed note in the financial planning report. Im also not 
persuaded by Prisms suggestion that it was intending to help Mrs B progress this 
need once the other transfers had been completed. I say that for a few different 
reasons.
First, if this was part and parcel of Mrs Bs retirement planning, it doesnt strike me as 
being particularly efficient to deal with it as standalone advice. But I think the issue runs 
deeper than that. If Mrs B was intent on taking a regular income, I think thats quite a 
different investment strategy to topping up her income on an as and when basis. And I 
think its something that Prism needed to carefully consider alongside Mrs Bs other 
objectives to determine how they could be best achieved. Its also entirely possible that 
depending on the amount of income Mrs B decided to take, Prism may have decided that 
other investment products were more suitable for Mrs B, so it might have altered its recommendations entirely.
Whatever the reason that things didnt progress, I havent seen enough persuasive 
evidence to agree that it was because Prism deliberately ignored Mrs Bs request. I think 
a more plausible explanation is that Prisms piecemeal approach to advice caused 
crossed wires along the way. I think this could have been avoided had there been a more 
holistic approach to the advice process.
Retaining shares in G
Mrs B says it was unsuitable advice for Prism to recommend she retain her shares. 
Thats because she now believes shell have to pay tax if she were to sell them when that 
wouldnt otherwise have been the case.
Ive looked at Prisms financial planning report and I dont think its advice was as clear cut 
as Mrs B seems to think. Whilst it did suggest that she retain the shares, it went on to say 
that although it wasnt critical for Mrs B to sell them, it does make sense and is your 
choice.
I dont think this advice was particularly helpful. Mrs B was clearly looking to Prism for 
advice and I think she was entitled to expect that advice to be clear and unambiguous. 
And whilst I do appreciate that any recommendations Prism gave were no more than that, 
which meant that ultimately it was for Mrs B to decide what to do, I think it would have 
helped Mrs B had this recommendation been more definitive and clearly explained. This 
was also necessary to help Mrs B make an informed decision.
Its also not clear to me to what extent Mrs B and Prism discussed the question of tax. So, 
whilst I cant say for certain what Prism advised, its difficult to see on what basis it could 
have said no tax would be payable. Thats because, as far as Im aware, CGT becomes 
due whenever a taxable asset is sold and the holder receives more for it than they paid. I 
havent seen specific evidence to show that the profit Mrs B would have made (if shed 
sold the shares sooner) would have been significantly less so as to mean that it wouldnt 
breach the threshold by which CGT becomes payable. And in all likelihood, it seems that 
unless Mrs B has made a loss on the shares, (she hasnt indicated thats the case) tax 
would probably have become due regardless of when the shares were sold. Thats an 
HMRC rule, so I dont think thats something that Prism can be said to be responsible for.
In any event, I need to keep in mind that if Mrs B was concerned about her tax liability in 
light of Prisms advice, she could have contacted the share scheme or HMRC directly 
before taking any action.
Incorrect advice about taking dividend income
As I understand the position, rather than taking dividend income, Mrs B previously took 
additional shares to avoid any tax implications. She says that on Prisms advice and after 
first checking with Prism that she wouldnt incur any additional tax (whilst noting its 
financial planning report stated the tax-free limit was £2,000) she opted to take an 
income. She says she later established that its advice wasnt correct and that she may 
incur tax. Again, Prism seems to have a different view of what happened.
I cant be sure what conversations took place with Prism. But regardless of that, I think 
Prisms financial planning report does make it fairly clear that the tax-free limit on 
dividends was £2,000. So, I cant fairly say that Prism didnt set out when tax might 
become payable. And realistically, Im not persuaded that Prisms advice could have 
been any more precise than that, unless it knew how much income Mrs B was intending to take  and when - and how close or not that was to the income tax threshold. 
Especially when, as I understand things, Mrs B hadnt yet started to take an income at the 
point at which she sought Prisms advice. So, on balance, I dont think Prism did anything 
wrong here.
Turning now to the administrative issues that Mrs B has complained about.
Potential loss of ISA allowance
This issue arises from an incorrect instruction that was sent to H, one of Mrs Bs 
existing investment providers. As I understand things, H was mistakenly of the opinion 
that Mrs B was intent on surrendering her whole investment account rather than a 
specific part of it.
Again, theres a difference of opinion between Mrs B and Prism about who or what 
caused the issue. Mrs B is adamant that Prism was responsible and has provided 
evidence to show that. Whereas Prism thinks the matter arose as a result of a 
misunderstanding on Hs part. Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded by 
Prisms position.
The form that Prism sent to H includes a reference number associated with the investment 
account as a whole, rather than a specific part of it. Its also worth noting that there was 
another form completed on which the general account number has been entered 
manually. Mrs B has signed the form, but I dont know if it was Mrs B or Prism who added 
the account number. Its possible that it had already been written on the form when Prism 
asked Mrs B to sign it. In any event, however it came about, Im satisfied that the error 
wasnt Hs and the events Ive described likely account for why H mistakenly thought the 
whole account was to be surrendered.
Mrs B has described the efforts she then had to go to to sort the problem out  
including some phone calls and trips to a local branch. Although I note that Prism also 
seems to be suggesting it had a hand in rectifying the error too.
I dont doubt Mrs Bs account that this caused her inconvenience  and no doubt some 
worry too. Thankfully matters were resolved before there was any financial detriment to 
Mrs B. Im not sure Id agree with Mrs Bs view though that her involvement amounted to 
her doing Prisms job for it. But I do accept that, had the mistake not happened, there 
would have been no need for her to be involved at all.
Issues to do with a change of agency in respect of Mrs Bs investments with A.
Mrs B thinks it was poor practice for Prism to suggest that she surrender her 
investments with A only to reinvest them through Prism in order to allow a COA to take 
place. Shes indicated that A didnt think it would have suggested such a course of 
action to Prism.
Ive looked at the evidence surrounding this issue and I can see that Prism wrote to 
provider A in January 2019 asking it to implement a COA on Mrs Bs account. As I 
understand the position, such an instruction allows a new financial firm to take over the 
administration of an investment without the need to sell or transfer funds first.
But it seems that things werent straightforward and I can see that, having apparently 
had some contact from A, Prism wrote to Mrs B to tell her that the instruction couldnt 
be acted upon  not without Mrs B surrendering the full fund first. It also explained that once Mrs B had done that, shed need to wait for the funds to clear and then write a 
cheque payable directly to A, but sent to Prism, so that Prism could pass it on. As Ive 
said, Mrs B doesnt think that was good practice and she doesnt seem entirely 
confident that this was an instruction that originated from A.
On balance, Im more persuaded that it happened as a result of an issue on As part - 
most likely a system error- rather than it being poor practice on Prisms part. As I cant 
see what Prism would stand to gain by asking Mrs B to transfer her fund before making 
a cheque payable to A, other than that being the only feasible way to change over the 
instructions on the account. And it seems unlikely, regardless of what A has suggested 
since, that the instruction would have come from anyone other than A. So, in the 
circumstances, Im not persuaded that this amounted to poor practice on Prisms part.
Provision of incorrect ISA tax allowance forms
Prism accepts that it initially sent Mrs B forms for the wrong tax year. As far as I 
understand things this error was later corrected without there being any adverse 
consequences for Mrs B. Although I entirely appreciate that this would have added to any 
frustration or inconvenience Mrs B was already feeling, I dont think its necessary for me 
to make further comments or suggest that Prism takes additional action.
Failure to arrange junior ISAs for Mrs Bs grandchildren
Mrs B says that as part of the initial fee, Prism agreed to set up ISAs for her 
grandchildren. However, she later complained that didnt happen, so she had to arrange 
them for herself.
As far as I can tell, whilst separate to the initial investment advice that Prism agreed to 
give, it was nevertheless something that it agreed to do as part of the fee that was 
discussed upfront. But, regardless of how it came about, I think Mrs B had a reasonable 
expectation that Prism would progress things on her behalf.
In order for me to uphold this part of the complaint, Id need to be persuaded that Prism 
didnt take reasonable steps to progress this matter for Mrs B. But Im not. Ive seen a 
letter that Prism sent Mrs B on 15 March 2019 following a telephone conversation that 
day. In it it said it had enclosed the relevant applications for the current and following 
financial year and explained where the funds would likely be held. It also explained that it 
had until 5 April 2019 to submit the forms on Mrs Bs behalf. So, it asked her to return that 
years form as soon as possible.
I dont know for sure what happened after that or why Mrs B chose to progress things 
herself. But, according to what Prism said, Mrs B was concerned there wouldnt be time 
for Prism to progress things, so she decided to take matters into her own hands. Mrs B 
was entitled to do that if she wished, but based on the evidence Ive reviewed, I see no 
reason why Prism couldnt have done this for Mrs B in the time that was available. And I 
dont think the fact that Mrs B did decide to progress things herself is something that 
Prism can be held responsible for.
Summary
Mrs B believes that shes suffered a financial loss as a result of Prisms actions and she 
says that this has caused her some distress. As a result, she indicated she was expecting 
Prism to return the set-up fees she paid and to compensate her. Based on my review of 
the evidence concerning Mrs Bs complaints, I havent seen anything to suggest that she suffered a financial loss as a result of Prisms actions. Neither do I think that any 
shortcomings on Prisms part were such that it would cause me to say it should now return 
the set-up fees paid. Not least because Im satisfied that Prism did complete a fair amount 
of work when going through the advice process and in the steps it took thereafter.
But, as I also said earlier, there were times when Prisms service fell short of the 
standard that Mrs B was entitled to expect. And Im satisfied that would have caused 
Mrs B some worry and inconvenience. To recognise the impact of that, Im intending to 
direct Prism to make a compensation payment of £200 to Mrs B.
Responses to my provisional decision
Prism didnt respond.
Mrs B provided further comments for me to consider. Those included:
She asked whether this Service had made a subject access request to Prism for its 
phone recordings. Mrs B is adamant theyd confirm that Prism gave her the wrong 
advice and refused to arrange a regular income on her behalf. She says the FCA 
requires firms to retain a client file along with its phone records.
Given its extensive involvement with Mrs Bs former employer, G, Mrs B says that 
Prism should be well aware of the nature of its share scheme, benefits and dividends 
payable.
Having spoken to other ex-employees and the company that runs the shares 
scheme, Mrs B confirmed that there was a one-off opportunity to sell the buy one get 
one free shares tax free when an employee left the company.
Whilst Mrs B accepts that nobody can predict the future, as investments are based 
on past performance and predictions, she thought it was pretty clear (and produced 
evidence to this Service to support her position) that shed likely be over the dividend 
limit. 
Mrs B remains adamant that she always wanted to encash the COMP  not reinvest. 
Concerning Prisms position that it never made a decision that went against Mrs Bs 
wishes, this above everything else resulted in her approaching a new financial 
adviser. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not proposing to address each and every comment Mrs B made, but I will address those 
that I believe go to the heart of her complaint. I can assure her though that Ive given careful 
thought to everything shes said. 
Mrs B asked whether wed made a subject access request for Prisms phone records. As our 
investigator has since explained, its not our role to make a subject access request for a 
consumers information - thats for a consumer to do themselves. But as he also explained, 
our rules allow us to request information to enable us to investigate a complaint. I asked Prism 
for its phone recordings as part of my consideration of Mrs Bs complaint. It told me it doesnt 
record phone calls, nor habitually transcribe phone calls made to or received from clients. As 
it also doesnt retain call logs, it said it couldnt confirm or deny whether Mrs Bs log of calls 
was accurate or not. I understand why Mrs B might be concerned about the lack of phone records, especially given 
her references to the FCAs requirement for financial businesses to retain records. However, 
its not my role to penalise Prism for the fact it doesnt record calls. And whilst the absence of 
recordings/transcripts naturally makes it more difficult to say exactly what was discussed, I 
have to decide what I think is most likely to have happened based on the evidence I do have. 
Mrs B insists that call recordings would have demonstrated Prisms incorrect advice and 
refusal to arrange a regular income for her. Its certainly possible that Id have reached 
different findings had call recordings been available. But in the absence of any new evidence, 
on balance, there isnt enough to show that Prism deliberately refused to arrange for Mrs B to 
take a regular income from her investments. Rather, I remain of the opinion that Prisms 
piecemeal approach to the advice process probably meant that it wasnt clear who would take 
forward the discussions about a regular income. And that might explain why things didnt 
progress. 
Mrs B again says that she never intended to reinvest the COMP and always wanted to encash 
it. Had that been the case, its still not clear to me why Mrs B couldnt have arranged this 
directly with her employer when accessing her other benefits. I remain of the view therefore 
that it was something that was probably decided later on. And, in the absence of any new 
evidence, my position is as set out in my provisional decision - the advice probably was 
suitable based on Mrs Bs objectives and wider circumstances. Also, as far as I can tell, 
despite the recommendation, Mrs B could still have contacted the employer (as she 
apparently did later on) if she didnt agree with what Prism said.  
Mrs B maintains that Prism was wrong to say shed likely incur tax regardless of when she 
sold the shares. Shes since elaborated that the shares came with a one-off offer meaning 
that she wouldnt incur tax if she sold them when she left her employment with G. And she 
thinks Prism ought to have known that from its involvement with G. Its not clear that Prism 
was definitely aware the particular shares concerned wouldnt be subject to the usual level of 
tax if sold on leaving the employment - and as Ive indicated, its complaint response 
suggested otherwise. In any event, notwithstanding Mrs Bs comments, I cant say for certain 
that Prism was definitely wrong as far as the tax was concerned. 
I also have to keep in mind that even if tax did become due at a certain point in time (even if 
that wouldnt have happened earlier) that doesnt in itself mean that Prisms advice wasnt 
suitable for Mrs B overall. As I said in my provisional decision, its evident that when advising 
Mrs B, Prism looked at her wider financial circumstances and, generally, what would help her 
achieve her financial goals. And its recommendations were intended to meet both her short 
and long term goals taking account of her attitude to risk and capacity for loss. 
That said, I remain of the opinion that Prism could have been clearer about its 
recommendations concerning the shares. It should have presented them in a clear and 
unambiguous manner so as to help Mrs B make an informed decision. Prisms 
recommendation was that Mrs B should not sell her shares, so that she could use those to top 
up her income in the future. That didnt seem unreasonable given her objectives and wider 
financial position at the time. But, having told her that she shouldnt sell her shares Prism then 
went on to say that whilst it wasnt critical for Mrs B to sell them, it does make sense and is 
your choice. I think those comments added an unnecessary level of ambiguity to Prisms 
advice that sent out a mixed message. I don't think that was helpful. And I can understand that 
Mrs B might have found that confusing or misleading. 
Turning to Mrs Bs comments about dividend income. She says she shared all of her previous 
statements showing the dividends/trends and brought up the tax issue with Prism. So, as far 
as Mrs B seems to be concerned, it should have been clear to Prism that she was over the tax 
limit. Whilst I do take Mrs Bs point that her previous income levels might have been indicative of the income shed take in future, I dont necessarily think it was guaranteed. In any event, 
Im satisfied that Prism did make it clear enough in its financial planning report that the tax 
limit for dividend income was £2,000 regardless of what it may have said to Mrs B in person. 
And the very fact that Mrs B appears to have raised the issue and thought shed be over the 
limit suggests she understood what the position concerning tax was. 
In summing up, Im still not persuaded that Prisms actions caused Mrs B to suffer a 
financial loss. But I remain of the opinion that its service at times fell below the standard 
that Mrs B was entitled to expect. And thats the matter that Prism needs to address 
now. 
Putting things right
To recognise the worry and inconvenience its actions caused, Prism Financial Advice 
Limited needs to make a compensation payment of £200 to Mrs B.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint. Prism Financial Advice Limited needs to put things right 
as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman