DRN-2840259
The complaint
Mr M complains that Oplo Personal Loans (Oplo) acted irresponsibly in lending him money 
as he doesnt feel enough affordability checks were carried out. He would like interest and
charges paid refunded. And any negative information recorded on his credit file removed
What happened
Mr M says he took out a loan with Oplo in November 2017. He says at the time he had
difficult personal circumstances and he doesnt think Oplo should have lent to him. He
doesnt feel Oplo carried out enough checks  if it had done so he thinks it wouldnt have lent
to him. And says the loan led to further financial difficulties.
He is also not happy that Oplo didnt contact him at the right address about arrears and a
default on the account.
I issued a provisional decision in which I found:-
Mr M clearly had financial problems and was trying to sort them out by consolidating 
his loans
Oplo obtained a copy of Mr Ms payslip which confirmed his monthly salary. It also 
went to some effort to confirm his employer emailing Mr M at his work address and 
searching online for details of his employer. It also had some bank information - a 
screen shot confirming Mr Ms balance which showed he was overdrawn but within 
his overdraft limit.
Mr M wanted a loan to pay off other debts including pay day loans and given that 
Oplo is a non-prime I didnt think the fact Mr M was overdrawn would necessarily 
mean it shouldnt have lent to Mr M. Some people manage their finances using an 
overdraft.
Oplo also carried out a credit search. I felt the points Oplo made about defaults 
recorded on the credit file was fair. These were three years before Mr Ms loan 
application. 
The income and expenditure information given to Oplo was provided by Mr M. I 
thought he had to take some responsibility for the accuracy of that information. 
Mr M told us his partner only contributed to mortgage costs not to other bills but that 
wasnt what was recorded in Oplos notes. I agreed the figures for essential utility 
bills recorded seemed low but felt that would support Mr M sharing the cost of these 
bills.
Mr M told us he was in debt to family and friends, but he didnt evidence this.  I didnt 
feel it was reasonable to expect Oplo to ask specifically about such debts unless it 
had a reason for doing so.  As Mr M was open with Oplo about the debts he wanted 
to pay off I thought it reasonable had there been other debts he would have told Oplo 
about those.
The copies of Mr Ms bank statements around the time he took out the loan showed 
he was overdrawn. It wasnt clear from these what his expenditure on essential bills 
was but there was a reasonable degree of what I felt was discretionary spend.
I accepted that two months worth of statements was just a snapshot but from what I 
saw I felt the statements showed a lack of financial management rather than financial 
hardship.
I noted Mr M was intending to sell his house, but I wasnt sure how Oplo could have 
reasonably been expected to take that into account. The house sale might have 
improved Mr Ms financial situation if he no longer had a mortgage or had to pay a 
lesser one. But it could have increased his outgoings if he had to pay more to live on 
his own. And of course, the house sale might not have gone ahead. I thought there 
were too many variables for Oplo to have factored this into its loan.
I felt Oplo made appropriate searches and checks on affordability. Based on the 
information it sought and with the information Mr M gave that the loan it agreed was 
affordable at the time Mr M took it out.
I looked at the loan repayments. I could see Mr M struggled to make his repayments 
after five months. But there were constant references in Oplos customer notes that 
showed the problem was with Mr Ms employers not paying him. As Mr Ms stated 
employment was one which I think Oplo were entitled to think would be reasonably 
secure and not likely to be one that would have problems paying him I dont see how 
it could have foreseen that issue when it agreed the loan
As we expect businesses to act responsibly and support customers with financial 
difficulties, I went through Oplos customer notes in detail. I could see that Oplo was 
either in, or trying to be in, regular contact with Mr M when arrears arose. It carried 
out several income and expenditure reviews, advised Mr M to make regular small 
payments to keep his account going and following on from this accepted occasional 
£50 payment. It also warned him of a possible negative information on his credit file. I 
thought it accepted Mr Ms ongoing assurances that his employer would be paying 
him and then that he had changed employer. Mr M also made several references to a 
significant expected lump sum payment coming to him. I think Oplo made some 
reasonable adjustments for Mr M and gave him enough time to resolve his
employment issues and to agree alternative payment arrangements
I also noted Oplo paid off Mr Ms payday loan debts directly which I think was a 
responsible thing to do.
In respect of Mr Ms complaint that Oplo didnt write to him at his current address so 
he wasnt aware of the arrears on the account or the default on his credit file I found 
no information that Mr M updated his address details. And the customer notes 
showed numerous attempted and actual contact with Mr M by email and phone, so I 
think Mr M was aware of his account situation by other means.
I didnt feel I had any grounds to ask Oplo to refund any charges and interest Mr M 
accrued  I felt it applied these fairly as I didnt feel the initial loan was irresponsible. 
Neither did I feel I had any grounds to ask Oplo to amend Mr Ms credit file. It had 
warned Mr M of the impact on his credit file of not making payments. And it is 
important that credit file accurately reflect account management as was, in my view, the case here. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Oplo has accepted my provisional decision and has made no further comments for me to 
respond to.
Mr M didnt accept my provisional decision.  I issued my provisional decision on 19 April 
2021, Mr M sent responses on 20 and 27 April 2021 in which he said he wished to provide 
more documentation. On 19 May 2021  the deadline for responses to the provisional 
decision we gave Mr M a further week to supply the additional documentation, but he hasnt 
done so. I do believe he has had enough time and I think its only fair to Oplo to issue my 
final decision with no further delay.
Mr M has made several points in response to my provisional decision that I have carefully 
considered. His points relate to the appropriateness of the loan, support for his financial 
situation and the issue of his address change.
In respect of the appropriateness of the loan I appreciate Mr M doesnt accept the loan was 
appropriate given his other debts at the time. But the Oplo loan was to consolidate his debts 
and I felt Oplo had enough information to decide if a loan was suitable. I dont agree that had 
Oplo seen the bank statements that Mr M gave us it would have been concerned about 
lending to him on the basis he was overdrawn. The statements   only covered a very short 
period.
Mr M doesnt accept my point some consumers  manage their finances by making use of 
overdrafts he thinks thats irresponsible. In some situations that may be the case but  using 
an overdraft facility doesnt necessarily imply financial difficulties.
Mr M took my  comments in my provisional decision about defaults and payday loans to 
mean that Oplo shouldnt have lent to him. I apologise if I wasnt clear in the point, I was 
making which was  there might be several reasons as to why Mr M  might feel that Oplo 
shouldnt have lent to him but Oplo offers a service to consumers that other lenders might 
not.  And its not necessarily wrong to do so .
Mr M has told us he explained his personal situation to Oplo about his responsibility for bills 
but the mortgage costs being shared, his debts to family members and of his house sale the 
proceeds of which he says he told Oplo he intended to use to pay off his loan.
I have checked the information we had on file  in terms of bills the figures Mr M gave were 
noted on the income and expenditure form  I am still of the view for those to have been 
recorded as such he must have given that information. 
I have no information to show Mr M specifically shared with Oplo details of debts to family 
members  and whilst he mentioned such debts to us, he didnt provide any details. Neither 
were these attached to the email he sent us I considered asking Mr M for the attachment to 
be resent  but concluded even if I got this information,  I couldnt be sure if that was shared 
with Oplo or not. For that reason, I didnt go back to Mr M to ask for this
In respect of the  house sale I am not sure if Oplo was aware of that or not. I felt it would 
have been difficult for Oplo to factor this into the loan assessment as house sales are 
unpredictable. But if ,as Mr M now tells us, he told Oplo he intended to pay the loan off in full on sale of the house  and if he was able to evidence this was realistic in that the house 
could be sold and would achieve a price that would allow him to pay off the loan I think that 
would only have been a positive factor for Oplo to agree the loan.
In terms of support from Oplo Mr M says he wasnt given any payment holidays. I am not 
sure if he asked for any, and when customers are in financial difficulties, we  expect 
business to be supportive that doesnt necessarily mean there are a fixed number of things 
we expect them to do such as giving payment holidays. I still feel Oplo made appropriate 
allowances, as detailed in my provisional decision ,for Mr Ms financial situation.
In terms of Mr Ms address change I saw no evidence Mr M advised Oplo of  such a change. 
But even if he did so Oplos customer notes showed it contacted Mr M by other means such 
as  email and phone, it didnt only rely on postal communications. So, if Mr M didnt get post I 
dont feel he was disadvantaged  its clear from the customer notes he had enough contact 
with Oplo to know the position of his account and the likely impact on his credit file.
Mr M has asked us to punish Oplo for not having recorded his change of address. I should 
point out that our role isnt to punish businesses but to look at if something has gone wrong 
and if so to put it right.
Having carefully considered all of Mr Ms comments I do not feel he has given me any new 
information that leads me to conclude I should change my provisional decision.
.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman