DRN-4011503
The complaint
Mr A complains he was unable to use a voucher Legal General Assurance Society Limited 
(L&G) gave him under an agreement made with him when he took a life policy with L&G. 
He says he suffered losses as a result as well as distress. 
What happened
Mr A took a life policy with L&G starting in February 2021. He became entitled to a £100 
voucher after the policy had been in place for six months. More than a year after receiving 
the voucher, Mr A tried on a Thursday in October 2022 to use it but found he couldnt. He 
has explained the supplier told him it had already been used. But he says he hadnt used it.
Mr A contacted L&G that day  around lunchtime. He says L&G initially said the voucher had 
expired because it was more than a year old, but he says he provided proof it should last for 
ten years. Mr A contacted L&G again at around half past three - he says he had been on the 
phone to the supplier in the meantime. L&G agreed to issue a replacement gift card, but it 
told him it could take ten working days to arrive. The replacement he got was worth £110.
Mr A complained to L&G that not being able to use the voucher that Thursday had ruined 
plans he had worth almost £400. He has told us he had been trying to use the voucher to 
buy an item to arrive on Friday for a weekend event he was due to depart for on Saturday 
morning. He has explained he then didnt attend the event because without the item he was 
unable to participate in the main purpose of the event.
Mr A has told us the item cost less than £100 and he didnt have enough money in his 
account to pay for it when the voucher didnt work  because he kept the voucher to use 
when didnt have other cash available. He says that by the time his calls with L&G had 
finished it was too late to contact the bank and add funds to his account. He says he 
couldve done this the next day but ordering the item at that point wouldve meant next day 
delivery was for Saturday and he couldnt rely on the item arriving before he had to leave.
L&G said it would consider Mr As claim for the cost of the event, which he specified as 
£360, but it might need to see evidence of the payment - such as a receipt showing the 
amounts paid, the date he booked and the date he was due to attend. Mr A has said it was a 
private event whose informal nature meant evidence of that kind wasnt available  although 
he has said he could get written testimony from others who attended the event.
In reply to his complaint, L&G offered Mr A £100 for inconvenience caused and £80 to cover 
a next day delivery service he had signed-up for. Our investigator thought that was fair. Mr A 
didnt agree. As the matter couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so Ive listened to all Mr As calls to our service and Ive thought carefully about 
everything he has told us. Having done so, I think L&G should pay Mr A £180 to compensate 
him for financial loss and inconvenience he suffered due to L&Gs error. Ive explained my 
reasoning below.
L&G has told us it is too late now to get more detail about what exactly happened with the 
first voucher. Mr A disagrees and says L&G could find out more if it wanted. He says the 
supplier has told him so  and that only L&G could get this from the supplier. Mr A has 
suggested someone else might have used the first voucher or L&G may have provided it to 
someone else as well as Mr A. L&G doubts a voucher couldve been given to more than one 
person to use. Mr A says if L&G cant find out more, it should go to the police. Ive thought 
about all this, but what exactly happened with the voucher wouldnt change the outcome 
here - because L&G has already replaced the voucher. So I wont discuss that further here.
L&G was responsible for providing Mr A with the benefit of the voucher. It hasnt argued 
Mr A received that benefit  for example it hasnt claimed Mr A used the voucher himself. It 
hasnt provided anything to show another party was responsible for him not receiving that 
benefit. It hasnt offered evidence of a technical error that stopped Mr A using his voucher  
and it says evidence like this cant now be obtained. 
With all this in mind, I find L&G at fault for Mr A not having a valid voucher to use when he 
tried to use it in October 2022. I have power to award compensation for distress and 
inconvenience and also for financial loss. The aim of compensation for financial loss is to put 
the consumer in the position they wouldve been in had it not been for the error being 
redressed. L&G replaced the voucher with one worth £10 extra. I find this appropriate. 
Mr A has pointed out that if he misses a £10 direct debit for the policy premium, he faces a 
charge of £40, which is many times the amount of the direct debit itself  and he says in 
general if he makes an error, the financial cost to him is often significantly higher than the 
amount he has failed to pay or paid late. He has suggested that my award against L&G 
should take a similar approach. But in my view fair compensation for financial loss in this 
case is an amount that replaces the value Mr A has lost  and the £110 gift card L&G sent to 
Mr A did this adequately as far as the voucher is concerned. 
L&G accepts Mr A paid for a priority delivery service subscription which was not of use to 
him when he wasnt able to use the voucher as he had planned. L&G offered him £80 for this 
and he has told us this is fair for that. With this in mind I find L&Gs offer is fair redress for 
that expense and I see no grounds to make a different award for it. 
Turning to the other losses Mr A has claimed, related to the event he didnt attend, Im 
grateful to Mr A for explaining the nature of this for us in more detail. Im satisfied Mr A 
needed the item to get full benefit from his event, and so I understand why he wouldnt have 
wanted to attend the event without it. But bearing in mind the dates Ive mentioned above, 
my view is Mr A tried to order the item very close to the last possible time he couldve 
ordered it and still got it. This meant that if there were any kind of problem - like the one that 
did happen with the voucher, which was compounded by Mr A not having immediately 
available any other ways to make the payment when the voucher failed - the possibility 
would arise that the item might arrive too late for Mr A to have it available for use on his trip. 
In my view this is what happened and, on balance with all Ive said above in mind, Im not 
persuaded it is fair to order L&G to repay Mr As event costs in these circumstances.
L&G has offered Mr A £100 for inconvenience. I find this fair, bearing in mind L&G agreed to 
replace the voucher on the same day Mr A told L&G of the error  and that Mr A did suffer 
some frustration and inconvenience in the meantime, having to make calls to try to sort out 
the situation. So, in light of all Ive said, I uphold Mr As complaint on the basis and to the extent Ive 
explained above. 
Ive grateful to Mr A for the time he has taken to explain things to us, and I thank Mr A and 
L&G for their help with our investigation of the complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right, Legal and General Assurance Society Limited should pay Mr A £80 for 
financial loss and £100 for distress and inconvenience caused by the failings Ive identified 
above.
My final decision
I uphold Mr As complaint on the basis and for the reasons Ive explained above.
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited should put things by doing what Ive said 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman