DRN-1894354
 
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Unum Ltd has declined a claim he made on his employer's income 
protection policy. 
What happened
Mr A was a sales advisor. He was a member of his employer's group income protection 
scheme. In February 2019 he became unwell and was absent from work. After the deferred 
period had passed Mr A made a claim on the income protection policy. His claim form said 
he was experiencing work related stress and anxiety.
Unum declined the claim on the basis that Mr A didn't meet the definition of 'incapacity' set 
out in the policy. Mr A appealed on the basis that Unum hadn't fully considered all of the 
relevant medical records. Having reviewed this information Unum still declined the claim, for 
the same reasons. Mr A made a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She didn't think Unum had acted 
unreasonably by declining the claim as the medical notes suggested that Mr A was 
experiencing problems at work and was looking for other jobs.
Mr A didn't agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint.  He referred to a 
colleague who was off with stress who had been paid off by his employer and said he'd been 
the victim of racial discrimination in the workplace. So I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I'm really sorry to hear that Mr A has had such a difficult time. It can see that he feels very 
strongly about his treatment by his employer and experienced some unpleasant symptoms 
as a result of his condition. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Unum has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. They shouldn't reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms say: 
A member is incapacitated if we are satisfied that they are:
Unable, by reason of illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial duties 
of their occupation, and are
 
Not performing any occupation. 
 It's for Mr A to show that he meets the definition of incapacity, not for Unum to show that he 
doesn't. And he needs to demonstrate that he can't do the general duties of his occupation 
rather than his specific job for his employer. 
I'm not upholding Mr A's complaint because: 
Mr A's claim form and medical notes make frequent reference to difficulties with his 
employer. On his claim form he described himself as experiencing work-related 
stress and anxiety. That's consistent with Mr A medical notes which refer to a various 
work place stress factors, including working hours and alleged discrimination against 
him by his employer
 
 The evidence suggests that Mr A had ongoing difficulties with his employer, rather 
than an inability to do the general duties of his occupation. I think it was reasonable 
for Unum to conclude that Mr A could have carried out the general duties of a sales 
advisor even if he felt unable to his specific job for his employer
 
I can also see that Mr A was continuing to pursue positions in a different career, in 
which he'd received a professional qualification. And he was also looking for other 
jobs. So this further persuades me that it wasn't unreasonable for Unum to conclude 
that Mr A could do the general duties of his occupation. 
 
My final decision
I'm not upholding Mr A's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2020.
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman