DRN-2563221
The complaint
Mr F complains that the vehicle he acquired through a hire purchase agreement financed by 
RCI Financial Services Limited was misrepresented and not fit for purpose. He wants to 
reject the vehicle.
What happened
Mr F tells us that he acquired an electric vehicle from a dealer Ill call DG in early March 
2020. He states that he was told it would achieve at least 60 miles on a full charge. Mr F 
states that this was important to him as he regularly makes a specific journey of around 60 
miles and was interested to know if this could be achieved on a single charge. Before 
leaving DGs premises Mr F states that he noticed a warning on his Sat Nav that the vehicle 
wouldnt make the near 60 miles journey to his home without being recharged. He says he 
was assured by DG that it would.
Mr F states that on the journey home after about only 40 miles, he was forced to make an 
emergency stop for a recharge in order to avoid being stranded. As the Sat Nav indicated 
that the vehicle would not make it to his home without the further charge. He says that he 
immediately rang DG and rejected the vehicle. Subsequently he said he decided to give DG 
the chance to repair the vehicle as it had indicated there may be a fault with the battery.
Due to complications arising from Covid he says it wasnt possible for the vehicle to be seen 
by DG until late July. And at this time Mr F states that DG determined there was no fault with 
the battery. After further discussions, Mr F says he was advised that a free service was 
available, and the vehicle was left with DG. But it seemingly declined to proceed with this 
whilst there remained a dispute.
Mr F says he then received notice that RCI had declined to uphold his complaint. Upon 
arriving at DGs premises to collect the vehicle he states he again observed that a warning 
was showing which indicated the vehicle wouldnt get him home on a single charge. And that 
he brought this to the attention of DGs principal.
In the light of this he says that DG agreed to accept rejection of the vehicle. Mr F advises 
that within a day however, DG had changed its mind and determined not to accept the 
vehicle back. He tells us that the vehicle remains with DG and that he still wishes to reject it.
RCI told us that DG had advised it that Mr F had been told the vehicle would achieve 
between 60 and 80 miles under a full charge. And that following Mr Fs complaint it had 
asked DG to test the vehicle. It said DG had found that it achieved 86 miles. RCI maintained 
that the vehicle hadnt been mis-sold or misrepresented.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 23 December 2020. I indicated it was my 
intention to uphold the complaint. I said that I considered that the vehicle was not fit for the 
purpose for which Mr F had indicated to DG he intended to use the vehicle.
Since then both parties have replied and I thank them for their responses.
Mr F accepted my provisional decision whilst at the same time making some additional 
comments to clarify his position. RCI didnt agree and said that it felt that Mr F had used the 
Sat Nav  and not the dashboard indicator as hed been advised - as the basis for his 
mileage calculations. 
Ive considered the additional comments and information supplied by the parties. Im not 
minded to change my provisional view. Ill explain in more detail my reasons which are set 
out in my final decision below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Fs hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it.
RCI supplied the vehicle so its responsible for issues of quality and fitness for purpose of the 
vehicle. And its equally responsible for any misrepresentations about the vehicle made in 
antecedent negotiations conducted by DG.
Mr Fs complaint is that he was told prior to entering the agreement that the vehicle would 
achieve at least 60 miles between charges. And he claims that it hasnt done so. This 
amounts to an allegation that the vehicle was misrepresented; or wasnt as described or fit 
for purpose.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces a consumer to enter an 
agreement and suffer a loss as the result of the misrepresentation.
Here, Mr F initially answered an advertisement which suggested the vehicle might do up to 
149 miles between charges. But its not in dispute that during antecedent negotiations with 
the dealer that this mileage range was modified. And it seems to be common ground that a 
figure of 60 miles was advised as the worst case scenario.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant law here includes the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA); and the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading 
Regulations of 2008 (CPUTR).
As a misrepresentation has to involve a false statement of fact it doesnt usually apply to 
statements made about future uncertain events. I dont think there was any actual 
misrepresentation about the mileage the vehicle might be able to cover between charges. At 
best that was a statement of opinion or anticipation  not fact.
I believe that the complaint is more appropriately considered by reference to the CRA and 
CPUTR. The relevant part of the CRA states that goods must match any description applied to them. And must be fit for any particular purpose which the consumer informs the dealer 
that they intend to use the goods for. There isnt any dispute that there was a detailed 
discussion about the mileage range and Im in no doubt that Mr F mentioned the requirement 
that the vehicle needed to do a round trip of 60 miles without the need for a re-charge. As he 
regularly makes such a journey.
Mr F was told that the vehicle would cover at least 60 miles between charges. Were it unable 
to do so, then it would not match the description that was applied. And it would also mean 
that the vehicle was not fit for the particular purpose for which he intended to use it.
The CPUTR requires that a customer be given sufficient information about the goods that 
would enable the average consumer to reach an informed decision about whether to 
proceed with the acquisition.
Where information is unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ive seen photographs and screen shots from the date of supply. 
The screen shots show the location of the vehicle at a motorway services to where Mr F 
diverted to get a re-charge on the journey back from DGs premises to his home address.
Ive checked the distance of that journey by using recognised route planners issued by well-
established motoring organisations. The shortest distance is 61 miles which appears 
consistent with the Sat Nav display.
The photographic images include both the Sat Nav readings and the instrument panel at the 
time he collected the vehicle.
Two photographs appear of particular relevance:
At 14.41 Sat Nav shows 60.7miles journey distance. Dashboard indicator shows 123 miles 
available mileage range based on available charge.
At 15.23 Sat Nav shows 24.8 miles of journey to go. Dashboard indicator shows 19 miles 
capacity on available charge.
So the vehicle appears to have lost 104 miles in terms of the mileage capacity in the space 
of 36 miles actual mileage. And this reading shows the vehicle will probably fall short of the 
required distance without a further charge.
Whichever display one takes  be it the Sat Nav or the dashboard  the vehicle doesnt 
appear as if its going to make initial journey distance that was programmed without a further 
charge.
Subsequently, Mr F has explained that whilst making his regular 30 mile each way specified 
journey the warning appeared when he programmed in the return trip. And that the 
dashboard showed that he wouldnt make it home without a recharge.
In deciding what information a customer needs to know in order to make an informed choice, 
that must surely reflect those details of any specific requirements that the customer 
disclosed about the proposed use of the vehicle. Here Im satisfied that Mr F indicated he 
often used the vehicle for a journey which was at or about the lower limit of the expected 
mileage range on a full charge, namely 60 miles. So anything that was relevant to that aspect is something that I think needed to be disclosed.
Having taken the vehicle back to DG and then discovered that RCI had rejected his 
complaint Mr F returned to collect the vehicle. But before leaving, he was able to show DG 
that the same warning was showing indicating that he wouldnt make the journey home 
without a recharge. Mr F says that this prompted DG to agree to accept his rejection of the 
vehicle.
Ive seen an email exchange between DG and Mr F commencing on 21 August 2020. And 
its now been explained that the vehicle contains a built in feature. This means that where 
journey detail is entered a warning will display if the system recognises that the vehicle will 
not be able to cover the journey without a recharge.
Its clear from the email exchange in August that some of the specific characteristics of this 
safety feature had not been discussed with Mr F prior to supply. Or, if they had, they had not 
covered all the relevant aspects. The email comes from the principal of DG who seems not 
to have been aware of it in advance of his enquiries.
I accept that he may not be a technical expert or fully familiar with all the characteristics of 
the vehicle. But I dont this detracts from the main issue.
Its unfortunate in that it seems the feature operates at around the same mileage (60 miles) 
that is relevant to Mr Fs specific round trip. And Im aware that its been indicated that the 
feature will gradually adapt to driving style. The fact remains that Mr F was supplied with a 
vehicle that gave contra indications about if it would be able to cover a prescribed journey 
without a recharge.
Ive been told that the feature can be disabled. But I cant see any plausible reason why  
when a vehicle is supplied with components - it should be necessary to disable one of them 
in order to avoid possible confusion or contradictory information being provided.
As far as Im aware Mr F  for obvious reasons  hasnt driven the vehicle until the battery 
was completely discharged. He is basing his calculations on combining the actual mileage 
covered and remaining mileage as indicated by the Sat Nav together with the mileage 
capacity indicated by the charge gauge on the dashboard. 
Whilst DG has tested the vehicle and reported it does in excess of the 60 mile minimum 
capacity quoted, I dont think that is sufficient to address Mr Fs justified concerns.
He would likely be persistently faced with a warning suggesting he wouldnt be able to make 
the return trip on his regular journey without a recharge. And he would have the unenviable 
choice of ignoring the warning  and risk being stranded  or taking a possibly longer route 
to get the battery recharged. It would create an element of uncertainty  and one that I dont 
think was factored into the negotiations before the vehicle was acquired by Mr F
Whilst accepting that theres a sound reason why a warning indicator should have some 
degree of tolerance built in as an additional safety feature (theres not much value in a 
warning that only advises that the vehicle will immediately cease to function), it seems to me 
that knowledge of this is an essential factor in a purchasing decision which most consumers 
would expect to receive.
In summary, this complaint is not being determined on the basis of there necessarily being 
any fault with the vehicle. It seems probable that the vehicle may be suitable for other 
drivers. But not for Mr F, based on his particular requirements. If a driver cannot be sure if his vehicle will travel certain distances or is receiving conflicting 
information, it must impact upon the use that can be made of the vehicle or the satisfaction 
and facility that can be derived from it.
My decision has been reached on the basis that material information which would probably 
have affected Mr Fs decision to acquire the vehicle wasnt supplied. Or wasnt supplied in 
sufficient detail as to allow him to make an informed decision. And that this means the 
vehicle is probably not fit for a particular purpose for which it was intended to be used.
I understand that Mr F hasnt had use of the vehicle since 29 July 2020. So its fair and 
reasonable that he ought not to have to pay for it after that date. On the same footing its 
also fair and reasonable that he pays for those periods when the vehicle was available.
Ive taken note that Mr F wishes me to calculate part of the refund on the basis of mileage 
actually done as opposed to that which he anticipated covering. But our usual approach is to 
consider the period the vehicle is available for use. It being a matter for the consumer to 
decide upon actual use. I acknowledge that there would potentially have been some 
inconvenience in having to make his regular journey a slightly longer trip to get a recharge 
but in the overall context of the complaint I feel the resolution Im proposing is fair and 
reasonable.
Im also aware that Mr F has asked for additional insurance costs to be added to his 
compensation. We wouldnt usually make such an award. The terms of the agreement 
require the vehicle to be insured and insurance also provides protection against such risks 
as theft and damage whilst the complaint is being determined. If he accepts my final 
decision, I would presume that Mr F will be able to obtain a proportionate refund when the 
agreement is terminated.
Putting things right
RCI Financial Services Limited should now take the following action:
1. Arrange collection of the vehicle at no cost to Mr F;
2. End the agreement with nothing further for Mr F to pay after 29 July 2020. Payments 
due up to that date can be retained by RCI for fair use. Pro rata calculations should 
be applied where necessary; 
3. Refund the cash deposit (£2,200);
4. Pay £100 to Mr F for distress and inconvenience;
5. Arrange to have the agreement recorded as settled on Mr Fs credit file.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should be added to payments arising from items 2 
and 3 above from date of payment to date of settlement. 
My final decision
For the above reasons my final decision is Im upholding this complaint. I now require RCI 
Financial Services Limited to take the action Ive stipulated in the preceding paragraph. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman