DRN-3378809
The complaint
N, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money it lost 
when it was the victim of a scam.
What happened
N is a limited company which deals in the buying and selling of used cars. It received an 
email from another company, offering a car for sale. And, following a number of emails and 
phone calls with the seller, N agreed to buy the car. The seller then gave N the contact 
details of the dealer who would deliver the car and, after speaking with the dealer, N 
arranged to send a payment of £40,060 to the dealer. Unfortunately it now appears both the 
seller and the dealer were scammers.
After the payment was made, the dealer told N the money hadnt been received into its 
account. N then spoke with HSBC several times to chase the payment and was ultimately 
given a print-out showing the account details the payment had been sent to. When these 
matched the account details it had been given by the dealer, N realised it had been the 
victim of a scam and asked HSBC to refund the payment.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the 
CRM code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
authorised push payment scams like this, except in limited circumstances. HSBC 
investigated the case and said it felt N had made the payment without a reasonable basis for 
believing it was legitimate, so it didnt think N was entitled to a full refund under the CRM 
code. N wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so brought a complaint to our service.
I sent N and HSBC a provisional decision on 16 February 2022 setting out why I felt HSBC 
should refund some of the money N had lost. An extract from my provisional decision is set 
out below:
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether HSBC 
should have reimbursed N under the provisions of the CRM code and whether it ought to 
have done more to protect it from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. The CRM code 
places a level of care on N too, so Ive considered whether it met this.
The CRM code
As I mentioned above, HSBC is a signatory to the CRM code. The CRM code requires firms 
to reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) 
scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. And it is for the firm to establish 
that a customer failed to meet their requisite level of care under one of the listed exceptions 
set out in the CRM code.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
othe payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
othe payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
othe person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Did N have a reasonable basis for belief?
This was clearly a cruel scam and Im sympathetic towards the position N has found itself in. 
But I need to consider not just whether N believed the payment was for genuine goods or the 
business it was paying was legitimate, but whether it was reasonable for it to do so.
N received an email from a company offering a car for sale. Its said its not unusual to 
receive unsolicited offers like this in the motor trade and that it had received other offers from 
other companies in this way. N also received photos of the car, an invoice and spoke to both 
the seller and the dealer over the phone.
But N also says it searched for the details of the selling company on Companies House. And 
the Companies House register clearly shows that the company N was told was selling the 
car was dissolved in 2013. N says it didnt see this, and just saw that the name came up and 
so assumed the company was legitimate. But the information that the company was 
dissolved, and when, is on the next line down and directly below the company name on the 
search results page. So I think N either didnt check the Companies House register, or 
checked it so quickly that it didnt gain any valuable information.
N also said it spoke to a friend who sent it a photo of the sellers premises from an online 
map application. But N doesnt appear to have checked when this photo was taken or 
whether it relates to either the sellers registered address or the address N was given on the 
initial email from the seller.
N was clearly concerned enough about the legitimacy of the seller to check Companies 
House and ask its friend about them. But I dont think these checks went far enough to 
actually check whether the seller was a legitimate company. And N doesnt appear to have 
done any checks into whether the people he was speaking to were actually connected to 
either the seller or the dealer  even if those were legitimate companies. So I dont think N 
carried out reasonable checks into whether the seller was legitimate and I think the checks it 
did do should have raised significant concerns.
I also think N could have done more checks into whether the car was genuine. N says it 
checked the value of the car and that the registration number matched the make and model 
it was given. But it didnt do any checks into, or ask for any evidence of, the ownership of the 
car  such as asking to see the V5 document. And N was only sent three photos of the car 
and was told that the seller couldnt get any more photos, which I think should have caused it 
some concern.
N has said it didnt do further checks into the car as there is a custom in the motor trade that 
sales are done on trust and any misrepresentation will result in compensation being paid by 
the seller to the buyer. But even if this is a custom in the motor trade, I dont think it was reasonable for N to not carry out further checks into whether either the seller was legitimate 
or the car was genuine on this basis.
So I dont think N had a reasonable basis for belief that the payment was for genuine goods 
and the business it was transacting with was legitimate.
Did N ignore an effective warning?
Even though I dont think N had a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment, it 
may still be entitled to a refund of 50% of the money it lost, if HSBC didnt meet its 
obligations under the CRM code  one of which is to provide effective warnings.
The CRM code says that, where firms identify APP scam risks, they should provide effective 
warnings to their customers. The code also says that the assessment of whether a firm has 
met this standard or not should include consideration of whether compliance with that 
standard would have had a material effect on preventing the scam.
The CRM code sets out that an effective warning should enable a customer to understand 
what actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not doing so. As a 
minimum, the CRM code sets out that an effective warning should be understandable, clear, 
impactful, timely and specific.
Due to the size of the payment here, I think HSBC should have identified the risk of a scam 
and so should have provided an effective warning to N. And HSBC clearly did recognise 
there was some risk here, as it held the payment and called N to ask about it before allowing 
it to go through.
But Ive listened to a recording of this call and I dont think the conversation HSBC had with 
N was clear or impactful enough to be an effective warning in these circumstances. HSBC 
asked if N had made the payment itself, how it got the bank details for the payment and 
whether N had been contacted by someone asking it to make the payment. But it didnt 
explain that scammers can list fake adverts for cars they dont actually own or can 
impersonate legitimate companies. It also didnt explain any steps N could take to avoid 
falling victim to this kind of scam, such as asking for evidence of ownership of the car or 
calling the company using contact details from its website. And Ive not seen anything to 
suggest an effective warning was provided to N at any other part of the payment process 
either.
N had already done some checks into the seller, and the extra steps HSBC could have 
suggested would have been relatively quick to follow. So if HSBC had given a clearer 
warning on what this kind of scam could look like and how N could avoid falling victim to it, I 
think N would have taken further steps and the scam would have been prevented.
So I dont think HSBC provided an effective warning to N, or that N ignored an effective 
warning in relation to this payment, and I think an effective warning would have had a 
material effect on preventing this scam.
Overall then, I think HSBC failed to provide an effective warning and that N made the 
payment without a reasonable basis for belief. So I think HSBC should have refunded 50% 
of Ns loss under the CRM code.
Recovery of funds
Ive also looked into whether HSBC could have done more to recover Ns funds. But HSBC 
has shown that it contacted the bank the payment was sent to and was able to recover £27.71. And the bank the payment was sent to has shown us that the rest of the funds were 
removed from the receiving account before N asked HSBC to refund the payment. So I dont 
think HSBC could have done more.
Compensation
HSBC has paid N £50 as compensation for the delays and poor customer service it provided 
when N raised its complaint. And I think this offer is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances and so I dont think it would be fair to require HSBC to pay N any further 
compensation in relation to this.
I said Id consider anything further N and HSBC sent in following the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC said it agreed to what was said in the provisional decision. N made a number of 
further arguments, which Ill address below.
N said that the CRM code says that, where a firm is concerned that a payment may be part 
of a scam, it should delay the payment while it investigates. And that, as it was telling HSBC 
that the dealer said it hadnt received the money, this should have given it concern and 
caused it to delay the payment. But firstly, the payment had already been processed at this 
point so HSBC couldnt have delayed it. And secondly, I dont agree that the dealer saying it 
hadnt received the money at this point would have raised significant concern as there were 
a number of other possible explanations for this, such as incorrect account details being 
given or entered, the dealer checking the wrong account or the receiving account not 
correctly updating yet. So I dont agree HSBC should have done more at this stage.
N also said that HSBCs actions impeded its ability to avoid falling victim to the scam, as it 
didnt allow the chance to recall the payment and suggested the money would be found in 
the right account. But, as I explained above, I dont think it was unreasonable that HSBC felt 
this was still likely at that stage, so I dont agree HSBC impeded Ns ability to avoid falling 
victim to the scam.
I also dont agree that N was vulnerable, under the CRM code, as it has suggested. The 
CRM code says that a customer is vulnerable to scams if it would not be reasonable to 
expect them to have protected themselves. But, while I accept HSBC didnt provide an 
effective warning to N when making the payment, I dont think this lack of warning meant that 
N couldnt be expected to protect itself. And I havent seen anything else about Ns 
circumstances at the time or the timing or nature of the scam that meant N couldnt be 
expected to protect itself either.
N has also argued that the dealer it thought it was dealing with is a legitimate company, and 
so the fact that the seller it thought it was dealing with was not legitimate is irrelevant. But I 
disagree. As I explained in my provisional decision, I must look at whether it was reasonable 
for N to believe the payment was for genuine goods. And I think consideration of this should 
include the full circumstances of the situation, not just one aspect of it. As I explained in my 
provisional decision, N was clearly concerned enough about the legitimacy of the seller to do 
some checks. But I dont think these checks went far enough, I think the checks N did do 
should have raised concerns and I think there were further checks N should have reasonably 
done into the seller, the person it was dealing with at the dealer and the car itself. So I still 
dont think N had a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment.Finally, N said HSBC should have acted sooner to recover the money, as it should have 
been aware from it saying the dealer said it hadnt received the money that this was a scam. 
But as I explained above, I dont think it was necessarily clear at that stage that this was a 
scam. And so I dont think it would be fair to hold HSBC fully responsible for the loss for not 
intervening further at that stage.
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, I still think the conclusions I set out in my 
provisional decision are correct.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
 Refund N 50% of the money it lost as a result of this scam, less the £27.71 already 
recovered  for a total of £20,002.29
 Pay N 8% simple interest on that refund from the date it initially rejected its claim until 
the date of settlement
 Pay N £50 compensation, if it has not already done so
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman