DRN-3643335
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Santander UK Plc didnt consider him eligible to receive a £130 current 
account switching offer.
What happened
Mr S switched his current account to Santander to take advantage of a current account 
switching offer which included a switching incentive payment of £130. Mr S felt that hed met 
the criteria needed to be eligible for the £130 payment. However, Santander noted that 
although Mr S transferred two active direct debits to the new Santander account  as was 
required as one of the conditions to be eligible to receive the £130 payment  hed cancelled 
them shortly afterwards. Because of this, Santander didnt feel Mr S was eligible to receive 
the £130 payment. Mr S wasnt happy with Santanders decision, so he raised a complaint.
Santander looked at Mr Ss complaint. They confirmed they didnt consider Mr S as being 
eligible for the £130 switching incentive payment. However, they acknowledged that Mr S 
hadnt received the standard of service from them when discussing this matter that he 
reasonably should have received, and so they apologised to Mr S for these service issues 
and made a payment of £75 to him as compensation for any upset incurred. Mr S wasnt 
satisfied with Santanders response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Santander had 
acted unfairly towards Mr S in how theyd managed the situation, and so they didnt uphold 
the complaint. Mr S remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for 
a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Mr S might feel that by transferring two active direct debits to his 
recently opened Santander account that he was meeting one of the criteria necessary to 
qualify for the £130 incentive payment, even though he later cancelled those direct debits.
But having considered Santanders terms and conditions for the incentive, I feel that these 
terms do indicate that transferred direct debits would have to remain active until at least 60 
days after the current account was switched, in order for those direct debits to be considered 
as qualifying for the incentive. To this effect, I note the following clause:
3. Cashback Payment
3.1 We will assess the Qualifying Account 60 days after the switch has 
been instructed to decide whether you have qualified for the Switcher 
Offer and the Cashback Payment under these Terms. If you qualify, 
we will make the Cashback Payment to you within the next 30 days 
following our decision.
Given the above, Im satisfied that Mr S didnt meet the criteria needed to qualify for the 
£130 incentive payment. 
It also seems clear to me that Santanders intention in setting the qualifying criteria was to try 
to ensure that a new customer who switches their current account to Santander then uses 
their account as a current account is intended to be used  i.e. for the administration of 
personal finances including the holding of money and the payment of direct debits. In short, I 
feel that the purpose of Santanders incentive is to attract and retain new customers, 
preferably over a longer term. Consequently, I feel that it isnt the case that Santander are 
seeking to pay incentives to new account holders who dont intend to use their new 
Santander current account for any reasonable length of time.
As such, that the assessment as to whether the new account is considered to have met the 
qualifying criteria for the £130 incentive payment will only be undertaken 60 days after the 
account is opened makes sense to me, because this condition allows Santander, to a 
degree, to be assured that the account is being used by their new customer to administer 
their personal finances over a reasonable length of time.
But in this instance, I note that while Mr S did transfer £1,000 into the account  which 
fulfilled another of the qualifying criteria for the £130 payment  he transferred the £1,000 
back out of the new Santander account a few days later. And, while Mr S did transfer in two 
active direct debits, he then cancelled those direct debits, as discussed.
I feel that Mr Ss usage of the account is important here. This is because if Mr S were clearly 
using the new current account as intended and incentivised by Santander  i.e. if was clear 
that Mr S was using this new account to administer his personal finances  then I would in all 
likelihood have instructed Santander to pay the £130 incentive payment to Mr S. This is 
because I would almost certainly feel it fair that a customer who had used their account as 
Santanders incentive was trying to promote should receive the incentive payment.
But Mr Ss usage of his new Santander account doesnt demonstrate that he was using the 
account to administer his personal finances. And as discussed above, Im also satisfied that 
Mr S didnt meet the full criteria needed to qualify for the incentive payment, because he 
didnt have two active direct debits present on his account when the account was assessed 
by Santander 60 days after it had been opened. Consequently, I dont feel that Santander 
should fairly be instructed to make an exception to their incentive criteria here and to pay the 
£130 incentive payment to Mr S as he would like.
Im aware that Mr S is also unhappy with some of the service he received from Santander 
when discussing this matter with them. Santander have acknowledged in their response to 
Mr Ss complaint that Mr S didnt receive the standard of service from them that he should 
have done. And Santander have apologised to Mr S for this and made a payment to him of 
£75 as compensation for any trouble and upset he may have incurred.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair by one 
person not being considered as such by someone else. But given the full circumstances of 
this complaint, the £75 that Santander have already paid as compensation to Mr S for the 
service issues he encountered does feel fair to me, and I can confirm that its commensurate 
with what I might have instructed Santander to pay, had they not already done so.
All of which means that I dont feel that Santander have acted unfairly towards Mr S as he 
feels is the case here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
instructing Santander to take any further action. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr S was wanting, but I trust that hell understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman