DRN-3200611
The complaint
Mr R complains that AXA Insurance UK plc mishandled a claim on his motor insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to AXA, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold AXA responsible 
for their actions.
What happened
For the year from January 2020, Mr R had a vehicle insured on a policy under which AXA 
was responsible for dealing with claims.
In October 2020, a third party made a claim that Mr R had damaged the third partys vehicle 
by hitting the rear of it in slow-moving traffic. In early January 2021 AXA said it had agreed to 
settle that claim. Later it also settled a claim for personal injury.
Mr R complained that the claim had been fraudulent as the reported accident hadnt 
happened.
AXA told Mr R of his right to bring his complaint to us, which he did without delay.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that 
AXA had acted unfairly.
Shortly after the investigators view, AXA wrote to Mr R apologising for the time he had been 
on hold on the telephone. It said it was sending him £75.00.
Later, Mr R got a garage to inspect his car and do a report.
Mr R disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
AXA did not investigate this case properly.
They lied about the photos - there is no damage to his car.
The report from the insurers independent garage states there is a little mark 670cm 
high. So he couldn't have damaged the third partys rear light and smashed all his 
bumper to a state where it was hanging off. 
The third party drove off at speed leaving the so-called accident without involving the 
police. Surely if you had been involved in such an accident where your car had been 
written off and you were injured the police would have been called. 
For the next 5 years he has got to commit to perjury when filling in his insurance 
forms and pay more for his insurance.
This has caused a lot of stress to him and his wife.
The third partys vehicle shouldnt have been on the road.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common practice for an insurance company that has paid a claim to treat it as a fault 
claim against its policyholder unless and until it recovers its outlay in full from a third party.
Like most motor insurance policies, AXAs provided that it could decide how best to deal with 
a claim from a third party. The effect of that term was that  on a question of how to deal with 
a third partys claim  AXAs view would prevail over Mr Rs. I dont regard that as an unfair 
term. But I will consider whether AXA applied that term fairly in Mr Rs case.
Unlike a court, we dont hear evidence from each driver and decide the extent to which each 
of them is responsible for causing damage or injury.
Mr R has provided the results of some searches against the third partys vehicle. They show 
that it had been a category D total loss in 2017. That category doesnt mean that the third 
partys vehicle shouldnt have been on the road in October 2020.
In October 2020, the third party made a claim and AXA was duty-bound to deal with it. 
Im satisfied that AXA took into account Mr Rs report that neither his car nor the third partys 
had sustained any damage. AXA noted Mr Rs report that the third party drove off and no-
one called police.
However, the third party provided a witness statement. The third party also provided a 
repairers report of damage to the rear of his vehicle. The report noted that the vehicle had 
been a total loss in 2017.
AXA also took into account the photographs Mr Rs wife had taken from inside his car. AXA 
took the view that the photographs didnt show the absence of damage to the third partys 
vehicle. Whilst Mr R has a different interpretation of the photographs, he has fallen a long 
say short of showing that AXA has lied about them.
It was February 2021 by the time AXA got a report on Mr Rs vehicle. But the report  
included the following:
found damage to the left corner section of the front bumper at a height of 36-68cm 
from ground level
The damage noted on inspection was consistent with a light impact at low speed.
So the report showed damage to the front of Mr Rs car, consistent with a light impact.
The third partys injury claim was supported by medical evidence. 
AXA weighed up the conflicting evidence. It decided that  rather than incur the risk and cost 
of a court case  it would settle the third partys claims.Mr R regards his garages report as evidence in his favour. But the report mentions the need 
to replace an old bumper bracket. So I dont consider that the report shows that AXAs report 
was incorrect
I accept that Mr R and his wife have found the claim stressful.
Most motor insurers will ask Mr R a question about accidents and claims. Since he has had 
a claim against him, Mr R will be able to give a truthful answer. I accept that the claim is 
likely to cause his insurance premiums to be higher than they otherwise wouldve been.
Overall, Im satisfied that AXA did a reasonable and proportionate investigation and dealt 
with the claims reasonably. Keeping in mind the policy term Ive referred to, I dont conclude 
that AXA treated Mr R unfairly. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct AXA to change 
the way it has recorded the claims or to do anything further in response to this complaint.
Mr Rs searches show that the third partys vehicle was a category N total loss as a result of 
the reported incident in October 2020. That category doesnt mean the third partys vehicle 
shouldnt have been on the road after October 2020. The searches show that the third 
partys vehicle was a category B total loss from an incident in May 2021. But that was 
months after the incident in October 2020. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct AXA Insurance UK plc to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman