DRN-3428566
The complaint
Ms Y complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim she 
made under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to 
a solar panel system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Ms Y is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around June 2014, Ms Y was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to 
talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Ms Y decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In June 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Ms Ys behalf under section 75 of the 
Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations about 
the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Ms Y to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding;
the feed-in tariff (FIT) would provide enough income, together with the savings, to 
cover the monthly finance agreement repayments costs after five years;
the system would pay for itself within seven years;
the system represented a better investment than any savings or pension plan on the 
market.
Shawbrook explained that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Ms Y or 
that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, including Ps quote, our adjudicator didnt think that P 
had misrepresented the system to Ms Y and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
too much weight had been given to the quote, and not to Ms Ys recollection of what 
she had been told verbally by Ps salesman;
some emails which P had sent to Ms Y around the time of the sale supported her 
recollections, and contradicted the quote;
only the cash price would be paid for within seven years, not the cost of the loan;
the salesman had over-estimated Ms Ys savings on her electricity bills;
the FIT income from the system was less than had been predicted;
it was very unlikely that Ms Y would have purchased the system if she had not been 
told that all it would do is increase her outgoings.
The CMC added that P had over-estimated the savings Ms Y would make from the hot water 
controller (an optional extra), as her electricity bills were not high enough for her to make the 
promised savings in the first place. The salesman had never seen her bills.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Ms Y paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Ms Y could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could 
have claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant, since it says that any negotiations between Ms Y and P, as the 
supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook. This is not 
confined to misrepresentation, but to anything said. This is especially relevant to the emails, 
which contained erroneous figures.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system, and also on the 
possibility that Shawbrook paid P commission or gave P some other financial incentive to 
broker the loan.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing her loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and selected pages from the solar quote. Ive 
considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made by P.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
There were actually two quotes, dated 7 and 20 July 2014, each giving different figures. This 
was because originally only 13 solar panels were going to be installed, and this was 
increased to 16 and so the figures were revised. I have therefore mainly focused on the 
second quote, as this one made the greatest promises to Ms Y about the benefits she could 
expect from the system.The quotes are detailed documents that set out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that they 
formed a central part of the sales process and are therefore relevant when considering if 
there have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Ms Ys recollection of the sale.
The CMC continues to question whether the quotation documents formed a central part of 
the sales process with P when Ms Y agreed to enter into the contract for the system. I have 
carefully considered the points made by the representative along with those made by 
Shawbrook on behalf of P. But I dont think its likely or plausible that Ms Y simply took the 
salesmans word for it when she was told that she could buy thousands of pounds worth of 
equipment  paid for with an interest-bearing loan  and that this would be a very good 
investment, without at any point asking to see evidence of that in writing. So on the balance 
of probabilities, I am satisfied that the quotations did form a central part of the sales process 
when Ms Y agreed to enter into the contract.
I have also taken into account the emails which P sent to Ms Y during the relevant period, 
dated 17 June and 7 and 20 July 2014.
The quotes and the emails
The CMC has alleged that the quotes and Ps emails contradicted each other. So I have 
compared what they say. In this section I will also deal with the CMCs allegation that the 7-
year payback time was unclear or misleading, in that it refers only to the cash price of the 
system and not the total repayable under the loan agreement.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Ms Y could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Ms Y could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £573.96.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Ms Y could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £262.07 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Ms Y, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £1,034. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
The same table goes on to show the total expected income and savings over 20 years. From 
this figure it subtracts the cost of the system to give the profit over 20 years, and it explicitly 
states (twice) that this calculation does not include the finance charge.
The next row of the table states that the estimated payback time is 7 years. I think it is clear 
that this is based on the calculation immediately above, and so it was made clear that the 
payback time referred to the time it would take for the system to pay for its cash price, rather 
than for the loan.
Theres another section of the quote headed PSP Scheme Repayment Options with three 
tables showing repayments over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on 
the table for 180 months as this is the length of the loan that Ms Y entered into with 
Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £107.25. 
(This is incorrect; the loan agreement gives the correct monthly figure of £107.24, but the 
difference  1p  is too small to affect the following observations.) For each year of the 15 
year loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that 
figure over 12 months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £107.25, to give an 
average difference between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan 
repayment in each year. This gives a negative figure for the first five years of the loan, 
meaning that the system would not make enough money to cover the loan payments until 
year 6.
The only copy I have is in black and white, but the original was in colour, with the first five 
years highlighted in red and the subsequent years in green. Here it is in the second quote:
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Ms Y could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income she could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and any additional savings would not immediately be sufficient to cover 
the monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im satisfied that she was told in the quote that the 
monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income and savings after five years.
The emails
The 7 July email attempted (rather ineptly) to explain what the table above meant. Since that 
email was about the first quote, which had different figures, I will show the table as it 
appeared in the earlier quote, before setting out what the email said about it.
The accompanying email said:
Looking at the 15 year period the monthly payment is £106.40 and a top-up in the 
first year of £16.44 per month. This does not mean you have to pay another £16.44 
but in effect your electricity will cost you £16.44 on top of the savings you will be 
making.
That is certainly a bit confusing, because the figure of £16.44 doesnt match any of the 
figures in the table. It is presumably supposed to say £10.94, that being the figure for year 1 
in the third column.
The same paragraph of the email then continues as follows:
In the second year the top-up reduces to £12.01, the third year to £7.29 and the 
fourth year to £2.27. And in the fifth you move into the black and your incoming (sic) 
(savings + income) is greater than your outgoings (cost of system and loan).
Those figures are also wrong. And the email says the FIT income and savings will exceed 
the loan repayments after four years, contrary to the table which showed that this would 
happen after three years.
But apart from those significant shortcomings, I think the text is otherwise sound, insofar as it 
explains that the benefits from the system will not immediately be enough to cover the loan 
repayments but will take a few years for the system to become profitable.
I have considered whether the wrong figures and timescale given in this email amounted to 
such bad customer service that I ought to uphold this complaint on the ground that 
Shawbrook should have accepted liability for it under section 56 and paid Ms Y 
compensation for it. However, I think that email was superseded by the 20 July quote, which 
contained new figures (and which was not accompanied by contradictory figures in its 
covering email). So on 20 July and thereafter, Ms Y had just one set of figures which 
replaced the earlier ones, in good time before she signed the loan agreement and well 
before the system was installed. I think that mitigates Ps error enough that compensation for 
that email is not necessary.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Ms Y that the system would be self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand.
As Ive said, Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding 
from the start. I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the 
expected income and monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Ms Y was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
period of time, specifically seven years to pay for its cash price. I will now consider how long 
it would take for the system to pay for the loan, and what Ms Y was told about that.
The loan agreement made it clear that the total amount repayable was £19,303.20.
The System Performance and Returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
estimated performance over 20 years. This shows that it would take nearly 14 years for the 
overall benefits that Ms Y could expect to receive to match the total amount payable under 
the loan agreement.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Ms Y that the system would pay for its cash 
price in 7 years, and for the loan in about 14 years, as supported by the table above. If these 
were untrue statements of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced her to enter into 
the contract, and she subsequently suffered a loss, that could amount to a 
misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Ms Y. The CMC has questioned why this is relevant. It is because 
the CMC has observed that Ms Y has not received the financial returns she was expecting, 
as described above. So it is necessary to look into why this is.
The MCS certificate sets out that the system is expected to produce 3,323 kWh a year. 
I have looked at Ms Ys FIT statements from August 2021 and can see that her system, on 
average, has generated 3,018 kWh a year. This is slightly less than estimated by P at the 
point of sale (about 91%), so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
Even though the panels are not under-performing in terms of FIT generation, as measured in 
kWh, they have still not performed as estimated as measured in pounds sterling. So I have 
considered why that is.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to calculate the utility price and RPI inflation 
during a period prior to the point of sale. I have looked at the actual yearly increases 
between 2016 and 2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point 
of sale, and I think this explains why Ms Y hasnt been receiving the financial returns she 
may have been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower 
than the modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the 
system has been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Ms Y could have 
expected to receive from the system. I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, 
including the self-consumption rate, expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and 
expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is 
fair and reasonable.
So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not have been as high as estimated at the 
point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to unreasonable assumptions being used 
by P at the time Ms Y entered into the contract.
Hot water controller
As Ive said, the CMC has alleged that Ms Ys electricity bills were not high enough for it to 
have been possible for one particular part of the system  the hot water controller  to make 
the savings the salesman promised. This is said to have been because the salesman did not 
bother to look at Ms Ys electricity bills, and so all of his calculations were unreliable. The 
CMC has not shown its working, so I have compared the 20 July quote with the bills to see if 
I independently come to the same conclusion.
The section of the quote entitled Putting it all together says that the hot water controller will 
achieve savings of £3,192.88 over a period of 20 years. (That figure is shown on the fourth row; the second, third, eighth and last rows state that the period being considered is 20 
years.)
That figure works out at £13.30 a month. Ms Ys monthly electricity bills came to 
considerably more than that, so I do not think this complaint point has merit. Furthermore, 
I have not seen evidence to show that the salesman made wrong assumptions about Ms Ys 
electricity usage or costs.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Ms Y to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
