DRN-3766103
The complaint
Mr M complains Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty (Drafty) gave him a line of credit without 
carrying out sufficient affordability checks. Mr M says had better checks been carried out, 
Drafty wouldve realised he had several outstanding payday loans and a poor credit score. 
What happened
Mr M was given a running credit account where he could either request funds up to his 
agreed credit limit in one go or could take multiple drawdowns up to his limit. He was also 
able to borrow further, up to his credit limit, as and when he repaid what he owed. To be 
clear, Mr M was not given a payday loan. 
Mr M approached Drafty for a running credit facility in August 2018. Mr M was given a
facility with a £1,000 credit limit. Drafty increased Mr Ms credit limit on two occasions taking 
his limit to £1,520 in October 2018. 
Mr M has had some problems repaying his facility and the statement of account provided by 
Drafty shows the account is with recoveries and he has been making payments towards the 
facility balance of at least £39.12 per month since September 2019. Drafty has confirmed 
that as of October 2022, an outstanding balance remains due of around £461.51.
In Draftys final response letter - from July 2022 it concluded,
Based on the above information, we conclude that proper and proportionate 
affordability checks were conducted at the initiation of the credit line. We also
continued to check that the line of credit was affordable. However, we can see there 
is a possibility that allowing the continued use of the line beyond July
22, 2019 may not have been sustainable in the long term.
 
But as Mr M hadnt taken any drawdowns after 22 July 2019 then there would be no refund 
due to him. Mr M then referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where 
one of our adjudicators reviewed it and partly upheld it.
She thought the checks Drafty carried out before initially granting this facility were 
proportionate and showed Drafty Mr M was likely to be able to afford the payment amount as 
outlined by the hypothetical payment schedule in Mr Ms credit agreement. This was 
calculated on the full £1,000 being drawn down at the outset and then being repaid over 
12 months. So, she didnt think Drafty was wrong to have approved the facility.
However, the adjudicator, pointed out that as Drafty had provided Mr M with a credit facility, 
in addition to taking reasonable steps to ensure the facility was affordable at the outset, it 
also had an obligation to monitor Mr Ms ongoing use of the facility. The adjudicator thought, 
the way Mr M had used and repaid the facility (as well as Drafty suspending the facility due 
to a missed payment) ought to have alerted it that the facility was no longer sustainable for 
Mr M from 28 June 2019. 
Overall, the adjudicator thought there were signs of financial difficulties (and perhaps ought 
to have carried out some further checks at this time), Drafty shouldve stepped in and froze 
the interest on the facility. 
In order to put things right, the adjudicator recommended all interest, fees and charged paid 
by Mr M from 28 June 2019 should be refunded, along with additional interest of 8% simple. 
Drafty didnt fully agree with the adjudicators assessment. It agreed to uphold the complaint 
from the same point in time (28 June 2019) but it agreed to only refund the interest fees and 
charges applied to any new drawdowns from that date. 
At the time the offer was made, Drafty explained this would still lead to no refund being 
provided as no new drawdowns were taken. An outstanding balance remained due of just 
over £461. However, Drafty also said, that should Mr M need a repayment plan to pay down 
the outstanding balance, then details of that would be recorded with the credit reference 
agency. 
However, Drafty didnt agree to refund all of the interest fees and charges applied from 
28 June 2019. It said this was because: 
As the assessment is about whether our decision to continue lending the money was 
appropriate or not, your decision implies that any draws granted after 28th June 2019 
were inappropriate, and we should refund any interest paid on them. However, it also 
implied that draws granted prior to the upheld date were reasonable for us to grant.
Draftys offer was put to Mr M and he didnt accept it. Instead, he asked for a final decision 
on the outcome of the complaint. As no agreement has been reached, the case has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the relevant times.
A lender had to take proportionate steps to ensure a consumer wouldve been able to repay 
what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their 
financial situation. Put simply the lender had to gather enough information so that it could 
make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender 
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders 
checks to be proportionate.
Any checks had to take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be repaid. 
As explained, Mr M was given an open-ended credit facility. So, overall, I think that this 
means the checks Drafty carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand 
whether Mr M would be able to both service and then repay his facility within a reasonable 
period of time. Drafty also needed to monitor Mr Ms repayment record for any sign that he 
may have been experiencing financial difficulties.Before the facility was approved, Drafty took details of Mr Ms income and expenditure 
information as well as carrying out a credit search. In my view, given this was the start of the 
lending relationship Draftys checks were entirely reasonable and proportionate and showed 
it that Mr M would be able to afford the repayments as outlined in the hypothetical scenario 
in the credit agreement. So, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Drafty approving the 
facility. I also think, given the way that Mr M had used the facility that Drafty was reasonable 
to have increased the credit limits when it did. 
It is worth saying here that Drafty agrees with the uphold point the adjudicator reached, as it 
offered some redress from that date  28 June 2019. Mr M rejected the settlement offer by 
Drafty but he didnt disagree that the point the adjudicator had reached was unreasonable. 
However, what is in dispute, and therefore what this decision has focused on, is whether the 
redress proposed by Drafty is fair and reasonable considering the circumstances of Mr Ms 
complaint. 
So, I dont think that I need to speculate here about the actions Drafty may or may not have 
taken in June 2019. There were a number of options which Drafty could have taken. But 
seeing as none of these were taken and Im satisfied that action ought to have been taken  
as it agrees. Ive considered what Drafty ought to fairly and reasonably do in order to put 
things right sometime after the event. And the proposed redress is the clearest and fairest 
way of doing this. 
As the adjudicator pointed out, Mr M wasnt repaying the facility in a sustainable manner 
because he would frequently make the minimum repayment and then drawdown any 
available credit which was regularly only around £30. And the new drawdowns would 
normally occur within hours of the minimum payment being made. 
In addition, to the way Mr M had serviced the facility, the adjudicator also suggested that at 
the uphold point Drafty may have wanted to have made further enquires with Mr M into his 
financial situation. 
Mr M has provided bank statements, and so I did consider what these showed and therefore 
what Drafty may have seen had it carried out further checks as the adjudicator suggested in 
her assessment. To be clear, it makes no difference to the outcome I am reaching but does 
reinforce what I am saying about the facility being unsustainable for Mr M. 
Having looked at the bank statements for May and June 2019 I can see multiple returned 
direct debits for existing creditors such as a mobile phone provider and for a media 
subscription. And the industry regulator says regular retuned payments could be a sign of 
financial difficulties. 
More importantly, at the time Mr M had at least nine outstanding payday and instalment 
loans at a time. A clear indicator that Mr M wasnt in a financial stable position at the time 
due to the number of outstanding loans. To me, had Drafty taken steps to review Mr Ms 
bank statements it wouldve realised  on top of his usage that the whole facility was 
unsustainable for him. 
So, Drafty ought to have realised, the current balance was unsustainable  and therefore 
Mr M ought to have been offered some assistance. So, there doesnt appear to be any 
dispute as to when the facility likely became unsustainable for Mr M.
Therefore, Ive set out below what I think Drafty needs to do in order to put things right for 
Mr M while explaining why I agree with the adjudicators conclusions that all the interest 
charged after the 28 June 2019 needs to be refunded. What is most important here is that I dont think its fair and reasonable for a lender to allow a 
customer to continue using a facility that has become demonstrably unsustainable  instead 
I think its fair and reasonable to expect a lender to help the customer repay what theyve 
already drawn down and what they already owe.  
So, I dont think that Drafty continuing to allow interest to be charged on Mr Ms balance, in 
circumstances where this increased the chances of him being unable to repay, is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
So, although, I do accept that the balance up to the uphold point was legitimately provided 
and appeared affordable for Mr M at the time it was lent, once the point had been reached 
where Drafty accepted the facility was unsustainable, it ought to have exercised forbearance 
to allow Mr M to repay what he owed. In these circumstances, it isnt, in my view, fair and 
reasonable for Drafty to have continued charging interest on this balance from 28 June 2019 
onwards. 
Therefore, given what Drafty said in response to the adjudicators assessment, that it agrees 
with the point that the complaint has been upheld, it follows that it isnt just the new 
drawdowns that werent sustainable for Mr M. It also wasnt sustainable to repay what he 
already owed  so actions in failing to offer help to repay this as well as offering further 
drawdowns needs to be reflected in what it does to put things right going forward. 
Thinking about this, and the fact the reasons why Drafty has already agreed to uphold the 
complaint at the point the adjudicator recommended, Ive outlined below what Drafty needs 
to do in order to put things right for Mr M. 
Putting things right
If Drafty has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so and then take 
the following steps. If Drafty isnt able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
In order to put things right Drafty should do the following: 
Re-work Mr Ms credit facility balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied 
from 28 June 2019 onwards are removed. 
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the credit facility once these adjustments have 
been made Drafty should contact Mr M to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. 
If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Ms credit file, it 
should backdate this to June 2019.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mr M, along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after all adjustments have been made, then Drafty should remove any 
adverse information from Mr Ms credit file.*.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons given above I partly uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty should put things right for Mr M as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman