DRN-3870193
The complaint
Mrs P complains Amtrust Europe Limited has unfairly declined a claim for trespass on a 
legal expenses insurance policy.  
Mr P is a joint policy holder but as Mrs P has dealt with the claim and complaint, for ease I 
will only refer to her below. 
Amtrust are the underwriters of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of the agent. As Amtrust have accepted they are accountable for the actions of the 
agent, in my decision, any reference to Amtrust includes the actions of the agent.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again in 
full here. Instead, Ill focus on providing my reasons for me decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator that the complaint 
should not be upheld.  I do so for the following reasons:
The policy defines an insured event as The incident or the start of a transaction or 
series of incidents which may lead to a claim or claims being made under the terms 
of this insurance.
The trespass Mrs P reported was that of the neighbours onto her property. Here the 
very first incident of such trespass happened in 2020. That incident was not covered 
due a separate policy term which limits claims made in the first 180 days of the policy 
where continuous cover has not been held. 
Mrs P argues the incidents in 2021 and 2022 should be treated separately as they 
were by a different individual of the same family and different actions were taken on 
the property. 
While I appreciate Mrs Ps logic here. I have to have regard to the policy terms, and 
they stipulate the insured event is the start of a series of incidents. So, all incidents 
are treated as one. And in this case, it would mean the date from when the land was 
first trespassed on by the neighbours - 2020. 
I dont think it is unreasonable to treat these incidents as a series as, even Mrs P has 
acknowledged in her claim form, the trespass has been ongoing. 
Had there been a significant gap of a few years between the first and second 
incidents I may well have thought differently. However here the incidents have been 
quite regular and have happened at least yearly from what Mrs P is aware.
I dont think the fact that the first incident was by the male in the property and others 
were by the female influences my decision here. As ultimately looking at the trespass 
that took place, it is reasonably clear the incidents are linked and those in the 
neighbouring property are using/encroaching on Mrs Ps property in her absence. 
Had the individual been from a different property or completely unrelated to the 
neighbouring residence again, I may have thought differently. 
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. I think Amtrust has fairly applied the 
policy terms and acted reasonably in declining the claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint against Amtrust Europe 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman