DRN-3288821
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as V, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) closed its account and terminated a Bounce Back Loan unfairly.
Vs director, Mr F, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
V opened an account with NatWest in July 2020 and successfully applied to the bank for a 
Bounce Back Loan, drawing down a loan of £50,000 on 27 July.
NatWest began a review of Vs account on 5 October 2020. It applied a restriction to the 
account while it did so, limiting Mr Fs access to it.
Following the review, NatWest decided to close Vs account. The bank wrote to V on 
6 October to advise that the account would be closed in seven days time. The restriction 
remained in place.
At the time, the account had a credit balance of just under £27,000. Mr F completed a form 
to request that the balance be transferred to another account. But NatWest declined the 
request and retained the funds. 
NatWest subsequently terminated Vs Bounce Back Loan facility and wrote to the company 
on 10 February 2021 to confirm this. It said that the loan had been defaulted and needed to 
be repaid immediately. It used the funds within Vs account to reduce the amount owed, 
leaving an outstanding balance of around £23,000.
Mr F doesnt think NatWest treated V fairly. He says that V was eligible for the Bounce Back 
Loan. While he accepts NatWests entitlement to close the companys account, he doesnt 
think it was allowed to withhold the loan funds that remained in the account and wants the 
bank to return them.
NatWest says it ended its banking relationship with V after a full review and closed the 
companys accounts  including the Bounce Back Loan facility  in line with the applicable 
terms and conditions.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said, in summary, that 
NatWests actions had been taken in line with the relevant terms and conditions and were 
justified in the circumstances. So she didnt think the bank needed to return the account 
balance as Mr F had requested, with these funds having been utilised to reduce the 
outstanding loan balance when it became due. 
Mr F didnt accept our investigators view. He still didnt think that NatWest had the right to 
withhold Vs funds in the way it had, particularly as they were derived from the government-
backed Bounce Back Loan and as the bank hadnt explained the reasons for its actions. So 
he asked that an ombudsman review the matter and the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly 
similar reasons. Ill explain why.
NatWest has a number of legal and regulatory obligations to meet in providing banking 
services to its customers. Banks are required to keep accounts and their use under review, 
and may need to suspend access or services in order to do so. 
The terms and conditions of Vs account allowed NatWest to restrict its services in certain 
circumstances. Having reviewed the basis of NatWests decision to review and restrict Vs 
account, Im satisfied that it did so in order to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations 
as well as its requirements under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. So I dont think the bank 
did anything wrong in restricting Vs account while it conducted its review in October 2020.
Following the review, NatWest decided to withdraw its services from V. That was a decision 
it was entitled to make. The terms and conditions allowed the bank to close the companys 
account immediately in certain circumstances. I think this was reasonable in light of the 
findings of the banks review (although the bank opted to give V seven days notice of the 
closure rather than process it immediately).
NatWests review also led it to terminate Vs Bounce Back Loan facility. Again, the terms and 
conditions of the loan allowed the bank to cancel the facility and demand immediate 
repayment of the loan in certain circumstances. Im satisfied that it was reasonable for the 
bank to do so here, in light of the findings of its review. 
Mr F is particularly unhappy that in light of the termination, NatWest applied the funds held 
within Vs account to pay down the balance owing on the Bounce Back Loan account. But 
the terms and conditions of the loan gave NatWest the right of set-off  that is, it could use 
money held in any of Vs accounts to repay any amounts that the company owed the bank. 
That was also provided for within the terms and conditions of Vs account. So I dont think 
NatWest did anything wrong in this respect either.
Its regrettable that there was something of a delay in NatWest confirming and actioning the 
set-off. Mr F had completed a form to request the release of the funds, to which he doesnt 
seem to have received a prompt response. But once he raised a complaint about the banks 
refusal to release the account balance, the correct position was confirmed to him. And 
ultimately, I dont think this prejudiced Vs position  as for the reasons Ive explained, 
NatWest was always entitled to retain the funds and apply them to the loan balance in the 
way it did.
I appreciate why Mr F wants to know the reasons for NatWests actions and that, without 
them, the situation is hard to accept. But the bank isnt required to provide any more detail 
than it has and I cant fairly require it to do so. All I can do is reassure Mr F that I have 
examined the basis on which NatWest made its decisions and am satisfied that it had 
reasonable grounds to take the steps it did.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman