DRN-2496621
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) will not pay for the loss of Mr 
Ws watch under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W phoned Aviva in October 2019 to say that hed lost his watch. Mr and Mrs W had been 
searching everywhere for it after realising that it wasnt in their home security box where it 
was usually kept. Mr and Mrs W couldnt explain how or when it had gone missing. It was of 
great sentimental value and Mr W didnt wear it very often, other than on special or formal 
occasions.
The last time Mr W knew that he had warn his watch was at the funeral of his close friend, 
which took place in November 2016.
Avivas final position, in summary, was that because Mr W couldnt confirm how and when 
the watch had been lost, it didnt think that the policy covered what had happened. Aviva 
was also concerned that Mr and Mrs W hadnt reported the loss to the Police as soon as 
they realised that the watch was missing.
Our Investigator upheld the complaint. He looked into the matter and concluded; I think its 
fair and reasonable to expect any claim to be based on when Mr W last saw and used the 
wrist watch. And I think his claim for loss should be processed by his insurer (Aviva) at the 
time he last wore and saw the watch. He also didnt think it would be reasonable for Aviva to 
decline the claim due to a failure by Mr and Mrs W to carry out the procedural step of 
obtaining a police report and thought this would only be relevant if a crime had occurred.
Aviva didnt accept the Investigators view as it considered that it was based on an 
assumption and also because it considered that Mr W would surely have known that his 
watch was missing when he went to take it off to put it away and that there was no evidence 
to suggest that he lost the watch in 2016 if he was so meticulous in putting it away.
The matter has now been passed to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, as some of it is here, I must reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities; that is, what I consider is most likely to have 
happened, in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
To determine the complaint, I need to decide whether Mr W owned the watch and if so, 
whether he lost it in circumstances covered by the policy.
Aviva do not dispute that Mr W owned the watch. Its clearly an item of great sentimental 
value to Mr W, although not of great monetary value. It was given to him by his mother on 
his 18th birthday and is precious to him, so he only takes it out of the home security box on 
very rare occasions such as his wedding and the funeral of his close friend in 2016. I am 
satisfied on the balance of probabilities as to Mr Ws highly personal account of his 
ownership and infrequent use of his watch.
As to the circumstances and timing of the loss, this is more finely balanced. I understand 
Avivas concern that the loss could, in theory, have taken place at any time between 
November 2016 and October 2019 when Mr W first realised that the watch was missing. Mr 
and Mrs Ws policy was in force from September 2015 to the end of August 2018.
Avivas policy has the following terms and conditions; it states that it is the responsibility of 
the policy-holder to prove any loss and to provide relevant evidence when making a claim 
and makes it clear that it doesnt cover every eventuality. It also provides that policy-holders 
must take care of their property and must take all reasonable precautions to prevent loss. 
Finally, it states that as soon as the policy-holder becomes aware of an event that is likely to 
lead to a claim, they must tell the Police immediately about any property which has been 
lost.
Avivas final response to Mr and Mrs W was that; we cannot accept the last time you 
remember wearing the watch as the lost date, this is not acceptable nor definitive and there 
is every probability that the watch could have been lost any time between  November 2016 
which is when you last wore the watch to October 2019 when you discovered the loss and 
reported it.
Mr and Mrs W have been extremely candid in explaining the circumstances of their loss. 
They only realised that the watch was missing when they opened their home security box in 
October 2019. Mr W is clear that the last time he recalls wearing the watch was at his 
friends funeral on a specific date in November 2016. The events were a blur. He cannot be 
100% certain that he placed the watch back in the home security box following the funeral.
I appreciate that the wording of Mr and Mrs Ws policy means that loss of a watch is not 
necessarily covered in every case. On the balance of probabilities in this case however, I am 
of the view that it is probable that Mr Ws watch was lost on, or soon after, the relevant date 
in November 2016. The funeral of Mr Ws best friend would have been a traumatic and 
significant event. The death had been sudden and had happened abroad. Its 
understandable therefore that, although the date would have been memorable, surrounding 
events would have been a blur for Mr W and that he may not have immediately returned the 
watch to the home security box. 
In addition, Mr W wore his watch so infrequently and only at memorable events, that it would 
have been highly unlikely for him to have lost his watch at an event subsequent to that of 
November 2016. It would have been a reasonable assumption for Mr and Mrs W to make, 
that the watch was safe in its box up until the date that the loss was discovered.
The policy terms requiring provision of relevant evidence mean that we would normally 
expect the policy-holder to provide written or documentary evidence of loss. It would not 
have been possible to provide documentary evidence of loss in 2016 however in these 
circumstances. Evidence does also include what Mr and Mrs W say about the loss and their 
open, consistent and candid admissions mean that I am inclined to accept that evidence.
The policy also requires the policy-holder to take care of their property. Avivas home 
insurance policy does nevertheless provide cover for loss, which implies that it is not always 
fair and reasonable to decline cover when a policy-holder has simply misplaced, or 
accidently thrown away valuable items. In the specific circumstances of this case, I dont consider that it would be fair and reasonable for Aviva to decline to cover loss of a cherished 
item which was only removed from its home security box on rare occasions and was lost at, 
or following, a traumatic event in Mr Ws life.
Finally, as regards the term of the policy which required an event to be reported to the Police 
on discovery, I dont consider that its fair or reasonable for Aviva to rely on this here. As the 
Investigator states, this is a procedural requirement which would have been an unnecessary 
step in the current circumstances. There was no reason to suspect that any theft had taken 
place and the loss was likely to have occurred on or soon after the relevant date in 
November 2016, in which case, a report to the Police in 2019 would have been too late.
In conclusion, I consider that the watch has been lost accidently in circumstances which 
although unknown, are covered by Mr and Mrs Ws insurance policy on the balance of 
probabilities.
 My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this claim.
I consider that Aviva must;
- Deal with Mr and Mrs Ws claim, up to the single article limit for unspecified personal 
belongings.
- Add interest, at the annual rate of 8% simple to any cash amount payable, calculated 
from the date of Mr and Mrs Ws claim to the date of settlement
- If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs W how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr and Mrs W a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman