DRN-2866110
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained about what happened when their mortgage term was coming 
to an end in 2020. Theyre unhappy that Nationwide Building Society withdrew some of its 
lifetime mortgage range which meant they were no longer eligible for the product they were 
interested in, and that their existing mortgage was moved to the Standard Mortgage Rate 
(SMR) which led to their monthly payments increasing substantially.
What happened
In 2010 Mr and Mrs R took out a mortgage with Nationwide through a mortgage broker. The 
mortgage was taken on an interest-only basis over a ten-year term. The mortgage term was 
due to end in October 2020.
In August 2018 Mr and Mrs R did a product switch to a new preferential rate which ran until 
31 August 2020. The product information said the interest rate would then move to 
Nationwides Standard Mortgage Rate (SMR).
On 4 January 2020 Mr and Mrs R spoke to a Nationwide mortgage adviser about lifetime 
mortgages, but they didnt proceed at that time. Mr and Mrs R wanted to proceed in March 
2020 but unfortunately applications were on hold at that time due to the pandemic.
In June 2020 Nationwide reopened applications, but it had withdrawn products at the loan to 
value (LTV) Mr and Mrs R wanted, so they could only proceed if they substantially reduced 
their loan amount.
Mr and Mrs R completed a remortgage to a different lifetime mortgage provider in January 
2021.
Unhappy with what had happened, Mr and Mrs R complained to Nationwide. It didnt uphold 
their complaint.
Our investigator looked at the complaint. He said, whilst it must have been disappointing for 
Mr and Mrs R he didnt think Nationwide had done anything wrong and so he didnt uphold 
the complaint. As Mr and Mrs R didnt agree the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust the parties wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed this complaint in the way 
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill 
keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its 
not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order 
to reach the right outcome. 
I understand our investigators findings were disappointing. Its the nature of what we do that 
we generally have to find in favour of one party or the other. Our findings are based on 
consideration of all the facts and all the submissions made by both parties. We look at what 
happened and decide whether, bearing in mind any relevant law, regulations, and good 
industry practice, the lender acted fairly and reasonably. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
When Mr and Mrs R took out the mortgage, they agreed to repay the balance at the end of 
the term in October 2020. Its reasonable that Nationwide expected they do that. 
That said, Nationwide needed to give fair and reasonable consideration to any applications 
Mr and Mrs R made. And, where a borrower cant repay, Id expect Nationwide to give them 
reasonable time to make arrangements to redeem the mortgage and allow those plans to 
complete  including considering whether a term extension, or conversion to a product such 
as a lifetime mortgage, might be appropriate.
When the lifetime mortgage was originally discussed with Mr and Mrs R an application 
wasnt submitted. Mr and Mrs R have said thats because the adviser said they should hold 
back from proceeding at that time so they could save more to reduce the mortgage balance. 
That way theyd be eligible for a lower interest rate. If that was the case, that doesnt seem to 
be a bad idea, but unfortunately no-one could predict what would then happen with the 
pandemic and the country entering a lockdown. In any event, having listened to the January 
call it was left that Mr and Mrs R wanted to think about things, and they would get back to 
Nationwide  not that Nationwide recommended they didnt proceed.  If Mr and Mrs R had 
wanted to proceed in January 2020 then they could have made the decision to do so.
Unfortunately when Mr and Mrs R went back to Nationwide in March 2020 applications 
werent being taken due to the lockdown, and then when applications reopened in June 2020 
Nationwide had withdrawn the higher LTV products which meant Mr and Mrs R would need 
to make a substantial payment to their mortgage (beyond what they were able to do) to bring 
the balance down to a level that had a product available. The withdrawal of higher LTV 
products wasnt unusual at that time and was a policy decision Nationwide was entitled to 
make. Whilst it meant Mr and Mrs R were unable to proceed, I cant hold Nationwide at fault 
for that as it made a policy decision that seems reasonable bearing in mind the 
unprecedented times we were in and the lack of any certainty in the financial and property 
markets.
Mr and Mrs R have said that the exact plan they were interested in became available again a 
month after they repaid their mortgage. Theyve said this must have been in Nationwides 
plans for the future and have questioned why Nationwide didnt let them know.
The underlying product Mr and Mrs R were interested in was available in June 2020, but 
only for lower LTV mortgages. So it wasnt a matter of Nationwide making future plans to re-
release the product as a whole. Instead Nationwide (as would all lenders) would keep under 
regular review what LTV it is willing to lend to on each product, and what interest rate it can 
offer for each LTV range. Decisions like that arent made well in advance as they are reliant 
on what is happening in an ever fluctuating financial market. 
Having considered everything I dont think Nationwide did anything wrong in terms of the 
lifetime mortgage queries.Im satisfied that Nationwide gave fair and reasonable consideration to Mr and Mrs Rs 
request for a term extension, in line with its lending criteria. The rules of mortgage regulation 
require a lender to assess the affordability of a term extension, and I think Nationwides 
concerns about this were reasonable. 
Nationwide should also have considered whether or not it was in Mr and Mrs Rs best 
interests to extend the term of their existing mortgage. Ultimately, they were able to redeem 
the mortgage by remortgaging to another lender. I cant fairly say it was in Mr and Mrs Rs 
best interests for Nationwide to have extended the term for a further year or so. I say that 
because they would have continued to pay interest in the intervening period, and theres no 
guarantee whether house prices in the area will rise or fall so could have left Mr and Mrs R in 
a worse position than they were in. And I also need to bear in mind that Mr and Mrs R had 
originally committed to repay their loan in 2020.
Nationwide agreed to give Mr and Mrs R extra time to complete the remortgage, and it is 
normal for a lender to only agree to that if there is something to show a remortgage is likely 
to go through. If the remortgage needed a bit more time Ive no reason to believe Nationwide 
wouldnt have agreed to that.
Having considered everything, I think Nationwide gave fair and reasonable consideration to 
Mr and Mrs Rs request for a term extension, and it gave them the time they needed to 
complete their remortgage.
Finally, Mr and Mrs R have said that Nationwides actions in moving their mortgage to the 
SMR impacted their ability to save as the difference each month was significant. Theyve 
said Nationwide could have assisted them by allowing them to continue with the product for 
another year.
But Nationwide didnt change Mr and Mrs Rs product  the product always was:
A variable rate which is 1.09% above the Bank of England Base Rate, currently 
0.75%, for a period of 24 months , to give a current rate payable of 1.84% , which will 
not go below a floor of 1.09% for a period of 24 months. Then,
Standard Mortgage Rate, currently 4.24%, for the remaining term of the mortgage.
That was the contract that Mr and Mrs R entered into and there are no grounds for me to say 
Nationwide should have varied that. The 24 months came to an end in August 2020 and so it 
was right that Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage moved to the SMR from that point as that was the 
agreement theyd entered into. Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs R an option if the new higher 
payment wasnt affordable for them, and that was to take a Covid payment deferral. I 
understand why Mr and Mrs R didnt want to do that, but that doesnt mean Nationwide 
instead had to offer them an interest rate that they were no longer eligible for.
It is clear there were an unfortunate set of circumstances, and timing, here. But I can only 
uphold a complaint if Im satisfied a business has done something wrong. And having 
considered everything I dont think Nationwide did anything wrong here so I cant hold it 
liable for the costs Mr and Mrs R incurred, or the inconvenience they were put to.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman