DRN-2890933
The complaint
Mr I has complained, via his representative, about investment advice Santander UK Plc 
subsequently gave him between 1996 and 2002. Hes seeking compensation because he 
feels the banks recommendations werent suitable for him.
What happened
Over the course of several years, Mr I invested around £16,000 with Santander. His 
investments can be broken down as follows:
 1996 - £3,000 invested into a PEP
 1999 - £3,000 invested into a PEP
 1999 - £7,000 invested into an ISA
 2002 - £3,000 invested into an ISA
Mr I surrendered all of these investments in 2004. 
In 2019, Mr I complained to Santander, via a representative. He felt the advice Santander 
provided was unsuitable for a number of reasons. He felt the investments were too risky and 
that hed been advised to invest too much money, leaving him with insufficient cash reserves 
to afford things like holidays. 
In their response to Mr Is complaint, Santander said that it had been brought too late. I 
considered whether this complaint was in our jurisdiction and issued my decision on this 
matter on 13 October 2020. In that decision, I explained we could look into the first three 
sales, but we couldnt look at the investment sold in 2002. So, I wont be commenting on that 
investment in this decision.
Our investigator went on to consider the sale of the first three investments. They didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr I disagreed with the investigator, so the case has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres been very little point of sale information provided by either party on this case, which 
is reasonable and to be expected, given more than 20 years had passed before Mr I made 
his complaint. So I must decide the complaint based on what Ive been provided with, along 
with what I think is more likely, taking everything Ive seen into account.
Mr I has told us he received a lump sum of £50,000 a few years prior to investing. We know 
he invested initially in 1996 and then twice in 1999, and that all three of these investments 
were surrendered in 2004, having been retained for around five years or more.
To determine whether Mr I was misadvised  the complaint thats been raised  I have to 
consider a number of factors. These include Mr Is investment objectives, attitude to risk, 
capacity for loss and personal and financial circumstances. 
Mr I complains the investments were too risky for him. His representative has said Mr I was 
an inexperienced investor who was retired on a small pension and had no way of making up 
any losses. Theyve referred to a recent factsheet showing that the fund Mr I invested into in 
1996 consisted solely of equities. They say this demonstrates it was too risky for a first-time 
investor. However, Ive seen nothing to show how the fund was set up in 1996, and whilst I 
appreciate Mr I was retired, Ive also seen nothing which evidences his attitude to risk in 
either 1996 or 1999. Simply being retired doesnt determine an investors attitude to risk. And 
whilst his representative has mentioned the small pension Mr I had, and told us that he had 
a low capacity for loss at the time, Im mindful that Ive seen nothing to support either of 
these statements, or to show Mr I included this information when applying for the 
investments. I must also take into account that these recollections are from 23 to 26 years 
ago. 
I understand Mr Is representative believes that the fact Mr I didnt suffer cash flow problems 
doesnt necessarily mean he was left with a sufficient cash reserve. But equally, I have no 
evidence to suggest the opposite. Ive seen nothing about Mr Is other savings in 1996 or 
1999 and Ive been told he received a lump sum of £50,000 a few years earlier. This 
suggests Mr I had substantial money remaining from this lump sum following his first £3,000 
investment, and after his £10,000 investment in 1999 as well. The fact Mr I was willing to 
enter into new investments, left them in place for several years and didnt need to make any 
withdrawals, suggests the investments hadnt left him in a difficult financial position. On 
balance, there just isnt enough to say Mr I was advised to invest too much. 
Ive not seen enough to establish what Mr Is investment objectives were at the time of sale. 
So I cant say if he made his adviser aware of an intention to use some of his lump sum 
towards holidays. But given the size of the investments compared to the lump sum he 
received, Im not persuaded the advice was unsuitable for him if this was the case. I also 
consider it unlikely hed continue to enter into further investments if his ability to go on 
holidays was being hampered by doing so. 
Taking everything into account, I havent been provided with enough information to 
determine what Mr Is attitude to risk or capacity for loss was in 1996 or 1999. Ive seen little 
to evidence his circumstances at the time, or to show he was advised to invest too much of 
his capital. With regard to his investment objectives, the only thing I can say based on the 
fact he invested in PEPs and ISAs is that it seems likely he wanted tax efficient investments 
over the medium to long term.
When our service is unable to reach a definitive finding due to a lack of evidence, we must 
base our decisions on the balance of probabilities. Having done so here, I simply dont have 
enough to say that the advice provided to Mr I was unsuitable for him. So Im unable to 
uphold this complaint. My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022. 
Artemis Pantelides
Ombudsman