DRN-1614095
 
The complaint
Miss B complains that Nationwide Building Society allowed a payment out of her account 
after she cancelled her account card.
What happened
Miss B says she couldn't find her account card on 20 September 2019. She says she went 
online and froze her account card and was given the option to cancel her account card. Miss 
B says she then unfroze her account card and thought her account card had been cancelled. 
She says she then found out that a holiday company that she had organised a holiday with 
was still able to take payments from her account. Miss B says she had told the holiday 
company that she was unable to continue with the holiday due to personal reasons and was 
told no further payments would be taken from her account. She would like the payments of 
£620 refunded and compensation of £5,000 for the stress she was caused and says she has 
an email from October 2019 from Nationwide telling her it had ordered a new card for her 
which shows the account must have been frozen for use.
Nationwide initially said it made an error and paid £50 compensation. It then looked again at 
the complaint and says its records show Miss B froze then unfroze her account card and so 
didn't make a mistake by authorising the payments. Nationwide says it didn't send Miss B an 
e-mail telling her a new account card had been ordered until after she spoke to it on 7 
October 2019.
Miss B had brought her complaint to us and our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought Miss B had told us she froze then unfroze her account card and that matched 
Nationwide's records of what took place. The investigator didn't think Nationwide made a 
mistake by authorising the payments and didn't think there was evidence of Nationwide 
ordering a new account card until after it spoke to Miss B on 7 October 2019. 
Miss B doesn't accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for the same reasons. 
I have looked carefully at what Miss B has told us about the sequence of events on 20 
September 2019. I can see Miss B told us she froze then unfroze her account card. I have 
looked at Nationwide's records and can see that they say exactly the same - that Miss B 
froze then unfroze the account card. So I don't think Miss B cancelled or froze her account or 
account card. And in those circumstances I don't think Nationwide made a mistake by 
allowing the payments to the holiday company which I think were payments that Miss B had 
previously authorised.I don't think it likely Nationwide would have waited over two weeks to tell Miss B that it had 
ordered a new account card. And think on balance it more likely it sent Miss B a message 
about the new card after she called it on 7 October 2019.
I appreciate the difficult circumstances Miss B was dealing with at the time and no doubt she 
will consider asking the holiday company for the money back, as it appears to have agreed 
not to take further payments from her. 
Overall I'm satisfied Nationwide hasn't made a mistake, apart from telling Miss B initially that 
it had made a mistake and paying her compensation before investigating the complaint in 
detail. I'm satisfied Nationwide's records and what Miss B has told us is the same - that the 
account was not frozen on 20 September 2019.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman