DRN-2573098
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Yorkshire Building Society trading as Chelsea Building Society 
(YBS) mis-sold them a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
What happened
In 2001 Mr and Mrs A took out a PPI policy with their mortgage. The policy covered Mr A 
only and would have provided a monthly benefit of £1070. That was reduced to £810 with an 
accompanying reduction in premium before their mortgage was completed. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs As case.  
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory  as some of it is here  I make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities, that is, what I consider most likely to have happened 
given the evidence available and the wider circumstances.
Mr and Mrs A say the policy was sold to them either by post or on the phone when they were 
applying for a mortgage. Mr and Mrs A say they felt they had to take the PPI in order to help 
their mortgage application, and they didnt need it as Mr A had generous employment 
benefits and they had some savings. 
I cant know for certain what was discussed between Mr and Mrs A and YBS when they were 
discussing the mortgage and PPI. I do understand they may have been told it was in their 
best interests to get the PPI  but I cant say that in itself is wrong. And without some 
independent evidence that they were told they had to have it, I cant uphold this complaint on 
that point.
YBS has sent us the mortgage application form from 2001 which has some options for PPI  
in summary yes, no or Ive made other arrangements. The form is ticked to say Mr and 
Mrs A want it. Mr and Mrs A signed this form  and I think it contains enough information to 
show them the PPI was optional. 
YBS says that it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs A. That means it had to make sure 
it gave Mr and Mrs A enough clear information for them to decide if the PPI suited them. It 
didnt have to take into account any savings they might have had or any other circumstances 
affecting them. It was for Mr and Mrs A to decide if the policy suited them. 
Even if YBS had recommended the policy, I am satisfied the policy was suitable given Mr 
and Mrs As circumstances, because:
 
- Mr A was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions. Mrs A wasnt employed at the time, so wouldnt have been eligible. That does 
seem to indicate that they were given enough information to decide who should have the 
cover and were considering their options. 
- Mr A says he would have received some work-related benefits if he couldnt work due to 
illness or accident. But the policy would have paid out in addition to these and would do 
so, it seems, for longer. Having the policy in place would mean Mr and Mrs A could use 
their work-related benefits and savings to pay for other expenses. That might have been 
important as Mr A was the only wage earner and he and Mrs A had several children. So 
I think Mr and Mrs A would have had some use for the policy despite their existing 
arrangements.
- Mr A wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. 
As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs 
A needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations. 
- I dont know when Mr and Mrs A were initially told the cost of the policy. But I think they 
probably knew the cost before their mortgage completed  because the amount of cover 
changed before this. Ive seen nothing to suggest it was unaffordable or that the benefit 
was insufficient to meet their total monthly mortgage repayments. 
Its possible that some of the information the society gave Mr and Mrs A about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. But, on balance, I think they chose to take out the 
policy and so appear to have wanted this type of cover. As Ive already said Mr A wasnt 
affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy seems to have been 
affordable, I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs A would have made a different decision if better 
information had been provided  overall, I think they would still have taken out the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman