DRN-3717140
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that Santander didnt process their mortgage application in time 
to avoid them having to pay stamp duty. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs G applied for a mortgage with Santander through a broker. The application was 
dated 20 May 2021. In order to avoid paying stamp duty, Mr and Mrs G needed the 
mortgage to complete on or before 30 June 2021. 
Santander issued its mortgage offer on 10 June 2021. Then, on 14 June 2021 Santander 
received correspondence from Mr and Mrs Gs solicitor (dated 11 June 2021) notifying 
Santander that there was a potential issue with the title, in that it was a qualified title. 
On 20 June 2021, Santander raised a query with its valuer to establish whether this would 
be an issue in the context of its decision to lend. Santander received a response from the 
valuer on 22 June 2021, raising further queries about the title. The matter was referred back 
to the valuer on 28 June 2021 with a request for the matter to be considered urgently. 
Santander received the go ahead from the valuer at 4.13pm on 30 June, by which time it 
was too late to release funds that day. The mortgage eventually completed a number of days 
later, with Mr and Mrs G needing to pay £6,750 in stamp duty.
Mr and Mrs G complained that they had gone with Santander because although another 
lender was cheaper, they had been advised that Santanders application to offer time was 
two weeks. A speedy process was of paramount importance to them because they wanted 
to avoid needing to pay stamp duty. Mr and Mrs G said they had received assurances 
throughout that the mortgage would complete in time for them to avoid having to pay stamp 
duty. 
Santander issued a final response letter in which it apologised to Mr and Mrs Gs for what 
they had experienced but said that it didnt think it needed to pay the stamp duty amount. It 
said it had been a particularly busy time (given the stamp duty deadline) and it didnt 
consider that it had made any error. However, in acknowledgment of the stressful situation, 
Santander paid £100 into Mr and Mrs Gs account.
Mr and Mrs G remained unhappy and referred their concerns to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An investigator here reached a view on the complaint. In summary, they said that a 
number of factors can affect the timescales for a mortgage to complete and that they didnt 
think there had been any excessive delays. They thought Santander had tried to address 
things as quickly as it could. So they didnt think Santander needed to pay the £6,750 stamp 
duty figure.
However, they thought that in the course of considering Mr and Mrs Gs concerns, 
Santander had probably raised their expectations that they would end up getting the stamp 
duty amount back. They said Santander should pay Mr and Mrs G £200 for not having 
managed their expectations better.   
Mr and Mrs G were disappointed with the outcome. They re-iterated that they had only gone 
with Santander on advice from their broker that Santanders timescales were slightly better 
than other lenders. They said they understood the timescales werent excessive but still 
thought that Santander should be held more to blame for what had happened. 
Santander agreed to pay the £200 to resolve the complaint. However, Mr and Mrs G 
remained unhappy and so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusion as that reached by the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs G but I hope that my explanation helps them to understand 
how Ive reached the conclusion I have.
Before I explain why, I want to set out my role as an ombudsman. It isnt to address every 
single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and reasonable given 
the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to what I 
think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and my reasons for reaching 
them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, I will continue to keep in 
mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to this complaint, when 
doing that.
There are two fundamental issues to decide here:
- Does Santander need to pay Mr and Mrs G the stamp duty amount?
- What level of compensation (if any) does Santander need to pay Mr and Mrs G, 
given all that happened?
The stamp duty amount
First, I can completely understand why Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that they ended up 
needing to pay stamp duty. Anyone in their situation would be disappointed and frustrated. 
However, in order to conclude that it would be fair and reasonable for Santander to pay 
Mr and Mrs G the stamp duty amount, I would either need to see that Santander had 
guaranteed that the mortgage would complete on or before 30 June 2021, or that it was 
solely or at least mainly responsible for the mortgage not completing on time. 
On the first point, I cannot see that Santander provided any such guarantee. I appreciate 
that Mr and Mrs G have said they went with Santander because theyd been advised its 
timescales were better than other lenders. Also that Santander assured them along the way 
that the mortgage would likely complete on time. However, neither of these things represents 
a guarantee. 
On the second point, there are a number of things that can slow down completion of a 
mortgage, which is why the timing cant be guaranteed. I cant see there were any 
unreasonable delays on Santanders part. It seems to me that the main reason the mortgage 
didnt complete on or before 30 June 2021 was the issue with the title becoming apparent. 
Santander wouldnt have known there was going to be such an issue and it was reasonable 
of it to want to check this with its valuer. For this reason, whilst I have sympathy for the situation Mr and Mrs G find themselves in and 
appreciate they feel very strongly about the situation, I cannot reasonably say that 
Santander needs to pay them the stamp duty amount.
Compensation
Santander paid Mr and Mrs G £100 to acknowledge it had been a stressful situation. The 
investigator recommended that Santander pay an additional £200 for not managing 
Mr and Mrs Gs expectations as it should  in that it led them to believe they may well get the 
stamp duty amount back. 
There is no recording of the call available between Mr and Mrs G and Santanders 
representative where Mr and Mrs G raised their concerns about what happened. I note that 
Santanders final response letter indicates that its representative did think there were 
grounds to consider giving Mr and Mrs G a refund of the stamp duty amount. But that, after 
this had been escalated within Santander, no refund would be provided. 
Bearing this in mind, I find Mr and Mrs Gs testimony that they were told they had a strong 
case to get the money back to be plausible and persuasive. Bearing in mind the loss of 
expectation from this and that Mr and Mrs G may well have been told along the way that it 
was likely the mortgage would complete on time, I consider that £300 does represent a fair 
amount of compensation. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Santander needs to pay Mr and Mrs G a total of £300 in compensation. It 
appears it has already paid £100, in which case it needs to pay Mr and Mrs G an additional 
£200 (if it hasnt already done so).
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint about Santander UK Plc and I 
direct it to do what Ive said above under putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman