DRN-2123673
The complaint
Mr M says Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold him and the late Mrs M a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out the PPI policy in 1988 in a meeting at the same time as they applied 
for a mortgage. The policy gave them accident, sickness and unemployment cover. They 
paid a monthly amount for it. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Bradford & Bingley had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs M that the PPI was optional, and they 
had to agree to take it out. Mr M says they were told they had to have PPI to get the 
mortgage. I cant know what was said in the meeting as there are no meeting notes or 
records, but I have looked at the available paperwork. 
The mortgage application form that Mr and Mrs M signed shows they indicated that they 
wanted PPI. They selected accident, sickness and unemployment protection and £250 of 
monthly cover. In the same section of the form there was the option to decline PPI. It read If 
cover is NOT required, please indicate with a cross in the box.  The letter sent with their 
mortgage offer said, I am very pleased to see that you have decided to opt for Payment 
Protection Insurance. This also suggests to me it had been presented to them as optional.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ms comments, but I also have to take into account how long 
ago the sale was and how that might affect what he recalls. Overall, I think the balance of 
evidence shows Bradford & Bingley made it clear PPI was optional  and Mr and Mrs M 
chose to take it out.
 
Bradford & Bingley didnt recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs M so it didnt have to check it 
was right for them. But it had to give them enough information so they could make an 
informed decision about whether they wanted to buy it.
Its possible the information Bradford & Bingley gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been. But I dont think they wouldve been put off taking out the policy 
if theyd received better information. I say this because:
They were eligible for the policy given their circumstances at the time and the policys 
terms and conditions.
Neither Mr M nor Mrs M were affected by any of the things, such as a pre-existing 
medical condition or type of employment, which limited the policys main benefits. As 
they couldve benefitted from the full extent of the cover, I think it unlikely they 
needed better information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Mr M says they were entitled to full sick pay, he hasnt said for how long, but I think 
its unlikely to have been for more than 12 months. This PPI would have paid out in 
addition to this, and at the time of the sale it offered accident and sickness cover for 
an unlimited period of time. It also gave them up to 24 months redundancy cover. 
Mr M said they had savings, but the PPI would have meant they could use them to 
cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep them intact for their future 
needs. Mr M also said they had two salaries so one could always cover their 
mortgage repayments. But they would have had all their other living expenses to 
cover, so this may not have been sustainable over the medium- or long-term. 
Mr and Mrs M were borrowing a large sum of money over a long period secured 
against their home. The impact of missing repayments would have been significant 
for them. So I think the PPI wouldve been useful for Mr and Mrs M they were sick, 
had an accident or lost their job(s).
I dont know when during the sale the cost of the policy was made clear. But it was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. Mr Ms representative has queried the 
cost we are using (£12.50) sending in a document that lists a monthly premium of 
£53.60. But that does not relate to this PPI policy. It seems to be a life assurance 
policy.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs M have lost out because of any problems with this sale.
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and the 
estate of Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman