DRN-4049967
The complaint
Ms T says Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) didnt fully investigate the 
claim she made on her motor insurance policy and made the wrong liability decision.
What Happened
Ms T and another driver were involved in an accident on a roundabout. Both drivers were 
insured by LV and each driver blamed the other for causing the accident by changing lanes. 
There was no independent evidence and LVs engineer couldnt tell from the damage to the 
cars which driver caused the accident. So LV decided that liability should be split 50:50 
Ms T didnt accept that decision. She got an opinion from another engineer (engineer B) 
who concluded that Ms T wasnt at fault. LVs engineer noted that engineer B had based his 
conclusions mostly on the damage to the front of the other drivers car. But LV could show 
that the damage was pre-existing. The new accident damage was to the rear of his car. 
LV didnt change its view, so Ms T complained to us. One of our investigators reviewed her 
complaint. She thought LV had acted reasonably in investigating the accident and in 
reaching its decision. She noted that Ms T had provided a lot of evidence to LV by submitting 
many photos and by giving it a detailed account of events. The investigator passed the  
other drivers brief version of events to Ms T, who then got a further opinion from engineer B. 
He said his view hadnt changed. As the investigator didnt change her view either, the 
complaint was passed to me for review, at Ms Ts request.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read all the documents in the file and have considered the points made by LV 
and by Ms T, I wont be commenting on all of them. Ill concentrate on the issues I think are 
central to the complaint.
As the investigator has pointed out, we dont decide which driver was responsible for an 
accident. We look at whether the insurer acted reasonably in reviewing the facts and that it  
reached a reasonable conclusion. I know Ms T thinks its significant that LV insured both 
cars. She thinks it wouldnt have settled the claim as it did if the other driver had been 
insured elsewhere. But LV wouldnt have challenged another insurer unless it thought it had 
evidence that showed Ms T wasnt at fault. It doesnt think it has such evidence, so I think it 
would have proposed splitting liability even if another insurer had been involved.
LV concluded that it couldnt determine who caused the accident due to the lack of 
independent evidence. Although Ms T believes she wasnt at fault, the other driver is sure 
that she was. So that driver may be just as upset as Ms T about the split liability decision.
I think LV carried out a reasonable investigation. It considered Ms Ts version of events and 
looked at her photos. It didnt think they were of much help, as they didnt show the position 
of the cars at the time of the accident, or show which car changed lanes. It also considered 
the other drivers account of the accident. Although his account was brief, the circumstances 
werent complicated  and  an advisor spoke to him about it anyway. LV also contacted the 
local council and the police, but there was no CCTV footage of the incident. Neither Ms T nor 
the other driver had dashcam evidence, and there were no independent witnesses. 
Sometimes, the damage sustained by cars in an accident can show whats more likely than 
not to have happened, which is why LV asked its engineer to comment on it and why Ms T 
got an opinion from another engineer. LVs engineer didnt think the damage showed what 
had happened, but LV considered engineer Bs opinion as well. Initially he thought the 
damage to the front of the other drivers car showed that it had moved at an angle across the 
front of Ms Ts car  which he thought proved the other driver crossed her path - but the 
damage he referred to was unrelated to the accident. 
After that was pointed out, engineer B didnt change his mind. He said the other driver had a 
duty to ensure it was safe to change lanes  although he accepted that he didnt know where 
the other drivers car was before or at the point of the accident. I think it was reasonable for 
LV to rely on the opinion of its own engineer, given that engineer Bs view was partly based 
on the wrong facts. And I dont think its decision to split liability for the accident was out of 
line with the available evidence or that it treated Ms T unfairly.   
We review each case on its own particular facts. But as Ms T told the investigator that she 
thought one of our previous decisions may support her complaint, Ive had a look at it. There 
are obvious similarities between that case and this one, but there are also significant 
differences between them. In my opinion, that means the cases arent comparable.  
I know Ms T wont be happy with my decision. I can understand her frustration, as she may 
not have caused the accident. But she isnt able to show thats the case, and I cant uphold 
her complaint unless I think LV acted unreasonably. In my opinion, it carried out a 
reasonable investigation and arrived at a reasonable conclusion. But it remains open to Ms T 
to take legal action should she wish to pursue the matter further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Ms T to accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman