DRN-4141760
The complaint
Mr E has complained that Monzo Bank Ltd unreasonable refused to refund him three 
payments he didnt recognise on his bank account.
What happened
Mr E was away for the weekend. He said on Tuesday 20 September 2022 he logged into his 
phone and his Monzo banking app and found there were three payments made on Sunday 
18 September totalling £321, to a vape merchant which he hadnt done. He said he 
immediately reported them to Monzo.
Monzo confirmed the only information required to do these transactions was the long card 
number for Mr Es card plus the CVV on the back of the card. Monzo also showed the IP 
address for these transactions originated in Holland.
 
Monzo said that because Mr Es account had received a transfer of £300 shortly before 
these disputed transactions, this meant the transactions were facilitated. And Mr E would 
have received notifications on his phone for each of the transactions. It later said Mr E would 
have had to approve each transaction.
 
Mr E said he away for the weekend for an anniversary with his girlfriend. He was in bed on 
the night the transactions were done, and he had switched off his phone notifications. 
Therefore, he didnt approve any of transactions. Further his father transfers money into his 
account on regular basis. So, the transfers of £300 or thereabouts is a regular transaction on 
his account and were not to facilitate these disputed transactions. Mr E also confirmed he 
does not vape. 
Given Monzo refused to uphold his complaint, Mr E brought his complaint to us. The 
investigator was also of the view his complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
As Mr E didnt agree his complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 May and I said the following:
The rules which govern these transactions are in the Payment Services Regulations 
(PSRs). Monzo is required to refund any authorised payments. 
First it is clear from Mr Es bank statements that Mr E was away in another city in the 
UK at the time the transactions occurred. He was not in Holland. The time of these 
three transactions were all between 9.30pm and 10pm from an IP address in 
Holland. 
Monzo initially said the payments were frictionless merely requiring the card number 
and the CCV on the back of the card. There is no evidence that Monzo sent any 
notifications to Mr Es phone for him to approve on his app before the payments were 
made, and there is no evidence that the payments had to be approved by Mr E in 
order to go through. So, I think Monzo has now confused itself over how these 
payments were made. 
Mr E made contact with the vape merchant who couldnt give him all the relevant 
information given data protection laws, most especially the delivery address. It is not 
for this service or indeed Mr E to make contact with merchants in this way it is for 
Monzo to do, given its duty to investigate such disputed transactions fairly and 
properly. For some inexplicable reason Monzo refused to do this, I dont find that is 
reasonable. 
Mr E was able to find out his card was used detailing his old address from which he 
moved around six months before these transactions. But he wasnt permitted the 
details of the delivery address. Mr E also found that the transactions were left in the 
basket of the online order system of this merchant for some time too. I consider it 
would have been beneficial for Monzo to have contacted the merchant based on this 
information that Mr E found out. Also, Monzo should have done this as a matter of 
course in its investigations.
Mr Es bank statements show regular payments into his account of £200 or £300 at 
time. Mr E said he asks his father to do these transfers as required for his daily living 
expenses. This is how Mr E uses this account. Therefore, I consider its not at all 
relevant that Mr Es account was running low on Sunday 18 September and then 
received a payment in of £300 which was merely to facilitate these disputed 
transactions as Monzo believes. Given the usual movement of funds as shown in Mr 
Es statements, this is normal for Mr Es account. So, its not appropriate in my view 
for Monzo to have decided the payment in of £300 was solely to facilitate these 
disputed transactions. 
It seems more than likely the disputed transactions simply required the card details 
and used a known (albeit former) address for the card. Mr E is adamant no one else 
had or knew his card details or indeed knew the passcodes for his phone or his 
banking app with Monzo.  Therefore, its not outside the bounds of possibility that his 
card details were stolen and used fraudulently. 
I dont consider there is enough evidence produced by Monzo to show Mr E 
authorised, consented to and authenticated these payments as required under the 
PSRs. More so given its failure to contact the merchant. Therefore, I consider Monzo 
should now refund these disputed transactions with interest. 
I also consider Monzos approach to its investigations caused Mr E some 
considerable distress and frustration. More so given the trouble Mr E went to in 
contacting the merchant who couldnt help as much as it wanted to, given data 
protection laws.  Accordingly, I consider Monzo should now pay Mr E the sum £150 
compensation.
Both parties agreed with my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again and given the agreement of both parties I see no reason to change 
my decision. My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
I now require Monzo Bank Ltd to do the following:
Refund Mr E the total sum of the disputed transactions in the sum of £351.
Add simple interest of 8% per year from the date of these transactions to the date of 
its refund. If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate 
documentation should be provided to Mr E for HMRC purposes.
Pay Mr E the sum of £150 compensation for the distress it caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman