DRN-2619593
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) should return the fees he paid for a
packaged bank account following a product migration in December 2015.
What happened
I have previously issued a provisional decision regarding this complaint. The following
represents excerpts from my provisional decision, outlining the background to this complaint
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my provisional conclusions are as follows:
Barclays has accepted it mis-sold the original First Additions account in 2006 and paid 
redress following Mr Ws complaint that he didnt speak English at the time and didnt 
realise he could have chosen a fee free account.
But Barclays has provided evidence that since 2006, it has had multiple verbal and 
written interactions with Mr W, where Mr Ws ability to understand English doesnt 
appear to have been an issue.
Mr W has also taken out multiple other complex financial products with Barclays over 
the years from 2006 to the Tech pack sale in 2015, and his ability to read and speak 
English doesnt seem to be a hindrance with these sales.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr Ws ability to understand English was good 
enough in 2105 to understand any letters that Barclays sent him.
Ive looked at the letters which Mr W received, and, in my view, it is clear he can opt out of a 
fee paid account and have a fee free account if he wishes. The letters are correctly
addressed, and I think its more likely than not that he received at least one of them.
So, I think Mr W knew he had a choice whether to take out the Tech pack and he chose to
do so.
The letters contain relevant information about the price and key benefits of the tech pack. I 
have no evidence that the tech pack was unsuitable for Mr W. Ive noted that his bank 
statements showed he was paying a substantial monthly charge for a mobile phone. Once 
he had taken out the tech pack it was up to him to arrange to make use of the benefits.
So, I dont think its fair to tell Barclays to return Mr Ws monthly account fees after he took
out the tech pack in December 2015.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, neither party had anything further to add. So, my
conclusions remain as outlined in my provisional findings above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman