DRN-1428657
Complaint
Mr D says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr D bought the policy in 2002, at the same time as taking out a credit card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ds case.
Having done that, I have not found that this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr Ds credit card application had a box he could tick if he wanted PPI, or which could be left 
blank if he didnt want it. It pointed him to details of the main features on the back, so he 
could read about what it was. Mr D ticked the box for PPI, and signed the application to 
confirm his choices. He returned it by post in his own time, without any pressure from a 
salesperson. The form also offered a different type of protection just below the PPI, but Mr D 
didnt choose that one, so it looks like he knew he didnt have to take all the extras  he just 
chose PPI in particular. Overall, I think its most likely that Barclays made Mr D aware he had 
a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time  though I can 
understand if he no longer remembers doing so after so many years.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D, so they didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. They did have to give Mr D enough information to decide if the PPI was right for him.
Its possible that the information Barclays gave Mr D about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. Here, even if Mr D cancelled it some time later, he did choose to take out 
the policy at the sale, which indicates he wanted this type of cover at the time. Based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances, it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the policys 
main exclusions or limitations. And it wouldve paid out on top of his work benefits and 
offered him more comprehensive cover. So the policy could have been useful for Mr D in 
case something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr D could 
cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI 
was likely to have put him off taking it out.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman