DRN-3041035
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained that HDI Global SE unfairly cancelled their restaurant 
insurance policy and declined their claim for damage caused by a water leak. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P own premises that were used as a restaurant with staff accommodation 
above.
Trading ceased in late March 2020 as a result of the first lockdown measures and the staff 
accommodation became empty. The restaurant didnt reopen. Mrs P said they always 
planned to reopen but didnt do so in 2020 as it wasnt viable with government restrictions at 
that time. While the restaurant was closed, they redecorated it and removed the commercial 
kitchen. 
In July 2020 Mr and Mrs P applied for planning permission to turn the site into residential 
properties and that planning application was approved in September 2020.
On 11 January 2021 Mr and Mrs P made a claim to HDI after a burst pipe in the loft caused 
serious water damage.
After investigation HDI declined the claim and cancelled the policy. It said at some point 
after March 2020 the risk had materially changed from when the policy started in January 
2020. That was because after March 2020 the entire commercial kitchen had been stripped 
out and as at January 2021 hadnt been replaced with no plans in place to replace it. Also 
in July 2020 planning permission had been obtained to convert the restaurant into 
residential accommodation. It said the cancellation would take effect from when the kitchen 
was removed and in the absence of information about what date that was, from 1 July 
2020. 
Mr and Mrs P brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She 
didnt think HDI had acted unfairly in cancelling the policy.
As Mr and Mrs P didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like most insurance policies Mr and Mrs Ps policy says that the policyholder has an 
ongoing duty to disclose any change in circumstances during the policy term. And that HDI 
may cancel the policy altogether based on the new circumstances. Its good practice for an 
insurer to highlight this sort of term at the start of the policy and make sure they clearly set 
out the changes they do want to know about. I think HDI did that in this case. It said:
Alteration
This Policy shall cease to be in force from the date of the alteration if 
 the Business is wound up or carried on by a liquidator or receiver or permanently 
discontinued or
 the Premises become Unoccupied
unless the Insurer has agreed in writing to accept such alteration.
The policy defines Unoccupied as Any Building or part of any Building which is empty or 
not in use by the Insured or any tenant of the Insured for more than 30 consecutive days.
The sort of changes HDI was concerned about are in my view fundamental to the nature 
of the risk insured. It was a restaurant policy and so if the premises were no longer being 
used for that purpose, that would change the nature of the risk materially. Similarly a 
property unoccupied for more than 30 days at a time is a very different proposition to an 
insurer (especially in terms of the risk of an escape of water) from an occupied one. So I 
think its understandable that HDI wanted to be informed of such changes.
Mr and Mrs P deny that the restaurant business had been permanently discontinued. It 
closed in March 2020 because of lockdown restrictions. Mr and Mrs P say they always 
planned to reopen the restaurant. However, I dont think it was unreasonable for HDI to say 
that the restaurant business had been permanently discontinued for the following reasons:
the restaurant didnt reopen when the lockdown restrictions were lifted.
in summer 2020 the kitchen was stripped and all commercial kitchen fittings and 
contents removed.
In July 2020 Mr and Mrs P applied for planning permission for the conversion of 
former restaurant into residential use. Planning permission was granted in September 
2020.
The restaurant business had been marketed for sale for some time prior to the 
application for planning permission.
Mr and Mrs P havent been able to show that a replacement kitchen or equipment was 
on order or that any other steps had been taken which would indicate an intention to 
reopen the restaurant.
Ive looked at what HDI would have done if it had been aware of the change. Its underwriter 
has confirmed that if Mr and Mrs P had told them the restaurant had closed other than due to 
lockdown restrictions, HDI would have withdrawn cover. Its also confirmed that the property 
wouldnt have been eligible for any cover with it. That being the case, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for HDI to rely on this term of the policy to cancel it. In the absence of any 
other date having been provided by Mr and Mrs P for the removal of the kitchen, I also dont 
think it was unreasonable for HDI to treat the restaurant business as having been 
discontinued from around the date planning permission was applied for a change of use. 
Since no cover was in force at the time of the water leak, I think it follows that HDI didnt treat 
Mr and Mrs P unfairly by declining their claim.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman