DRN-2663108
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) stopped a cheque it sent 
him to refund litigation costs it had applied to his mortgage account.
What happened
In 2011 Halifax commenced court proceedings against Mr S in connection with his 
mortgage. Halifax applied the solicitors and court fees it incurred as a result of the 
proceedings to Mr Ss mortgage account. Halifax subsequently sold Mr Ss property. The 
proceeds of sale were less than the amount outstanding on the mortgage so there was a 
shortfall.
In March 2020 Halifax wrote to Mr S saying it had identified that litigation fees may have 
been inappropriately charged to some customers. It sent Mr S a cheque for a refund of the 
litigation costs that had been applied to his mortgage plus interest. Mr S paid the cheque into 
his bank account but it had been stopped by Halifax and he didnt receive the refund.
Mr S complained to Halifax. It apologised and said it should never have sent the cheque to 
him because the refund should have been applied against the shortfall. It paid Mr S £300 to 
compensate him for the inconvenience hed suffered.
Mr S wasnt happy with Halifaxs response and referred his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They thought Halifax had 
made an error by sending Mr S a cheque but they thought the amount Halifax had paid him 
in compensation was fair and reasonable.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators recommendation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax had applied the litigation costs to Mr Ss mortgage account so he hadnt paid the 
costs himself. The mortgage hasnt been repaid in full and theres a shortfall outstanding 
which includes the litigation costs. Im satisfied it was reasonable for Halifax to set off the 
refund against the shortfall as this put Mr S in the same position he would have been in if the 
costs had never been applied to the mortgage.
Halifax clearly made an error when it sent Mr S a cheque for the refund. But this didnt 
disadvantage Mr S, financially, because he wasnt entitled to receive the refund, directly. I 
think £300 is a reasonable amount of compensation for the trouble and upset he suffered 
and I wont require Halifax to pay more than that.
I should add that this decision is limited to Mr Ss complaint about Halifax sending him a 
cheque, in error. Mr S has made other complaints against Halifax, some of which remain 
outstanding and will be dealt with separately.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. I make no award 
against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Charles Bacon
Ombudsman