DRN-1110958
The complaint
Miss R says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold her payment protection 
insurance alongside a credit card.
What happened
Miss R applied for a credit card in July 2007 and at the same time Halifax sold her a PPI 
policy. The cost of the PPI was charged to the credit card, so she'd pay this extra cost with 
interest in line with the terms and conditions of the account. The policy would pay 10% of the 
outstanding balance each month for up to 12 months if Miss R lost her job or was off work 
sick.
Miss R says the policy was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, but didn't think the complaint should be upheld. 
Miss R didn't agree with the adjudicator. The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to the sale of PPI is set out on our website, and I've taken this into account 
when considering Miss R's complaint.
I've decided not to uphold the complaint. I'll explain why.
I've first considered whether Miss R had a choice to buy this policy and knew it was optional.
Miss R says she didn't decide to take out the policy - she says she was pressured into 
having PPI as it was implied without it there would be no finance. She says she didn't know 
the PPI was optional and could have been refused. And she says she was falsely led to 
believe that this product was mandatory. So I've thought about what Miss R has said 
alongside the other information I've seen about the sale.
Halifax has sent us a copy of the credit card agreement. I see this had a separate section 
Miss R needed to complete if she wanted PPI:
 There's a box next to the statement "I wish to purchase Credit Card Repayments 
Cover". This box is ticked. 
 There is a box beneath this saying "I wish to purchase Card Care". (This is a different 
product). This box is not ticked. 
 
 Finally, the box includes the statement "I understand that I am purchasing the 
product above on credit provided by you and that the terms relating to the credit for the products can be found in conditions 1 to 4 in this agreement." Miss R has 
signed immediately below this statement.
I also see that other paperwork from around the time described the policy as optional - in 
particular the demands and needs statement, which says that, based on what Miss R has 
told the advisor, the advisor was "recommending you to take out the optional Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI) policy".
Miss R says she felt pressured into buying the policy. I don't doubt that what Miss R has told 
me is her honest recollection of what happened. But I'm also mindful that the advisor 
recommended Miss R buy this product - and so I think it's likely the advisor told Miss R it 
was something she needed. Having weighed up all the information I've seen, I think it's most 
likely that Miss R knew she had a choice about buying the policy - and chose to buy it.
Halifax recommended the policy, so it had to make sure it was right for Miss R. I can't be 
sure exactly what Halifax asked Miss R about her circumstances at the time. But based on 
what she's told us, I don't think the policy was unsuitable. Miss R appears to have wanted 
this type of cover, and although she'd get some sick pay from her employer, this policy 
would have paid 10% of what she owed on the credit card for up to a year if she was off 
work sick or lost her job. Miss R also wasn't affected by any of the main things the policy 
didn't cover.
Miss R says she could also have relied on support from her family. But while I don't doubt 
her family would have wanted to help, I'm not persuaded this help was always guaranteed to 
be available when she needed it.
I recognise that the information Halifax gave Miss R about the policy may not have been as 
clear as it should have been. But for the same reasons I've given above, I'm not persuaded 
that this would have made a difference to Miss R's decision to buy the policy - I think the 
policy would have been useful to her if something went wrong. So I'm not persuaded she 
wouldn't have bought the policy.
This means Halifax doesn't have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss R.
But Halifax has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss R because:
  Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss R about that. Because Halifax didnt tell Miss R, 
that was unfair. 
    To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
I've thought about everything else Miss R has said. But this doesn't change my conclusion.
 
 
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasn't mis-sold - so Bank of Scotland plc doesn't have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss R.But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Miss R any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has done this already, so I 
don't make a further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February 2020.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman