DRN-3805865
The complaint
Mr M has complained about a loss in the value of the stocks and shares ISA he holds with 
Santander UK Plc. 
What happened
In November 2021 Mr Ms ISA was valued at around £180,000, and by February 2022 it was 
worth around £170,000. Mr M became concerned that Santander was managing the ISA 
incorrectly, as he had paid a lump sum out of his current account  which he thought may 
have also been deducted from his ISA by Santander. As he was concerned about the 
continuing losses, he looked into moving the money into a cash ISA and was told he needed 
to open one in branch. When he spoke to the staff in his local branch, they put him in touch 
with a financial planning manager. When Mr M spoke to him, he found the service to be poor 
and the member of staff refused to help. 
Mr M made a complaint in June 2022, by which time the ISA had lost around £20,000 
compared with its value in November 2021. Santander explained the loss was not because 
any withdrawals had been made, it was simply the movement of the investment markets, 
largely due to the war in Ukraine. The complaint handler paid Mr M £100 in recognition of 
how the service from the financial planning manager had impacted him. However, they noted 
they couldnt find any evidence of the service provided, other than Mr Ms recollections of 
events, due to the time that had passed and a lack of records. 
Mr M referred the complaint to us, as he wanted an independent opinion on the loss hed 
experienced. An investigator at our service looked into the complaint and he found there had 
been no withdrawals from the ISA and so the loss experienced was simply down to the 
movement of the investment market. He said that the £100 offered for the service Mr M had 
experienced was fair. 
Mr M asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, because he still thought there might 
have been a mix up between his ISA and current account. He said he felt he hadnt done 
anything wrong but was being punished by the loss hed experienced. So the complaint was 
passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for largely the 
same reasons. 
Ive carefully considered the statements for Mr Ms ISA over the period of November 2021 to 
August 2022. I can see that he made a deposit into his ISA in mid-November, of £10,000, 
which was split equally between the two funds which he had previously invested in. 
Following that, he had 27,038.7720 units in one fund, and 32,085.5820 units in the other. 
If any withdrawals had been made by Santander from the ISA, units would have needed to 
be sold to facilitate those withdrawals. Ive looked at whether the number of units Mr M 
owned has changed over the months and I can see that the number shown on each 
statement remained the same throughout the period to August 2022. So, Im satisfied that no 
withdrawals have been made from Mr Ms stocks and shares ISA during that period. 
There is also a cash account attached to the ISA, and for the same period from mid-
November 2021 to August 2022, the only withdrawals have been to pay the fees for the ISA. 
They are much lower than the amounts Mr M paid out from his current account and appear 
in line with the fee structure of the account, so Im satisfied they arent duplicates of any 
withdrawals from his current account.   
Ive also checked the unit values showing on the statements and compared this to the 
pricing information for the two funds, found online. Having done so, I can see the unit prices 
quoted in Mr Ms statements for the period in question were correct on the statements. So 
overall, Im satisfied Santander hasnt done anything wrong in the way the ISA has been 
managed. It seems that the loss Mr M has experienced is simply due to the movement of the 
investment market.  
I appreciate Mr M has been worried about the value of the ISA and tried to get advice from 
Santander about his options. Though there isnt a recording of the call Mr M had with the 
financial planning manager, Ive noted Mr Ms recollections of that conversation have been 
consistent throughout this complaint. It also appears that the branch staff didnt need to refer 
Mr M to an adviser, as he wanted to open a cash ISA, which he ought to have been able to 
do in branch. Having considered everything, Im persuaded that Santander didnt treat Mr M 
fairly and reasonably in the service they provided. However, the amount of £100 that 
Santander has already paid is fair to make up for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
the service errors that occurred here.  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. As Mr M has already been paid £100 to put things right, which I think 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint, Santander UK Plc doesnt 
need to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman