DRN-2837718
The complaint
Mr P has complained about Southern Rock Insurance Company Limiteds decision to reject 
a theft claim he made under his car insurance policy. 
What happened
In September 2020 Mr P advertised his car for sale and a potential buyer came round to look 
at it. The buyer stole the car and Mr P reported it immediately to the police. He called his 
insurer Southern Rock to make a claim.
Southern Rock said it wouldnt consider Mr Ps claim as it applied a theft by deception 
exclusion under the policy. 
Mr P complained to Southern Rock, but it maintained its decision. So he asked us to look at 
his complaint. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He felt Mr P had 
voluntarily handed over control of his car to the potential buyer. So he thought Southern 
Rock had reasonably applied its exclusion. 
Mr P didnt agree. I issued a provisional decision on 7 May 2021 intending to uphold Mr Ps 
complaint and recommended Southern Rock meet his claim.
Mr P accepted my provisional decision. Southern Rock disagreed. It believes a reasonable 
person should have had concerns when the buyer was dropped off, but the driver of the car 
didnt stay as where they said theyd travelled from was a considerable distance. Mr P hadnt 
taken any further details from the buyer other than his first name and where hed travelled 
from. It says Mr P didnt take reasonable steps to safeguard the vehicle. 
Southern Rock says the policy wording is clear and Mr P understood the terms of his policy 
as he referred to them when he reported the theft.
As both parties have replied to my provisional decision, the case has been passed back to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the additional comments Southern Rock has made. Theres no dispute that 
the policy wording is clear  or that Mr P was aware of the exclusion Southern Rock applied 
when considering his claim. Southern Rock says the account Mr P gave to it when he first 
reported the incident  and to their investigator was consistent.
As explained in my provisional decision, we have followed our approach to cases like this: 
we draw a distinction between those circumstances in which the consumer has voluntarily 
handed over possession of the vehicle to the thief and those where the consumer intended 
to retain control over the vehicle. The reason for this is that we are of the view that a strict 
and literal application of the deception exclusion has the potential to result in unduly harsh 
outcomes.
Having considered the additional comments from Southern Rock, Im still of the view that a 
strict and literal interpretation of the theft by deception clause is harsh and unfair to Mr P.
The circumstances described by Mr P are that he received a call from a potential buyer who 
came to his home and had spent some time looking over the car. Mr P had accompanied 
him for a test drive. The potential buyer said he would pay a deposit to secure the sale and 
spent time on his phone arranging this. He asked Mr P to prepare a deposit while the money 
was being transferred. Mr P asked his father who was in their home to write out a receipt as 
the buyer requested. 
Mr P says that the potential buyer then made a call to somebody  its suggested this was 
the same person who had dropped the buyer off - and asked Mr P if he could get back into 
the car to carry out further checks to the car which required the engine to be turned on. The 
buyer was in the driving seat with his legs to the side and the driver door was open. Mr P 
says he was standing next to the driver door. As he turned his back to collect the receipt 
from his father, the thief closed the door and drove off at speed. 
Mr Ps policy with Southern Rock says the following:
Section 1: Damage to Your Car
What is not covered:
We will not pay for any of the following:
Loss or damage to Your Car where possession of it is gained by deception by 
someone who claims to be a buyer or agent.
Southern Rock says the account the buyer gave Mr P wasnt consistent as they said they 
would bring somebody with them who knew about cars  but they didnt stay. So Southern 
Rock says this should have raised concerns with Mr P. 
The buyer spent around 30 to 45 minutes with Mr P. From his account, I think Mr P has 
shown that he took reasonable steps to protect the security of his car and retain control of it. 
He accompanied the buyer on a test drive and he regained control of the keys when they 
arrived back at his home. 
The buyer gave Mr P the impression hed paid a deposit of £350 through his phone and Mr P 
was waiting for it to arrive in his account. 
Mr P was standing next to the open drivers door and the buyer had his legs outside after 
asking to carry out further checks which required the keys to be in the ignition. Despite how 
close Mr P was to the car, the buyer clearly saw a very brief moment when Mr P turned to 
take a receipt from his Dad to take off at speed. 
Southern Rock says Mr P left the buyer in control of the car despite no money changing 
hands or being transferred to his account when the theft occurred. But my view remains that 
I dont think Mr P could have reasonably or safely done anything more at that moment to 
stop the theft. So Im upholding Mr Ps complaint and Southern Rock should deal with his claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Southern Rock Insurance Company 
to deal with Mr Ps claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. It should 
pay interest on the settlement payment it makes from the date of the theft to the date of 
payment at a rate of 8% simple interest per year.
If Southern Rock Insurance Company considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman