DRN-4118709
The complaint
Mr A complains about how Hastings Insurance Services Limited trading as Hastings Direct 
(Hastings) administered his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A had a motor insurance policy arranged through Hastings, which is a broker.
His policy was due for renewal in November 2022. Mr A made a series of calls to Hastings 
around this time. One call was to ask it for a price to add his wife to the policy. Hastings 
quoted him a price, but the call terminated before it completed.
Hastings changed his policy renewal terms to include his wife at this higher premium. Mr A 
didnt want this and asked that Hastings to renew at the previous, lower price without cover 
for his wife.
Hastings werent able to price match his previous quote. Mr A complained about a range of 
issues including call queuing time, Hastings service and that it couldnt match the price.
Hastings said it would pay him £30 compensation. It later agreed to match the price it had 
quoted him when it understood his inconvenience and distress.
Mr A remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He complains about the 
time hes had to spend on the phone trying to sort out his renewal, the process which hes 
found stressful, and the way Hastings dealt with his complaint. He asks for £350-£450 
compensation 
Our investigator looked into his complaint and upheld it. He said he thought Hastings 
service had been poor, but he thought the £30 compensation offered by it was enough and, 
because Hastings had also reduced its price to the level previously offered to Mr A by 
refunding him £69.40, he thought the total amount paid by Hastings was fair.
Mr A didnt accept the view. He asked that his complaint was reviewed by an ombudsman, 
so its has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having read the file and listened to the calls between Mr A and Hastings, Im not upholding 
Mr As complaint and Ill explain why as I appreciate Mr A may find this disappointing.
Ive made a timeline of the events during Mr As renewal:
15/10/22  Mr A called and asked for a price match. Hastings offered a price of £452.90.
29/10/22  Mr A called to ask for a price to add his wife. The call ended mid-way. Hastings 
re-issued renewal adding his wife at a cost of £771.77.
29/10/22  Mr A called back wanting to cancel the policy due to the cost. Hastings cancelled 
the policy.
29/10/22  Mr A called back to say he wanted to renew the policy. Hastings quoted £522.30. 
Mr A asked for the £452.90 price quoted before. There was a conversation and the price 
changed a few times. The final price was £511.09. Mr A ended the call. 
29/10/22  Mr A called and asked to go ahead. The price was £522.30.
29/11/22  Hastings complaints team called Mr A about his complaint and the premium. 
30/10/22  Hastings called Mr A about another matter.
01/12/22  Hastings called Mr A and said it was upholding his complaint about its service. It 
offered £30 compensation. Mr A said he wasnt happy with this and said he would have got 
the lower price if Hastings original call handler hadnt changed the policy. 
About a month later, having investigated his complaint further, Hastings agreed to price 
match the price hed originally been offered. It refunded £69.40 to Mr A.
Ive listened to the calls between Mr A and Hastings and I can hear that he asks for the 
quote for his wife, but doesnt ask to go ahead with it. When the call ended, Hastings call 
handler then seems to have updated his renewal to include cover for her. 
I can understand why Hastings call handler did this, as the call ended ambiguously, but I 
also think its fair to say it should have checked with Mr A whether this is what he wanted to 
do.
Ultimately, Hastings agreed to refund Mr A £69.40 to mean that the premium he ended up 
paying was the same as hed been quoted. So I think Hastings response was reasonable 
and Mr A isnt out of pocket. 
Mr A has explained that hes not happy that Hastings system effectively invalidates older 
quotes when a new price has been quoted. This service isnt the regulator and we cant tell a 
company how to run its processes. Mr A is obviously aware that the marketplace is open for 
him to choose from if hes not happy with one particular providers way of doing things. I say 
this because I can see his original approach to Hastings about renewal was to ask if it would 
price match another company at a lower price.
Ive thought about the amount of compensation Hastings offered Mr A for his inconvenience, 
which was £30. Having looked at the details of the calls, I can see Mr A made a significant 
number of them to Hastings, and they lasted for more than 90 minutes in total. The later calls 
from Hastings to him were mainly because of the complaint hed made.
I know Mr A has asked for compensation of £350-£450 for the time hed spent trying to get 
this resolved. But its not our role to punish a business but to look to put things right when 
something has gone wrong. 
Im pleased he has received his refund so that his premium is the original agreed amount, 
and I can see he did have to take time out of his schedule to get this resolved. But taking 
everything into account I think the impact of this was limited and I think Hastings offer of £30 
compensation is fair.My final decision
Hastings Insurance Services Limited has already made an offer to pay £30 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Hastings Insurance Services Limited should pay Mr A £30 if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman