DRN-3787556
The complaint
Mr S complains to Gallium Fund Solutions Limited (Gallium) about a £3000 investment he 
made into a 3 Year Compounding High-Yield IFISA Bond with Basset & Gold Plc (B&G Plc) 
in March 2017. He says the bond carried much greater risk of loss than he wanted, and that 
he was mis-sold the bond by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd) and lost his money as a result.
Background
The B&G Plc Bond
Mr S invested in a 3 Year Compounding High-Yield IFISA Bond (the bond). Gallium has 
said the investment was made on 21 March 2017 and this is also the date on the certificate. 
Sales of this bond were dealt with by BG Ltd - a separate business from the issuer of the 
bond, B&G Plc. BG Ltd arranged applications for investment in the bond, through a website 
it operated. And it was responsible for advertising/marketing the bond. Potential investors 
were also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss the bond.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium. B&G Plc and BG Ltd 
were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Mr Ss investment in the bond
Mr S made his application on 21 March 2017, as stated by Gallium. He applied for the bond 
online. I say this bearing in mind Gallium says the bonds were marketed principally via the 
internet and Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr Ss bond was any different. Ive not seen a 
paper application. Gallium has said investors could only apply online. Mr S told Gallium the 
documents he relied on at the sale are likely to be on a computer he used at the time, which 
is consistent with an online application. He has said nothing to contradict our investigators 
suggestion that he visited BGLs website in March 2017.
Ive heard a call recording between Mr S and BG Ltd from 15 March 2017 which pre-dates 
the sale. From that recording it appears BG Ltd called Mr S in response to him downloading 
something from the website. But there was no discussion of what was downloaded or of the 
bond, and this call isnt material to the outcome here. The other calls I have date from after 
the investment and are also not material to the outcome here. Our investigator understood 
from Mr S that he hadnt invested in similar products in the preceding 30 months. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest he had previous experience of that kind. As stated by our investigator, 
Mr S has told us he had no investment experience at all before 2017. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest he had such experience.
As stated in our investigators opinion letter, Mr S has estimated his savings at the time were 
£18,000 at most. Ive seen no evidence to suggest Mr Ss investible assets exceeded this 
figure. 
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of 
BG Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact 
that nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short-term and 
pay day lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck went into 
administration in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a 
result, Mr S has not had his invested capital returned to him.
The application process
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the online application process. These show the 
application journey that Mr S underwent. This consisted of two stages, designed to meet the 
rules restricting who the bonds could be promoted to and on how to test whether the 
investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was certification, where Mr S 
was categorised as an everyday investor. The second was the appropriateness test. 
Galliums response to Mr Ss complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said Mr S had been given sufficient information 
and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions, once Mr Ss 
complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also 
considered what Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out general 
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mr Ss complaint and concluded it should be upheld. He 
said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Mr S as a restricted 
investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bond for him - was 
misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the FCAs rules.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. Had it 
done so, Mr S wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have concluded that it 
shouldnt allow Mr S to invest. For these reasons, both cumulatively and individually, it 
was fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium to compensate Mr S for the loss he has 
suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary: 
Regardless of label, Mr S was required to confirm that he met the requirements of a 
restricted investor and confirmed that he did. It is not fair or reasonable to conclude that 
the use of the word everyday contributed to Mr S giving an incorrect declaration, and it 
was reasonable for it to rely on the declaration. 
The appropriateness test answers, and these confirmations were sufficient for Gallium to 
satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and experience of the 
bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
The website and marketing material was not misleading  Mr S was given sufficient 
information and risk warnings.
Mr S made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it, and did not 
choose to surrender it when receiving the email in 2019 which warned of the concentration risk. So he would have proceeded with the investment regardless. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on 
behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bond. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system 
(PRIN 1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with 
clients) are relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear, and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
The bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting who it could 
be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the potential 
investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I have 
considered the relevant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered 
these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for the same reasons. In summary:
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Mr S into certifying himself as belonging in a 
category to which he did not belong (a restricted investor) by changing the term used in 
the rules to everyday investor and describing the category as being one anyone could 
fall into. This was not treating Mr S fairly or acting in his best interests. Had BG Ltd 
followed the rules and not misled Mr S, it is unlikely he would have certified himself as 
being a restricted investor.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet the 
requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the bond 
was not an appropriate investment for Mr S. In the circumstances Mr S would either not 
have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have concluded it should 
not promote the bond to Mr S.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Mr Ss complaint 
should be upheld. I am also satisfied Mr S would either not have proceeded to make the 
investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably 
to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to 
compensate Mr S for his loss.Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr S 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been misled into certifying 
himself as belonging in a category to which he did not belong or if Gallium had carried out an 
appropriateness test in accordance with the rules.
I take the view that Mr S would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr S's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mr S fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mr S's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pay to Mr S £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Three-year 
Compounding 
High-Yield 
IFISA BondStill 
exists 
but 
illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If at the end 
date the bond is illiquid (and so cant be readily sold on the open market), it may be difficult 
to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual value should be assumed to 
be zero. This is provided Mr S agrees to Gallium, if it wishes, taking ownership of the illiquid 
bond. If it isnt possible for Gallium to take ownership, then it may request an undertaking 
from Mr S that he repays to Gallium any amount he may receive from the bond in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the 
benchmark, Gallium should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually 
compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr S wanted to achieve a reasonable return without undue risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr S's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr S would have invested only in a 
fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have obtained with 
only a little risk to their capital.
Gallium should provide details of its calculation to Mr S in a clear, simple format.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman