DRN-2696154
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that HSBC Bank Plc returned a cheque unpaid, and with the explanation 
they gave him for doing this.
What happened
Mr G wrote a cheque from his HSBC current account for £752. While he had the money in 
his account to cover the cheque, on 8 July 2020 HSBC returned the cheque as unpaid. On 
10 July 2020, Mr G called HSBC to ask why this had happened, and he was kept on hold for 
around 25 minutes before being cut off. No explanation was provided.
Mr G then went into his local HSBC branch and they told him the cheque had likely been 
rejected because the signature didnt match their records. Mr G wasnt happy with this 
explanation, and HSBC told him that hed need to raise a complaint.
Mr G complained to HSBC about the cheque being rejected, and that he was told hed need 
to raise a formal complaint to find out why  he thought that a simple query should be able to 
be dealt with without the need to formally complain. He was also unhappy that HSBC didnt 
notify him in writing that the cheque had been rejected.
HSBC upheld Mr Gs complaint and offered him £100 compensation for the inconvenience 
hed been caused. Mr G didnt accept this offer and brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said HSBC had confirmed the cheque was rejected because it wasnt 
scanned properly. He said that the branch had told Mr G the cheque was likely rejected 
because the signature didnt match. Mr G wasnt happy with this reason, and this is why he 
was told hed need to raise a formal complaint; not because a formal complaint process is 
the only way to find out why a cheque had been rejected.
HSBC didnt write to Mr G to tell him the cheque had been rejected, when they should have. 
But, because the cheque was rejected on 8 July 2020 and Mr G found out about this on 10 
July 2020, the investigator didnt think that Mr G wouldve received any letter before 10 July 
2020. So he didnt think Mr G had been inconvenienced by not receiving a letter, and he 
wouldnt have found out about the cheque being rejected sooner if a letter had been sent. 
The investigator also said that being on hold for around 25 minutes, then cut off, wouldve 
been frustrating for Mr G. But he didnt think HSBC had acted unreasonably by not being 
able to provide a specific reason for this  there were a number of reasons why this 
happened, and it wasnt possible to know what the cause was. But he thought the £100 
HSBC had offered was reasonable, and he didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr G didnt agree with the investigator. He said HSBC only gave him a possible explanation 
as to why the cheque was rejected, not the actual reason. And he didnt want to give an 
incorrect reason why the cheque had been rejected to the recipient. 
Mr G was also unhappy that the investigator preferred HSBCs explanation to whatd 
happened, instead of his explanation. While the investigator explained that hed relied on 
HSBCs notes that were made at the time, and this didnt mean he disbelieved Mr G, Mr G 
remained unhappy that HSBC required a formal complaint to answer a simple query. And 
hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
Ive seen the notes made at the HSBC branch following Mr Gs visit. These were produced 
at 12:47pm on 10 July 2020, so Im satisfied these are contemporary with Mr Gs visit. The 
notes say Mr G showed the branch staff an image of the rejected cheque, and a specimen of 
his signature. And the member of branch staff said the signatures didnt match, which was 
the likely reason why the cheque was rejected. The notes also show that the branch offered 
to raise a complaint for Mr G, but Mr G said hed do this himself.
In his complaint letter of 10 July 2020, Mr G says he was told at the branch that the cheque 
had been returned unpaid because of a problem with my signature. However [the branch] 
said that this was the likely explanation but was unable to confirm it. He also says he was 
told hed need to raise a complaint to find out the reason why.
Im satisfied that both HSBCs and Mr Gs accounts of what happened generally match  Mr 
G was told that the signature was likely the reason why the cheque was rejected, but a 
complaint needed to be raised to establish the exact reason why. And they both refer to Mr 
Gs initial call to HSBC, where the call was terminated with him still being on hold. Because 
of this, I cant agree with Mr G that the investigator preferred HSBCs explanation to his  
both explanations are essentially the same.
Ive also seen an email dated 7 August 2020, in which HSBC explained the cheque had 
been rejected because it was not scanned properly and was rejected by the processing 
team. In this email HSBC also explained that not calling Mr G back, and the service he 
experienced in the branch, wasnt acceptable. And they offered him £100 compensation for 
the inconvenience hed suffered.
Looking at the initial call, there are a number of possible reasons why it was terminated  it 
mayve been because of an issue with HSBCs phone system, an issue with Mr Gs phone (a 
loss of signal or power), or an accidental or deliberate termination of call by either HSBC or 
Mr G. Or it mayve been for an entirely different reason. The specific reason why can never 
be known, so I agree its not unreasonable for HSBC not to be able to answer this query.
But, if HSBC were dealing with Mr G when the call was cut-off, Id expect them to try and call 
him back. And this didnt happen.
When Mr G visited the branch the same day, the branch wasnt able to provide an 
explanation why the cheque was rejected. I wouldnt expect the branch staff to necessarily 
have access to this information, and I dont think theres anything wrong with this. Mr G was 
given a likely explanation  the signature  based on the very limited information the branch 
had at the time. And I dont think this was unreasonable.But I do think that HSBC shouldve offered to get the actual explanation for Mr G. Ive seen 
they offered to raise a complaint for him, and Mr G said he would do this himself. This may 
have been an issue with the choice of language used  complaint instead of query  or it 
may be that HSBC need a formal complaint to be able to find out why. If its the latter, I dont 
think this is the most efficient process. But, its not my role to tell a financial business what 
processes they should have in place. This is something they do in conjunction with their 
regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority. 
HSBC have also said they shouldve written to Mr G to tell him the cheque had been 
rejected. Which they didnt do. While I agree with the investigator that this shouldve 
happened, I also agree that Mr G wasnt inconvenienced by HSBC not doing this  its not 
likely that any letter wouldve reached Mr G before he became aware the cheque hadnt 
gone through; and the letter wouldnt have given him the explanation he wanted.
HSBC have now provided the reason why the cheque was rejected, and acknowledged their 
service wasnt as it shouldve been. Theyve also provided feedback to the people concerned 
and offered Mr G £100 compensation. Given the circumstances, I think this offer was 
reasonable, and I wont be asking them to increase this. Its now for Mr G to decide whether 
to accept this offer or not.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about HSBC Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman