DRN-3158421
The complaint
Mr S complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) was irresponsible to lend 
to him.
What happened
Mr S had five loans from Lending Stream between January 2018 and August 2018 as 
follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Max Monthly 
Repayment*Due Repaid
1 6 Jan 2018 £400 6m £179.20 26 Jun 2018 28 Apr 2018
2 2 Mar 2018 £700 6m £441.92 29 Aug 2018 7 Jul 2018
3 30 Mar 2018 £160 6m £479.04 27 Sep 2018 28 Apr 2018
4 29 Apr 2018 £690 6m £553.28 25 Oct 2018 Sold
20 Jun 2019
5 3 Aug 2018 £900 6m £529.07 28 Jan 2019 Sold
6 Nov 2019
* Including overlapping loans
Mr S says Lending Stream allowed him a series of short-term loans at a time when he was in 
severe financial distress. He says it even approved him for lending shortly after it had 
declined a previous application. Mr S says his credit file and continual roll overs should have 
demonstrated the loans were unaffordable. He adds that the loans have resulted in debt 
collection activity and had a negative impact on his credit file.
Lending Stream says it asked Mr S about his employment and income, as well as his regular 
outgoings. It says it sanity-checked these figures with statistics from independent sources 
and revised them upwards if required. Lending Stream says it also carried out a credit check 
to understand Mr Ss existing credit commitments and found all five loans were affordable to 
him. However, it acknowledged that the pattern of lending should have indicated it may not 
have been responsible to approve loan 5, so it agreed to uphold Mr Ss complaint about that 
loan.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. As Lending Stream 
confirmed it agreed to uphold the complaint about loan 5, she did not consider that loan any 
further. For loans 1 to 3, she was satisfied Lending Streams checks went far enough and 
there was nothing in the information available that should have indicated to Lending Stream 
that the repayments were unsustainable. Although our adjudicator considered Lending 
Stream should have conducted further checks before approving loan 4, there was no 
additional information provided about Mr Ss circumstances at the time so she could not 
assess whether further checks would have shown loan 4 shouldnt have been approved.
Mr S responded to say, in summary, that Lending Stream should have carried out further 
checks and, had it done so, it would have seen that his credit file reflected the financial 
distress he was in.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr S could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
Loans 1 to 3
When Mr S applied for his first three loans, Lending Stream asked him about his income and 
expenditure and carried out a credit check. As these loans were early in the lending 
relationship, and the maximum repayments were only around 11% of Mr Ss income, Im 
satisfied Lending Stream was entitled to rely on the information provided by Mr S. Lending 
Streams credit check did show two defaulted accounts, but as the most recent of these was 
in February 2015, I cant see this showed he was in current financial difficulties. So I find the 
checks went far enough and that there was nothing in the available information that should 
have indicated to Lending Stream that the repayments were unsustainable.
Loan 4
Loan 4 was taken out just one day after Mr S had repaid loans 1 and 3 and the maximum 
monthly repayment required increased again. Lending Streams credit check also showed 
that the number of active accounts had increased by three since hed applied for loan 3 one 
month earlier. I think this pattern of lending, plus the information on Mr Ss credit file should 
have prompted Lending Stream to carry out further checks. In particular I consider it should 
have asked Mr S whether he had any other short-term loans.
Mr S has been asked to provide information from around the time of loan 4 and although he 
was reluctant to send bank statements, he has now provided a full credit report. I can see 
this shows a defaulted account on 30 January 2018 which wasnt reflected in the credit 
check carried out by Lending Stream at the time. The credit file also shows Mr S had 
recently taken out a credit card and opened a mail order account, but there were no other 
active loans and nothing to indicate that Mr S would struggle to make the repayments on 
loan 4.
So, based on all the evidence I have seen, I cant conclude Lending Stream was wrong to 
approve loan 4.
Loan 5
As Lending Stream has agreed to uphold Mr Ss complaint about loan 5, and its redress is in 
line with our standard approach, I wont consider it further here.
In summary, Im not upholding the complaint about loans 1 to 4, but Lending Stream should 
action the redress for loan 5 that it has already offered.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman