DRN-2277697
The complaint
Mr D complains about the pension transfer of his preserved benefits in the British Steel 
Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says he was advised to transfer by 
Carpenter John Financial Services Ltd (Carpenter John) and another financial business 
(which I shall call Firm C). He believes that the advice provided was flawed which has 
resulted in him suffering a significant financial loss.
Mr D is represented in this complaint by a third party (representative).
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata Steel) announced that it would be examining
options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The
consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits,
one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory
fund designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes
when their employer becomes insolvent. Tata Steel closed the BSPS to further benefit
accrual from 31 March 2017. In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a
Regulated Apportionment Arrangement had been agreed  this was approved by the 
Pensions Regulator in August 2017. Under the announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set 
up and sponsor a new defined benefit pension scheme, the BSPS2, subject to certain 
conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied.
These changes were communicated to BSPS members, including Mr D, under the Time to
Choose exercise. This explained that BSPS members had three options regarding their 
preserved benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a personal pension.
Members had to decide which option they wanted by a deadline in December 2017  those
that didnt choose an option remained in the BSPS and were ultimately transferred to the
PPF. 
Mr D had accrued 10 years and 3 months qualifying service in the BSPS between                                     
11 December 2006 and 31 March 2017. As at the date of leaving the BSPS, his annual 
scheme pension was £4,859. The cash equivalent transfer value of his preserved benefits 
was £109,634.
Mr D was concerned what the announcement by Tata Steel meant for the security of his 
preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and contacted Carpenter John 
for advice. Carpenter John did some basic fact finding. Since it didnt have the necessary 
regulatory permissions to advise on pension transfers, it introduced Mr D to another 
business that did, Firm C.
In October 2017, Firm C sent Mr D a suitability report recommending that he transfer the 
value of his preserved benefits of £109,634 in the BSPS to a personal pension. Mr D 
accepted the recommendation and the pension transfer was subsequently completed.
Mr Ds complaint
Mr D appointed the representative to make separate complaints against both Carpenter 
John and Firm C regarding the suitability of the pension transfer. The representatives 
position can be summarised as follows:
Its representing numerous individuals, including Mr D, in complaints about Carpenter 
John and Firm C;
Carpenter John and Firm C shared an office in Port Talbot. In its opinion, Carpenter 
John and Firm C operated as a joint venture  the arrangement between them 
resulted in at least 43 individuals that its aware of, including Mr D, transferring the 
value of their preserved benefits in the BSPS to personal pensions during 2017;
The arrangement between Carpenter John and Firm C amounted to a common 
design which imposed joint liability based on a joint venture, as established in the 
Supreme Court case of Fish & Fish Ltd v Sea Shepherd UK and others [2015] UKSC 
10  in its opinion, this meant Carpenter John is jointly liable for the financial loss           
Mr Ds suffered as a result of the pension transfer;
Both Carpenter John and Firm C knew, or shouldve have known, that they were not 
acting in the best interests of individuals, such as Mr D, by arranging pension 
transfers out of the BSPS, in breach of numerous Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) principles and rules;
It hadnt seen an attendance note produced by Carpenter John which records a 
discussion with Mr D about taking advice on his preserved benefits in the BSPS  
had that discussion not happened, he wouldnt have been introduced to Firm C. 
Further, its very unlikely that Carpenter John completed a fact find document with     
Mr D prior to introducing him to Firm C, without having at least some discussion of 
why he was looking for advice. So it can only be the case that Carpenter John failed 
to record the detail of its discussion with Mr D;
It acknowledged that Carpenter John didnt have the necessary regulatory 
permissions to advise on pension transfers and that theres no documentary 
evidence it advised Mr D to transfer. But its common in circumstances of this kind for 
advisers to choose not to record details of their discussions and advice, including 
influential comments and value judgements, in writing. The FCAs Perimeter 
Guidance manual (PERG) clearly anticipates that advice upon which clients will rely 
will be given verbally. So it isnt necessary for the advice to be written down and it 
doesnt have to include a recommendation. Influential comments and value 
judgments amount to advice, as made clear by the definition of advice in PERG 8.28. 
Carpenter Johns discussions with Mr D were highly influential in leading him to 
agree to the pension transfer before it introduced him to Firm C; 
Adequate and appropriate weight should be attached to Mr Ds recollection of the 
discussions that he said he had with Carpenter John. The fact that so many other 
individuals its representing in other complaints had the same experience and report 
similar influential comments should be taken into account as each individuals 
evidence corroborates others;This was a clear joint venture between Carpenter John and Firm C and so Mr Ds 
complaint shouldnt be assessed in isolation on an individual basis. Rather, it should 
be assessed in the context of a wider enterprise of mass mis-selling carried out by 
Carpenter John and Firm C; and
 
Following the pension transfer, Carpenter John took on numerous individuals to 
provide ongoing serving and advice. Each of those individuals has a large pension 
pot. The ongoing annual fees benefitting Carpenter John will greatly overshadow any 
upfront fee or share of a transfer fee that mightve been taken, so the ongoing 
relationship with Carpenter John following the pension transfer should be considered 
by this service in deciding complaints.
Carpenter Johns response to Mr Ds complaint
Carpenter John didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. Its position can be summarised as follows:
Mr D visited its office in October 2017 seeking advice on his preserved benefits in the 
BSPS. It recorded some basic information in a fact find document and completed a 
risk profile questionnaire;
Mr D said he wanted to transfer out of the BSPS because of his concerns about Tata 
Steel and the security of his preserved benefits  it told him that it wasnt authorised 
to provide advice on pension transfers but could introduce him to Firm C which had 
the necessary regulatory permissions to advise him;
Mr D agreed to be introduced to Firm C;
It didnt advise Mr D to transfer the value of his preserved benefits in the BSPS to a 
personal pension. Rather, it provided generic information and expressed no opinion 
about the merits or otherwise of transferring since it wasnt authorised to do this; 
Its role in the transaction was merely as an introducer to Firm C, as proved by the 
documentary evidence. It didnt receive remuneration for introducing Mr D to Firm C 
either before or after the pension transfer. Following the introduction, it didnt attend 
any subsequent meetings between Mr D and Firm C. Furthermore, there wasnt a 
pre-conceived arrangement for Mr D to return to it for ongoing servicing and advice 
after the pension transfer had been completed;
 
Since its office is based in Port Talbot close to the steelworks, many BSPS members 
contacted it for advice following the announcement by Tata Steel about its plans to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. This led 
to it introducing numerous BSPS members, including Mr D, to Firm C and other 
advisory businesses that had the necessary regulatory permissions to advise on 
pension transfers; and
Firm C used its office as this was mutually convenient for both businesses since they 
were based in the centre of Port Talbot, close to the steelworks. However, the 
numerous introductions it provided to Firm C didnt mean that a joint venture existed 
between both businesses  rather, it was merely a reflection of the fact that both 
businesses were based in Port Talbot and so was convenient for BSPS members 
seeking advice on their options.
Our investigators assessment of Mr Ds complaintOur investigator didnt think that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. His position can be 
summarised as follows:
This service decides complaints on what it considers to be a fair and reasonable 
outcome in the circumstances, taking into account the law, regulations and good 
industry practice  and each complaint is considered on its own individual merits and 
so, in assessing Mr Ds complaint, he couldnt take into account the other complaints 
mentioned by the representative;
The testimonies provided by Mr D and Carpenter John were completely different, 
meaning he had to place more weight on the contemporaneous documentary 
evidence in assessing this complaint;
The available evidence provided shows that Carpenter John completed a fact find 
document and risk profile questionnaire to determine Mr Ds circumstances, 
objectives and risk profile before introducing him to Firm C;
He didnt think it was unreasonable or improper for Carpenter John to introduce Mr D 
to Firm C given that it didnt have the necessary regulatory permissions to advise on 
pension transfers;
The evidence shows that it was Firm C and not Carpenter John that provided the 
regulated pension transfer advice to Mr D. This was confirmed in the suitability report 
produced by Firm C in which it recommended that Mr D transfer the value of his 
preserved benefits in the BSPS to a personal pension. The suitability report also 
confirmed that Carpenter John wasnt remunerated for introducing Mr D to Firm C. 
Furthermore, theres no evidence that Carpenter John provided advice to Mr D as 
outlined in PERG 8.28; 
He didnt agree that the principles about a common design and joint liability 
established in Fish & Fish Ltd v Sea Shepherd UK and others [2015] UKSC 10 were 
applicable to Mr Ds case because the circumstances were different; and
While in other cases Carpenter John may have gone on to provide investment advice 
following the pension transfer, it didnt happen in Mr Ds case. Rather, Carpenter 
John simply introduced Mr D to Firm C because it had the necessary regulatory 
permissions to advise on pension transfers  which isnt enough to hold it jointly 
liable for the advice provided by Firm C and any financial loss flowing from it.
Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has been referred to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice, and what I consider to
have been good industry practice at the time. And where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is,
what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and
the wider surrounding circumstances.Scope of this final decision
My understanding of the representatives position is that a joint venture existed between 
Carpenter John and Firm C to carry out a single business enterprise to facilitate multiple 
transfers out of the BSPS for profit  and that both businesses therefore remain jointly liable 
for any financial loss Mr D and other individuals its representing have suffered. It says that 
the joint venture primarily involved Carpenter John verbally advising members to transfer out 
of the BSPS before introducing them to Firm C to formally recommend and then facilitate the 
pension transfer to a new pension plan. In some cases, the member was then referred to 
Carpenter John to provide ongoing servicing and advice on the new pension plan which 
generated income for it. Due to the nature of the joint venture and the number of pension 
transfers carried out, the representative wants me to consider Mr Ds complaint in the 
context of the numerous other individuals its representing where Carpenter John introduced 
them to Firm C because each of the testimonies provided are similar and corroborate the 
others. I understand why Mr Ds representative wants me to do this. But thats not how this 
service operates. 
Mr Ds representative will understand that the individual details of each case are always 
different  which is why this service decides each case on its own particular facts and merits. 
The right outcome in one case may not be the right outcome in another as individual 
circumstances can vary so much. Further, whilst I appreciate the comment relating to the 
case law, and whilst I must have regard for the law, the decision I come to on what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint may be different to what a court 
would decide. 
So, in deciding this complaint, Ill only look at the individual facts and merits applicable to             
Mr Ds personal dealings with Carpenter John. I wont be considering Carpenter Johns acts 
or omissions in other cases where it introduced individuals to Firm C. And I wont be 
considering the acts or omissions of Firm C in its dealing with Mr D because this complaint is 
set up against Carpenter John rather than Firm C. 
This service isnt a regulator. We dont have the power to punish, sanction or fine; the 
supervision of financial businesses falls to the FCA. Our role is to decide individual 
complaints. Any suspicion on the part of the representative relating to systemic or repeated 
abuse of the financial advice framework, or disregard for the letter and/or the spirit of the 
regulatory requirements for providing advice, or indeed collusion between businesses for the 
purpose of taking advantage of consumers, should be referred to the FCA. I therefore wont 
be considering the joint venture and joint liability aspects of the complaint made by the 
representative.
Did Carpenter John advise Mr D to transfer?
Having considered the available evidence, Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator and for much the same reasons. I dont intend to repeat everything he said here 
but wish to make the following points.
The testimonies provided by Mr D and Carpenter John are completely different. Mr Ds 
position is that Carpenter John played a key role in the pension transfer process because it 
verbally told him to transfer before introducing him to Firm C.
But Carpenter John disputes this and says that it didnt advise Mr D about the merits or 
otherwise of transferring because it didnt have the necessary regulatory permissions to do 
so  which is why it introduced him to Firm C. It says its role in the transaction was merely as 
an introducer to Firm C and that it had no further involvement with Mr D following the 
pension transfer.Wheres theres conflicting testimonies like this, I think its appropriate to place more weight 
on the contemporaneous documentary evidence in reaching my decision.
In this case, the documentary evidence shows that Carpenter John did some basic fact 
finding before introducing Mr D to Firm C to provide pension transfer advice. Providing an 
introduction isnt a regulated activity as set out in DISP 2.3.1 R. 
I havent seen any evidence that Carpenter John advised Mr D to transfer. His 
representative admits as much. But it says Carpenter John verbally told Mr D to transfer. It 
says that Carpenter John chose not to record its advice including influential comments and 
value judgements in writing. I dont think the absence of notes of the discussions between 
Carpenter John and Mr D necessarily means that it advised him to transfer. On balance, and 
based on what Ive seen, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to conclude that 
Carpenter John advised Mr D to transfer. I say this for two reasons. Firstly, Carpenter John 
didnt have the necessary regulatory permissions to advise on pension transfers which is 
why it introduced Mr D to Firm C. And secondly, the evidence shows that Firm C issued a 
suitability report addressed to Mr D recommending that he transfer. Following the pension 
transfer, Carpenter John had no further dealings with Mr D. The available evidence doesnt 
support the position that Carpenter John was remunerated for the introduction to Firm C. But 
even if it was remunerated, this doesnt make it liable for the suitability of the pension 
transfer advice provided by Firm C. 
Its my decision that it was only Firm C that provided the personal recommendation to Mr D 
to transfer  and so its that business which remains solely responsible for the suitability of 
the pension transfer advice and any financial loss flowing from it. Im aware that Firm C was 
declared in default by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) in                
January 2021. Therefore, should Mr Ds representative wish to pursue a claim for 
compensation in respect of the pension transfer advice provided by Firm C, it should contact 
the FSCS, if it hasnt already done so.
In conclusion, I havent seen any evidence that Carpenter John advised Mr D to transfer the 
value of his preserved benefits in the BSPS to a personal pension or that it made an error or 
treated him unfairly. Because of this, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require Carpenter John to pay compensation to Mr D or to take any 
further action in response to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021. 
 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman