DRN-3221293
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs T complain on behalf of their company R. Theyre unhappy that Barclays Bank 
UK PLC restricted access and closed Rs accounts without appropriate notice. And Barclays 
used credits applied to Rs account to pay off their overdraft. 
What happened
Mr T and Mrs Ts are directors of R. Theyre also directors of a linked business, Ill call H, 
whos accounts were also closed by Barclays. Ill be considering the banks actions in relation 
to H in a separate decision. 
R had three accounts with Barclays, a business current account, a business loan and a 
savings account. 
On 9 June 2020 Barclays restricted Rs access to their accounts and carried out a review. 
After a complaint from Rs directors Barclays decided to unrestrict Rs access to their 
accounts on 17 June 2020. On 19 June 2020 Barclays asked R some questions about their 
business including the account activity. Mrs T provided answers to Barclays however the 
bank wasnt satisfied with the responses provided. And on 17 July 2020 Barclays decided to 
close all of Rs accounts. 
However, because Rs business current account was overdrawn to allow payments into the 
account the bank decided to keep this account open. But the account remained restricted. 
In July and September further payments came into Rs current account and Barclays applied 
them towards the overdraft. However Rs account was still overdrawn by just over £10,500. 
So the bank sent formal demands for payment in September and October 2020 before 
passing the debt to debt collectors in December 2020. 
In September 2020 Mrs T contacted Barclays to negotiate repayment of the outstanding loan 
and ask whether Rs current account could be unrestricted  Barclays initially agreed. 
However following further review they accepted theyd made an error and informed Mrs T 
they shouldnt have agreed to unrestrict Rs account. Mrs T complained to the bank  and 
they offered £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Mrs T complained to Barclays about the immediate account closure  which Mr T and Mrs T 
felt was unfair during the Coronavirus pandemic. They also complained that Barclays held 
on to funds which credited their account and failed to agree a repayment plan for R to repay 
the debt. 
Barclays looked into Rs complaints. The bank thought theyd acted fairly in reviewing Rs 
accounts, restricting and closing them. And theyd fairly applied the credited funds towards 
the overdraft R owed by the bank. 
Mrs T wasnt happy with Barclays response so complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Rs complaint  but they didnt uphold it. They thought 
that Barclays had followed their terms and conditions in closing Rs accounts and acted fairly 
in asking for the overdraft to be repaid. He also thought the £200 the bank offered for the 
error in reopening Rs account was fair. 
Mrs T didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, its been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account review and closure
Ive firstly considered whether Barclays acted fairly when closing Rs accounts. A bank is 
entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a bank. But, 
before a bank closes an account it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account. 
The terms and conditions of Rs business current account state that there are certain 
circumstances in which a bank can immediately close a customers account. Section 9 of the 
terms and conditions state that Barclays can close an account without any notice if they 
reasonably believe R has done any of the things listed in 9.6 or 9.7. 
Ive considered these terms and from the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied that Barclays acted 
within the terms and conditions when they closed Rs accounts. 
I realise this will be disappointing to R and I appreciate the closure of their accounts caused 
Mr T and Mrs T inconvenience. But the bank can make commercial decisions about who it 
offers banking services to. They cant unfairly discriminate against a consumer. But they can 
decide they no longer want to do business with individuals. Thats because they have the 
commercial freedom to decide who theyd like to contract with. And Im satisfied that in Rs 
case Barclays exercised its commercial freedom legitimately when it decided to close their 
accounts. 
Ive also considered the account restriction between 9 June and 17 June 2020. Although I 
appreciate that Mrs T is unhappy that restrictions were placed on Rs account businesses 
have a legal obligation to protect the security of their accounts and to comply with various 
laws and regulations. R agreed to this term as a customer and its a reasonable term. Im 
satisfied that Barclays were acting in line with their legal and regulatory obligations and in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the account when it reviewed Rs accounts. So I 
dont think Barclays did anything wrong when it initially blocked Rs accounts and didnt allow 
them access to their funds.
Overdraft and withholding of funds
Ive considered the banks actions in asking for immediate repayment of Rs overdraft. Ive 
seen evidence from Barclays that R was granted an overdraft of £30,000. Its not clear 
exactly when Rs accounts access was terminated  initially Barclays advised R that their 
current account would be closed on the 17 July 2020, however at this time they didnt 
actually close Rs account. Barclays have explained that they couldnt close Rs current 
account because it was in the overdraft  so instead they kept the account open but 
restricted Rs access to the overdraft. I can see that on 20 July 2020, just after Mr T and Mrs T were notified that Rs account 
would be closed, £20,000 was transferred from Rs current account to Mr Ts account. This 
created a negative balance in Rs account of just over £30,000. I find it surprising that Rs 
directors would decide to transfer £20,000 out of Rs account  utilising all of the overdraft 
funds - when they knew their accounts had been under review since early June and should 
have been closed on the 17 July 2020. 
Ive also seen a copy of the overdraft offer made to R for £30,000 in March 2020. I can see 
that the overdraft was offered for a temporary period of four months and was due to be 
repaid on the middle of July. 
Ive considered whether the bank acted fairly in asking for full repayment of Rs overdraft in 
August and September 2020  I understand this will disappoint Mr T and Mrs T however Im 
satisfied that Barclays acted fairly here. The evidence shows that R was offered the 
overdraft for a temporary period of four months. This period ended in July 2020  around the 
same time that Barclays restricted Rs access to the overdraft. And just before the bank 
started formal demands for payments. Considering Rs overdraft was due to end in July 
2020, and fact that overdrafts are repayable on demand, I dont think Barclays acted unfairly 
here. 
Ive also thought about the credits which were transferred into Rs account following the 
restriction. As Ive already explained Rs account was overdrawn by £30,000 before four 
large credits arrived in late July and mid-September. Mr T and Mrs T requested that the 
credits were returned to their personal accounts. Barclays have explained that the credits 
received were applied to Rs overdraft debt. I appreciate that this will disappointment Mr T 
and Mrs T, but Im unable to conclude that Barclays acted unfairly here. Both parties accept 
that R owed the overdraft debt to Barclays  therefore I cant say its unreasonable that 
Barclays used funds due to R, and paid into Rs current account, to pay off some of the 
overdraft debt. I understand that Mr T and Mrs T argue that some of the payments which 
credited Rs account were in fact for another business  H  but I cant agree with this based 
on the evidence Ive seen. 
Repayment Plan
Ive considered whether Barclays acted fairly in failing to set up a repayment plan for the 
overdraft debt R owed Barclays. 
The debt was passed to a debt collection agency Ill call C, and from the evidence Ive seen I 
can see that C attempted to contact Mr T and Mrs T on three occasions in December 2020. 
On 22 December 2020 they spoke over the phone with Mrs T and during this call Mrs T 
asked for no further calls to be made. Then in March 2021 Mrs T emailed C to explain that 
Mr T and Mrs T wouldnt be making arrangements for repayment until the case had been 
considered by the ombudsman service. As Mrs T explained to C they wouldnt agreeing a 
repayment plan until our service considered their complaint I cant say Barclays acted 
unfairly. Since Mrs Ts request in March 2021 I understand that the debt has been returned 
to Barclays and collection has been put on hold. 
Id like to remind Barclays of their responsibilities to treat Mr T and Mrs T positively and 
sympathetically when making arrangements for the debt to be repaid. This will likely involve 
agreeing an affordable repayment plan with Mr T and Mrs T.   
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive outlined above, Im satisfied that the £200 offered by Barclays for the 
inconvenience caused in unrestricting Rs current account is reasonable.My final decision
My final decision is I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Pay R £200 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman