DRN-4458049
The complaint
Ms V complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont reimburse the money she lost when 
she was the victim of a scam.
What happened
Ms V is represented in this case but for ease Ill refer to Ms V throughout this decision. 
What Ms V says
In around April 2022 she saw an advert on a social media platform for a commission-based 
role with a company Ill refer to as E in this decision. Ms V understood that she would be 
required to promote products on a site by buying them using cryptocurrency resulting in an 
increase in the click rate of the product which would increase its popularity. Commission 
would be added to an account on Es platform. Ms V clicked on the link and was added to a 
group on a messaging app. Each day Ms V needed to complete forty missions. 
I have set out in the table below the payments Ms V made. The payments to EMI are to an 
account in Ms Vs own name at an electronic money institution. Recipients one, two and 
three are individuals. 
Payment 
no.Date Amount Recipient Payment type
1 25/04/22 £187.32 EMI Card
2 26/04/22 £81.74 EMI Card
3 26/04/22 £691.24 1 Faster payment
4 26/04/22 £1,228.50 1 Faster payment
5 26/04/22 £3,177.89 2 Faster payment
6 27/04/22 £16.45 EMI Card
7 27/04/22 £24.99 3 Faster payment
8 27/04/22 £5,086.05 EMI Card
9 25/05/22 £2,378.05 EMI Card
Total £12,872.23
Ms V experienced difficulties when she wanted to withdraw funds. She was told that she 
couldnt withdraw funds until her account had a positive balance. She was then unable to 
access the platform and realised she was the victim of a scam. 
Ms V didnt contact Monzo about the scam but instructed a legal representative to complain 
on her behalf in October 2022.
What Monzo say
Monzo didnt agree to reimburse Ms V. It said that she authorised the transactions and didnt 
take steps to ensure the employment she was being offered was genuine. Ms V was 
unhappy with Monzos response and brought a complaint to our service. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint upheld it in part. She said that Monzo should 
have intervened when the fifth payment was made and that had it done so the scam would 
have been uncovered. Although Monzo blocked Ms Vs account after the fourth payment it 
didnt go far enough. But Ms V hadnt done enough to check the opportunity she was offered 
was genuine so she should share liability with Monzo from the fifth payment onwards. 
Finally, the investigator said there was nothing Monzo could have done to recover Ms Vs 
funds. 
Ms V accepted the investigators findings, but Monzo did not. In summary, Monzo said:
- It has sophisticated systems to pick up on unusual transactions, but the payments 
made by Ms V didnt cause any concern and some payments were to a genuine 
merchant. 
- Theres no evidence to suggest intervention would have made a difference as Ms V 
ignored clear red flags. 
- There was an unrelated review as a result of which restrictions were placed on Ms 
Vs account. 
The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Ms V authorised the scam payments from her Monzo account. So, although she didnt intend 
the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the 
terms and conditions of her account, Ms V is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance.
The Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) 
applies to the faster payments but not to any payments made by card. And, taking into 
account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and good industry 
practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for a bank to take additional 
steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in order to help protect its 
customer from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. This is the case whether 
transactions were by card or faster payment. 
I dont consider that Monzo needed to do anything more when Ms V made the first three 
payments in the table above. The value of each transaction was relatively low and there was 
no other reason for Monzo to be concerned. 
Monzo blocked Ms Vs account after she had made the fourth payment in the table above. 
Ms V called Monzo to find out why and explained that her account was blocked when she 
tried to make a large payment to someone. She was referred to Monzos chat function. In the 
chat Monzo told Ms V that as a regulated bank it needed to run some extra checks 
sometimes. Ms V was asked to provide details of any failed payments, any large payments 
shed sent or received over the preceding few days and for any documents in relation to those recent transactions. Ms V replied and simply said that she was, Sending an amount to 
someone. She wasnt asked any further questions but after this Monzo gave her notice that 
her account would be closed.
So Monzo had sufficient concern about the activity on Ms Vs account to block it until it had 
contacted her to get some additional information. Im not satisfied that Monzo did enough to 
understand why the activity on Ms Vs account was unusual compared with the previous use 
of the account. Ms V provided a very basic answer that didnt satisfy Monzo but instead of 
probing further to properly understand the position, Monzo chose to allow Ms V to continue 
to make payments but to give notice to close her account. I dont consider Monzo treated Ms 
V fairly.
Ive gone on to consider whats likely to have happened if Monzo had asked some more 
questions to properly understand the unusual activity on her account. Ive not seen anything 
to suggest Ms V wouldnt have been honest with Monzo so I think shed have explained that 
she was making payments in respect of a job shed found out about on social media to 
release tasks. She may even have said she was required to buy cryptocurrency. The 
information provided ought reasonably to have caused serious concern and led Monzo to 
uncover the scam, meaning all further loss would have been prevented. So I consider that 
Monzo should bear some responsibility for all the scam payments Ms V made after its 
intervention on 26 April 2022  so, from the fifth payment in the table above onwards. 
Ive gone on to consider whether its fair and reasonable to make a deduction to reflect Ms 
Vs actions. Ive considered the points made by her representative but dont believe I can 
fairly ask Monzo to refund the payments referred to above in full because:
- Ms V was provided with a job offer through a social media platform. This isnt how 
people usually get jobs. 
- Ms V didnt receive a contract or any other documentation setting out the terms of her 
agreement with E. Genuine employers provide a contract.
- The premise of the arrangement with E was unusual with Ms V needing to pay to 
complete tasks. Being asked to make payments upfront before being paid isnt what 
youd expect. And the requirement to send and receive cryptocurrency is so unusual I 
think it ought reasonably to have led to a greater level of caution.
- Ms V could earn an income of £25 to £100 a day for completing simple tasks. I 
consider this to a lot for unskilled work and think this ought reasonably to have 
caused concern. The offer was too good to be true. 
- Ms V was required to send funds to various different accounts, none of which were in 
the name of E, but I cant see that she questioned this. 
- Ms V has provided evidence of her chats with the fraudsters. The language used 
wasnt professional or what youd expect of an employer. 
- The reasons for the payments became more implausible and its clear that Ms V 
started to have concerns. She contacted the genuine company Es customer service 
department on social media and was advised that the genuine company didnt know 
anything about the platform. Ms V questioned the scammer about this, but the 
explanation given wasnt persuasive. 
Overall, I consider Ms V should bear some responsibility for her loss too.
My final decision
I require Monzo Bank Ltd to:
- Refund 50% of all payments from and including the payment of £3,177.89; and,
- Add interest to the above figure at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of each transaction to the date of settlement. 
If Monzo considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Ms V how much it has taken off. It should also give Ms V a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman