DRN-2074514
The complaint
Mrs H has complained about Covea Insurance Company Limiteds actions in connection with 
her motor insurance policy.
Mrs H's relative, Mr H, has helped Mrs H in dealing with Covea and in bringing this 
complaint. But for ease of reading I'll refer to his comments as being Mrs Hs. 
Reference to Covea includes its agents.
Background
Covea received an allegation that Mrs Hs car had been in an accident in September 2018. 
Mrs H said neither she nor her car had been involved in the alleged accident. Covea told the 
other party Mrs H denied any knowledge of the accident and asked it for further proof that 
Mrs H was involved. 
When Mrs Hs policy was due for renewal her premium had gone up significantly. And 
quotes from other insurers had also increased as the alleged claim was affecting her 
insurance history. She complained. Covea responded to the complaint some months later. It 
said the other party had withdrawn their allegations against Mrs H. It confirmed it had 
removed details of the incident from a shared insurance database. It also acknowledged it 
could have been more proactive in dealing with the claim. And it sent Mrs H a cheque for 
£250 compensation for the impact of that. Mrs H didn't accept the cheque and returned it.
Mrs H brought her complaint to us. Two of our investigators have looked at the complaint. 
Both felt Coveas offer of £250 compensation was reasonable. And the first investigator also 
recommended Covea should provide Mrs H with a letter she could give to her recent 
insurers to show she wasn't involved in the alleged accident. Mrs H didn't think the 
investigators recommendation went far enough so her complaint's been passed to me to 
decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to partly uphold it. And my award to put things right will be the 
same as our investigators recommended. 
In bringing this complaint Mrs H has made a number of detailed points. But I don't intend to 
address each and every point raised; instead I will focus on what I see as being the key 
issues. 
I can understand how stressful and frustrating Mrs H might have found being accused of 
being at fault for an accident she knew she wasn't involved in. But I dont think this was 
Coveas fault. As it had received an allegation that one of its policyholders, Mrs H, was 
involved in an accident, it was required by law (the Road Traffic Act 1988) to respond to that 
claim. So I think it was reasonable for Covea to ask Mrs H for her version of events before it 
decided how to deal with the claim. And until Mrs H had given her account it couldn't know 
for certain whether shed been in the accident or not.
Covea initially wrote to Mrs H to ask her about the incident. But, for reasons that aren't clear, 
it seems Mrs H didn't receive Coveas letter - although I've seen evidence from Coveas file 
that it wrote to her. It then instructed investigators to interview Mrs H. They were satisfied 
with Mrs Hs version of events. That was neither she nor her car had been in an accident. 
The investigators concluded that the allegations against her were possibly a case of 
mistaken identity.
It might help if I explain that there's a centrally held database that records which insurers 
insure particular cars. And the database locates insurers by the registration number of the 
cars on their policies and not by the name of the policyholder. So, when theres been a 
driving incident and an interested party wants to claim from the insurer of the car involved, 
they can find the insurers details from the central database using the cars registration 
number. 
But occasionally the party wishing to make a claim will make a mistake, perhaps because 
they've recorded the registration number incorrectly. And when that happens the database 
will provide details of the insurer of the car with the incorrect registration number. And that 
can lead to a claim being made against a policyholder who has no involvement or knowledge 
whatsoever of the incident being claimed for . 
It seems likely thats what happened in this case. That is the party making the claim 
incorrectly noted the registration number of the car involved in the incident, recording 
Mrs Hs cars registration by mistake. And when theyve looked for the insurer from the 
database its provided Coveas details as insuring Mrs H. So theyve sent their allegations to 
Covea. The mistaken identity in a case like this is the identity of the cars registration 
number. And while such mistaken claims are inevitably frustrating for the innocent 
policyholder concerned, it doesn't necessarily mean the party making the claim has acted 
fraudulently, theyve simply made an error.
In this case Covea initially responded reasonably. It established that Mrs H said she wasn't 
involved in the claim and took action to prove that, including instructing investigators. It also 
asked an engineer to see if there was any evidence of the car being involved in the accident. 
Although it appears that an engineer didn't ever complete that action. Covea also told the 
other party it would defend any claim and asked it to prove Mrs H had been in the accident. 
That was the right thing to do. But, it didn't follow this action up. That was clearly an 
unacceptable oversight. And it should have taken more action to ensure that the other side 
shut down the claim against Mrs H. That's because, while a claim remains open, most 
insurers will treat it as if its a fault claim, which affects no claims discount (NCD) 
entitlement, and premiums until such time as its closed.
Its worth noting that its usual for insurers like Covea to require agreement from the claimant 
that theyre no longer going to pursue the claim before closing it down. Thats because 
otherwise the claimant could simply continue to pursue it and take the matter to court, 
regardless of the fact the policyholder has consistently denied any involvement in it. But as 
I've already said Covea should have taken more robust action earlier to secure the other 
partys agreement to close the claim. Covea hasn't provide any explanation for why it didn't 
take that action sooner. So, I can't say with any certainty why it wasn't more proactive. 
However, its delay wasn't acceptable. But I think, for the most part, Coveas done enough to 
put things right.I understand Mrs H doesn't agree, particularly because the open claim significantly affected 
the premiums she was offered when her policy was due for renewal. But, even when 
handled well, disputes of this nature can often take months to resolve and rely on the 
cooperation of the other side. So even if Covea had acted promptly I can't be sure it would 
have closed the claim before Mrs Hs policy was due to renew. And, while its actions were 
delayed, it did eventually have the claim removed from a shared insurance database, record 
it appropriately on its own system and confirm Mrs Hs NCD entitlement. Also to address the 
impact of its delays it offered Mrs H £250 compensation. I think that was a reasonable offer 
in the circumstances as its in line with awards we make in other cases of similar 
seriousness. I know Mrs H rejected that offer, but as I think it was an appropriate sum, 
Covea should reissue this payment to Mrs H.
Mrs H clearly doesn't think £250 compensation is anything like enough, especially given the 
impact on her premium. But Im aware Mrs Hs premium was also likely to be affected by an 
earlier claim in the same policy year. So I don't think the mistaken allegation was the only 
reason Mrs Hs premium increased. And, as I've said above, even if Covea had acted 
promptly it's likely that the claim would have remained open when Mrs Hs policy was due to 
renew. So I don't think Coveas delays alone are the reasons her premium increased as it 
did. But to ensure the allegation no longer affects her I think Covea should write to Mrs H to 
confirm the claim made against her has been dropped and the incident removed from the 
shared insurance database. Mrs H can then show that letter to her recent insurers which 
might want to consider if a refund of premium is due. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I partly uphold this complaint. I require Covea Insurance 
Company Limited to:
Reissue the payment of £250 compensation for Mrs Hs distress and inconvenience.
Write to Mrs H to confirm she had no involvement in the September 2018 accident 
and that the claim has been removed from a shared insurance database.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman