DRN-2477391
The complaint
Mr K1 complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) charged for 
damage to the car he and Mr K2 acquired through a Personal Contract Plan (the 
agreement) after the car had been rejected.  
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr K1 and Mr K2 acquired a new car through a Personal Contract Plan with MBFS in 
September 2019. The agreement had a four year term but due to issues with the car, 
it was agreed the car could be rejected. The car was inspected on 10 June 2020 and 
damage was recorded. MBFS has explained that its vehicle return standards were 
provided to Mr K1 and Mr K2 when they entered into the agreement and I can see 
that the agreement states that the car needs to be returned in line with the vehicle 
return conditions. Therefore, I find that Mr K1 and Mr K2 had the information 
available to be reasonably aware of the return requirements for the car.
The agreement notes that an inspection will take place on the return of the car. This 
happened and the inspection report provided photographs of the damage. I have 
considered this in relation to MBFS vehicle return standards and the industry 
guidelines for wear and tear provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA). The BVRLA guidelines state that all tyres must be free from 
damage to the sidewalls or tread. It says scuffs of up to 50mm on the total 
circumference of the wheel alloys is acceptable but there must be no damage to the 
wheel spokes, fascia or hub. I have looked at the inspection photographs and can 
see the damage to the tyre and agree this falls outside of the wear and tear 
guidelines. The damage to the alloys also appears to fall outside the accepted levels. 
Therefore, I do not find I can say MBFS applied the charges unfairly.
Mr K1 says that as the car was returned early due to the issues he wasnt given the 
opportunity to have repairs carried out. I appreciate the point he has made but the 
vehicle return conditions had been made available to him and as I find he should 
have been reasonably aware of the return requirements I think it would have been 
reasonable that had he wanted more time to undertake repairs himself he would 
have requested this.  
I note the comments Mr K1 has made about the charges applied being excessive. 
However, as the damage is identified in the inspection report and it would be 
reasonable that MBFS would require repairs to be undertaken to a certain standard 
or there would be a loss of value due to the damage, I do not find I can say the 
charges are unfair.
I understand Mr K1 has had a bad experience due to the issues with the car. However, this 
complaint is about the charges applied for the damage. As the damage is shown in the 
inspection report and this falls outside of fair wear and tear, I do not find I can uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K1 and Mr K2 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman