DRN-4344654
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited required him to step down 
as a director of his company before agreeing to settle two claims for unemployment that he 
made on a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr H made two claims for unemployment during 2021-22 which were ultimately accepted by 
Lloyds and Mr H received the appropriate claims payments. As part of the information 
gathering process for the claims, Lloyds required evidence that Mr H had resigned his 
directorship of the limited company he had been made redundant from. Mr H is unhappy 
because he considers that Lloyds was acting outside of the policy terms in making that 
request.
Our adjudicator thought that Lloyds had acted reasonably in asking for the information as 
part of assessing the claims. Mr H disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so the claim 
has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regard to an unemployment claim, part of the policy terms state that you will only be 
covered if:
you are self-employed and you own your own company as a sole trader or partner in a 
partnership and are able to control the affairs of the company, you have involuntarily ceased 
trading because you could not find enough work to meet all your reasonable business and 
living expenses and have declared this to HM Revenues and Customs.
Mr H feels that Lloyds has redefined the meaning of partnership to include limited 
companies. He thinks it should stick to the policy wording and allow him to remain a director 
of the company.
The meaning of Partnership isnt defined further within the policy. Lloyds says it considers it 
to mean a formal arrangement by two or more parties to manage and operate a business 
and share profits. And as a director, Mr H was in a position to control the affairs of the 
company.
The intention of the policy is to provide cover when someone loses their job involuntarily. 
Lloyds is entitled to take reasonable steps to establish whether that is the case.
Mr Hs situation was slightly unusual. He was a director of a company in which he held an 
equal fourth share with three other family members. Rather than the company ceasing to 
trade, it was continuing to operate, with Mr H being made redundant but with his directorship 
still active. 
Given this, I consider Lloyds was entitled to satisfy itself that Mr H was fully without work and 
that the circumstances of him parting ways with his employer fell within the definition of 
being involuntarily unemployed. As such, it was reasonable for Lloyds to exercise another 
clause within the policy relating to evidence.
Under the heading: Providing evidence when you claim, it states:
You will be required to provide any information or evidence from third parties, including your 
doctor or employer, that we might reasonably ask for. Without this information, your claim 
may not be paid.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr H has said, particularly about the inconvenience of his 
accountant having to remove him and then reinstate him as a company director. But overall, 
given the particular circumstances of this case, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to 
request extra evidence to establish Mr H unemployment. On balance, I think it was fair and 
reasonable of Lloyds to ask for evidence that he was no longer a director and to provide 
supporting letters from his accountant.
It follows that I do not uphold the complaint.
Ill now take the opportunity to address another couple of point that Mr H has made.
He has said that the PPI wasnt suitable for him as he was already a company director when 
he bought the policy, therefore it was mis-sold. However, Mr H had previously made a 
complaint about the policy being mis-sold and he received a final response letter from the 
seller in February 2018 that didnt uphold his complaint. I wrote a jurisdiction decision in April 
2023 explained that, as Mr H hadnt referred his decision to this service within six months, 
we unfortunately didnt have the powers to consider it.
Mr H has also mentioned that Lloyds made late payments to his mortgage account that have 
impacted his credit history. Ive seen a final response letter from Lloyds dated 18 August 
2022 that addresses this issue. Lloyds agreed that there had been a late payment and paid 
Mr H £75 compensation for the delay. But it said it had flagged with the mortgage team that 
as he was currently in claim, it would be covering the mortgage payments. Therefore, he 
shouldnt be impacted whilst in claim.
I havent seen any evidence that Mr Hs credit file has been adversely affected. If that is the 
case, he would need to contact his lender first to give it the opportunity to correct it. If it 
doesnt do so, he can then make a further complaint about that issue.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman