DRN-3145955
The complaint
Miss B and Mrs B have brought the complaint on behalf of the estate of Mr B. Theyre 
unhappy Lloyds Bank havent been able to locate Mr Bs savings account.
What happened
Mr B held a savings account with a bank which was taken over by Lloyds Bank. Miss B 
came into possession of Mr Bs passbook while managing his estate. The last entry was 
around 1970 and showed a credit balance of just under £100. Miss B asked Lloyds Bank to 
find the account and pay any funds owed to the estate.
Lloyds Bank said that the passbook isnt proof that the account is still open. They said 
accounts could be closed in branch without the passbook. They also explained they only 
hold details of financial transactions for a maximum of ten years, so they couldnt provide 
any information about the account.
Our investigator said since Lloyds Banks searches couldnt locate the account, she was 
satisfied the account isnt open. She thought it was most likely closed without the passbook 
and the balance withdrawn after the last recorded entry.
Miss B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen the searches Lloyds Bank completed. Having done so, Im satisfied theyve made 
reasonable attempts to find the account, as Id expect them to do in this situation.
Miss B firmly believes that the passbook is evidence that the account is still open. But I 
disagree. The last entry on the passbook is evidence only of the account balance on that 
particular date  not that no further transactions have been made since or that the account is 
still open.
I dont dispute Mrs Bs recollection that passbooks were physically marked to indicate the 
account was closed or transferred either by cutting the corners, punching holes, scoring 
through the passbook etc.
That said, Im aware its possible to make withdrawals and close an account without the 
passbook, as Lloyds Bank have said. I appreciate Lloyds Bank havent provided procedural 
evidence from the 1970s which Miss B believes might be available in their archives. I dont 
think this information is necessary to decide this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ideally, as per the notice in the passbook, customers should bring their passbook to make 
deposits and withdrawals. But passbooks are often lost, damaged or stolen. Banks and 
building societies dont get to keep the money if that happens. They wouldnt generally 
prevent a genuine customer from accessing their account with sufficient identification.
In these circumstances, its likely the old passbook wont be physically marked in the way 
Mrs B has suggested. And it wouldnt be unusual for the bank or building society to issue a 
new replacement passbook. 
The last entry on the passbook was around 50 years ago. A passbook being discovered 
some years later doesnt mean the account is still open and the balance plus any interest is 
owed to the account holder.
As explained, sometimes accounts are closed without the passbook being surrendered or 
physically marked as Miss B has mentioned. If the account was still open, Lloyds Bank 
would have a record of it as a dormant account, but there is no trace of the account. 
On balance, I think its more likely than not that the funds were withdrawn, and the account 
was closed without presenting the passbook  some time after the final entry in the 
passbook and more than ten years ago.
If the account was closed in the last ten years, the account wouldve been located by the 
searches carried out by Lloyds Bank. I say this because Lloyds Bank hold information for a 
maximum of ten years.
Financial organisations arent required to retain records of closed accounts indefinitely. So, I 
cant fairly say that Lloyds Bank should have kept information on the account closure from 
more than ten years ago.
Miss B has suggested that the account may have been lost when it was still with the initial 
bank or during the transfer across to Lloyds Bank. While this may be a possible explanation, 
I think its speculative as theres simply no evidence to show that the account was lost. 
As explained above, I think its more likely that the funds were withdrawn, and the account 
was closed. Therefore, Im not asking Lloyds Bank to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman