DRN-3916724
The complaint
Mr A complains about Paysafe Financial Services Limited (trading as Neteller) closing his 
account and withholding his money.
What happened
In June 2020, Neteller made the decision to close Mr As account. At the time, Mr A held 
around $1,300 in the account and said hed lost his job so needed his money back.
Neteller asked Mr A for some information to allow them to release the money. In particular, 
Neteller asked for proof of identification and an up to date bank statement. Mr A provided 
both  and while Neteller accepted Mr As identification documents, they didnt accept the 
bank statement.
Mr A brought the complaint to our service and submitted a different bank statement to allow 
Neteller to release the money in the account.
Our investigator explained that Neteller were entitled to review and close the account. And 
he said the subsequent bank statement had been forwarded to Neteller to decide on whether 
it was sufficient enough for them to release the money.
Mr A asked for an ombudsman to review things. So, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
I got in touch with Mr A and Neteller to see if the money had been released back to Mr A. 
Mr A explained he was still without his money. Neteller explained that they couldnt accept 
the bank statement Mr A had provided and wasnt able to send the money any other way  
such as a cheque. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Reviewing and closing Mr As account
Neteller are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and
regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. Having looked at whats happened, Im satisfied Neteller was 
complying with their legal and regulatory obligations when they reviewed and subsequently 
closed Mr As account. So, I cant fairly say theyve done anything wrong.
When financial institutions carry out reviews, its common practice across the banking 
industry that the review will require additional information from the account holder. Often, the 
information required is related to the consumers identity, proof of entitlement to recent 
payments or more details on what the account is used for. Based on the evidence Ive seen, 
Neteller asked Mr A questions relating to his identification (which they accepted) and an 
alternative bank statement to be able to release the money. 
Neteller have made the decision to return the money to Mr A  but need a valid bank 
statement to be able to do so. I note the bank statements Mr A has sent Neteller havent 
been accepted. While its usually for Neteller to decide what evidence and information is 
sufficient as part of a review, they do have to ensure they are treating customers fairly. 
Therefore, I have considered Netellers reasons for not accepting the bank statements, and 
while I cant share the full details with Mr A, Id like to reassure him that I think their decision 
is reasonable in the circumstances.
It therefore follows, that I cant reasonably ask Neteller to release the money held in the 
account until Mr A has been able to provide a sufficient bank statement. If Mr A isnt able to 
provide a valid statement in his name, I find it reasonable for Neteller to keep the money until 
one is provided.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman