DRN-3406328
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC did not give him the correct information to
activate two restricted accounts, which resulted in delays accessing his money.
What happened
Mr C lives overseas. Mr C had two accounts with Barclays which he wanted to access as he
was trying to buy a house. The last time he looked at his accounts he thought there was a
balance of between £40,000-£45,000, however, when he logged into his online banking, his
accounts werent showing.
Mr C says he contacted Barclays several times over the following few weeks, but the only
help he was given was that his accounts may have been moved into a dormant status. He
says that contacting Barclays dormancy team was impossible, even for Barclays staff. He
was told to use a third party website to find his lost accounts, but Barclays responded to say
they had been unable to identify any accounts with a balance.
Mr C made a complaint to Barclays, who said that their policy was to write a single letter to
the address they held on file, advising of their intention to close an account that hadnt been
used for some time. They also said the letter told Mr C how to prevent this from happening.
Mr C brought his complaint to our service.
Barclays told our investigator that they had wrote to Mr C in March 2020, advising it was
their intention to restrict activity on his accounts. The letter stated what Mr C needed to do to
keep the accounts open and if he didnt take this action by 10 May 2020, then his accounts
would become dormant. The letter explained that after this date, to reactivate his account he
would need to visit a branch with the letter and identification. Barclays included a list of
acceptable identification documents.
Barclays also explained that as Mr Cs accounts were currency accounts then these were
not recorded on their system in the same way as sterling current accounts were. This was
why the dormancy team were originally unable to locate Mr Cs accounts and balances.
Barclays informed Mr C of the requirements (through our investigator) in order to reactivate
his accounts. Barclays said that they had not given Mr C the support he needed when he
was trying to reclaim the funds in his account. In light of this they offered Mr C £100 in
compensation.
Mr C did not accept Barclays offer as he said it was too low. He said the £100 offer would be
unlikely to cover the cost to pay for a notary and the translation of the documents that
Barclays required to reactivate his account.
Our investigator felt the £100 offer was fair and reasonable. She said that Mr C didnt receive
the initial letters as he didnt inform Barclays of his change of address. But she agreed that
Barclays could have provided better service to Mr C when locating his accounts. She noted
Mr C now has access to his funds.
Mr C asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In
summary he said he could not change his address online to the overseas address he
wanted to when moving out of the UK, which meant the letters went to his last address. He
said he receives emails from Barclays but didnt receive an email about his accounts
becoming restricted. Mr C also added that he spent roughly 100 hours trying to resolve the
issue and multiple attempts to communicate with Barclays failed.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Ive considered what Mr C has said regarding not receiving the initial letters from Barclays
and them sending the letters via post instead of email. I can sympathise if Mr C wasnt able
to update his address to an overseas address online, however, it is still his responsibility to
ensure Barclays had an up to date address for him.
I say this as Ive looked at the terms and conditions for personal customers of Barclays. It
states Its essential that you keep us informed if there are any changes to your situation,
contact or personal details or any other important changes that are relevant to us. This is so
that we can continue to manage your banking, protect your account, and communicate with
you safely and quickly. So while Mr C says he was unable to update his address online,
there were other ways in which he could and should have contacted Barclays to ensure they
had his most up to date details. So I cant hold Barclays responsible for Mr C not receiving
the initial letters informing him his account would be restricted if he didnt act by the deadline.
Im persuaded that if Mr C had updated his address, then he would have received the letters
and he would have taken action to stop them becoming restricted.
In terms of Barclays sending a letter to Mr C instead of an email, Barclays terms and
conditions state Where we can, well contact you using your preferred method. We may not
always be able to do this  for example, sometimes the law may require us to send you
something by post. So here, Im satisfied its clear that even if Mr Cs preferred method of
contact is emails, as hes said he often receives emails from Barclays, there will be times
where Barclays are required to send certain communication by post, and thats what
Barclays did here.
Next, Ive considered what happened when Mr C got in touch with Barclays when he realised
his accounts had disappeared from his online banking. I am persuaded that Mr C was let
down here by Barclays. He was directed to a third party website, which wouldnt have been
able to locate his accounts, based on how Barclays had restricted his accounts. Then Mr C
received letters from Barclays to say he had no balance in his accounts, which would have
been distressing for him, especially as he was using the money in his accounts to buy a new
home.
Mr C had to spend a considerable amount of time to try and find out what was happening.
While there would always be an element of time spent trying to resolve the issues which lead
to a complaint, Im persuaded that Mr C was inconvenienced by Barclays here, through no
fault of his own, as nobody was able to take ownership of the issues and help Mr C locate
his restricted accounts.
So Ive thought about what a reasonable amount of compensation would be. Barclays haveoffered £100, but Mr C thought this was not enough, as it wouldnt cover the costs of the
notary and translation of documents required by Barclays to reactivate his account. But Im
not persuaded it is reasonable for Barclays to cover the costs of this. I say this as if Mr C had
changed his address, as he was required to when he moved property, he would have
received the letters and wouldnt have been required to have provided additional
identification at this point (unless he wanted to transfer the funds elsewhere).
Once Mr Cs account became restricted, he was always responsible for providing
identification (and paying any associated costs) to Barclays, regardless of the delays
Barclays actions may have had in reactivating the accounts. So I wont be considering this
as part of the compensation I intend to award.
Compensation is a discretionary remedy that we sometimes award if we feel that a business
has acted wrongfully and therefore caused distress and inconvenience to their customer
over and above that which naturally flows from the event. When we recommend
compensation, it is often modest and within our established guidelines.
Im satisfied that a fair amount of compensation is £250. I say this as it was a couple of
months from when Mr C first contacted Barclays, to when they told our service how Mr C
could activate his accounts. Mr C was attempting to purchase a house around this time, so
this would have been a stressful period for him, especially when he was relying on the funds
in his Barclays accounts to assist him with the purchase. Thankfully, his accounts being
restricted didnt impact on the house purchase, but it would have been distressing for Mr C
to receive letters from Barclays saying they couldnt locate a balance in his accounts.
Barclays have also inconvenienced Mr C as they directed him to a third party website for
dormant accounts, even though his account couldnt be located this way. His account was
pseudo closed, which meant that when Mr C wanted to reactivate the account, it shouldve
been able to be reactivated quickly (after Mr C provided the relevant identification). Mr C had
also made several phone calls to Barclays to get the issue resolved, but the call handlers he
spoke to didnt realise that the process for dormancy on currency current accounts was
different to the process for a sterling current account and this delayed matters also. So I
intend to ask Barclays to put things right for Mr C.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Barclays accepted the provisional decision. Mr C said he wanted £500 
compensation and Barclays to donate a further £500 to a charity to help with the Ukraine 
crisis.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr C has said about the compensation he wants to settle the 
complaint. But as I explained in my provisional decision, compensation is a discretionary 
remedy that we sometimes award if we feel that a business has acted wrongfully and 
therefore caused distress and inconvenience to their customer over and above that which 
naturally flows from the event. When we recommend compensation, it is often modest and 
within our established guidelines.
Im satisfied that a fair amount of compensation is £250. I say this as it was a couple of
months from when Mr C first contacted Barclays, to when they told our service how Mr C
could activate his accounts. Mr C was attempting to purchase a house around this time, so
this would have been a stressful period for him, especially when he was relying on the fundsin his Barclays accounts to assist him with the purchase. Thankfully, his accounts being
restricted didnt impact on the house purchase, but it would have been distressing for Mr C
to receive letters from Barclays saying they couldnt locate a balance in his accounts.
Barclays have also inconvenienced Mr C as they directed him to a third party website for
dormant accounts, even though his account couldnt be located this way. His account was
pseudo closed, which meant that when Mr C wanted to reactivate the account, it shouldve
been able to be reactivated quickly (after Mr C provided the relevant identification). Mr C had
also made several phone calls to Barclays to get the issue resolved, but the call handlers he
spoke to didnt realise that the process for dormancy on currency current accounts was
different to the process for a sterling current account and this delayed matters also. So Im 
persuaded that £250 compensation is fair and reasonable for the reasons I gave in my 
provisional decision.
In summary, Mr Cs response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mr C will be disappointed that I 
havent awarded additional compensation, but I hope he understand my reasons.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to ask Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr C £250 for
distress and inconvenience. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given 
previously. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr C £250 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman