DRN-3928613
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Nationwide Building Society have debited money from their 
account which they did not authorise.
Mr and Mrs B are represented by one of their Lasting Power of Attorneys (LPA) in bringing 
this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill refer to any submission and comments he has 
made as being made by Mr and Mrs B themselves.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B noticed in January 2022, that there was a £4,000 transfer made out of their 
account on 2 September 2021 which they did not authorise. This was similar to a separate 
incident in the previous year, where £30,000 was debited from their account which they 
didnt authorise. They made a complaint to Nationwide.
Nationwide upheld the complaint. They apologised for what happened. They said an error 
occurred when Mrs B visited their branch in September, and then the cashier failed to 
complete a transaction correctly when requested by another member. They credited Mr and 
Mrs Bs account with £350 to apologise. Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to our service.
Our adjudicator thought the £350 compensation was fair. He said Nationwide acted swiftly in 
their investigation and quickly identified their mistake when they had informed them of this, 
and they recredited their account in a timely manner.
Mr and Mrs B asked for an Ombudsman to review their complaint. They said what happened 
caused great anxiety for Mrs B, causing her many sleepless nights as this was the second 
time such an error had taken place at the same branch. They said the level of compensation 
should be increased to reflect the continued stress and anxiety this situation has caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must be clear to Mr and Mrs B that Im only able to investigate what happened with the 
unauthorised transaction in September 2021 and not the transaction in 2020, as this was 
brought to our service out of time, which our adjudicator explained to them previously. But I 
can understand why Mr and Mrs B would have concerns about the security of their money, 
especially as a similar occurrence happened the previous year. From all of the evidence Ive 
seen, it does appear that this was due to human error and not part of a wider issue.
Nationwide have explained that when Mrs B visited their branch in September, her account 
information wasnt removed from their system when the next member was served by the 
cashier. So, the transfer the next member wanted to complete was made from Mr and Mrs 
Bs account, as opposed to the account the next member wanted to transfer from.
Unfortunately human error can occur. Thats not to take away the distress and 
inconvenience this can cause someone  especially as Mrs B has detailed how this error 
has affected her and continues to affect her. And this is undoubtedly compounded when a 
similar thing happened in the previous year. 
So what I would expect Nationwide to do here is to speak with the branch to make them 
aware of the error made, apologise to Mr and Mrs B and award them compensation to 
recognise the impact that this would have had on them, especially given this wasnt the first 
time this happened. Nationwide have told them via a letter on 18 February 2022 that Im 
confident our Branch Manager has completed the relevant competency review on the 
individual responsible for our error and all appropriate actions have been taken. So it does 
appear that the branch manager has took internal action with the cashier responsible for this 
mistake. While this may give Mr and Mrs B little comfort considering this was the second 
time this happened, Im persuaded this is a positive step theyve taken rather than just 
apologising to Mr and Mrs B and offering them compensation. 
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs B have said about the compensation Nationwide have 
given them, that it is too low. But compensation is a discretionary remedy that we sometimes 
award if we feel that a business has acted wrongfully and therefore caused distress and 
inconvenience to their customer over and above that which naturally flows from the event. 
When we recommend compensation, it is often modest and within our established 
guidelines.
The £350 that Nationwide paid Mr and Mrs B is broadly in line with what I would have 
awarded if Nationwide did not uphold their complaint and it is in line with our guidelines for 
compensation. So Im satisfied that this amount is fair for the impact of the error would have 
had on Mr and Mrs B. This would be very distressing for them, especially after what had 
previously happened. 
When Nationwide were made aware of the error, they acted swiftly to rectify this. If Mr and 
Mrs B still have concerns about the security of their money with Nationwide, they may wish 
to transfer their accounts to a new provider, and this may resolve Mrs Bs continued 
anxieties with Nationwide. But it follows, I wont be asking Nationwide to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman