DRN-3758667
The complaint
Miss A complains about holds eBay Commerce UK Ltd has placed on some transactions 
after shes sold items online. Shes also raised concerns about eBay appearing to apply its 
policy inconsistently. 
What happened
Miss A contacted eBay because she hadnt received funds for an item shed sold online. 
Miss A says she had confirmation the item had been delivered and the buyer had left a 
positive review.
 
eBay told Miss A its policy is to hold on to funds for 14 days if the seller is new or sells 
infrequently. Miss A says she was confused by this because only a couple of weeks 
previously, eBay had agreed to release funds for another item shed sold after shed spoken 
to a manager. This time eBay refused to release the funds, so Miss A raised a complaint and 
asked our service to consider it when it wasnt resolved to her satisfaction.
Our investigator looked into Miss As concerns but didnt think her complaint should be 
upheld. The investigator was satisfied that eBay had acted within its Payments Terms of Use 
and had also provided clear information about this on its website.
Miss A disagreed with our investigators outcome. She questioned why eBay had released 
funds for another item despite her not yet sending the goods. She commented that the point 
of policies and procedures is that they should be followed at all times, with no exceptions. 
She said eBay doesnt follow its own rules and procedures - releasing funds when it should 
not and then on other days saying it cannot release funds because the procedure says to 
wait 14 days. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss As complaint. Ill explain why. 
eBays Payment Terms of Use say:
We reserve the right to manage the risks associated with providing you the Payment 
Services, by placing restrictions on your access to your funds when deemed necessary, as 
described in further detail below. You agreed that we may place holds on your funds or 
instruct a payment service provider to hold your funds, prior to disbursement
The Payment Terms of Use links to eBays holds help page which contains further 
information including:
New or infrequent sellers will experience transaction holds while learning best 
selling practices. This helps sellers become established and build a strong selling 
history on eBay. New sellers typically experience holds for up to 14 days, although 
sometimes it may be longer.
eBay says Miss A has been experiencing transaction holds on her orders because she 
infrequently sells on her account, and it wants to ensure that transactions will go smoothly. It 
says that for this type of transaction hold, there is no early release regardless of whether the 
buyer left positive feedback or not. 
Miss A doesnt dispute being an infrequent seller. Shes also confirmed receiving the funds 
for the transaction she complained about within 14 days. Given what it says in its terms, I 
think it was reasonable for eBay to have placed a hold on the transaction.
Miss A has commented that eBay hasnt consistently followed its own policy. She says eBay 
released funds for another item, even though it had not yet been received by the buyer.
Its not this services role to tell a business what policies or processes to put in place or how 
strictly they must follow them. If a business has failed to follow a policy correctly or a 
consumer has been unfairly disadvantaged in some way, we would consider what the impact 
on the consumer is.
The information on eBays website doesnt state that it will always place a 14 day hold on 
transactions for new or infrequent sellers. It says these sellers will typically experience 
holds for up to 14 days. I appreciate Miss A might be confused about why eBay seems to 
be willing to release some transactions sooner than others. However, Im not persuaded that 
shes been disadvantaged by receiving some funds earlier than expected. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Miss A. But overall, Im satisfied that eBay has 
acted fairly and reasonably.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman