DRN-3190019
The complaint
Ms C complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund the money she lost when 
unrecognised transactions were made on her account.
What happened
What Ms C says
Ms C says that on 7 December 2020 she received a text message about a pending tax 
rebate which included a link to the calculation. She clicked on the link but didnt enter any 
details. Then on 9 December she received a call from someone who said they were from the 
fraud department of another bank she holds an account with. The caller asked Ms C a 
security question she didnt recognise from previous calls (one digit from her date of birth) 
and so she terminated the call without providing any personal information. 
Soon after, Ms C contacted the other bank to say shed received the call from someone 
impersonating the other bank. While she was on the call she logged into her account and 
found funds had been moved from her savings account at that other bank to her current 
account and then onto her Monzo account. During the call, Ms C also received a notification 
in her Monzo app to say that funds had been transferred in, but Ms C says she hadnt moved 
the funds. She ended the call with the other bank and tried to call Monzo. As she was unable 
to get a response Ms C used the chat function to contact Monzo.
Ms C notes that she hadnt used her Monzo account since July 2020. Then on 9 December 
2020 a third party moved her funds from an account with another bank to her Monzo account 
and then made two transfers to separate new payees for £800 and £700. Ms C disputes the 
payments and thinks Monzo should refund them. Ms C also says shed like to get to the 
bottom of what happened because the matter has shaken her trust in the banking sector, 
and she does not want it to happen again. 
Ms C called Monzo on 10 December 2020 and says at this stage her account was frozen.  
What Monzo says
Monzo hasnt refunded the faster payments totalling £1,500 Ms C disputes. In summary, 
Monzo said:
- It has reason to believe the payments arent fraudulent and werent made by a third 
party. The payments were made from Ms Cs account using her registered device 
and no other devices gained access to the account. The payments were faster 
payments, and these require the account PIN to complete the payment. 
- If Ms C made the payments herself as part of a scam it can review her case under a 
separate process.
- Ms C said Monzo didnt flag the payments, but it sent warnings at the time the 
payments were made. 
- Although Ms C says her account wasnt frozen until several days after she reported 
the disputed transactions this wasnt the case. When Ms C submitted a dispute form 
on 9 December 2020 the account was frozen, and no further payments could be 
made. 
- The two payments were made at 17.42 and 17.54. Monzo received a call from Ms 
Cs mobile number at 18.15. The caller was female and passed security. The caller 
wanted to authorise the £800 payment and Monzo confirmed the payment had been 
sent successfully and received by the payee. The caller also checked that a £700 
payment had been sent. At 19.06 Ms C completed a fraud report, her card was 
frozen, and a fraud investigation started. Monzo then received a further call on 10 
December in which Ms C said she didnt transfer funds to her Monzo account or 
make the two transfers. 
- Monzo accepts it closed Ms Cs account in error on 11 December and didnt resolve 
this for four days and there were some delays in providing responses in the chat. It 
has credited Ms Cs account with £75 in respect of the closure and £25 for the 
delays. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Ms Cs complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. In 
summary, she concluded that Ms C authenticated and consented to the two payments. The 
payments were made from Ms Cs mobile, which she says no-one else had access to, and 
Ms C used her personal banking details to log in and make the payments. Also, Ms C hasnt 
offered an explanation for how her banking information could have been compromised, other 
than that her phone might have been hacked. Given that a PIN was needed to complete the 
transactions this seemed to the investigator to be unlikely. The investigator was also 
satisfied that it was more likely than not that Ms C made the call to authorise the payments.
Although Ms C says she hasnt been scammed the investigator considered whether she 
should receive a refund under the CRM Code and decided she shouldnt. This was because 
Ms C didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the payments were genuine as she said 
she recognised the link wasnt genuine so didnt add details, and also terminated the call that 
was meant to be from another bank quickly.
Ms C didnt agree with the investigator. I have summarised below the main points her 
representative has made on her behalf:
- Monzo should have done more to prevent the payments from being made as they 
were unusual given previous account history. In particular, two payments were made 
to new payees in quick succession from an account with no previous withdrawals and 
both payments were higher value.
- No evidence has been provided to show Ms C logged into online banking or initiated 
the payments. And Monzo should provide evidence of how Ms Cs account was 
hacked to prevent it happening again.
- Monzos response time increased Ms Cs loss when she struggled to communicate 
with it to freeze her account. 
- A bank is responsible for unauthorised transactions in most circumstances.  
- The other bank has refunded 50% of Ms Cs losses so Ms C questioned why Monzo 
hasnt been asked to do the same.
The complaint has been passed to me to consider.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.And where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence. 
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator and for the same reasons. Ill explain why.
As the parties dont agree on what happened in this case, Ive reviewed the evidence 
carefully and will set it out here. Monzos records show that two payments were made from 
Ms Cs Monzo account using her registered mobile and PIN. The payments were made at 
17.42 (£800) and 17.54 (£700) on 9 December 2020. At 18.15 Monzo received a call from 
Ms Cs mobile in which the caller said she needed a payment of £800 to be authorised and 
also asked if a payment of £700 had left the account. I recognise that Ms C has said she 
didnt make this call, but Im satisfied that on the balance of probabilities she did. I say this 
because the call was made from her registered mobile and security questions were 
answered correctly. Also, whilst Im not an expert, I believe the callers voice was the same 
as in a call Ms C accepts she made the following day.   
Ive seen a screenshot that Ms C has provided which shows a one-minute call she says is 
the call from the person impersonating the other bank which she terminated quickly. But the 
call was at 18.07  so after the payments had been made. The record also doesnt show 
which date the call was received. 
At 19.06 on 9 December 2020 Ms C completed a Monzo fraud report in which she said,
This is fraud. I was called earlier telling to transfer money from my [account with another 
bank] to my Monzo account and then to this payee. However, this is fraud as I have spoke to 
[other bank] and this wasnt them calling me to do it. 
The following day, on 10 December 2020, Ms C called Monzo. She said shed been 
scammed and explained that someone unknown to her had moved funds from her account 
with another bank to her Monzo account and then made two payments. She said she had 
received a call from someone who said they were from the other bank, but she realised 
straight away from the security question asked that the caller wasnt from her bank and 
ended the call. Ms C said she didnt give away any personal details.  
Ive seen evidence that shows the disputed transactions were made from Ms Cs own mobile 
device using the mobile banking App, which required the use of personal banking details to 
sign in. The mobile device was the only one registered to Ms Cs account and had been in 
use for around a year before the disputed transactions were made. And Monzo says that to 
make a faster payment Ms C needed to provide her PIN  which is unique to Ms C. 
Ms C says her mobile was in her possession and not left unattended and hasnt provided 
any evidence of how her account could have been compromised. There is also no evidence 
of remote access to her account. So, whilst Ms C is adamant that she didnt authorise the 
transactions from her Monzo account, the evidence doesnt support this conclusion. Im 
satisfied from the evidence that Ms C authorised the payments from her Monzo account and 
that her account wasnt hacked.
Ms C says the bank she transferred funds from has considered her complaint as an 
authorised push payment (APP) scam and refunded 50% of her loss. She states this is 
factually incorrect as she didnt make the payments. If Ms C was persuaded to transfer funds 
to a fraudster as part of a scam her complaint would be considered under the Lending 
Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model CRM Code which requires firms to 
reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. It appears that this is how the other bank has considered Ms Cs claim. 
Given that Ms C says she didnt authorise the transactions, Monzo hasnt considered Ms Cs 
claim under the CRM Code and so hasnt considered whether or not it should provide a 
refund under it. Monzo has said that it is willing to consider Ms Cs claim if she believes she made the payments herself as part of a scam. I consider Monzo acted reasonably in doing 
so. To consider a claim under the CRM Code more information would be required so Im not 
making a finding under the Code here. 
Ms C feels Monzo failed to protect her and shouldve identified that she was potentially the 
victim of fraud and prevented the payments from being made, but I dont agree. I consider 
the payments Ms C made were unremarkable so wouldnt have raised concerns with Monzo 
that Ms C was potentially the victim of fraud. I consider that Monzo acted reasonably in 
providing warnings at the time the payments were made but not going any further. There has 
to be a balance struck between Monzo identifying suspicious payments or account activity 
and ensuring there is minimal disruption to genuine and legitimate payments. 
Ms C has suggested that if shed been able to reach Monzo by phone on 9 December 2020 
her losses could have been reduced. Im not persuaded this is the case. I say this because 
its clear from the call Ms C disputes she made on 9 December 2020 at 18.15 that funds had 
already left her account at that time. No further disputed funds left Ms Cs account after this. 
Monzo says it closed Ms Cs account in error and it took four days to reopen it. It also says 
there were some delays in responding to Ms C in its chat. In recognition of the additional 
stress its mistakes caused at a difficult time for Ms C it has credited her account with £100 
(£75 for the closure and £25 for delays). I consider Monzo has acted fairly and reasonably in 
doing so and make no further award. 
I realise that Ms C is going to be very disappointed, but in the circumstances, I cant fairly 
ask Monzo to refund Ms C.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman