DRN-2848488
The complaint
Mr W complains that he didnt get a phone call back from Nationwide Building Society when 
he requested one, he could not find his account terms and conditions online and he thought 
the interest Nationwide credited his account was too low.
What happened
Mr W had a Loyalty Saver account with Nationwide. He was unable to find the terms and 
conditions of his account online and he was unhappy with the interest he received on his 
account, so he contacted Nationwide.
Mr W told Nationwide he wanted a call back to discuss the interest that was paid to him, but 
this didnt happen. Mr W made a complaint to Nationwide. Nationwide contacted Mr W and 
explained where he could find the account terms and conditions online. They said they 
would email him a copy of the documents they had downloaded for him. Nationwide said that 
they explained how the interest rates worked on the telephone call with Mr W and they now 
believed that he understood why the interest he was paid was lower than expected. 
Nationwide explained to Mr W that there is a process in place when a member requests a 
call back. They said a form shouldve been completed and sent to a distribution list for 
somebody to call him and this didnt happen. As a result of this not happening Nationwide 
apologised to Mr W and said they would credit his account with £20. 
Mr W was not satisfied with the outcome of his complaint and he brought his complaint to 
our service. Mr W had made another complaint to Nationwide at the same time. In his 
separate complaint he had complained about call waiting times, Nationwide sending him a 
text instead of a phone call and he didnt believe Nationwide had followed their complaints 
procedure. Our investigator explained that his other complaint would be dealt with separately 
by our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ws complaint. She said that Nationwide had apologised 
for not ringing him back and paid him £20, which she felt was fair and reasonable. Our 
investigator did say that she was able to find the terms and conditions on Nationwides 
website and explained the reason why his interest seemed low. Mr W did not accept the 
view of the investigator and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. He 
made a number of points and sent several attachments, a lot of these concerned points on 
his separate complaint. He also added new points to his complaint such as phone calls he 
had previously requested from Nationwide and the impact on other members that 
Nationwide mistakes have.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has made a number of points to both Nationwide and this service and Ive considered 
and read everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and 
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable here.
Our investigator explained to Mr W that his complaint is being split under two separate 
complaints. So Ill start by being clear about the only things Ill be addressing here. These 
are that Mr W was unhappy that he couldnt find the account terms and conditions on 
Nationwides website, he was unhappy that no one called him back when he requested a call 
back, and he was unhappy with the amount of interest credited to his account. I wont be 
addressing the points on his separate complaint here regarding call waiting times, Mr W 
receiving a text message from Nationwide instead of a call back or Nationwide failing to 
follow their complaints procedures as these will be addressed on his separate complaint.
Mr W has raised a number of points during us looking into this complaint that werent a part 
of the original complaint he brought to us such as requesting phone calls from Nationwide 
and the impact of Nationwides mistakes on other members. Mr W will need to raise those 
issues separately. Ill just be focusing on the original complaint he referred to us here.
I think the issue is that Nationwide didnt call back Mr W as he indicated he would prefer to 
be. And as the person who should have raised this has left Nationwide, they are unable to 
explain why this didnt happen. So, the right thing to do here would have been for Nationwide 
to apologise, recognise the impact this had and explain what the actual situation was.
Thats what Nationwide did. They apologised for not giving Mr W a call back and to 
recognise the impact they paid Mr W £20. This is what Id expect to see here. I know that Mr 
W feels that the customer service Nationwide provided was poor and that he shouldnt have 
had to chase them up as he did. I dont think theres any disputing that Nationwide shouldve 
acted sooner here, but in the circumstances, I think that what Nationwide has done is fair to 
put things right. I realise that Mr W may feel like the compensation amount is too low here  
but given that eventually things were put right and he received the answer to his query I think 
its a fair amount to compensate him for the inconvenience he had.
 
Ive considered what Mr W has said about not being able to find his account terms and 
conditions on Nationwides website and how he was unhappy with the amount of interest he 
received. But Im satisfied that Nationwide have made the terms and conditions available 
online. I say this as Ive typed the account name into the search facility on Nationwides 
website and it shows the account terms and conditions. Nationwide have said they have 
explained how the interest was calculated to Mr W. As the majority of his deposits were 
made in December and the interest was credited in December, this is why Im persuaded the 
interest appeared lower than Mr W expected. Ive looked at the credits to Mr Ws account 
and everything Ive seen satisfies me that Nationwide has calculated the interest on Mr Ws 
account correctly for the period of time hes concerned with.
In summary, Nationwide have already paid Mr W £20 for the failure to call him back and for 
the reasons Ive already given I believe this was fair in the circumstances. So overall, it 
follows that Im not going to require Nationwide to do anymore.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Gregory SloanesOmbudsman