DRN-3633258
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that AXA insurance UK Plc have unfairly declined their travel 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S booked a trip abroad, travelling by car. Unfortunately, their car broke down 
after leaving the UK and had to be taken to a garage for repair. Mr and Mrs S booked hotel 
accommodation for the night and then hired a car to enable them to continue with their trip.
Upon their return to the UK, Mr and Mrs S submitted a claim to AXA. AXA considered the 
claim but said that there was no cover for the circumstances they had encountered. Mr and 
Mrs S complained, saying they had called AXA when their car broke down to check if they 
were covered for the cost of the car hire - they said AXA told them they could claim up to 
£5000 for travel disruption. 
AXA didnt agree to pay the claim and so Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator looked into the matter and found that there was no cover under the policy 
for the situation Mr and Mrs S found themselves in  so he didnt think that AXA was wrong 
to decline the claim. And in relation to the phone call Mr and Mrs S said they had with AXA, 
he noted that the call couldnt be found so he had no way of knowing what was said in the 
conversation. However, he felt it was unlikely AXA would have confirmed cover without 
having all of the facts and supporting documentation. He also said that Mr and Mrs S would 
have likely incurred additional expenses even if the call hadnt taken place and so he didnt 
think it would be fair to ask AXA to cover those expenses.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with our investigator. As no agreement could be reached the matter 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
AXA has said that the policy doesnt include coverage for the circumstances Mr and Mrs S 
found themselves in. Having looked at the policy wording I can see that there is a section of 
the policy which provides cover for travel delay and missed departure. The cover available 
under this section relates to where a car breakdown causes the policy holder to miss their 
departure from the last departure point from the UK. Mr and Mrs S had not missed their 
departure from the UK - they had already travelled from the UK and were in another country 
when their car broke down. Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs Ss claim for additional expenses 
isnt covered under this section of the policy. 
Ive also reviewed the remaining terms and conditions of the policy and there isnt any other 
section which would provide cover for the circumstances they encountered. Taking this into 
account, Im satisfied that AXAs decision to refuse the claim is fair. 
I understand that, having now seen the policy wording, Mr and Mrs S agree that there isnt 
cover for the situation. However, they have said that they didnt know this at the time of the 
incident and so they, not unreasonably, contacted AXA for advice. Mr and Mrs S have told 
us they received a call back from AXA and it was in this call they were advised that they 
would be covered for their expenses. Mr and Mrs S have provided a screen shot of Mrs Ss 
mobile phone call log to show that she received an incoming call which she says was from 
AXA.
AXA has completed a search of its call records but hasnt been able to locate the specific 
call Mr and Mrs S have referred to. As it hasnt got evidence that it did give Mr and Mrs S 
incorrect information, AXA hasnt agreed to consider the claim.
Ive noted Mr and Mrs Ss comments regarding AXAs inability to locate the call and I 
appreciate their frustration at this situation. Ive therefore thought about this very carefully.
Firstly, I would like to confirm that I dont doubt that a conversation took place. But what I 
cant know for certain is what was said during this conversation. So, I need to base my 
decision on what I think it most likely to have happened. And I wouldnt generally expect an 
insurer to give definitive advice about whether a claim will be accepted at the point of an 
initial enquiry. All claims are subject to the detailed terms and conditions set out in the policy 
documentation and an insurer is entitled to ask for reasonable evidence and carry out 
reasonable investigations into a claim before confirming cover. From my experience of these 
types of situations, most advice given by a travel insurer in response to an initial query of the 
kind Mr and Mrs S made will be generic and a policy holder will usually be advised to submit 
a claim form, with supporting documentation, for consideration before a claim is accepted.
So, while certain claims for additional expenses relating to vehicle breakdown may have 
been covered under Mr and Mrs Ss policy  this didnt mean that Mr and Mrs Ss claim 
would be. I understand Mr and Mrs S have said that, were it not for the advice they were 
given by AXA, they wouldnt have hired a car and would have waited until their own vehicle 
was fixed. But I think its most likely they would still have incurred some additional costs, 
whilst they waited for their car to be repaired. 
I do appreciate Mr and Mrs S have incurred additional costs that they didnt expect to when 
they started their trip and I empathise with the situation they have found themselves in. But 
in making an independent and impartial decision, I must be fair to not only Mr and Mrs S but 
also to AXA. Based on the information Ive been provided with, I dont think I can fairly say 
that its likely AXA gave Mr and Mrs S incorrect advice on the telephone.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Jenny GilesOmbudsman