DRN-2531880
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Legal and General Insurance Limited (L&G) have mishandled her 
legal expenses insurance claim and unfairly withdrew funding.
L&G use intermediaries to administer their legal expenses insurance, so any reference to the 
insurer within this decision should be read as including the acts or omissions of such 
intermediaries.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I do not intend to repeat all 
the details again here. In essence, Mrs A made a claim under her legal expenses insurance 
policy for assistance with a contract dispute with her daughters university, arising from 
allegations of discrimination, violations of human rights and the Equality Act 2010. 
L&G agreed to cover Mrs As legal expenses in April 2017. However, she became 
increasingly unhappy with the barrister (Mr J) that shed appointed to represent her 
daughter, as well as the insurers handling of her claim. Mrs A also says that L&G unfairly 
withdrew funding of her claim after she failed to accept an offer that she did not consider to 
be adequate. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that cover had been withdrawn 
in line with the policy terms and conditions as Mrs A failed to accept a settlement offer that 
was deemed reasonable by her legal representative. He also didnt think L&G had 
mishandled the claim or had treated her unfairly. Mrs A disagreed, so the matter has been 
escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Jurisdiction
Since Mrs A initially made her claim with L&G in 2016, she has raised several complaints 
with the insurer which have been responded to in various final responses. This includes final 
responses issued on 10 January 2017; 11 May 2018; and 2 July 2019. However, she did not 
refer her complaint to this service until 16 September 2019.
As a result, there are certain aspects of this complaint that I cannot consider, as they have 
been referred out of time, including the insurers original decision not to cover the claim 
(dealt with in their final response of 10 January 2017) and the fact that they didnt have a 
panel solicitor specialising in equality and human rights cases (dealt with in their final 
response of 11 May 2018). I also cannot consider Mrs As dissatisfaction with other elements 
of L&Gs handling of her claim that was responded to in these final response letters  such 
as the time taken to progress her claim, how they handled her concerns about the first firm 
of solicitors appointed, as well as delays in responding to her correspondence. 
L&G told Mrs A in each final response letter that she had six months in which to refer her 
complaints to this service, otherwise they would not consent to us looking at them. So, given 
that she did not refer her complaint to this service until September 2019, I cannot consider 
any of her points of complaint (or L&Gs response to those points) in relation to the final 
responses issued in January 2017 and May 2018  as they have been referred out of time 
and there is no evidence of exceptional circumstances for the delay (see DISP 2.8 of the 
Financial Conduct Authority Handbook, which sets out our time limit rules).
However, I can consider Mrs As points of complaint dealt with in L&Gs final response letter 
of July 2019, including their decision to withdraw funding, as well as their handling of matters 
between May 2018 and July 2019.
I also note that a significant proportion of Mrs As concerns centre predominantly around the 
acts/omissions of her direct access barrister (Mr J) and the quality of his work. But as the 
investigator has already highlighted, L&G is the legal expense insurance provider, not the 
suitably qualified expert dealing with the case. As such, our role is to assess the insurers 
handling of the claim in light of the policy terms to determine whether theyve fulfilled their 
obligations reasonably and dealt with the claim fairly.
This service is unable to consider any of Mrs As concerns regarding the conduct of Mr J, 
including the quality of work undertaken, advice given, how well he drafted the particulars of 
claim, and whether he racially discriminated against Mrs A. I therefore will not be 
commenting on any of these issues, but if Mrs A wishes to complain about her barrister, she 
can refer her complaint to the Bar Standards Board who will be able to assist further.
Withdrawal of funding
Mrs A is unhappy that L&G withdrew funding for her claim on 2 July 2019 after she rejected 
a settlement offer from the defendant of her legal action. On this point, the policy terms and 
conditions state:
8. Settlement
You or your professional advisor must immediately write and tell the administrator 
about any offer to settle your claim, including offers relating to costs. You must not 
accept any offers without first obtaining the administrators consent. The 
administrator will not withhold their consent in relation to an offer that a reasonable 
advisor would recommend to a private fee-paying client. 
If you do not accept an offer the administrator views as reasonable, we will not 
pay any further costs [My emphasis added].
The administrator of the policy is the intermediary appointed by L&G to manage legal 
expenses claims on their behalf. However, they are not legally qualified professionals and, 
as such, are reliant on the advice of those who are legally qualified (such as the solicitor or 
barrister overseeing the legal proceedings) with regards to whether a settlement offer is 
reasonable or not. 
While Mrs A was in the process of searching for another legal professional to take her case 
on, L&G received an email on 2 July 2019 from Mr J that said:the University made a Part 36 offer of £20K in full and final settlement. The offer 
was in all of the circumstances a reasonable one. I asked on at least 5 occasions for 
[Mrs A] to meet with me in conference.
The barrister went on to say that he did not receive any response or any further instructions 
from Mrs A, so the offer was not accepted.
I appreciate that by this point, Mrs A was not on good terms with Mr J, and that the judge 
has since been critical of the barristers drafting of the particulars of claim. But that does not 
mean he was incapable of providing his professional opinion with regards to whether the 
settlement offer was reasonable. Insurers are aware that barristers are regulated by the Bar 
Standards Board and must adhere to its professional standards. So I dont think it was 
unreasonable for L&G to rely on Mr Js advice to deem the settlement offer as reasonable, 
and to withdraw funding on the basis that Mrs A had not accepted it, as they are entitled to 
do so under the above quoted policy terms and conditions.
I understand Mrs A has since provided amended particulars of claim drafted by another 
barrister, where her losses have been quantified as being far in excess of £20,000. But the 
advice that L&G relied on at the time stated that a reasonable offer had been rejected, and 
there was no contrary legal opinion at that point to suggest that this was incorrect. I 
appreciate that Mrs A had strong feelings that the offer was inadequate. But her own opinion 
cannot reasonably outweigh that of the barrister; for example, even where a policyholder is 
herself legally qualified, she cant act as an independent expert in her own cause.
I appreciate that Mrs As losses have since been amended by her barrister to a higher value. 
But in any event, these are just the losses Mrs A is claiming. It does not mean that she will 
succeed in obtaining this amount, or that this is what a reasonable offer would look like, as 
this can depend on many factors. 
An insurer is a custodian of pooled funds which have to be managed responsibly. And with 
such a fiduciary duty, L&G cannot be expected to defend or pursue cases at any cost, purely 
as a matter of principle on behalf of a policyholder. And given the potential costs and 
inherent uncertainties surrounding litigation, it seems a prudent and reasonable strategy to 
accept a settlement if the legal professionals involved consider it to be a reasonable offer. 
Mrs A says that L&G should have sought a second opinion on whether the offer was 
reasonable and referred the offer to their panel solicitors to review. But Mr J  as the legally 
qualified barrister overseeing the case  had already given his professional opinion. So in 
these circumstances, I wouldnt expect an insurer to seek a second opinion from a panel 
solicitor that isnt involved in the case, or who had no knowledge of the claim, as this would 
hold little weight in comparison. Indeed, if another panel solicitor did have a different view of 
the offer for example, the advice of the barrister would typically outweigh that of the solicitor 
in any event.
In summary, given that Mrs A rejected a settlement offer that her appointed legal 
professional deemed to be reasonable, Im satisfied that L&G withdrew funding fairly on 
2 July 2019, and in line with the policy terms and conditions.   
Handling of the claim
In terms of L&Gs handling of the claim, I can see that Mrs A contacted the insurer on 
various occasions to discuss issues regarding the legal professionals acting on her case. It 
is not for the insurer to look into any allegations made against the legal professionals, 
however, as such complaints would need to be made directly with the solicitor or barrister 
handling the claim and then pursued through the relevant regulatory body. But we would expect the insurer to assist the policyholder if they feel the relationship has broken down or if 
they are receiving bad service from their legal professionals.
In this instance, I can see that L&G allowed Mrs A to choose her own direct access barrister 
(Mr J) to act for her after her relationship broke down with the solicitors that were initially 
appointed to pursue her claim. After Mrs As relationship later broke down with Mr J, they 
again offered to try and find an alternative legal professional amongst their panel solicitors to 
take her claim on  but unfortunately neither of their proposed solicitors could do this due to 
the complexity of the case. But overall, Im satisfied L&G have acted reasonably in allowing 
Mrs A to change legal representation, and that they provided adequate assistance in her 
search for alternative representation. 
Mrs A subsequently contacted L&G on 28 June 2019 requesting that she be allowed to 
instruct a particular legal professional she had found (Mr S). However, the insurer refused 
on the grounds that Mr S was another barrister. Given the problems that Mrs A had 
experienced with her first direct access barrister (as well as the costs she incurred through 
him), I dont think it was unreasonable for L&G to insist that she instruct a suitably qualified 
firm of solicitors to take her case form that point, as £22,500 had already been charged by 
Mr J despite little progress being made on her claim. 
Mrs A says that L&G failed to call the legal firm Mr S worked for to check if he was working 
as a solicitor or as a direct access barrister, as she says he does the same work as a 
solicitor. But having checked the firms website, Mr S is indeed listed as a barrister. So I 
dont think this was an unreasonable assumption for L&G to have made. In any event, it was 
around the time Mrs A asked L&G to appoint Mr S that details of the settlement offer came to 
light, leading the insurer to withdraw cover a few days later on 2 July 2019. So, I dont think 
L&G making an error over the nature of Mr Ss role has had any prejudicial impact in this 
instance, given that funding was eventually withdrawn and no further legal professional was 
appointed.
I appreciate there were difficulties in finding appropriate representation for Mrs A before the 
funding was withdrawn. But it seems to me that this was primarily a result of the complexity 
of Mrs As claim rather than any failings or poor service on the part of L&G. The insurer gave 
her the right to choose her own legal representative and also allowed her to change 
representatives when she felt the relationship had broken down  which is what I would 
expect in these circumstances. L&G also told Mrs A that she could contact the Law Society 
for help in finding a suitably qualified firm of solicitors that specialise in disability 
discrimination. And given that they had seemingly exhausted all other avenues available to 
them amongst their panel solicitors, I think this was a reasonable and pragmatic solution for 
the insurer to suggest at that stage.
Mrs A has further claimed that L&G failed to respond to some of her emails, but then I also 
note that the insurer says it had not received the emails she had referenced, such as the 
email she said was sent on 21 June 2019. It may well be that this was down to a technical 
error. But even if it was an email that was simply overlooked, I do not consider this would 
warrant an award of compensation in these circumstances in any event.
Finally, Mrs A says that she feels L&G have racially discriminated against her as a result of 
the problems she has experienced. I can understand why Mrs A feels this way, and I 
appreciate this has been a difficult time for her and her daughter. But having looked at all the 
evidence, I dont think L&G have discriminated against her. And nor am I persuaded that the 
insurer has acted unfairly or unreasonably. I hope that it helps Mrs A to know that someone 
impartial and independent has looked into their concerns. However, I will not be asking L&G 
to take any further action as a result of this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman