DRN-3459676
The complaint and background
Mr M is unhappy CB Payments Ltd hasnt refunded money he lost as a result of a scam.
Mr M invested money in what turned out to be a fraudulent investment scheme. As part of 
this, in 2020 he opened an account with Coinbase. By doing so, he entered into an 
agreement with two different entities; CB Payments, a Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
authorised electronic money institution; and Coinbase UK, an unregulated cryptocurrency 
service provider. For the purposes of this decision, where I refer to Coinbase (rather than 
CB Payments or Coinbase UK) Im referring to the services provided by both entities.
Mr M transferred a series of payments, amounting to approximately £500,000, from his UK 
bank account(s) to his CB Payments account. From there, cryptocurrency was purchased 
which was credited to an electronic wallet provided by Coinbase UK. So, the money went 
through three different holdings owned by Mr M; his UK bank account, next to CB Payments 
and then onwards to Coinbase UK which converted the fiat currency to cryptocurrency. Upon 
the instruction of Mr M, Coinbase UK sent the cryptocurrency to separate blockchain 
addresses operated by the fraudulent outfit  which is where Mr Ms loss occurred. 
Once he realised he had been scammed, Mr M raised a complaint. Coinbase responded, 
stating it had no connection with the recipients and wasnt responsible for Mr Ms losses as it 
could not reasonably be expected to differentiate between this scam and legitimate trading.  
Unhappy with this, Mr M referred a complaint about CB Payments to this service.                
CB Payments said the complaint wasnt about it  but rather the unregulated services 
administered by Coinbase UK. One of our investigators looked into what happened and 
agreed. He concluded that we could only consider the elements of Mr Ms complaint which 
relate to the services provided by CB Payments  and not those provided by Coinbase UK, 
given the jurisdiction rules our service must follow in accordance with the FCA Handbook. 
Having reviewed that aspect of the complaint, our investigator determined CB Payments 
hadnt made an error, as it carried out the necessary checks and there was insufficient 
reason for it to suspect the account was at risk from fraud. Mr M confirmed his complaint 
was about CB Payments and not Coinbase UK, but didnt agree with the investigators 
findings. Consequently, the case has been escalated to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common ground that Mr M authorised the payments in question. Accordingly, the starting 
position is that he, not CB Payments, is responsible. Still, in keeping with good industry 
practice, CB Payments should monitor its customers accounts for activity that might suggest 
they are at risk of financial harm. Including, surveying account movements for transactions 
that are notably unusual or out of character. That being so, in some circumstances it should 
take additional steps, or carry out further checks, before processing a payment to help 
protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
However, theres no obligation on CB Payments to intervene with each and every payment a 
customer makes. So, the key question in this case is whether the activity which did take 
place was so unusual and out of character that CB Payments ought to have been alarmed.  
Since the account was opened, Mr M frequently deposited funds which were then converted 
to cryptocurrency. This happened across varying amounts, with the only real pattern being a 
succession of deposits. This in itself is commonplace in the industry, given that trading is 
largely dependent on the market which often fluctuates. In other words, purchasing crypto 
through differentiating deposit values isnt irregular for an account of this nature, nor is the 
intermittent movement of funds into (and out) of the account. Indeed, a CB Payments 
account can only really be used for one purpose  to purchase cryptocurrency. Therefore, 
even though Mr M was paying considerable amounts in, I must consider that it would have 
been difficult for CB Payments to identify the activity here as being atypical or concerning. 
Whats more, theres no dispute it was Mr M that opened the account and that the source of 
his funds was entirely legitimate. I cant see any compelling reason for CB Payments to have 
been disconcerted about the opening of this account or the deposit of funds that ensued. It 
follows that, in the absence of any other cause for concern, activity of this nature is unlikely 
to stand out as being particularly unusual to CB Payments. It is also important to note that 
the purchase of cryptocurrency was, in effect, a transfer between two accounts which Mr M 
controlled and, therefore, much less likely to be considered a real risk by CB Payments. 
So, overall, I cant see sufficient reason why CB Payments should have been wary about the 
transactions Mr M carried out and Im not satisfied it made a mistake by allowing them to 
proceed. Finally, there was no prospect of CB Payments recovering the funds for Mr M, as 
they were sent to anonymous blockchain addresses through the Coinbase UK platform.
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr M as he has lost a great deal of money. But in 
fairness, I dont think CB Payments has acted unjustly by declining to reimburse him. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman