DRN-4469889
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are complaining Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has held them 
liable for an accident after they made a claim on their car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ds car was damaged when it was hit by a third partys vehicle. Mr D  a named 
driver on Mrs Ds policy  says he was helping his disabled daughter get into the back of the 
car when the car door was hit by the third partys vehicle. He says the third party was driving 
too fast and had misjudged the clearance between the two vehicles. Liability is in dispute as 
the third party said Mr D opened the door onto his oncoming vehicle.
RSA says it tried to pursue the third partys insurer to settle the claim, but it ultimately said it 
wouldnt pursue the claim further. It wrote to Mr and Mrs D and said the following:
The onus rests on our side to provide the version of events. Having looked at the damage to 
your vehicle, it shows the point of impact on the drivers side rear door and travelling along 
the outer door skin. There is no damage to the inside of the door or the check strap on the 
hinge which, if the door was open when hit, would normally be damaged in some way.
RSA thought the photographs of the respective vehicles supported the third partys version 
of events and it didnt think it would win if the matter proceeded to court. So it didnt pursue 
the third partys insurer for its outlay. However, as a gesture of goodwill, it paid Mr and Mrs D 
£25 for the inconvenience of having to make telephone calls. Mr and Mrs D thought RSAs 
decision was unfair, so they referred their complaint to this Service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said it wasnt for this Service to decide 
who was at fault for an accident, but we look at whether RSA had taken everything Mr and 
Mrs D had provided in coming to the conclusion it did. She was satisfied RSA had done so. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree with the investigator as they maintain that RSAs investigation into 
this incident was carried out unfairly and unobjectively for cost cutting purposes. They said 
that, as a general rule, the driver of a vehicle who hits a legally parked car is at fault. They 
highlighted that RSA didnt attempt to retrieve pictures from the third partys insurer, nor 
obtain a detailed engineer report. They also considered the £25 compensation to be derisory 
 especially given they had to pay their excess of £100.
As Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
I should first explain that this service isnt able to say whos at fault for causing an accident, 
as that is the responsibility of the courts. Our role is to look at whether RSA has carried out a 
fair investigation, reviewed all the evidence it has and come to a reasonable decision.
Mrs Ds policy, like all other car insurance policies, allowed RSA to defend or settle the 
claim. So it was entitled to settle the claim, on the best terms it thought fit. And it had the 
ultimate and final say in how to settle a claim. But it needed to exercise this right fairly and 
reasonably, taking into account everything both parties had provided.
I recognise that Mr and Mrs D think RSA didnt investigate the claim at all and chose the 
most cost-effective option. But insurers are entitled to be mindful of the high cost of litigation. 
And they can choose to settle a claim rather than go to court if they didnt feel there were 
reasonable prospects of success in court. But in deciding this they must take all evidence 
into account. In this case, RSA reviewed all the evidence Mr and Mrs D provided  included 
their testimony and photographs of the damage  but they thought the evidence supported 
the third partys version of events. I can also see they wrote to the third partys insurer a 
number of times  initially holding the third party at fault, but then asking for photographs. I 
understand the third partys insurer explained there werent any additional photos it can 
provide. I note Mr and Mrs D wanted RSA to obtain a full engineer report. But its entitled to 
take a pragmatic approach to claim handling and it ultimately felt it had enough information 
based on the photographs provided. I cant say that was unfair.
I recognise Mr and Mrs D feel RSA has been unfair, but I havent seen anything to support 
that. It has considered everything Mr and Mrs D has provided in coming to the conclusion it 
did. To pursue this claim further would likely require expensive litigation and it didnt think 
this would be successful. I cant say its decision was unfair.
I note Mr and Mrs D are unhappy with the £25 in compensation RSA has paid as they 
consider it to be derisory. However, as I said, I havent seen anything to show that RSA has 
acted unfairly. So I think its more than fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited should pay the £25 in compensation its previously 
offered to Mr and Mrs D directly if they havent already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 January 2024. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman