DRN-1374048
 
The complaint
Miss W complains about HSBC UK Bank  Plc account charges.
What happened
Miss W says the charges she has paid since 2009 on her HSBC account are unfair and 
excessive. She says they have caused her to become in a cycle of debt and have caused 
her stress. Miss W says HSBC refused to allow her an account that would have reduced the 
charges and would like them refunded.
HSBC says the charges have been applied in line with account terms and conditions and so 
hasn't made a mistake. It says it has previously dealt with Miss W's complaints about 
charges and has given her details of its specialist team that could have helped her. It says 
Miss W didn't contact that team and doesn't give us permission to look at charges before 
March 2018.
Miss W brought her complaint to us and our investigator explained our time limit rules. Miss 
W accepted that we could only look at the charges from March 2018. The investigator 
thought the charges were applied in line with account terms and conditions. And that 
following the Supreme Court case in 2009, they couldn't be challenged on the grounds they 
were excessive and so unfair. The investigator thought Miss W should contact HSBC if she 
was still in financial difficulties.
Miss W doesn't accept that view and says HSBC has not given her any support and that she 
was unable to work due to illness.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for the same reasons. I realise Miss W will be 
disappointed by my decision.
I have looked at HSBC's terms and conditions about charges, which I think Miss W would 
have agreed to when the account was opened. And I'm satisfied HSBC is entitled to apply 
overdraft and account charges. So I don't think HSBC has made a mistake here or acted 
unfairly by applying the charges to Miss W's account in these circumstances and I have not 
seen any evidence they were incorrectly applied.
I appreciate Miss W says the charges are excessive and have caused financial difficulties. 
But following a Supreme Court case in 2009 it was held that bank charges can't be 
challenged on the grounds they are too high and so unfair. That means I can't fairly conclude 
that HSBC's charges here were excessive and so unfair, and I have explained that I think 
they were applied in line with the account terms and conditions.Banks and building societies should treat customers in financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. I don't think that means that any charges be simply refunded and I can't see 
that Miss W has spoken to HSBC's specialist debt team as I would have expected. I don't 
think HSBC can offer any help, unless Miss W makes contact with that team and can see 
that HSBC has provided details of it to Miss W on a number of occasions. So overall I think 
HSBC has offered to help Miss W and has acted positively and sympathetically.
I also appreciate that Miss W says HSBC ought to have allowed her to open a different type 
of account to avoid the charges. I think such matters are for a business to decide upon when 
exercising its commercial judgement and not something I can fairly interfere in.
Overall,as I don't think HSBC has made a mistake or acted unfairly then, I can't order it to 
refund Miss W's account charges.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman