DRN-3897476
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as E complain that following the introduction of a new customer 
authentication security system by WorldPay Limited, a number of its transactions were 
unfairly declined.
In bringing this complaint, E is represented by its director who Ill refer to as Mr B 
 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties. So, I wont repeat it in detail.
Briefly, Mr B has told us that:
In 2005 E signed a Merchant Services Agreement (the Agreement) with WorldPay to 
process card payments made by its customers.
In March 2022, he began noticing an increase in the number of transactions that 
were being declined and returned to E with a soft-decline transaction status. In 
general, this meant that although the transactions had been declined, they were, 
nonetheless, capable of being re-presented. 
In March 2022 alone for example, transactions that were declined on that basis 
totalled 61. This was over twice the number of such declines for the previous two 
months of January and February 2022 where the combined total was 24.
So, on Es behalf Mr B complained to WorldPay.
WorldPay issued their final response letter to the complaint on 30 March 2022. 
WorldPay acknowledged there had been an increase in the soft decline transactions. But 
they said this was due to the historic set up of Es account. This meant that when in March 
2022 a new stronger customer authentication regime, known as 3DSecure came into 
operation in order to comply with the European Unions Payment Services Directive 2 
(PSD2) regulations, Es account wasnt configured appropriately. Therefore, it was unable to 
accommodate the change. 
In short Es account was set up as an e-commerce account to accommodate one off 
customers. Whereas E used its account for recurring payments in connection with recurring 
orders. These transactions shouldnt have been subjected to the newly introduced 3DSecure 
checks. But they were and were failing to pass them. 
In any case WorldPay implemented a fix to the problem which resulted in the number of soft 
decline transactions decreasing. Also, WorldPay compensated E by paying £200 in 
recognition of the inconvenience caused to E owing to the historic set up of its account. The 
reimbursed £8.70 in fees also. 
WorldPay said that while going forward Es account was set up to accommodate the new 
security regime, nonetheless soft decline' transaction cannot ever be eliminated as they are 
a part of the e-commerce transaction landscape.
Es complaint remained unresolved, and therefore Mr B referred it to this service to look into. 
Our investigator didnt think WorldPay were at fault for introducing 3DS in March 2022 since 
this was a mandatory requirement under PSD2. And whilst he acknowledged this had led to 
E experiencing an increase in soft decline transactions, nonetheless, he was satisfied 
WorldPay had taken steps in March 2022 to fix the problem. 
He observed that in the months after March 2022 soft declines had returned to the levels 
experienced in the months before March 2022. Furthermore, having noted WorldPay had 
refunded fees that E had incurred arising from the soft decline issue, as well as paying E 
£200 compensation for the inconvenience that had been caused to E, he felt WorldPay had 
done enough to put things right. 
WorldPay accepted the investigators conclusion. But E did not and has asked for an 
ombudsmans review of its case. 
On Es behalf, Mr B has provided further detailed submissions on behalf of E.  I summarise 
what I regard as the key points Mr B has made  as follows: 
There were many exchanges of e-mails with WorldPays technical support team 
when the error arose. 
The investigator estimated there were 85 soft declines between January and March 
2022. Adjusting for normal expectation of such declines to be around 20, E has 
suffered financial loss of around 65 in total averaging £160. So Es suffered financial 
loss of around £10,400. 
Moreover, when extrapolated across a period of three years, the loss is even greater. 
Taking into account that (a) customers would have continued with recurring 
payments until their card expired and (b) that typically 70% of customers generally 
renewed their payments, the likely loss to E would be more in the order of £23,000.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive acknowledged above that Mr B has made lengthy submissions in support of Es case. I 
thank him for the care with which hes prepared those submissions and the clarity of his 
presentation. Indeed, that is unsurprising because it is clear how strongly Mr B feels about 
this matter. 
Ive read and considered them. But Ive confined my comments to what I regard as relevant. 
If Ive omitted to comment on specific points that Mr B has made it is not because I havent 
considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it.  Rather its because I dont 
think I need to comment on such points in order to reach what I think is the fair and 
reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this case.   
Its worthwhile adding also that in the course of my review where the evidence is incomplete 
or inconclusive (as indeed some of it is here) I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I now turn to my review in more detail. 
At the heart of this case is the question of compensation. WorldPay have acknowledged E 
experienced an increase in soft declines in March 2022 which it reported to WorldPay.  The 
cause of the issue is noted above, and I have no reason to challenge that. In any case it was 
quickly identified and put right in the same month. 
I am satisfied E did experience some inconvenience by the fact Mr B did have to raise the 
matter with WorldPay, and liaise with the relevant department to find a fix. 
That being said, a fix did appear to have been found. The result was that between the 
months of April to November 2022 the combined total of Es soft decline transactions had 
fallen to 20.
E however believes that in addition to the £200 WorldPay paid as compensation for the 
inconvenience this caused, and the refund of the £8.70 fees charged to E for the soft 
declines, WorldPay should also compensate E for financial loss. 
But for me to require WorldPay to compensate E for financial loss as is claimed, I need to be 
satisfied E did sustain those losses. 
To begin with I dont think it would be fair for me to consider compensation by reference to 
the 85 soft declines that happened between January and March 2022. E had always 
experienced such declines. I am satisfied that the issue which confronted E in March 2022 
and which led to a spike in the levels of soft declines was the introduction of 3DSecure 
authentication procedure. But, for which, given the nature of the transactions that were being 
processed on E behalf its account was unprepared in light of WorldPays error. 
But I have to be sure that E did suffer a loss arising from those increased soft decline 
transactions. On balance, however, I cant be. I say that because those soft decline 
transactions were capable of re-presentation. I cant be sure that none of them were for 
which E received the intended benefit. In other words, I dont have anything to indicate that 
the customers whose transactions were declined were lost to E. And in the circumstances it 
wouldnt be fair for me to speculate. 
Im not persuaded either that it would be fair to compensate E by reference to the likely 
actions of those customers who were affected by the soft declines. Not least because Id 
have not only to make the assumption, they did not re-present their repayment, but had 
ceased being customers of E who then was no longer able to benefit from their renewed 
repayments.  I have to base any award of compensation on actual rather than speculative 
losses which these would be. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that Im satisfied the £200 
WorldPay Limited paid E for inconvenience and the £8.70 refund of charges mean that in the 
circumstances of this case they have fairly compensated E. I do not therefore require them 
to take any further action.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman