DRN-3845554
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) unfairly turned down her claims in relation to a holiday membership she 
purchased in 2011. The purchase was by Mrs F and Mr D, but the loan taken out to fund it 
was in Mrs Fs name.
What happened
In February 2011 Mrs F and Mr D bought a points-based timeshare membership from a 
timeshare supplier I will call C. The membership cost £6,000 and Mrs F took out a fixed term 
loan in her name. This was repaid in October 2012. They had previously acquired trial 
membership in July 2010. For the purposes of this decision, hereafter I will refer to Mrs F as 
the sole owner.
Mrs F is represented by a professional representative, but for the purposes of this decision I 
will refer to actions taken by it as having been taken by her.
In December 2021, Mrs F contacted BPF to make a claim under the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (CCA) and the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) because she 
believed the timeshare was mis-sold to them and BPF provided the funds for her to buy it.
In summary, Mrs F said the timeshare agreement was misrepresented to her for a number of 
reasons. In particular, she said she bought the timeshare as an option to travel the world and 
to be able to sell it in the future, but she was unable to. She said there were issues with 
availability, and she had to book a long way in advance to get the dates she wanted, which 
wasnt disclosed to her. She brought a like claim against BPF as the creditor for the alleged 
misrepresentations by C under section 75 of the CCA.
Mrs F also said that the timeshare agreement was Null and Void under the relevant law and 
regulations, as the membership did not conform to the description of a timeshare. Further, 
she said the relationship between her and BPF was unfair under section 140A of the CCA as 
a result of dubious, unfair and misleading sales practices by C, including pressuring Mrs F 
into buying the timeshare.
Mrs F said BPF had not carried out a proper affordability assessment checked how she 
would be able to afford the ongoing maintenance
BPF didnt provide a response to her claims. So, Mrs F made a complaint and brought it to 
our service via her representative. One of our investigators looked into Mrs Fs complaint 
and concluded that Mrs F raised her claims under the CCA out of time under the LA, so he 
thought BPF was entitled to rely on the LA to turn down the claims. And he didnt think there 
was any persuasive evidence to show the lending in question was unaffordable for them. So, 
he didnt uphold the complaint.
In response, Mrs F summarised the different types of timeshares and the relevant law, 
regulations and guidance, and made the following points:
The agreement breached the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange 
Contracts Regulations 2010 (Timeshare Regulations) because it didnt provide an 
accurate and detailed description of the property and its location (there were no 
details of the unit size or unit number)  and it didnt specify the exact period within 
which the right which is the subject of the contract may be exercised. So, the 
required standard information was not disclosed.
Under Regulation 15 of the Timeshare Regulations, the contract is unenforceable 
against the consumer because it isnt compliant with the regulations. As a result, Mrs 
Fs loan agreement is also unenforceable.
BPF owed Mrs F a duty of care to ensure that Business D, as its agent, didnt breach 
the Timeshare Regulations. BPF breached this duty of care by allowing C to take 
advance payments from Mrs F during the withdrawal period. This breach in their duty 
of care to Mrs F means she has a cause in negligence against C and BPF.
Section 14A of the LA provides an extended time limit for negligence actions where 
facts relevant to the cause of action are not known at the date of accrual. This 
section permits a claim in negligence to be brought within six years from the accrual 
of the cause of action or, if later, three years from the earliest date on which the 
claimant had the knowledge required for bringing an action for damages.
Mrs F said she only discovered that BPF breached its duty of care and the contract when 
she engaged her representative in 2021, so her claim isnt time-barred.
Because the parties disagreed, the case was referred to me for a decision. I issued a 
provisional decision which read as follows:
Under the rules that govern how I assess complaints, I must take account of law and 
regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good 
industry practice when I make my decision.
I also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable outcome. 
So, although I have read everything that has been supplied to me, I may not address every 
point that has been raised.
Was the claim under section 75 of the CCA brought in time?
Mrs F says that C misrepresented a number of points in relation to the timeshare agreement 
she purchased. So, she argued BPF is jointly liable for these misrepresentations under 
section 75 of the CCA. But if BPF could show the section 75 claim was brought outside of 
the time limits set out in the LA, it would be entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to 
answering the claim. I should make it clear, however, that Im not deciding if any right Mrs F 
may have to bring these claims has expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts. In 
this decision Im considering if BPF acted fairly and reasonably in seeking to turn down Mrs 
Fs claims on this basis.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under section 2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1980 (MA). It was held in Green v Eadie & Ors [2011] EWHC B24 
(Ch) [2012] Ch 363 that a claim under section 2(1) of the MA is an action founded on tort for 
the purposes of the LA; therefore, the limitation period expires six years from the date on 
which the cause of action accrued (section 2 of the LA).
Here, Mrs F brought a like claim against BPF under section 75 of the CCA. The limitation 
period for the corresponding like claim would be the same as the underlying misrepresentation claim. As noted at para. 5.145 of Goode: Consumer Credit Law and 
Practice (Issue 68 (April 2022)) the creditor may adopt any defence which would be open to 
the supplier, including that of limitation:
There is no difficulty in treating the debtor's rights under sub-s (1) as a like claim against 
the creditor. Since the creditor's liability mirrors the supplier's it follows that, to the extent that 
the supplier has successfully excluded or limited her liability, the creditor may shelter behind 
that exclusion or limitation.
Therefore, the limitation period for the section 75 claim expires six years from the date on 
which the cause of action accrued.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mrs Fs case, thats when she could have brought a 
claim for misrepresentation against the supplier or the like claim against BPF. I think that 
was the date she entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare, so in February 2011. It 
was at that time that she entered into an agreement based, she says, on the 
misrepresentations of C She claims that she wouldnt have entered into the timeshare 
agreement if those misrepresentations hadnt been made. And it was on that day that she 
suffered a loss, as she took out the loan agreement with BPF.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued in February 2011, so Mrs F had 
six years from that date to bring a claim. But she didnt try to contact BPF about her claim 
until December 2021, which was outside of the time limits set out in the LA. So, I think BPF 
acted fairly in seeking to turn down Mrs Fs misrepresentation claim on this basis.
Was the claim under section 140A of the CCA made in time?
Mrs F said that the relationship between her and BPF was unfair under section 140A of the 
CCA for a number of reasons. Under section 140A a court may make an order under section 
140B in connection with a credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the 
lender and the creditor arising out of the agreement is unfair.
Only a court has the power to make such a determination, but I think this is relevant law and 
I have taken it into account.
The LA applies to a claim under section 140A of the CCA too. It was held in Patel v. Patel 
[2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) that when considering section 140A of the CCA, the time for 
limitation purposes ran from the date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still 
running at the time the claim was made. I gather Mrs Fs loan agreement was closed in 
October 2011.
As with an action under section 75 of the CCA, the limitation period is six years, so Mrs F 
would have to bring an action within six years from the date of closure. So, she had until 
November 2019 to make her claim. As she made her claim after that point, I think she 
brought her claim too late. This means I also dont think BPF acted unfairly in seeking to 
decline a claim under section 140A on this basis. So, I dont think it needs to do anything 
further.
Is Mrs Fs timeshare agreement null and void?
Mrs F has argued that the timeshare agreement is null and void. In summary she said:
The timeshare agreement doesnt comply with the description of a timeshare or the 
standard information requirements in the Timeshare Regulations 2010.The Spanish Supreme Court decided that timeshare agreements like Mrs Fs are null 
and void, and its likely the UK courts would reach the same conclusion.
If the timeshare agreement is null and void, the related loan agreement between Mrs F and 
BPF is also null and void. Ive considered these arguments, along with the EU Directives, 
Spanish laws and Spanish legal judgment referred to, but I am not persuaded that Mrs Fs 
timeshare agreement and/or loan agreement is null and void. Ill explain why.
Mrs Fs purchase agreement makes clear that it is governed by English Law - not Spanish 
law. So, I dont think the Spanish judgment can be applied directly to the question of whether 
Mrs Fs timeshare agreement is voidable under English law. And I dont think it would be 
reasonable for me to conclude it should be voidable, given UK Parliament recently published 
a briefing paper in the House of Commons Library titled: Timeshares: common problems 
faced by UK owners, in which it said that a floating week or points based timeshare (like 
Mrs Fs) were basic timeshare models that were not described as being a problem in and of 
itself.
Further, I am satisfied these types of agreements fall within the definition of a timeshare 
contract contained within the Timeshare Regulations 2010. In line with the definition set out 
in Regulation 7, Mrs F acquired the right to use overnight accommodation for more than one 
period of occupation, and the contract had a duration of more than one year  and 
accommodation can be from within a pool of accommodation. So, I am also satisfied that 
these types of timeshares have never been prohibited to be sold under English law, either at 
the time of Mrs Fs sale or after.
Mrs F argued that the timeshare contract doesnt comply with the 2010 regulations because 
it didnt provide an accurate and detailed description of the immovable property and its 
location, in line with parts 1 and 3 of Schedule 1 from the Timeshare Regulations 2010. She 
thinks this means the contract should have specified the unit size and unit number. However, 
under the heading Information on the properties under Part 3 of the Schedule, it says the 
consumer is entitled to the following information:
- where the contract concerns a specific immovable property, an accurate and detailed 
description of that property and its location; where the contract concerns a number of 
properties (multi-resorts), an appropriate description of the properties and their location;
So, the wording Mrs F has relied on in fact relates to contracts concerning a specific 
immovable property, rather than a number of properties (multi-resorts)  which only requires 
an appropriate description of the properties.
Mrs Fs purchase agreement confirms she purchased 1,000 points. I do not believe I have 
seen the full contract and associated documents, but I am satisfied that Mrs F was aware of 
the properties she could access using the points. The Members Declaration document 
signed by Mrs F and Mr D states: We have received a copy of our Agreement together with 
the notices required under the Timeshare Act 1992 (as amended) and a Disclosure 
statement (July 2010).
This indicates that she was aware of the required information as set out in law.
As regards the Exact period within which the right which is the subject of the contract may 
be exercised and, if necessary, its duration, which is required by Part 1 of Schedule 1 of the 
2010 Timeshare Regulations; Mrs F also argues that this wasnt provided because they 
didnt specify a period or season. But Im not persuaded by this.
The agreement does refer to a season in which accommodation could be used. It does not specify and end date to the agreement, but it does say that: Points may be used each year 
for accommodation in [Cs properties] provided that all annual fees are paid up to date, as 
detailed below.
In the transfer document which Mrs F signed to convert the initial trial membership to full 
membership she agrees to pay management charges up to certain date. This is not readable 
on the copy I have seen. However it does indicate that there was time limit.
Overall, based on the evidence I have seen, I do not think either the timeshare agreement or 
the related loan agreement is voidable for the reasons Ive explained.
Were the proper affordability checks carried out when BPF agreed to lend to Mrs F?
Mrs F said BPF didnt carry out the required affordability checks and assessment when she 
took out the loan. But even if I were to conclude that BPF or its agents didnt carry out the 
proper checks for creditworthiness and affordability when arranging the loan, I would still 
need to be satisfied that the lending was unaffordable for Mrs F and/or that she lost out as a 
result, in order to uphold this part of her complaint.
Mrs F hasnt provided any supporting evidence to show that this was the case. And I havent 
seen anything to suggests she struggled to repay the amount borrowed, for example, or that 
she otherwise had financial problems during the relevant time. So, I dont think theres 
sufficient evidence for me to uphold this part of the complaint either.
Conclusion
Overall, while I think BPF ought to have responded to Mrs Fs claims under the CCA directly, 
I think BPF fairly considered the things it needed to when it said the claims were brought too 
late. Its ultimately for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mrs F may have 
against the supplier or BPF has expired under the LA. But, as far as I can see from the 
information available, any claim that Mrs F might have against BPF under the CCA has most 
likely exceeded the time limits set out in the LA. I think it is reasonable to take this into 
account in these circumstances. So, I think BPF acted reasonably in seeking to decline Mrs 
Fs claims under the CCA. This means I wont be asking it to do anything further in response 
to Mrs Fs claims.
Mrs Fs professional representatives didnt agree with my provisional decision. In summary 
they said:
The relevant Timeshare Regulations were the 1992 ones. It went on to say that these 
regulations didnt cover a pool of accommodation which was introduced in the 2010 
version. 
It said C did not provide an accurate description of the accommodation and its 
location and this means the contract is unenforceable. 
It also argued that due to the failure of C to comply with the Timeshare Regulations 
1992 part of which arose from the bank paying C within the withdrawal period of 3 
months and 14 days. 
On the matter of the application of the LA it said that Mrs F had three years from the 
date of knowledge that she could claim and that the failure to comply with the 
Regulations amounted to negligence and so the s14 A extended the time limit. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the detail set out by the professional representatives, but I am not persuaded by 
their arguments. I will explain why.
The effect of the EU Directives
The 2008 Directive was implemented into English law in the 2010 Regulations. However 
they did not come into force until February 2011. As Mrs Fs sale took place before then and 
I cannot see that the 2010 Regulations had retrospective effect, I do not think they apply in 
this case. 
The 1994 Directive was implemented into English law in the Timeshare Regulations 1997, 
which in turn amended the Timeshare Act 1992 (the 1992 Act). Although the representative 
has not mentioned the 1997 Regulations or the 1992 Act, as this is the law that applied to 
Mrs Fs purchase, I think it is relevant to her complaint. Further, having read both the 1992 
Act and 1994 Directive, I do not think there is any conflict between them.
There are several matters to note in the Timeshare Act 1992 (as amended and in force at 
the time of Mrs Fs sale). In particular, s.1(1) of the act defines timeshare accommodation 
as living accommodation used for leisure purposes, including accommodation within a pool 
of accommodation to which that accommodation belongs.
Section 1A of the 1992 Act sets out a requirement to provide a document setting out specific 
information about a timeshare to anyone who requests information on the proposed 
accommodation. The things required to be disclosed are set out in Schedule 1 and, broadly 
speaking, include the things SL referred to in the 1994 Directive. In particular, it was required 
to set out: 
(b) The exact nature of the right which is the subject of the agreement and, if the 
accommodation concerned, or any of the accommodation in the pool of accommodation 
concerned, is situated in the territory of an EEA State, a clause setting out the conditions 
governing the exercise of that right within the territory of that State and if those conditions 
have been fulfilled or, if they have not, what conditions remain to be fulfilled. 
(c) When the timeshare accommodation has been determined, an accurate description of 
that accommodation and its location. 

(h) The exact period within which the right which is the subject of the agreement may be 
exercised and, if necessary, its duration; the date on which the offeree may start to exercise 
that right.
Further, section 1C of the 1992 Act stated that this information had to be included in the 
agreement itself and to not do so was an offence. However, nowhere in the 1992 Act can I 
see that an agreement was voidable should the information not be provided. 
The 1992 Act also provides that there is a fourteen-day cancellation period for all 
timeshares, save for ones in which the information in Schedule 1 was not provided, in which 
case the period was three months and ten days. Having considered both the 1992 Act and the 1994 Directive at length, I do not think it 
makes the timeshare agreement voidable as is suggested. As I noted in my provisional 
decision, points based or floating week timeshares were common models that had not 
been prohibited in English law. Rather, the 1992 Act makes provision for timeshare 
accommodation being from a pool of accommodation, so I think it was drafted with those 
types of arrangement in mind. Nothing in the 1992 Act makes me think selling those types of 
products was prohibited. So, I do not think all timeshare agreements had to refer to a 
specified apartment or set week to comply with the 1992 Act. 3 
Further, these types of agreements fell within the definition of a timeshare contained within 
the Timeshare Regulations 2010, so they were not prohibited either before or after Mrs Fs 
sale.  
I am satisfied that Mrs F was aware of the properties she could access using the points. The 
Members Declaration document signed by Mrs F and Mr D states: We have received a 
copy of our Agreement together with the notices required under the Timeshare Act 1992 (as 
amended) and a Disclosure statement (July 2010). So, I think it possible she was given 
information that complied with Schedule 1 of the 1992 Act. But I do not need to make a 
finding on that point as, even if she was not given that information, I do not think that means 
the timeshare agreement was voidable for the reasons I gave above.
In Mrs Fs case, BPF made payment to the supplier more than fourteen days after the 
agreement was taken out, but within three months and ten days of the sale. Such a payment 
would have been allowed had the timeshare provider provided the information required 
under Schedule 1 of the 1992 Act. But again, I need not make a finding on whether that 
information was supplied, as I do not think the agreement became voidable if payment was 
taken too early under the provisions of the 1992 Act.
In summary, I think Mrs F took out a timeshare agreement that was fairly straightforward. 
Her agreement entitled her to stay at a number of different properties run by the timeshare 
provider. Each property had a different cost in points and she had 2,000 points to use in 
each year. Mrs F was able to book from 2011 onwards and every year she had to pay 
maintenance fees to access her points. None of this was in any way unusual or unclear, in 
my view, so I do not think there was any reason why this agreement was voidable for the 
reasons put forward in response to my provisional decision.
Did Mrs F make her claim in time?
 As explained above, I do not think the timeshare agreement, and related credit agreement, 
were voidable. I also set out in my provisional decision that I thought Mrs Fs claims made 
under the CCA had been made too late and outside of the limitation periods. That finding is 
not to be confused with the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Dispute Resolution Rules 
(DISP) that set out when the Financial Ombudsman Service can consider complaints about 
the activities of firms the FCA regulates.
Mrs F made claims under the CCA. Such claims are first made to the responsible business 
and, if the business does not accept them, a consumer has several options. They could refer 
her claim to a court and ask a judge to determine it, or, as has happened in this case, they 
could ask our service to consider a complaint about the business decision to turn down their 
claim. 
DISP says that a consumer has six years in which to complain about an event or, if longer, 
three years after they realised or ought reasonable to have realised that they had a reason 
to complain. Those rules apply to complaints about regulated financial activities, which in the 
current context, is the way in which BPF exercised its rights and duties under a regulated agreement when it assessed the CCA claims.
The claim was dealt with less than six years before the complaint was referred to our 
service. Further, while there was more than six years between the sale and the claim, I 
cannot see anything that would have triggered Mrs F to realise she had a possible reason to 
complain about the things she did before she spoke with SL. However, Mrs F made legal 
claims to BPF and, when it considered those claims, it relied on defences available under 
the LA. So that is why I have considered that legislation. 
The LA does not have a provision allowing any claim to be brought within three years of a 
claimant realising they could issue legal proceedings. In some circumstances, the limitation 
period can be extended when a claimant first had the knowledge required to make a claim 
after the date the cause of action actually accrued. For example, s.14A LA deals with 
Special time limit for negligence actions where facts relevant to cause of action are not 
known at date of accrual. 
For s.14A LA to apply, a claimant must have a cause in negligence against the alleged 
defendant, which means BPF would have to owe a duty of care to Mrs F to give rise to such 
a claim. I have thought about whether BPF had such a duty protect its customers from 
purchasing timeshare products that were non-compliant with the 1994 Directive with credit, 
by undertaking due diligence into the timeshare providers sales process. Having done so, I 
am not persuaded that such a duty can be established. 
However, in any event and for the reasons set out above, I do not think the agreement was 
non-complaint with the directive. So it follows that any claim would not likely succeed, even if 
it had been made within the limitation period.
Conclusion 
For the reasons set out above, I think BPF acted fairly in turning down Mrs Fs claims under 
s.75 and s.140A CCA as they were brought too late. I do not think the loan agreement was 
voidable, nor do I think there is any evidence to suggest the lending was irresponsible or 
unaffordable. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mrs Fs complaint against Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman