DRN-3518150
The complaint
Mr T complains Santander UK Plc hasnt obtained a refund of his profit from an investment 
and didnt progress the chargeback claim correctly and gave incorrect information.
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
In August 2020 Mr T made two separate payments to Coinbase  a cryptocurrency 
exchange  of £200. These were then sent on to a trader doing trades on behalf of 
Mr T, fxtradeassets. Mr T saw that his trades had made a profit of nearly £6,000. 
When he asked to withdraw this, he was told hed need to pay a 10% fee to release 
the funds. It was at this point Mr T realised hed been dealing with fraudsters. 
He asked Santander to raise a chargeback claim. Although this was ultimately done, 
Mr T was given wrong information about that. And it was only on chasing that he was 
informed hed won his case and £400 reimbursed  the total money invested. 
Mr T complained and Santander agreed it hadnt provided a good service and paid 
him £25. Mr T asked us to look into the complaint as he wants the profits refunded. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint explaining that banks cant be held liable 
for prospective losses. And it had already resolved the chargeback claim against 
Coinbase. She further explained that scammers manipulate software to show profits 
to entice further investment. Mr T isnt happy with the outcome and has asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out above the key points of 
this complaint, I have read and considered whats been provided. Having done so I agree 
with the conclusions reached by the investigator, for the following reasons:
A chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by card scheme providers  in this case I 
understand its VISA. It arbitrates on disputes between a customer and a merchant 
where they havent been able to resolve matters themselves. The arbitration process 
is subject to the rules of the scheme  which are set by VISA  and there are only 
limited grounds on which a chargeback can be raised. Chargebacks raised outside of 
these grounds are deemed invalid. 
It appears there were two parties to Mr Ts trades, Coinbase and fxtradeassets. I 
understand it was fxtradeassets who was trading on behalf of Mr T and let him know 
of the profits made. This is important as chargeback rights can only be used against 
the merchant paid.  
Coinbase carried out the service requested  changing Mr Ts fiat currency into 
cryptocurrency. On that basis, there were no valid chargeback rights and it appears 
Mr T only received a refund as Coinbase didnt respond, not because it agreed 
something went wrong. Chargebacks automatically provide for a refund if a merchant 
doesnt reply within set timescales. There are no chargeback rights against 
fxtradeassets as they werent the party paid. 
Im not aware of any chargeback rights for profits made, if indeed profits were 
actually made, which is far from certain. The type of charge Mr T describes is usually 
a ploy by scammers to get further funds from an investor, rather than it being a 
legitimate charge. And there are several reports in the public domain, on forums and 
such like, of people having a similar experience to Mr T with the same trader, and 
never being able to make a withdrawal  another feature common with scam 
investments. Its therefore highly likely that Mr T was shown a profit that never 
actually existed in order to entice further deposits from him.  
In any event, it seems that its the trader that had the profits if any existed, not 
Coinbase. And as explained above, there are no chargeback rights against the trader 
as they werent the party paid from Mr Ts Santander account.
I find the compensation paid by Santander for the delays and incorrect information 
about the chargeback process to be fair given the impact this had  compensation for 
such impact is not intended to reflective of any perceived financial loss.   
Overall, I dont find any basis on which to ask Santander to do anything further in 
relation to this dispute. 
I appreciate Mr T will be disappointed with this response. However, as I have found 
Santander has already fairly resolved this complaint, I wont be making an award against it. If 
Mr T wishes to purse this matter further, hell need to do so outside of our service, as this is 
the final stage in our process. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman