complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a loan in 
2001. Mr B says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him the PPI. 
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision which was sent out 
in October 2019. I've provided below an extract of my provisional findings;
I currently intend to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds has confirmed the loan and PPI policy were taken out in a meeting in a branch and 
that it recommended the policy to him. This means Lloyds had to take reasonable steps to 
ensure that the policy was right for him, based on his personal circumstances and his ability 
to meet his repayments if he was unable to work. But I dont think it did.
Mr B has told us that he was entitled to six months full pay followed by six months half pay 
from his employer if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness. He has also said he 
had savings which he could have used to meet his repayments if he wasnt working. This 
loan was for quite a small sum and had a relatively short repayment term - 12 months. I think 
Mr B would have been able to meet his repayments for the length of the loan, using his sick 
pay and savings.
So, based on what Ive seen and been told, I dont think Lloyds should have recommended 
this PPI policy to Mr B as it would not have provided him with a useful benefit. I think Mr B 
could have managed without the PPI for long enough not to need it and if he had understood 
this, I dont think he would have taken the policy out. So Mr B has lost out as a result of what 
Lloyds has done wrong.
my findings
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Lloyds nor Mr B have provided any further comments about the provisional decision. 
As there doesn't appear to be any new information or points for me to consider I see no 
reason to change the outcome reached in my provisional decision. 
what the business should do to put things right
DRN-1233997Mr B borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve been. He 
paid more than he shouldve each month and it cost him more to repay the loan than it would 
have. So Mr B needs to get back the extra hes paid.
So, Lloyds should:
Work out and pay Mr B the difference between what he paid each month on the loan
and what he wouldve paid without PPI.
Work out and pay Mr B the difference between what it cost to pay off the loan and
what it would have cost to pay off the loan without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr B paid from when he paid it until he gets it
back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Lloyds can take off what he got
for the claim from the amount it owes him. Lloyds can also take off any refund it may
have made to him relating to commission.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I uphold Mr B's complaint.
Lloyds Bank PLC should put things right by doing what I've said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2020.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman