DRN-2137775
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy HSBC Bank UK Plc (HSBC) hasnt reimbursed him for his losses after he 
transferred money to an investment company that turned out to be a scam.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties so I wont go into too much detail 
here. Mr R has explained he has been the victim of a scam and has been tricked into 
sending the following payments to someone he believed to be a regulated investment 
company:
21 February 2019 £500
4 March 2019 £4,500
14 March 2019 £15,000
9 April 2019 £27,000
15 April 2019 £20,000
1 May 2019 £16,200
4 June 2019 £10,000
Mr R feels that HSBC ought to have noticed these payments were unusual and looked into 
the matter further. He feels if it had questioned him about the investments he believed he 
was making it wouldve uncovered the scam. He also feels HSBC shouldve done more to try 
and recall the funds when he reported fraud had taken place. HSBC didnt accept it 
shouldve done more in this case so Mr R asked us to look into things.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They felt that:
Although HSBC shouldve made enquiries into the transfers, they didnt think this 
wouldve alerted Mr R or HSBC to the scam or prevented it
They agreed HSBC hadnt recalled funds as quickly as it should have, but as the 
receiving bank didnt cooperative when the request was made, they didnt think this 
delay had impacted the situation or prevented retrieval of the funds
As Mr R didnt accept their findings the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Should HSBC have done more to prevent the transfers Mr R made?
Theres no dispute the transfers Mr R made were authorised payments even though he was 
the victim of a sophisticated scam. He made the payments himself and under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr R is presumed 
liable for the loss in the first instance. 
But Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. As such I think 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Mr R made seven transfers to a fraudulent investment company between February and 
June 2019 equalling more than £90,000. Ive considered whether I think any of these 
transfers ought to have triggered an intervention from HSBC.
Mr R has said he thinks this shouldve happened on 4 March 2019 when he transferred 
£4,500 to the scammers because he hadnt made such large transfers in the recent past.  I 
agree this transfer was for a higher amount than Mr R typically made from his account.  But 
it wasnt made to a new payee, as Mr R had already paid £500 to the same account. It didnt 
empty his account and funds dont appear to have been moved into the account for the 
specific purpose of making the transfer. Overall, I dont think this transfer was so significantly 
unusual it ought to have prompted further action from HSBC.
But, on 14 March 2019 Mr R transferred £15,000 to the scammers. The transfer was to a 
new payee and an overseas bank account. Shortly before he made the transfer hed moved 
the entire amount into his account from elsewhere and it was for a significantly higher 
amount than any other transfer Mr R had made from this account at this point. Overall, Im 
satisfied this ought to have prompted HSBC to contact Mr R to make further enquiries.
Would HSBCs intervention have made a difference?
Mr R feels that had HSBC contacted him about his payments on 14 March 2019 it ought to 
have been able to identify the scam and this wouldve prevented him from continuing to 
transfer funds. Based on the available evidence and on balance of probabilities, Ive thought 
about what I think wouldve more likely happened had HSBC contacted Mr R to make 
enquiries about this transfer.
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I think its reasonable to expect HSBC should have had 
an awareness of investments scams, how they might work and systems in place to try and 
protect its customers from them. I see no reason why Mr R wouldnt have told HSBC he was making an investment if theyd 
asked after identifying an unusual transaction like the £4,500, or any of the subsequent, 
transfers.  After all, he thought he was investing with a genuine company. And, after 
ascertaining this, there are a number of enquiries Id have reasonably expected HSBC to 
make. For example, the bank could have asked if he was cold-called, how he came across 
the company and what returns hed been promised to see if any of the answers mirrored 
what the bank ought to have known about the way investment scams tend to be perpetrated. 
I think there is also information HSBC ought reasonably to have given Mr R when it was 
making these enquiries. For example, I think it ought to have warned Mr R that fraudsters 
can and do try and pass themselves off as existing regulated investment companies. I also 
think it ought to have drawn his attention to the FCA website, specifically the information on 
avoiding fraudulent investment scams including its fraud warning list. 
But, Im not persuaded, on balance, that had it provided generic information about the fact 
these type of scams exist or that, even when making specific enquiries with Mr R, HSBC 
likely wouldve been given reasonable cause for concern. 
Mr R wanted to make some investments and used the internet to find an investment 
company that offered the type of investment and rate of return he was looking for. He tells us 
he checked the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) register to ensure they were a 
regulated company, which suggests to me he had some understanding of the importance of 
dealing with a genuine, reputable firm. And the FCA didnt add any warnings to its website 
about the genuine investment firm having been cloned until after Mr R made his last transfer.  
Mr R also spoke to the scammer posing as the investment company over the phone and via 
email for several weeks by the point I think HSBC shouldve intervened. Hed been given 
persuasive literature and contracts relating to the investments he thought he was making 
and the rate of return wasnt so unrealistic that I think it wouldve given HSBC reasonable 
doubt about its authenticity.
Mr R was so persuaded by the scammers, he transferred over £90,000 to them for several 
months and recommended them to his family members. So its clear he was fully persuaded 
the transactions were genuine for a significant period of time and had no concerns about 
their authenticity. I think it wouldve taken more than the bank making the type of enquiries 
Ive highlighted above to persuade him not to continue or alert him to the scam.
Ive also thought about whether anything else at this point ought to have alerted HSBC to the 
scam, but Im not persuaded it shouldve. As Ive mentioned, the FCA wasnt aware of the 
fact the original investment company had been cloned and didnt place a warning on the 
register until after Mr R made his last transfer. So when HSBC shouldve enquired about the 
activity on Mr Rs account, there was no other information or additional checks HSBC 
couldve carried out at that time that wouldve given it reasonable cause to believe Mr R was 
the victim of a scam. 
Ive considered whether I think it wouldve been reasonable grounds for concern that Mr R 
was making transfers to an overseas bank account or that the account was in a different 
name to the company he thought he was dealing with. But I think Mr R had a plausible 
explanation for sending the money overseas and there are legitimate reasons a customer 
might do this. So I dont think this alone wouldve been enough to alert HSBC to a scam in 
this particular case. 
And overall, its not unusual for scammers to coach victims into giving cover stories for the 
payments theyre making. I think its more likely than not that if the bank had prompted Mr R 
to ask about the bank account being in a different company name or probed more about the payment being made to overseas account I think the scammers wouldve provided a 
plausible and persuasive explanation for this.
Having considered everything very carefully I dont think its more likely than not that an 
intervention from HSBC wouldve prevented Mr R from continuing to make transfers to a 
company he thought to be genuine.
Did delays caused by HSBC prevent recovery of the funds?
Mr R told HSBC hed been a victim of fraud on 26 June 2019. Once it had discovered this I 
wouldve expected it to act immediately in trying to recover the funds from the beneficiarys 
bank account. HSBC didnt do this. But, despite what Mr R says, I dont think this delay 
prevented the successful return of the funds.
In the case of the first two payments to a UK bank account Ive seen HSBC requested the 
return of the funds the day after the fraud was reported. The receiving bank responded that 
same day to confirm no funds remained in the account. And whilst I can see HSBC did 
cause a delay here, when the fraud was reported it had already been several months since 
the payments were made. On balance, I think its likely the money had already been moved 
when the fraud was reported so even if HSBC had acted immediately it wouldve been too 
late.
HSBC contacted the receiving bank in Singapore several days after the fraud was reported. 
Upon receiving the recall request the beneficiarys bank in Singapore contacted the 
beneficiary who stated fraud hadnt taken place and Mr R had received the services hed 
paid for. As such it considered the matter a civil dispute and wouldnt intervene further at that 
stage. 
Mr R has raised the letter sent in error regarding the payment of £10,000. He feels this 
supports that HSBC wasnt cooperating with the receiving bank and that it continued to delay 
the retrieval of his money. But as Ive set out, when HSBC contacted the beneficiarys bank, 
it responded and said it wouldnt return the funds. So I havent seen anything to suggest it 
was willing to cooperate and theres nothing more I wouldve expected HSBC to have done 
to try and retrieve the funds.
And although I do think HSBC shouldve requested the return of the payments sooner than it 
did, I havent seen anything to suggest this answer wouldve been different had HSBC made 
the request earlier. So Im not persuaded the delays caused by HSBC were the reason the 
funds couldnt be successfully returned to Mr R. Although it is unfortunate the funds couldnt 
be returned, Im satisfied HSBC fulfilled its obligations in making the requests it did.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman