DRN-1617608
 
The complaint
Ms A says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny (Sunny), irresponsibly lent 
to her. Ms A has told us that Sunny didnt check that the lending was affordable for her. 
What happened
This complaint is about seven short-term loans Sunny provided to Ms A between December 
2016 and September 2017. Ms As borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 19/12/2016 28/04/2017 6 £200.00
2 09/01/2017 28/04/2017 6 £250.00
3 31/01/2017 27/04/2017 6 £200.00
4 04/02/2017 28/04/2017 6 £300.00
5 27/04/2017 26/05/2017 6 £600.00
6 10/06/2017 01/07/2017 6 £200.00
7 01/09/2017 27/09/2017 6 £950.00
 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Ms As complaint and thought the loans from loan four 
onwards shouldnt have been given. 
Sunny disagreed but later offered to uphold the seventh loan and made an offer of redress. 
We put the offer to Ms A, but she didnt want to accept it. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms A could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Ms A could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ms A didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one to three shouldnt be 
upheld. Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. 
So, I wont be making a decision about this lending. But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Ms A had with Sunny. So, it is something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans she took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms As complaint. After doing so, Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
As explained by our adjudicator, when Ms A applied for loan four, loans one to three were 
still outstanding. And those three loans were all applied for within two months of each other 
so had a further four or five monthly repayments to be made as the loan terms were for six 
months. Including the borrowing of loan four, Ms A was in debt to Sunny for the total of £950 
from her initial borrowing of £200. 
I think Ms As borrowing pattern should have suggested to Sunny that she was struggling 
with her finances and it should have reconsidered whether it was fair to have agreed to loan 
four onwards. Sunny has told us that it was a responsible lender and had declined Ms As applications at 
some point for three additional loans. It has also told us that Ms A had repaid some of her 
loans early. While I accept this would have saved Ms A interest costs, it can equally be an 
indication that someone is struggling with their finances. And this would have seemed most 
likely in the circumstances of Ms As complaint as I see that she wold return for additional 
borrowing shortly after a loan was repaid. As an example, loan five was taken out the same 
day that loan three was repaid, and it was for the same amount. 
Taking into account the nature of short-term high-cost credit, I would question why a person 
would repay one loan only to return for additional borrowing shortly afterwards. It suggests to 
me that someone is struggling and having to juggle their finances.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Ms A, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Ms As case, and like the adjudicator, I think that this 
point was reached by loan seven. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Ms A was not managing to repay her loans 
sustainably. Ms A had taken out seven loans within nine months. So Sunny ought to 
have realised it was more likely than not Ms A was having to borrow further to cover 
the hole repaying her previous loan was leaving in her finances and that Ms As 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Ms As first loan was for £200 and loan seven was for £950.  At this point Sunny 
ought to have known that Ms A was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall 
in her income but to meet an ongoing need. 
Ms A wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Sunny. As Ive said 
above, loan seven was taken out nine months after Ms As first. And it was for a 
larger amount. Ms A had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to 
Sunny over an extended period.
 
I think that Ms A lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing for loan seven 
because:
this loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms As indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number of loans which Ms A borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Ms As ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
 
So, Im also upholding the complaint about loans four to seven and Sunny should put things 
right.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Ms A paid on loans four to seven;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about four to six from Ms As credit file;
for loan seven any information recorded about it is adverse. So, all entries about loan 
seven should be removed from Ms As credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Ms A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Ms As complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman