DRN-3149352
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (the AA) mis-
sold him a policy. He says the AA charged him a £20 cancellation fee when he cancelled the 
policy within the 14-day cooling off period, and this charge wasnt made clear when he 
bought the policy. 
What happened
Mr P purchased an AA membership online. 10 days later he cancelled the policy. As the 
cancellation was within the 14-day cooling-off period, the AA refunded the full premium, 
minus a £20 cancellation fee.
Mr P was very unhappy. He said if hed known about the cancellation fee, he would never 
have bought the policy. He said the AA hadnt made this clear and he said the AA were 
exploiting a loophole in the system. He says its clearly not a cooling-off period if theres a 
charge.
The AA said the charge was clear, and it wouldnt be refunding it. But it did say that Mr P 
had received poor service following a dropped call, so it paid him £10 for the inconvenience 
hed experienced. 
Mr P remained unhappy and complained to our service. So, an investigator looked at the 
complaint. But the investigator said the AA didnt need to do make any further refunds. 
Mr P doesnt agree, and hes asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
Mr P says the cooling-off period is a period within which you have the time to change your 
mind. He says if he used the service, he would be happy to pay a fee. But he says he didnt 
use it, so thinks the cancellation fee is unfair. He says its not a cooling off period if a fee is 
being charged and thinks this is misleading. Mr P says this charge wasnt made clear when 
he took out the policy, and that he wouldnt have bought the policy if it had been clear. He 
says he had no reason to read the policy terms and conditions. Mr P also says if AA wanted 
to charge a fee, it should provide a tick box option. He says no work has been carried out by 
the AA to justify the charge, as the policy was completed online.
Mr P purchased this policy online in a non-advised capacity. AA has sent us a screen shot of 
what Mr P wouldve seen when he was taking out the policy. Its also sent us a copy of the 
welcome letter Mr P received and a copy of the policy terms and conditions, also sent to          
Mr P. 
On the screen shot, under the heading Important Information it has a section headed 
Renewals and cancellations. Under this heading it says theres a cooling-off period of 14
days from the date you receive your cover documentation, or your cover starts, if later. If you 
cancel your cover during this time, youll get a refund minus a £20 cancellation fee. After the 
cooling-off period, youll be able to cancel, but theres no refund.
Ive also looked at the welcome letter and policy documentation. The welcome letter 
addressed to Mr P on the day the policy was incepted has a section called How do I cancel 
the contract? And in here it says that if you cancel within the cooling off period, youll get a 
refund minus a £20 cancellation fee. The policy terms and conditions say something similar 
stating that the member will receive a full refund, less a cancellation fee if cancelling within 
the cooling-off period.
I need to consider whether the AA make it clear that there would be a charge. Looking at the 
terms and conditions, and the welcome letter I can see the charge has been set out in this 
documentation. But Mr P argues that hes not a notary or a law writer and he wouldnt 
normally filter through policy terms and conditions to see what charges apply. And I agree. 
Mr P shouldnt have to review pages of policy terms and conditions to see what charges 
apply and when. I also note that this documentation was only available to Mr P after the 
policy was purchased.  
The Financial Conduct Authoritys rules say an insurer can charge a consumer a fee for 
cancelling a policy in the cooling-off period. But they also say a consumer can only be 
charged this fee if they were told that this would happen before they bought the policy. In this 
case I can see from the screen shot provided what information was set out when Mr P was 
purchasing the policy. And I can see under the heading important information that Mr P 
was told there would be a fee. So, Im satisfied AA gave Mr P sufficient warning that a £20 
cancellation fee would apply when cancelling in the cooling-off period when he was buying 
the policy.
Mr P also argues that the £20 cancellation fee shouldnt be charged as he hasnt used the 
policy. Mr P also says that as the policy was purchased online there was no cost to AA in 
setting the policy up. But even though it was purchased online there is a set-up cost for 
every policy. It might not mean that the AA had to pay someone to manually set the policy 
up. But there is still an underlying system cost to the business when setting a policy up 
online. And charging £20 to pay for this isnt deemed excessive. Further to this Mr P did 
have the benefit of cover for the 10 days the policy was live. So even though he didnt make 
a claim, the policy was still being used by Mr P and he wouldve had the benefit of the cover 
if it had been required.
So, based on what Ive seen I think AA did enough to make Mr P aware that a cancellation 
charge would apply if he cancelled the policy within the cooling off period. I also think its a 
reasonable charge and in line with what Ive seen in other similar policies. I note that AA has 
paid Mr P £10 in compensation for the inconvenience of a dropped call, which seems 
reasonable in the circumstances. As such I dont uphold this complaint and I wont be asking 
AA to make any further refunds.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Derek DunneOmbudsman