DRN-3260372
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy that 3J Finance Limited (3J) will not cancel a fixed sum loan agreement
she took out to fund an online educational programme.
What happened
In May 2018 Mrs A entered into a loan agreement with 3J to purchase an online educational
programme for her children. A representative for the supplier (who I will refer to as E
throughout) visited her home and sold her the programme. At the same time E arranged a
loan for her with 3J to fund the purchase. Mrs A paid a £200 deposit for the educational
programme and took out a loan for £5,740. The loan was to be repaid over 48 months at a
monthly payment of just under £120 per month.
The programme provided mathematics and English modules and support services. These
services were described on her loan agreement as including a freephone telephone
helpline, student diplomas and termly check-ups.
Mrs A has complained the programme wasnt fit for purpose and about the way it was
presented to her. Shes said the representative assured her it would cover the national
curriculum and would be taught in the same way as at school. After a period of her children
using it, they discovered this wasnt the case. She also feels the quality of teaching was
poor, there were mistakes in the content which were confusing her children and the
explanations provided by the assistants didnt help. Shes said she was assured her children
would be able to work through the modules with the support provided, but several lessons
didnt have the instructions or explanations required so she needed to go through it with
them. She asked for the programme to be cancelled from the date she initially requested this
and for a refund to be provided by E to repay the loan in full.
Mrs A has also said that when she informed 3J that shed tried to cancel the programme, 3J
informed her she could stop paying her loan until it was resolved. However, shes since been
pursued for the debt which 3J has sold to a third party and this has caused her stress.
3J has said Mrs A signed the various documentation to agree to the loan. Its said it
contacted E who confirmed the programme sold was in accordance with the paperwork 
provided. E has said the programme was fully compliant with the UK national curriculum and
it provides short, clear lessons written and presented by highly qualified professionals. Its
also said the programme provides a freephone teacher helpline and an online digital
whiteboard when using the helpline if needed. Finally, its said Mrs A was able to cancel the
programme within 14 days if she was unhappy with the content provided.
Unhappy with the response given, Mrs A referred her complaint to our service. An
investigator considered the complaint and upheld it. He thought that the loan had been 
missold to Mrs A as he didnt think it was made clear to her that she was funding this 
purchase through a loan rather than a monthly subscription (which could more easily be 
cancelled.) He believed that had this been made clear to Mrs A, she wouldnt have gone 
ahead with the purchase. He also concluded that there wasnt sufficient evidence to say E 
had breached the contract or misrepresented the educational programme to Mrs A. 3J didnt 
agree with the investigators assessment. It argued that Mrs A had signed the paperwork to 
confirm her understanding and that too much weight was being placed on Mrs As testimony 
above the documentation. It also argued Mrs A couldve cancelled within 14 days if she 
wanted to, however she didnt.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to consider. I 
issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded not to uphold this complaint. 
Below is an extract of my provisional decision which forms part of this decision:
Ill first consider arguments relating to the mis-selling of the loan agreement. Ill then go on to
consider the consumer protection rights afforded to Mrs A by the Consumer Credit Act 1974
(CCA), specifically in considering her arguments that the education programme was not fit
for purpose or of satisfactory quality (amounting to a breach of contract).
mis-selling of the loan agreement
As Ive explained, our investigator upheld this complaint because he thought it wasnt made
clear to Mrs A that she was funding the purchase through a loan agreement. And therefore
that she wouldnt have the flexibility to cancel the programme that she otherwise might have
had if it was paid for in a different way. 3J has said Mrs A signed the loan agreement and so
signed to agree she understood she was taking out a loan. I dont agree that simply because
a consumer has signed an agreement it always follows that a consumer has properly
understood what they were agreeing to and what their obligations are. It is also not
unreasonable that a consumer may rely on the verbal representations given, particularly
when you consider the context of a sale that takes place in someones home.
However, in the particular circumstances of this complaint, I think Mrs A was aware shed
entered into a loan agreement to fund the purchase. When Mrs A initially raised her
complaint to 3J and E she complained about the quality of the product provided and that she
felt it had been misrepresented her. This included that the content wasnt consistent with
what her children were learning in school and that the lessons lacked clear instructions/
explanation. Mrs A didnt raise any complaint points relating to the finance being mis-sold to
her.
When Mrs A raised her complaint to this service her complaint was again related to the
quality of the product and that she felt it was misrepresented to her. When describing the
sales process Mrs A said the representative of E:
applied for finance on his system for me to be able to pay and I was initially refused.
He said that they had another company that they used and I was then offered
finance.
In addition, when asked what she wanted to put things right, Mrs A wrote:
To cancel the product as of the date that I initially complained and refund the
finance company
Based on Mrs As initial testimony I think its clear she was aware shed taken out a loan to
fund the programme. Mrs A was aware her initial application was declined and to put things
right she wanted the finance company repaid (which would result in settling her debt to the
finance provider, 3J.)
When asked for further information about the sales process including when she was aware
shed taken a loan, Mrs A described what happened after she returned the laptop and was
told she couldnt cancel the agreement. This would suggest she wasnt aware until after she
was unhappy and tried to cancel the programme that it had been (largely) funded by a loan.
However, these recollections seem to differ both from her initial testimony to E/3J and to our
service. And such I dont find them as persuasive as the complaint she initially raised and
her earlier recollections of the sale. Taking everything into consideration, I think its most
likely Mrs A was aware the programme shed purchased from E had largely been financed
by a loan and I dont think the loan was mis-sold to her.Breach of contract
As Ive explained above, this contract was funded by a loan which was regulated by the
CCA. The CCA provides that in certain circumstances (which apply in this case) 3J can be
held responsible for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by E. This is outlined in s75
CCA. In addition, s56 allows E to be treated as agent of 3J for the purpose of any
antecedent negotiations leading up to Mrs A signing the loan agreement. This means that
3J can also be held responsible for what is said or done by E during the sales process.
To establish a breach of contract, I need to first consider the terms of the contract. The
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is important here as it implies certain terms into a
contract. This contract was for the supply of services (such as the helpline) and the online
programme which the CRA defines as digital content. In the case of digital content, the
CRA implies terms that the digital content should be fit for purpose and of satisfactory
quality. Satisfactory quality means that its of the standard a reasonable person would
consider satisfactory when taking into consideration the price, description and any other
relevant circumstances. The CRA also implies into a contract for services, that the service
should be carried out with reasonable care and skill.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mrs A has told us about the educational programme.
Ive set this out in full above, but to summarise she doesnt feel the service the helpline
provided was particularly helpful and so wasnt carried out with reasonable care and skill.
Shes also made a number of points about the digital content not being of satisfactory quality
or fit for purpose. In particular, that it didnt follow the national curriculum and included
mistakes/poor quality in the teaching resulting in Mrs A needing to help her children use it.
All of these points would be arguments for a breach of contract as the things shes
complaining about are terms of the contract rather than misrepresentations. E has disputed
that the contract was breached and has argued, amongst other things, that its programme
offered a high level of teaching and the content was based on the UK national curriculum.
From everything Ive seen, its clear E did provide the educational programme with modules
for mathematics and English modules which was what was agreed. And it provided a
helpline which Mrs A said her children used. As Ive explained, Mrs As complaint relates to
the quality and standard of what was provided. However, shes not provided any supporting or 
documentary evidence to specifically demonstrate this. For example, she hasnt provided
anything to show how the teaching standards fell below the standard expected or how the
content differed from the national curriculum. So unfortunately, I dont think Mrs A has done
enough to show theres been a breach of contract by E (which 3J could be held responsible
for.) I also dont think E breached the contract by not letting Mrs A cancel when she tried to. The
contract allowed for cancellation within 14 days, however from everything Ive seen it was
sometime after this that Mrs A tried to cancel it.
Ive also noted Mrs A has said when she told 3J she wasnt happy with the educational
programme and would be cancelling it, 3J told her she no longer needed to pay her loan. 3J
has provided its contact notes for Mrs A. I can see it says Mrs A contacted 3J in August
2019 to say she isnt going to pay for the course as it wasnt fit for purpose. In October 2019
there is further contact which states Mrs A said she would not be paying at present as she is
in dispute with E and hasnt had a resolution. This note also says she was advised of the
consequences of non-payment. In addition, there is a further note in November 2019 which
says Mrs A has said she isnt going to pay until the ombudsman service have investigated.
At this time it says the ramifications were explained to her and that collections activity would
continue.
Taking everything into consideration, I dont think its likely Mrs A was told she didnt need to
continue paying her loan, rather I think Mrs A was refusing to make her repayments. The
notes also suggest the consequences of not paying her loan were discussed and 3J was
pursuing the debt. So I dont think Mrs A was misled by 3J into believing she didnt need to
continue to repay her loan.
To summarise, I currently think Mrs A was aware she had taken out a loan to fund theeducational programme. I also dont think theres enough evidence to show E breached the
contract or misled her into believing she didnt have to repay her loan after shed raised her
concerns to E.
I invited both 3J and Mrs A to provide anything further they would like me to consider. 3J didnt 
provide anything further for me to consider. Mrs A made a number of points which Ill summarise 
below: 
Mrs A maintains that at no time was she told that the education programme was funded by a 
loan during the sales process. She was told it was a monthly payment she could make 
through a number of other companies which E worked with. She thought the finance company 
was part of the Es company and it was only after she submitted her complaint she realised 
the companies were separate. 
In response to there being limited evidence that the programme was not of satisfactory quality 
or fit for purpose as she claims, Mrs A has explained that because she returned the laptop 
she cant provide this. However, she has highlighted several websites which contain personal 
reviews and accounts of dealings with E and a television documentary featuring E. 
Mrs A states she didnt cancel within the 14 days cooling off period as she persevered with 
the programme using the helpline provided. 
She doesnt think its fair that as E is no longer operating that she should still have to pay for a 
product she cant use.
Finally Mrs A maintains that she was told by 3J that she didnt need to pay her loan whilst her 
complaint was ongoing. She thinks its unfair to place more weight on 3Js call notes (which 
as I outlined in my provisional decision suggest she was told she needed to continue paying) 
than her own recollections of the sale.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im still not upholding this complaint, but I would like to address the points 
Mrs A has raised in response to my provisional decision.  
Mis-selling of the loan agreement 
Ive carefully considered everything Mrs A has said about her recollections of the sale, which 
Ive summarised above. Mrs A maintains that it wasnt until after she raised her complaint 
she was aware 3J and E were separate companies and that during the sales process it was 
not made clear to her that the programme was being funded by a loan. 
However, her recollections of the sale in her complaint to our service differ from this. In her 
complaint to our service shes described how, during the sale the representative applied for 
finance. Shes said the representative was unsuccessful with one finance provider and so 
applied with another. In addition, Mrs A was sent a letter in response to her complaint from E 
(which is dated around a month before she referred her complaint to our service.) This letter 
details that the programme was funded by finance and that this agreement was between her 
and the finance provider, so she needed to contact that company directly in relation to this. 
So I think Mrs A was likely to have known, before her complaint was referred to this service, 
how her programme had been paid for. And I think if this was something she was unhappy 
about I wouldve expected her to have raised it at this time. However, as outlined in my 
provisional decision, Mrs As testimony suggested she was aware of how the programme 
was funded and her complaint was about the quality of the programme. So taking everything 
into consideration, I dont think the loan was mis-sold to her. 
Breach of contract Mrs A has provided a number of website links to reviews and accounts of individuals 
dealings with E. These are individual accounts and in many instances,  they are very 
subjective. And whilst I dont doubt that E has other customers who may be unhappy, it isnt 
possible for me to verify what has been said. There is also a distinction between buyers 
remorse and being unhappy with a product, to demonstrating that it not being fit for purpose 
and/or of satisfactory quality. In addition, Ive noted one of the review websites Mrs A has 
sent also has some positive reviews of the services supplied by E. But I cant place much 
weight on this either as again I cant verify the information.  In addition, Mrs A has also 
referenced a documentary which included information about E. However, this documentary 
is no longer available, so I havent been able to review it and cant draw any conclusions 
from it. 
So whilst Ive considered everything Mrs A has said and provided, I still dont think I have 
sufficient evidence to show that her education programme wasnt fit for purpose or of 
satisfactory quality.  And so I dont think 3J acted unfairly in declining her claim. 
Mrs A has said she didnt cancel within the cooling off period as she was persevering with 
the helpline. However, as I explained in my provisional decision, I dont think E breached the 
contract by not letting Mrs A cancel when she tried to. The contract allowed for cancellation 
within a 14 day cooling off period and it was sometime after this that Mrs A tried to cancel it.
I do sympathise with everything Mrs A has told us including that she feels its unfair to 
continue paying for a product she isnt using and cant access. Ive noted Mrs A has said she 
thinks the supplier is no longer operating and the service is unavailable. My understanding is 
that although E was bought by another company there was a continuation of service. I can 
also see Es website is still operating. So I dont think its the case that these services are no 
longer operating. However, I appreciate from everything Mrs A has said she may not want to 
contact E and see if she could resume the service. 
Maintaining the loan repayments  
In addition to her s75 quality of goods complaint, Mrs A also disputes that she was told she 
needed to continue repaying her loan whilst her complaint was ongoing.
In response to my provisional decision, Mrs A said it wasnt fair to take 3Js notes as records 
of conversations which have taken place above her own. In light of this Ive requested copies 
and listened to call recordings for the call notes I relied on. Having done so, Ive noted in the 
first call (August 2019) Mrs A maintains she has cancelled the educational programme 
through E. The representative at 3J confirms that whilst there is a balance outstanding, he 
will contact E for further clarification and someone will get back to Mrs A. Following on from 
this, around a month or so later, E sent Mrs A a letter in response to her complaint. Ive 
noted this letter refers Mrs A back to the finance provider (3J) regarding any ongoing 
finance arrangements and/or obligations to pay for your programme. I think this makes it 
clear that despite requesting the programme be cancelled with E, she still needed to contact 
3J about her loan agreement. In addition Ive noted from several follow up calls between 3J 
and Mrs A that 3J made it clear payment was outstanding and she was required to keep 
paying her loan. I also note that representatives from 3J explained that collections activity 
would continue. 
So taking everything into consideration, I still dont think Mrs A was told she didnt have to 
pay her loan whilst her complaint was outstanding. However, even if I were to accept that 
Mrs A was told this at an earlier point or the call in August had caused some confusion, in 
several subsequent calls 3J made it clear to Mrs A that it did require her to continue paying 
and Mrs A refused to. So Im not persuaded that Mrs A failed to make payments because 
she didnt think she needed to. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint against 3J Finance Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Claire Lisle
Ombudsman
