DRN-4533480
The complaint
Mr B complains about the advice given by Optima Financial Services Ltd (Optima) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a group 
personal pension (GPP). He thinks the advice was unsuitable for him and caused a 
financial loss. Mr B is represented in this complaint, but for ease Ill refer only to Mr B.
What happened
In 1992, Mr B joined his employers DB occupational pension scheme. Mr Bs employer 
decided to close this DB scheme in March 2006 (at which point Mr B became a deferred 
member), and opened a new GPP. The DB scheme was underfunded at that time, and 
Mr Bs employer also decided to offer an enhancement to members who chose to transfer 
their DB scheme benefits to a personal pension. Members of the DB scheme were also 
being offered regulated financial advice, the cost of which was met by Mr Bs employer. 
Optima was contracted to provide that advice.
Optima gathered information about Mr Bs circumstances and objectives. It was recorded 
that Mr B was age 44 and expected to retire at age 65. That he was married and this wasnt 
expected to change in the foreseeable future, and had three dependent children age 16, 14 
and 12. His health was recorded as good, though hed been treated for an angina attack in 
2005. Mr Bs attitude to risk was assessed as medium, and his priorities ranked as:
1. the security of my pension fund
2. provision for a partners and dependent pension
3. the ability to retire early
4. tax free cash lumps sums at retirement
5. control and flexibility pension funds
6. lump sum benefit upon my death before retirement
7. to be able to increase my pension 
In August 2006, Optima sent Mr B its recommendation report which said Optima 
recommend that you transfer your existing deferred benefits from the [DB scheme] to the 
new [GPP]. The initial reason behind this recommendation has been a comparison of the 
Critical Yield1 (CY) figures (TVAS Report pages 1 & 3) with your Attitude to Risk (ATR) and 
the number of years left until retirement. The report went on to say that better death benefits 
before retirement for his dependants and access to tax free cash (TFC) on retirement also 
supported its recommendation to transfer. 
Soon after, Mr B and Optima met to discuss the recommendation report. Optimas notes of 
this discussion record that Mr B didnt accept its recommendation as he want[ed] to take 
cash option as advised against  so he wanted to take the enhancement as cash rather 
than transfer it to his new GPP. Optimas notes said it had Explained cash v security  
questioned why No1 priority  now not concerned as needs cash and that Mr B was more 
concerned with now and hed prefer to take cash option + transfer. Optimas notes went 
on to say [Mr B] clearly only interested in accepting top-up. Did not get sense of why? 
Advised against taking through payroll, explained may be tax-free or may be taxed. [Mr B] 
understands it is his decision. 
Mr B signed an execution-only letter, which said I confirm that I wish to transfer the 
reduced value of my deferred benefits within the [DB scheme] to [the GPP] and receive the 
[employer enhancement] as a cash payment through my payroll. I was advised by [Optima] 
to transfer all the benefits, including the [employer enhancement] but I have decided not to 
take this advice. I am aware that this action will reduce my pension on retirement. As a 
result, I am instructing this transfer on an execution only basis and I fully accept 
responsibility for my own actions. I will have no future claim against Optima for this decision.
Following this, in early 2007, £48,855.74 was transferred from Mr Bs DB scheme to his new 
GPP, and the £14,000.22 employer enhancement was paid to Mr B through his employers 
payroll. 
Mr B says he separated from his wife in 2007 and has not remarried. And he says that in 
2017 he was advised by a separate IFA (which Ill call Firm P) to switch his personal 
pension to another provider, and he took £20,000 of TFC. Soon after, Mr B also began 
drawing down his pension benefits. Mr B says he currently works part-time. 
Mr B says that in 2022, he saw an advert from his representative about pension mis-selling. 
Through his representative, Mr B complained to Optima that its 2006 transfer advice might 
have been unsuitable and caused him a financial loss. Mr B said Optima hadnt told him 
about the guarantees hed lose on transferring or explored alternative ways of funding his 
divorce other than taking the employer enhancement as cash. And it hadnt explained the 
term insistent client and he didnt know the transfer was carried out on that basis. 
Optima asked Mr B for some further information it thought it needed in order to investigate 
his complaint, and later gave him referral rights to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Mr B 
referred his complaint to us.
Optima thought Mr Bs complaint had been brought too late for us to be able to consider it 
and wasnt a complaint that should be upheld in any case. Optima said it carried out a full 
advice process which met the compliance standards of the time and was overseen by the 
DB scheme trustees. That Mr B had acted against Optimas advice and transferred his DB 
scheme benefits on an execution-only basis. And the transfer had afforded Mr B the 
flexibility hed made use of from 2017 by accessing TFC and income from his pension. 
Our Investigator thought Mr Bs complaint had been brought within the relevant time limits 
because the 2022 advert Mr B saw was the earliest point at which he ought to have been 
aware he had cause for complaint about Optimas 2006 advice. 
Optima had further communication with us and with Mr B. Ive summarised what I see to be 
the main relevant points Optima made:
It was over 15 years since the 2006 advice, and a civil court would say this complaint 
was made too late. Firm P wouldve identified the previous DB transfer as part of its 
2017 advice process and told Mr B it mightve caused him a financial loss he could 
complain about. Firm P would also have established the suitability of Mr Bs existing 
pension arrangements, and if they were unsuitable or underperforming, it wouldve told 
Mr B to ask for a review of the DB transfer. So, Mr B should have been aware in 2017 
that he had cause for complaint about Optimas 2006 advice. Further, the regular 
pension statements sent to Mr B wouldve shown if his pension wasnt performing as 
expected, and Mr B wouldnt simply have thought this was due to the global financial 
crisis in the years following his DB transfer, as he knew his DB pension hadnt been 
subject to such market fluctuations and Optimas 2006 advice made this risk clear. Optimas 2006 advice was clear and gave Mr B the information he needed to make an 
informed choice. Optima recommended he transfer both his DB scheme benefits and 
the employer enhancement into his employers new GPP, explaining that it wasnt in his 
best interests to take the enhancement as cash. But Mr B didnt accept this 
recommendation as he wanted the enhancement as cash regardless. So Optima 
arranged the transfer on an execution-only basis and Mr B signed an agreement to 
indemnify Optima against future loss or complaint. Optima told us The execution-
only/insistent client aspect of the case only concerns [Mr Bs] decision to take the 
[employer enhancement] as an immediate payment through payroll. Mr [B] was advised 
against transfer on that basis. 
Optimas advice met the regulations and guidance at that time. Then, there was no 
insistent client regulatory guidance, and the regulators starting presumption that a 
transfer was unsuitable applied to active members of a DB scheme, and Mr B was a 
deferred member.
Mr Bs account contained inaccuracies. Optima had made clear when Mr B could 
access his benefits, what benefits and guarantees would be lost on transfer, and the 
advantages and disadvantages of transferring. And Mr B hadnt told Optima about a 
separation or divorce, or why he wanted the enhancement as cash. Mr B now claimed 
he took it as cash for his divorce but also claimed to fund his divorce from his 2017 TFC.
The transfer met Mr Bs objectives. Optima made clear the GPPs returns might not 
meet the critical yield, but having ownership of his pension benefits met Mr Bs need for 
security of his pension. Death benefits hadnt been a priority for Mr B but were likely to 
be better under his new GPP anyway, and he now said hed divorced soon after the 
advice. And ignoring Optimas recommendation and instead taking the enhancement as 
cash showed Mr B wasnt concerned with maximising his guaranteed retirement income. 
Also, the transfer met Mr Bs immediate cash need, and he had 20 years to accrue 
further pension funds to replace the cash hed taken, so he had capacity for loss.
This complaint was speculative. But Optima had asked Mr B for further information so it 
could respond to his complaint and so we could properly investigate, but Mr B hadnt 
provided this or evidenced his financial loss. Optima thought we should obtain the 2017 
advice documentation from Firm P. 
Mr B provided us with further information, including information about charges, copies of 
various pension statements across 2017 to 2020, and evidence hed sought further 
information from his current personal pension provider. Mr B said he didnt have any of the 
documentation from Firm Ps advice process in 2017, and Firm P hadnt discussed Optimas 
2006 advice with him at all. Mr B said he had no financial or pensions knowledge, so hed 
relied on Optimas 2006 advice and didnt question it until seeing the 2022 advert. 
Ultimately, agreement couldnt be reached so this complaint was passed to me. I issued a 
provisional decision on Mr Bs complaint. 
In summary, I thought Mr Bs complaint about Optimas 2006 advice had been made within 
the relevant time limit rules. And after considering the merits of that complaint, I thought it 
was a complaint that should be upheld.
I said I appreciated that access to the enhancement offered by his employer, the flexibility to 
take TFC on retirement, and the potential for higher death benefits on offer through a 
personal pension would have sounded attractive to Mr B. But Optima wasnt there to just 
transact what Mr B might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr B needed and to make a suitable recommendation.
Ultimately, Optima recommended that Mr B transfer his deferred DB scheme benefits to a 
GPP  it did not in any way recommend that he should not transfer these benefits. And I didnt think the advice given to Mr B was suitable. He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free 
and increasing income. By transferring, Mr B was very likely to obtain lower retirement 
benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer 
and outweigh this. Mr B shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the DB scheme just 
for flexibility he didnt need. And the potential for higher death benefits and the opportunity to 
access an enhancement from his employer, whether as cash or included in a DB transfer, 
wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme.
I said Optima shouldve advised Mr B to remain in his DB scheme, given his particular 
circumstances and lack of certain retirement plans. And had it done so, Mr B would have 
accepted that advice and his benefits would not have been exposed to any investment risk 
at all. I thought Optima should compensate Mr B for its unsuitable advice, using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology, and using the benefits 
available to Mr B through his DB scheme at age 55 for comparison purposes.
Mr B confirmed he had no further comments to make.
In its response to my provisional decision, Optima disagreed its advice was unsuitable and 
provided further comments. Ive summarised what I see to be the new and relevant points 
Optima made:
The Financial Ombudsman Services process was neither fair nor impartial. Mr B 
involved us after only six weeks without providing any further detail to Optima. Optima 
had to provide all the evidence, yet Mr B ignored all Optimas information requests 
claiming it wasnt available only to provide some of the requested information to us. 
Regarding the relevant time limits, Optima said:
- The switch regulations and benefit commence advice regulations meant 
Firm Ps 2017 advice wouldve covered the source of funds. Firm P wouldnt have 
analysed Optimas 2006 advice but would have made high level comments to 
Mr B about the advice and his right to complain if he had concerns. So Mr B ought 
reasonably to have been aware in 2017 that he had cause for complaint about 
Optimas 2006 advice. 
- Firm P would also have given Mr B ongoing reviews of his personal pension which 
wouldve likely included ongoing assessment/confirmation of continuing suitability.
- The provisional decision relied on Mr Bs testimony to conclude that 2022 was the 
soonest he ought reasonably to have been aware he had cause for complaint, but 
Mr Bs testimony was inaccurate and confirmed the unreliability of his claim. In 
particular, Mr B had:
oGiven an incorrect date for when he left his employer. 
oSaid all advice was delivered by telephone, but there were in-person 
meetings. 
oSaid the loss of guarantees in transfer wasnt made clear, but it was made 
clear in various correspondence sent to Mr B by his employer and by Optima, 
and was also covered during two advice meetings and a staff presentation, as 
supported by the documentation. 
oSaid he didnt understand the documents he signed, but these were in plain 
English as supported by the documentation.
oDeliberately omitted mention of the cash enhancement in his detailed 
complaint letter, but this enhancement is key to the outcome of his complaint. 
oBeen inconsistent by saying he used both the enhancement in 2007 and the 
TFC in 2017 for his divorce. 
oClaimed to be unsuccessfully seeking information from his personal pension provider, but Optima thought this unlikely. 
Regarding the applicable rules, regulations and requirements, Optima said:
- The provisional decision quotes multiple Principles and rules without showing if these 
were breached. 
- The provisional decision was wrongly influenced by current regulations and 
guidance. In particular:
oCOB 5.3.13 G (4) applied to active members, and Mr B was a deferred 
member. 
oThe provisional decision hinges on a later change to COB 5.3.13 G and later 
changes to guidance and practice. Further, the scheme rules also changed later. 
oThe provisional decision ignored COB 2.5.4 (R).
oThe provisional decision referred to income drawdown, which wasnt available 
in 2006/2007. 
Optima thought the provisional decision contained inaccuracies, didnt adequately 
reflect the actual details of the chronological sequence of events, and showed a lack 
of experience and technical understanding. 
Optima had given clear advice to Mr B and hed acted against it. In particular:
- Mr Bs employer consulted Optima on whether the enhancement could be tax free 
if paid as cash rather than into their pension. Optima advised against offering 
employees this choice. Optima confirmed to employees taking the incentive as 
cash meant it would be subject to tax and National Insurance contributions (NIC). 
And that Optima wasnt willing to advise employees regarding acceptance of the 
enhancement and, should they do so and transfer the reduced amount to their 
pension, it would be on their instruction at their own risk. When Optima met Mr B, 
it made clear he shouldnt transfer if he wanted the enhancement as cash. Optima 
covered this position in its original letter, at the meeting and in its final letter.
- Optima recommended Mr B transfer his full transfer value to the GPP. The yields 
required were acceptable and Mr B has benefitted. The critical yield required to 
match Mr Bs benefits at age 65 was 7.8% if he took TFC and a reduced pension, 
and would have been under 6.5% at age 55 and given the later changes in the 
basis of calculation of scheme TFC which improved the scheme TFC available. 
Given this, Optima didnt see the significance of the discount rate. 
- The DB scheme could not solely meet Mr Bs retirement income needs as he was 
only a member for about 13 years. Optimas advice never suggested a transfer 
could meet Mr Bs retirement income needs, simply that he could secure his value, 
improve his future TFC, improve his death benefits and provide an option to re-
shape his retirement income depending on his situation at the time.
- The provisional decision focused on flexibility and death benefits, but these were 
suggested by us, not Optima. And Mr B wouldnt have wanted to pay for life 
assurance as he already had death benefit provisions and wanted as much cash 
as possible.  
- The employer had said it would fund the deficit in Mr Bs DB scheme, but it could 
hardly have said anything else and has had great difficulty remaining in business 
and meeting its obligations.
- Optima disagreed its recommendation to transfer was unclear, as it quoted the 
gross amount as the transfer. And Optima met with Mr B to review its 
recommendations, the implications of transfer, and scheme differences. Optima 
explained that accessing the enhancement as cash negated its advice and 
strongly advised against this as it would be subject to tax and NIC, and would 
seriously reduce his pension in retirement. But Mr B wanted the cash and wouldnt elaborate why. 
- Mr B understood and accepted the loss as evidenced by the clear and concise 
disclaimers he signed.
- Optima treated Mr B as an execution-only client, or whats now termed an 
insistent client - Optima has used the term execution only, but not in the 
regulatory sense as it had provided advice. Optima believed it was reasonable 
under COB 2.5.4 R to treat Mr B in this way. Optima believed Mr B could and 
likely would transfer under his own initiative anyway so it facilitated his wish 
without taking any responsibility for the loss to his pension.
- Optima disagreed that it should have prepared a further TVAS and advice for Mr B, 
given Optima had confirmed Mr B should not transfer if he took the enhancement 
as cash and had written that it was not willing to give advice on that basis. And its 
reasonable for anyone to understand that if you start with less you will end up with 
less.
Mr B would have gone ahead with a transfer in any case. He wanted the cash 
enhancement and called Optima on 3 April 2006 to chase the outcome prior to even 
receiving any advice. In addition, the future scheme funding was a major concern, and 
although Mr B wasnt concerned with his employers financial security, security was a 
major priority for him and transferring in full allowed him to secure his pension pot 
regardless of the future of his employer or the DB scheme. Optima did everything it 
could to dissuade Mr B, but it was his decision and risk. And at that time, Mr B didnt 
need an adviser to sign off a transfer and could have instructed the DB scheme to 
transfer to any personal pension and accessed the cash enhancement. Optima simply 
facilitated Mr Bs request (against advice) and Mr B fully understood that.
Mr B signed three disclaimer letters, and indemnified Optima against his decision to 
transfer. It was wrong to say Mr B didnt know transferring would reduce his pensions 
ultimate value, as the wording of the disclaimer letters was clear, concise, and 
understandable. And this was fully discussed and understood by Mr B.
Optima calculates Mr B hasnt suffered a financial loss as a result of the transfer. The 
regulators DB pension transfer redress methodology is designed for those whose 
retirement is at some future date (with numerous assumptions), not in the past where 
real numbers can be compared. Furthermore, it would seem that Mr B has little or 
nothing left in his personal pension as he extracted it all in very short order. And it 
wasnt reasonable for Optima to be responsible for any and all subsequent advice, 
charges and any future poor decisions, as the provisional decision suggested.
What Ive decided  and why
Jurisdiction
Ive reconsidered whether this is a complaint our Service can consider. Optima says this 
complaint would be considered out of time by the civil courts. But we are not the courts. 
Instead, were an alternative dispute resolution service and the relevant time limits we must 
consider are set out in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Handbook. Our ability to consider complaints is set out in Chapter 2 (DISP 2) of the FCAs Handbook of 
Rules and Guidance. DISP 2.8.2R says that, unless a business consents, the Financial 
Ombudsman Service cannot consider a complaint if its been referred to us,
more than: 
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later) 
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint; 
 
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some 
other record of the complaint having been received; 
 
unless: 
 
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 
2.8.2 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances 
Mr Bs complaint is that Optima gave him unsuitable advice in 2006. Mr B raised his 
complaint with Optima in 2022. This is clearly more than six years later, so his complaint is 
out of time under the six-year part of the rule. Therefore, I need to consider the three-year 
part of the rule.
Optima argues Firm Ps 2017 advice process (about switching his personal pension and 
taking TFC) ought reasonably to have made Mr B aware he had cause for complaint about 
Optimas 2006 advice, and says Firm Ps 2017 documentation will show this. But Mr B says 
he doesnt have any of this documentation. Firm P itself is now in liquidation, and the Official 
Receiver says it doesnt yet have access to Firm Ps records and doesnt expect this to 
change soon. So unfortunately, the full documentation from Firm Ps 2017 advice process 
isnt available.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I must reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
And I think its more likely than not that Optimas 2006 advice wasnt discussed, in any detail, 
by Mr B and Firm P in 2017. 
Mr B says Firm P reached out to him, so I dont think Mr B had any concerns that caused 
him to initiate the 2017 advice. And while Optima says regulations meant Firm P would have 
covered the source of Mr Bs funds, and that Firm P would have made high level comment to 
Mr B about Optimas 2006 advice, Im mindful that Optima wasnt present at any discussions 
between Mr B and Firm P, and hasnt provided any documentary evidence to support its 
argument. Whereas Mr B was present at those discussions and says the 2006 advice was 
not discussed at all. I appreciate Optima thinks its incorrect to rely on Mr Bs testimony, as it 
says this is unreliable. But the examples of Optima has given of what it sees to be Mr Bs 
unreliable testimony are, in my opinion, either not relevant to reaching a fair and reasonable 
conclusion to this complaint or things that Mr B and Optima take differing views on. 
Further, I dont think its likely that Firm P would revisit in detail, or otherwise assess, the 
suitability of Optimas 2006 advice, which had by then taken place more than ten years 
earlier. Instead, I think its more likely than not that Firm P would simply have focused on 
considering Mr Bs current pension arrangements at that time and whether another 
arrangement was more suitable for him. Optima also argues Mr B could have seen any underperformance of his pension either 
through the regular pension statements sent to him or during Firm Ps 2017 advice process, 
and it ought to have made him realise he had cause for complaint about Optimas 2006 
advice. But I dont agree. Optima itself says the value of Mr Bs GPP in 2017 was 
£140,334.59, so a very large increase on the £48,855.74 transferred in following Optimas 
2006 advice, even setting aside any contributions Mr B made. And Ive seen nothing to make 
me think Mr B was an experienced investor or had more than a general level of knowledge 
relating to pensions, so I dont think its reasonable to conclude that hed have thought his 
pension could or should have increased even more than that. And from 2017, Mr B withdrew 
significant amounts from his pension and I think this would have further blurred any 
perceptions Mr B may have had about its performance. 
Optima further argues that Mr B taking his pension benefits ought reasonably to have made 
him aware he had cause for complaint about its 2006 advice. But I dont agree this is 
necessarily the case, particularly when Optimas 2006 recommendation report had 
suggested that flexibility to take pension benefits in various ways could be reasons for Mr B 
to transfer to a personal pension. 
As I say, I dont think Mr B was an experienced or knowledgeable investor. And Ive not been 
given any evidence that makes me think Mr B had any other information that ought 
reasonably to have made him aware he had cause for complaint about Optimas 2006 
advice, prior to the pension mis-selling advert he says he saw in 2022. Mr B raised his 
complaint with Optima later in 2022, within three years of seeing this advert. 
For these reasons, Im satisfied Mr Bs complaint about Optimas 2006 advice has been 
made within the relevant time limit rules. Therefore, Ive gone on to consider its merits.
The merits of Mr Bs complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B and Optima have provided detailed submissions to support their position and Id like to 
reassure them both that Ive considered all the comments and evidence theyve provided. 
But while I mean no discourtesy, my decision will focus on what I consider to be the central 
issues in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. So my decision wont 
address every point or question both parties have raised, but will instead set out my findings 
and my reasons for reaching them. 
I appreciate Optima says its 2006 advice was in line with the regulators rules and 
guidance at that time, and that the scheme trustees subsequently vetted the transfer 
advice process and documents. 
But Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time of Optimas 2006 advice. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and 
the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COB). And as Ive said, where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirementsAgain, for clarity, Ive taken account of the rules, regulations and requirements that applied 
at the time of Optimas 2006 advice. The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and 
regulations which applied at that time, but provides useful context for my assessment of 
Optimas actions here.
PRIN 2: A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
PRIN 9: A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and 
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment.
COB 2.5.3R:A firm must not, in any written or oral communication in connection 
with designated investment business, seek to exclude or restrict, or to rely on any exclusion 
or restriction of, any duty or liability it may have to a customer (which for these purposes 
includes a retail customer) under the regulatory system.
COB 2.5.4 R: A firm must not, in any written or oral communication to a private customer in 
connection with designated investment business, seek to exclude or restrict, or to rely on 
any exclusion or restriction of, any duty or liability not referred to in COB 2.5.3 R unless it is 
reasonable for it to do so.
The provisions in COB 5.3.5R which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. 
The provisions in COB 5.3.21R which states When advising a customer who is, or is eligible 
to be, an active member of a defined benefits occupational pension scheme whether he 
should opt out or transfer, a firm should:
(a) start by assuming it will not be suitable, and
(b) only then consider it to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate on the evidence 
available at the time that it is in the customer's best interests.
And the provisions in COB 5.3.25R which deal with the obligations when a customer, 
contrary to the advice of the firm, instructs the firm to arrange a pension transfer.
Optima has reiterated that the presumption of unsuitability in COB 5.3.21R at that time only 
applied to active DB scheme members, and Mr B was a deferred member. But the 
underpinning Principles existed throughout, as did the obligation to act in accordance with 
the Principles. So in any case, Optima still had to conduct its business with Mr B with due 
skill, care and diligence; to pay due regard to Mr Bs interests and treat him fairly; to 
communicate with Mr B in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading; and to take 
reasonable care to ensure the suitability of the advice it provided to him. And having 
considered all the available evidence, I dont think Optima did so.
Optima suggests Mr Bs complaint is speculative, that Mr B brought his complaint to us 
before Optima had the required time to respond to it, and that Mr B didnt provide Optima 
with the information it asked him for to support his complaint. But Mr B is entitled to complain 
about Optimas 2006 advice, regardless of his reasons for doing so. Ultimately, Optima has 
had the opportunity to respond to Mr Bs complaint. And Im satisfied we have gathered all 
the information necessary to reach a fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Bs complaint. Optima says it recommended that Mr B transfer his benefits in full into his employers new 
GPP i.e. transfer both his DB scheme benefits and the employer enhancement. But Mr B 
chose not to follow this recommendation as he wanted the enhancement as cash. So 
Optima arranged the transfer on an execution-only basis. 
Optima was required to pay due regard to Mr Bs interests and communicate with him in a 
way that was clear, fair and not misleading. This means its recommendation needed to be 
clear and Mr B wouldve needed to have understood the consequences of going against the 
recommendation. 
Optima doesnt think its recommendation to transfer was unclear, as it quoted the gross 
amount as the transfer. And Optima says that when it met Mr B to review its 
recommendations, the implications of transfer, and scheme differences, Optima made 
clear he shouldnt transfer if he wanted the enhancement as cash  it explained that 
accessing the enhancement as cash negated its advice and strongly advised against this 
as it would be subject to tax and NIC, and would seriously reduce his pension in 
retirement. And Optima says it covered this position with Mr B in its original letter, at the 
meeting and in its final letter. 
Optimas recommendation report said (with my emphasis):
Optima recommend that you transfer your existing deferred benefits from the [DB 
scheme] to the new [GPP]. The initial reason behind this recommendation has been a 
comparison of the Critical Yield1 (CY) figures (TVAS Report pages 1 & 3) with your Attitude 
to Risk (ATR) and the number of years left until retirement. 
I acknowledge Optimas recommendation mentioned the critical yield set out on pages one 
and three of the transfer value analysis report (TVAS). And that page one of the TVAS 
report said the transfer value was £62,855.96 i.e. that it included the employer 
enhancement. But Optimas recommendation said Mr B should transfer his existing deferred 
DB scheme benefits. It did not make clear that this recommendation was dependent on the 
transfer amount including the employer enhancement, as Optima now suggests. Further, at 
no point did Optima recommend that Mr B should not transfer out of his DB scheme, whether 
or not the transfer amount included the enhancement.  And Im mindful that at the time, COB 
5.3.25R stated, If, contrary to the advice of the firm, a private customer instructs the firm to 
arrange a pension opt-out or pension transfer, the firm must:
1) make and retain a clear record of the firm's advice that the private customer should 
not proceed with the pension opt-out or pension transfer and the private customer's 
instructions to proceed with the transaction; and
2) provide a further confirmation and explanation, in writing, to the private customer that 
the firm's advice is that the private customer should not proceed with the pension 
opt-out or pension transfer.
Optimas notes record that when it met with Mr B following its recommendation report, Mr B 
didnt accept its recommendation as he want[ed] to take cash option as advised against. 
Optimas notes said it had Explained cash v security  questioned why No1 priority  now 
not concerned as needs cash and that Mr B was more concerned with now and hed 
prefer to take cash option + transfer. Optimas notes went on to say [Mr B] clearly only 
interested in accepting top-up. Did not get sense of why? Advised against taking through 
payroll, explained may be tax-free or may be taxed. [Mr B] understands it is his decision. So 
at this point, Optima was aware Mr B wanted to take the enhancement as cash and not 
include it in any transfer. Optima doesnt think it needed to carry out a further TVAS and set out its further advice for 
Mr B, given that in its view, it had confirmed Mr B should not transfer if he took the 
enhancement as cash and had written that it was not willing to give advice on that basis. And 
Optima says its reasonable for anyone to understand that if you start with less you will end 
up with less. 
But as I say, the documentary evidence from the time of Optimas 2006 advice shows that at 
no point did Optima recommend that Mr B should not transfer out of his DB scheme, whether 
or not the transfer amount included the enhancement. And I remain of the view that Optimas 
obligations meant it could and should have at this point prepared a new TVAS report and 
recommendation report for Mr B which addressed his preference to take the enhancement 
as cash and set out its financial implications, and provided Mr B with an updated 
recommendation. 
Instead, Optima simply arranged for Mr Bs DB scheme benefits to be transferred out on 
what it says was an execution-only basis  which Ill return to. 
Given all this, Im not persuaded that Optima gave Mr B any recommendation that he should 
not transfer his DB scheme benefits. Therefore, Im not persuaded that Mr B transferred 
against Optimas advice. Instead, I think Optimas unclear recommendation left Mr B thinking 
he should transfer his DB scheme benefits regardless of whether the enhancement was 
included in the transfer amount or not.
Nevertheless, as Optima says that transferring out of the DB scheme was suitable advice  
provided Mr B included the cash enhancement in the transfer  Ive considered whether or 
not that advice was suitable.
Financial viability 
Optima carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing 
how much Mr Bs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the 
same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
Mr B was age 44 at the time of the advice and he expected to retire at age 65. Optima 
recorded that if Mr B transferred the total of £62,855.96 into the GPP, the critical yield 
required to match Mr Bs benefits at age 65 was 8% if he took a full pension and 7.8% if he 
took TFC and a reduced pension. 
But Optima didnt record what the critical yield would be if Mr B took the enhancement 
immediately as cash at the time of transfer instead of including the enhancement in the 
transfer to his pension. Optimas records of its meeting with Mr B following its 
recommendation report show it knew Mr B was interested in taking the enhancement as 
cash. But Optima didnt carry out any analysis to show the financial impact of this in relation 
to the transfer it had recommended. And as I say, in line with its obligations, I think Optima 
could and should at this point have prepared a new TVAS report and recommendation report 
for Mr B which addressed the financial implications of taking the enhancement as cash and 
provided an updated recommendation. Instead, Optima let the original TVAS and recommendation report stand, with the latter 
simply stating If you elect to take the enhancement via payroll the reduced Transfer value 
would require significantly higher Critical Yields than those shown below. 
Optima argues it recommended Mr B transfer his full transfer value to the GPP, and the 
yields required were acceptable as the critical yield required to match Mr Bs benefits at 
age 65 was 7.8% if he took TFC and a reduced pension at age 65. And that the critical 
yield would have been under 6.5% at age 55 and given the later changes in the basis of 
calculation of scheme TFC which improved the scheme TFC available. 
But I dont think Optimas 2006 advice could have known exactly what changes would later 
be made to the scheme TFC calculations. Or that Mr B would begin taking his pension 
benefits in 2017 at age 55, given that Mr B had told Optima he expected to retire at age 
65. 
Taking everything into account, I think its likely that at the time of the 2006 advice, critical 
yields based on a lower transfer amount (i.e. excluding the employer enhancement) would 
be significantly higher than the 8% quoted if Mr B took a full pension at age 65 and the 7.8% 
quoted if he took TFC and a reduced pension at age 65.
In any case, the quoted critical yields compare with the discount rate of 6.4% per year for 20 
years to retirement in this case. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate 
at the time was 5%, the middle projection rate 7%, and the lower projection rate 9%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Bs 
medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr B 
giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield was 
7.8%, I think Mr B was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the 
DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk.
Optima has provided a TVAS report which includes financial models, and Ive considered 
this along with everything else Optima has provided. But none of these seem to show the 
impact of Mr B transferring his DB scheme benefits (with or without the employer 
enhancement included in the transfer amount) and taking the same level of income he 
wouldve been entitled to under the scheme on the value of his remaining pension until his 
estimated death. So, its difficult to see whether Mr B couldve made his funds last until he 
died. And there may not have been a large sum left, if any at all, to pass on when Mr B died.
Optima says the DB scheme could not solely meet Mr Bs retirement income needs as he 
was only a member for about 13 years, and its advice never suggested a transfer could meet 
Mr Bs retirement income needs as a whole. However, I think its reasonable to say Optimas 
advice regarding transferring his DB scheme pension should have considered what income 
Mr B would need in retirement and how he could meet this  including taking into account 
the preserved benefits in his DB scheme as well as his new GPP. But Optima hasnt 
provided any evidence of having recorded or considered this at the time of the advice. This 
is likely because it was too soon to say what Mr Bs retirement income needs might be, since 
he had about 20 years until he expected to retire. So, in my view, the financial models dont 
offer any real insight into whether Mr B couldve met his retirement needs by staying in his 
DB scheme.
And given Mr Bs expected retirement was still about 20 years in the future, I dont think he 
needed to make a decision to transfer out of his DB scheme at that time. Thats particularly 
the case, because Mr B had ranked the security of my pension fund as his first objective, 
albeit he was attracted by the possibility of accessing an employer enhancement as cash. And also because Mr B didnt know what income hed need in retirement, and hed still have 
the option of transferring out of that scheme nearer to his desired retirement age if that 
suited his particular circumstances at that time. So, I dont think Mr B shouldve been 
encouraged to make an irreversible decision to leave his DB scheme when he was still 
decades away from his planned retirement age and he wasnt likely to be able to improve on 
the benefits available through his DB scheme.
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Bs best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as Optima 
has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is 
suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
In the information Optima gathered about Mr Bs circumstances, Mr B ticked a box to say 
Flexibility does not appeal to me. I do not mind leaving my benefits under the control of [Mr 
Bs employer]. Optimas recommendation report said this supported leaving Mr Bs DB 
scheme benefits within that scheme. 
Mr B had also ticked a box which said I require the maximum possible cash lump sum upon 
retirement. Optimas recommendation report said this supported its transfer 
recommendation.
While transferring Mr Bs DB scheme benefits to a GPP would provide him with flexibility to 
take TFC from age 55 and leave his funds invested, theres no evidence to support that, at 
the time of Optimas 2006 advice, Mr B required this, or any, flexibility in retirement. As Ive 
said, Mr Bs expected retirement was then about 20 years away so he didnt yet know 
whether hed want or need any flexibility in the way he accessed his benefits. And theres no 
pressing need for flexibility in retirement recorded in any of the documents Optima has 
provided  indeed, Mr B was still more than 10 years away from even being able to access 
his TFC. I think if asked, most people would say flexibility and TFC are desirable, but that 
doesnt mean they were genuine objectives for Mr B at the point of Optimas 2006 advice.
Mr B suggests he told Optima he needed the enhancement as immediate cash to fund his 
divorce. But the documentary evidence doesnt support this. Instead it records that Mr B was 
married and didnt expect this to change in the foreseeable future, and that Optima did not 
get a sense of why he wanted the enhancement as cash.
Nonetheless, it's clear from Optimas notes that, at the time of advice, Mr B was attracted by 
the possibility of accessing the employer enhancement as cash. But Optima wasnt there to 
just transact what Mr B might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr B needed and make a suitable recommendation. I dont think Optima 
did enough to establish the reason Mr B wanted immediate cash, let alone explore 
alternatives to using the enhancement this way, not least because the amount he was being 
offered would be taxed. And as I say, Optima didnt make clear that its recommendation to 
transfer Mr Bs deferred DB scheme benefits was dependent on Mr B including the 
enhancement in the transfer amount. 
I also cant see evidence that Mr B had a strong need for variable income throughout his 
retirement. Thats because theres no calculation of his retirement income needs because 
as I say, it was still very many years until Mr B could retire.  And Mr Bs new GPP, which 
Mr Bs employer was offering him whether he transferred his DB scheme benefits into it or 
not, could provide Mr B with a degree of flexibility in how he accessed the fund he would 
build up in it over the next 20 years. Ultimately, at the time of the advice, Mr B didnt have any concrete retirement plans, 
although he didnt expect to retire before age 65. This was about 20 years away and his 
income needs at that point were unknown. So I think it was too soon to make any kind of 
decision about transferring out of the DB scheme. At the point of taking advice, Mr B could 
have remained a deferred member of the DB scheme while also starting to contribute to his 
employers new GPP. So, I dont think Mr B should have been encouraged to give up his 
guaranteed benefits when he didnt know what his income needs in retirement would be. If 
Mr B later had reason to transfer out of the DB scheme because he genuinely needed a 
greater degree of flexibility, he could have done so closer to retirement.
So, I dont think it was suitable for Optima to advise Mr B to transfer in order to have 
flexibility that he didnt really need.
Death benefits
When Optima gathered information about Mr Bs circumstances, Mr B ranked death benefits 
before retirement as 6 out of 7 in his list of priorities, and ticked boxes in the Death Benefits 
before Retirement section that said:
My dependants will receive significant sums upon my death from other sources and 
whilst a greater amount might be beneficial, it is not an absolute priority to me. 
Hed ideally like such death benefits paid primarily as a lump sum. 
In the section titled Partner and Dependant Pensions after Retirement, Mr B ticked a box to 
say The spouses pension benefits under my [employers DB] scheme are most important to 
me and I feel that these should continue., and ranked this as 2 out of 7 in his list of 
priorities.
Despite this, Optimas recommendation report said its recommendation to transfer was 
supported by Mr Bs answers regarding death benefits before retirement, as his DB scheme 
didnt allow these to be paid as lump sums. The report also said Mr B should be aware that 
the spouses benefits in the event of a transfer could potentially exceed those of the [DB 
scheme].
Optimas response to my provisional decision says its advice suggested a transfer could 
improve Mr Bs death benefits. Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when 
asked, most people would like their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The 
lump sum death benefits on offer through a personal pension might have been an 
attractive feature to Mr B. But, as Ive set out above, Mr B considered death benefits to be 
a low priority. So, Im satisfied that death benefits pre- and post-retirement were not a 
genuine objective for Mr B. 
However, Ive thought about whether the different death benefits available through a GPP 
made the recommendation suitable overall. But Im not persuaded thats the case, 
because any benefit left to pass on depended on investment returns, and how much 
remained in the pot on Mr Bs death. Whereas the spouses pension was guaranteed and it 
escalated. And its evident that Mr B had other ways of ensuring he could pass on a 
legacy to his family if he later decided this was important to him, such as by taking out life 
assurance and/or making his wife and children beneficiaries of his employers new GPP.  
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr B. 
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB schemeOptima now argues that having ownership of his pension benefits met Mr Bs need for 
security of his pension. 
But this isnt supported by the evidence from the time of the advice. In the information 
Optima gathered about Mr Bs circumstances, Mr B ticked a box to say Flexibility does not 
appeal to me. I do not mind leaving my benefits under the control of [Mr Bs employer]. And 
Optimas recommendation report said this supported leaving Mr Bs DB scheme benefits 
within that scheme. In addition, the information Optima gathered about Mr Bs circumstances 
recorded that Mr B had ranked control of his pension funds as 5 out of 7 on his list of 
priorities. So I think its fair to say that having control of his pension funds was not a high 
priority for Mr B. As Ive said, Mr B was not an experienced investor, and I cannot see that 
he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his own. 
So, I dont think control or ownership of his pension was a genuine objective for Mr B  it 
was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
I accept that Mr Bs DB scheme had closed and was underfunded at that time. And while 
Optima now argues that Mr Bs employer could hardly say anything else at time, its still the 
case that the consultation materials Mr Bs employer provided to its DB scheme members 
made clear that Mr Bs employer would fund the deficit. And Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that the funding of Mr Bs employers DB scheme was in a position such that Mr B should, at 
the time of Optimas advice, have genuinely been concerned about the security of his 
pension. Further, the information Optima gathered about Mr Bs circumstances included a 
section titled Security of Pension Funds. In this section Mr B ticked a box to say I have no 
reason to question the security and financial stability of [Mr Bs employer] or the manner in 
which the pension fund is being administered. Optimas recommendation report said this 
didnt directly affect the recommendation it had made. 
Optima says that although Mr B was not concerned with the financial security of his 
employer, security was a major priority for Mr B and transferring in full allowed him to secure 
his pension pot regardless of the future of his employer or the DB scheme. But based on the 
documents from the time of the advice, I dont think Mr B was concerned about the stability 
of the DB scheme or his employer, or that Optimas advice was predicated on any such 
concerns.
Summary
I dont doubt that the access to the enhancement offered by his employer and the flexibility 
to take TFC on retirement would have sounded attractive to Mr B. But Optima wasnt there to 
just transact what Mr B might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr B needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, Optima recommended that Mr B transfer his deferred DB scheme benefits to a 
GPP  it did not in any way recommend that he should not transfer these benefits. And I 
dont think the advice given to Mr B was suitable. He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free 
and increasing income. By transferring, Mr B was very likely to obtain lower retirement 
benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer 
and outweigh this. Mr B shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the DB scheme just 
for flexibility he didnt need. And the potential for higher death benefits and the opportunity to 
access an enhancement from his employer, whether as cash or included in a DB transfer, 
wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme.
So, I think Optima shouldve advised Mr B to remain in his DB scheme. I note Optima says Mr Bs execution-only letter indemnified Optima against his future loss or 
complaint, and Optima made this clear to Mr B. And that Optima believed it was reasonable 
to under COB 2.5.4 R to treat Mr B in this way. I should be clear here that Im satisfied it was 
not fair and reasonable for Optima to have recommended that Mr B transfer out of his DB 
scheme in the first place. So in my opinion, the opportunity to proceed in reliance on an 
indemnity should not have arisen at all. And in the circumstances, I dont think the indemnity 
Optima refers to reflects the obligations it had to Mr B under PRIN and COB. 
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr B would've gone ahead and transferred out of his 
DB scheme anyway, had Optima clearly advised him not to. And Optima argues this is the 
case. Optima says that Mr B wanted the cash enhancement and called Optima to chase the 
transfer prior to even receiving any advice. That the future of the scheme funding was a 
major concern, and although Mr B was not concerned with the financial security of his 
employer, security was a major priority for him and transferring in full allowed him to secure 
his pension pot regardless of the future of his employer or the DB scheme. That Optima did 
everything it could to dissuade Mr B, but it was his decision and risk. And at that time, Mr B 
didnt need an adviser to sign off a transfer and could have instructed the DB scheme to 
transfer to any personal pension and accessed the cash enhancement. Optima simply 
facilitated Mr Bs request (against advice) and Mr B fully understood that.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded Mr B would've gone ahead and insisted 
on transferring out of his DB scheme anyway, had Optima clearly advised him not to.
Mr B has used the term insistent client. Optima says it treated Mr B as an execution-only 
client, or whats now termed an insistent client  that Optima used the term execution-only, 
but not in the regulatory sense, as it had provided advice. 
For clarity, the documents from the time of the advice refer to the transfer being carried out 
on an execution-only basis. At that time, the regulator defined an execution-only transaction 
as A transaction executed by a firm upon the specific instructions of a client where the firm 
does not give advice on investments relating to the merits of the transaction. In this case, 
Optima had provided Mr B with advice regarding transferring his DB scheme benefits  it 
recommended he transfer them to a GPP, and its notes of its following discussion with Mr B 
say it advised against taking the enhancement as cash because Mr B might be taxed on it. 
So, I think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Optimas relationship with Mr B was an 
advisory one.
As Ive said, I dont doubt Mr B was attracted by the possibility of accessing an employer 
enhancement, particularly as immediate cash. Mr B did take the enhancement as cash but 
its not clear what he used it for. Mr B now suggests he used it for his divorce, but the 
documentary evidence from the time of the advice doesnt support that  it doesnt record 
any reason why Mr B wanted to take the enhancement as cash. And Mr B has also told us 
he used the TFC he took in 2017 for his divorce, amongst other things. But Im mindful that 
some of these events happened very many years ago and recollections can fade. All in all, 
Im not persuaded Mr B had any genuine and pressing need to take the enhancement as 
cash at the time of the advice.
Further, Mr B was an inexperienced investor with a medium attitude to risk and this pension 
accounted for the majority of his retirement provision. So, if Optima had provided him with 
clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme whether he invested the 
enhancement or took it as cash, explaining why it wasnt in his interests, I think he wouldve 
accepted that advice.
Optima says it believed Mr B could and likely would transfer under his own initiative anyway. 
But Im not persuaded Mr B had any genuine objectives or concerns that were so great he wouldve insisted on transferring out of his DB scheme knowing that a professional adviser 
didnt think that was suitable for him or in his interests. If Optima had explained that Mr B 
could meet all of his genuine objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that 
wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr B would have transferred out of the 
DB scheme anyway.
I note Optima says Mr B hasnt evidenced his financial loss and that Optimas 
calculations show the transfer hasnt caused Mr B a financial loss. But thats a matter for 
the redress calculation, which Id remind Optima must be undertaken in line with the 
rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in 
policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4. Its 
possible that because of the performance achieved this may not show a loss. But this 
doesnt mean Optimas 2006 advice was suitable or that Mr Bs complaint about it 
shouldnt be upheld.
In light of the above, I think Optima should compensate Mr B for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Optima argues it shouldnt be held responsible for losses to Mr Bs pension which happened 
since he switched his personal pension in 2017 on the advice of Firm P  Optima says its 
not reasonable for Optima to be responsible for any and all advice, charges and any future 
poor decisions, subsequent to Optimas 2006 advice. 
DISP APP 4.4.2 R uses the current value of the defined contribution (DC) pension 
arrangement as the comparator (adjusted only for benefits already paid to the consumer and 
SERPS adjustments where applicable). And DC pension is defined in DISP APP 4.1.1 R as 
(with my emphasis): 
DC pension arrangement means any pension arrangement holding the value of the 
consumers pension benefits which originated from the non-compliant pension transfer 
advice, including where the arrangement has been subsequently changed to a new 
arrangement; 
So the rule does not limit the losses to the point where the pension is moved elsewhere. 
However, Ive thought about whether its fair to limit the loss up to the point Mr B moved his 
pension to the new arrangement. But I dont think it is. In this decision, Ive only considered 
Optimas 2006 advice. If that advice had been suitable, Mr B would more likely than not have 
remained in his DB scheme and his benefits would not have been exposed to any 
investment risk at all. By moving to a personal pension arrangement it was reasonably 
foreseeable that Mr B might change advisers and/or investments in future - Optima couldnt 
reasonably expect that Mr B would remain invested in the funds it initially recommended until 
retirement or that he would never change advisers. Mr Bs pension fund is only subject to 
investment risk and/or losses as a result of Optimas advice to transfer out of his DB 
scheme.
And I think this comes with the risk of further unsuitable advice which Optima exposed Mr B 
to when it recommended he transfer away from a secure DB scheme. If Mr B had remained 
in the DB scheme he would not have been exposed to any advice and product charges or 
investment losses. In any event, Im deciding the complaint against Optima and I think 
without its unsuitable advice Mr B wouldnt be in the position he is in now. So, in the 
circumstances of this complaint I still consider its fair and reasonable to hold Optima fully 
responsible for all of the losses Mr B might have incurred.
 Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Optima to put Mr B, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for its unsuitable advice. I consider Mr B would have most 
likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
Optima must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, although Mr B says he now works part-time, he began taking his pension benefits 
in 2017 at age 55. And I think he most likely wouldve also done so had he remained in his 
DB scheme. So, compensation should be based on him taking benefits at this age.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Optima should:
calculate and offer Mr B redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr B before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr B receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr B accepts Optimas offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr B for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Bs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr B as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Optima may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Bs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Optima Financial 
Services Ltd to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Optima Financial Services Ltd pays Mr B the balance.
If Mr B accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Optima Financial 
Services Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 January 2024.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman