DRN-1979216
The complaint
Mr D complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds settlement value for his car was 
too low when he made a claim under his motor insurance policy. Mr D is a named driver on 
the policy. 
What happened
Mr D was unfortunately involved in an accident and his car was declared a total loss. Admiral 
said the pre-accident value for his car was £18,240. Mr D thought this was far too low. He 
thought the car was worth what hed paid for it six months earlier. This was £23,750.
Mr D didnt think what Admiral had offered was enough to buy a replacement car. He felt it 
hadnt considered the extra features his car had. He thought a fairer settlement figure was 
£23,750. He asked an independent vehicle assessor to assess how much his car had been 
worth and they agreed with him. 
Mr D complained to Admiral, but it didnt increase its settlement offer. So he brought his 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He felt Admiral had considered and processed 
his claim in a fair and reasonable manner.
Mr D didnt agree. He felt that the guides that were used to value his car couldnt have been 
correct. He said that he couldnt buy a similar car with the settlement hed received. So the 
matter has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking into these sorts of complaints I dont calculate a precise valuation for a 
particular car. Instead I look at if the insurer has made a fair and reasonable offer for its 
market value. Mr Ds policy requires Admiral to pay him the market value at the time of loss. 
Market value is defined as: The cost of replacing your car, with one of a similar make, 
model, year, mileage and condition based on market prices at the time of the loss.
To establish whether the insurer has made a fair and reasonable offer, I refer to the motor 
trade guides. These are based on nationwide research and actual sales figures rather than 
just advertised prices. They take into account the specific features of a car including 
mileage, condition and overall specification. So they are usually the very best tool we have 
to establish the pre-accident value of a car. If a trade guide is clearly out of line with the 
others, we disregard it. 
Admiral found the following values. Apart from the Parkers Guide, which only shows live 
market values for that day, our investigator confirmed all of these values independently:  
Glasss Guide: £18,240 
Caps Guide: £18,150 
Parkers Guide: £16,155 
Admiral took the highest value as the final valuation.
In its Final Response letter, Admiral confirmed that the valuations it used to assess the 
market value of Mr Ds car have taken your mileage and optional extras into account. And 
when our investigator checked the valuations he confirmed that was the case.
Mr D obtained an independent valuation of his car after the accident. The report noted the 
following valuations:
Cazana: £21,926 (for a car which had a list price of £57,680. And for February 2020, not 
January 2020 when the incident occurred).
Glasss: £18,240 (for a car which had a list price of £58,150)
The report didnt show the Caps or Parkers guide prices. We independently checked the 
Cazana value and found it to be £21,828.
The report also covered some enquiries made at a main dealership. The agent there was 
able to establish the exact vehicle model. The total on the road cost of the vehicle wouldve 
been £61,000 new which is around £3,000 more than the list price suggested by the Cazana 
and Glasss valuations. 
The report went into some detail about how the particular colour combination and additional 
extras was in particular demand. It concluded that £23,750 was a reasonable market value. 
But it didnt explain how it reached that specific conclusion. And Im not persuaded that its 
fair to use the purchase price of the car from six months before the accident as a fair value. 
But I can look at the average of the four different valuations to see if thats significantly 
different from Admirals valuation. 
Taking the average of £21,828 (Cazana), £18,240 (Glasss), £18,150 (Caps) and £16,155 
(Parkers) I get a figure of £18,593. Alternatively, if I remove the highest and lowest 
valuations and average the middle two I get £18,195. So Im satisfied that the Glasss guide 
valuation Admiral used wasnt out of line with the market as a whole. 
Mr D has said that what our investigator said about the extras the car had was fundamentally 
incorrect for his vehicle. Our investigator had said: Generally, we think its unlikely such 
additions make an overall difference to the price of the vehicle. But Mr D said that the 
specific additions on his car wouldve increased the market value. And that they made it a 
very rare and sought after car in high demand. But I dont consider that the guide prices 
wouldnt reflect this.
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that Mr D has provided sufficient evidence 
to demonstrate that the market value of his vehicle was more than the amount offered by 
Admiral. I accept that the vehicle was in good condition, and it clearly had many extras. Mr D 
has shown the cost of those extras when added to the car at the point of manufacture. 
However I dont consider Mr D has shown that these extras justified a valuation above the 
amount offered by Admiral in respect of the cars value when it was declared a total loss. I 
say that taking into account the trade guides treatment of those extras. In my opinion some 
extras dont increase the value of a vehicle at all - they simply add to its attractiveness to a 
prospective buyer. 
I appreciate that Mr D was involved in a nasty accident which left him injured and led to his 
car being written off. I hope hes made a good recovery. I know hell be disappointed with my 
decision. But I think Admiral has taken a fair and reasonable approach in deciding the 
market value of his car. So I dont think it needs to pay any more than it already has. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman