DRN-4402528
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr L complain about Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (AIL) and the decision 
to decline the claim they made on their home insurance policy, following an escape of water 
at their property.
What happened
Mrs K and Mr L held a home insurance policy, underwritten by AIL. On 27 November 2022, 
Mrs K and Mr L left the property covered by this policy to travel abroad. And they travelled 
on open return flights, with a provisional return date of 28 January 2023.
Unfortunately, on 17 December 2022, a significant leak was found in Mrs K and Mr Ls 
property by a friend who was asked to check it while they were abroad. And this leak had 
caused significant damage. So, Mrs K and Mr L contacted AIL to make a claim on their 
insurance policy.
The events that transpired after this date are well known by both parties, so I dont intend to 
list them in detail. But in summary, while validating the claim, AIL noted that Mrs K and Mr L 
werent staying in the property when the leak was discovered. And because of this, and the 
provisional return date on Mrs K and Mr Ls flights, they felt the property met their definition 
of unoccupied which was excluded for any claims relating to escape of water. So, they 
declined the claim.
Mrs K and Mr L raised a complaint about this. They thought that, as the leak was identified 
before the property had been unoccupied for 30 days, the claim should be covered within the 
terms of the policy. And while they accepted they didnt return to the UK until January 2023, 
they explained this was because the property was uninhabitable, and this informed their 
decision to remain abroad. So, they wanted AIL to overturn the initial decision and accept 
their claim.
AIL responded to Mrs K and Mr Ls complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought they had 
acted fairly, and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, when declining the claim 
as they thought the property fell under the unoccupied definition. And when Mrs K and Mr L 
disputed this further, they provided a second response explaining Mrs K and Mr L had an 
obligation to make them aware beforehand if they intended to leave the property for more 
than 30 days, which they thought it was Mrs K and Mr Ls intention to do. And AIL explained 
if Mrs K and Mr L had made them aware of this, they wouldve applied an endorsement to 
the policy excluding any claims for escape of water while Mrs K and Mr L were away from 
the property. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mrs K and Mr L 
remained unhappy with this response and so, they referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought it was Mrs K 
and Mr Ls intention to leave the property for more than 30 days and because of this, they 
thought AIL were fair to say the property was unoccupied. And as a report obtained by AIL 
showed mould within the property, they thought Mrs K and Mr L not being in the property 
had led damage that couldve been avoided. They also didnt think Mrs K and Mr L had 
made AIL aware of their intention to leave the property for more than 30 days and so, 
because of the above, they thought AILs decision to decline the claim was a fair one. So, 
they didnt think AIL needed to do anything more.
Mrs K and Mr L didnt agree. And they provided several comments explaining why. These 
included, and are not limited to, an explanation surrounding why their provisional return date 
was booked for January 2023, considering COVID-19 restrictions in the country they were 
travelling to at the time of booking. And they continued to reaffirm their belief that, as the 
damage was found within the first 30 days of them being away from the property, it was 
unfair for AIL to rely on the unoccupancy exclusion. As Mrs K and Mr L didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs K and Mr L. I recognise 
they wouldve taken out the policy with AIL to assist them both financially and practically in a 
situation such as the one they found themselves in. So, when significant damage was found 
to their home and AIL explained they wouldnt be accepting the claim, I can understand the 
worry and upset this would no doubt have caused. And I can appreciate why Mrs K and Mr L 
would feel unfairly treated, as I dont dispute the fact they took reasonable steps to report the 
claim and mitigate any further damage once the escape of water had been identified.
But for me to say AIL should do something differently here, such as overturn their initial 
decision and accept the claim, I first need to be satisfied theyve done something wrong. So, 
Id need to be satisfied they failed to act within the terms and conditions of the policy when 
declining the claim. Or, if I think they did act within these, Id need to be satisfied they acted 
unfairly in some other way. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
I think it would be useful for me to first deal with the occupancy of the property, and this is a 
matter that remains in dispute. I note AIL feels the property met the definition of unoccupied, 
while Mrs K and Mr L dispute this.
In this situation, while I do understand the explanation Mrs K and Mr L have provided 
regarding the original provisional return date they chose, what I dont think can be disputed 
here is the fact that Mrs K and Mr L left the property on 27 November 2022 and didnt return 
until the end of January 2023. So, while I appreciate the reasoning put forward by Mrs K and 
Mr L which included the state of their home after the damage and why this would be unfit for 
them to return to, I still think it was ultimately Mrs K and Mr Ls own decision to travel abroad 
with an intended return date of more than 30 days away. And it was also their own decision 
to return on the provisional date they chose before they travelled. 
Ive carefully read through the terms and conditions of the policy Mrs K and Mr L held. And 
within these, they define unoccupied as we consider your home to be unoccupied when it 
is not lived in by you or your family for more than 30 days in a row. Lived in means slept in 
frequently (we will not accept visits to the home or occasional night stays as living in your 
home
So, based on the above and considering the information available to me, I do think Mrs K and Mr Ls home met the definition of unoccupied provided within the policy terms and 
conditions as they didnt return to the UK until more than 30 days after they left.
The definition also goes onto explain that You must tell us beforehand if you know your 
home is going to be unoccupied. If you dont you could be left without cover. So, I think the 
policy makes it reasonably clear here that Mrs K and Mr L had an obligation to tell AIL they 
were intending on being away from the property for more than 30 days. 
While I note Mrs K and Mr L say their travel was open-ended and they hadnt decided 
exactly how long they would be travelling for, they travelled on tickets that had a provisional 
return date of longer than 30 days. And in their own testimony, they confirmed they hadnt 
considered returning until 22 December 2022, when the leak itself caused disruption to their 
originally intended plans. And I must take into consideration this was already 26 days into 
their trip. So, based on the above and on the balance of probability, I dont think its likely 
that Mrs K and Mr Ls intention was to return to the property within the 30-day period, as I 
think its reasonable to assume they wouldve highlighted flights earlier than with 4 days to 
go if this was their intention. So, I do think that, to meet the conditions of the policy, Mrs K 
and Mr L shouldve notified AIL of their intention to travel abroad with the possibility of the 
travel being for a length of time that would classify the property as unoccupied. 
And had they done so, AIL have confirmed they wouldve applied an endorsement on the 
policy that excluded any claims for escape of water during the time Mrs K and Mr L were 
away. And Ive seen underwriting criteria that confirms this to be the case. And I must not it 
is standard industry practice for insurers to place endorsements such as this one on a policy 
in similar situations. So, had Mrs K and Mr L made AIL aware they were travelling for a 
period of time that would deem their property to be unoccupied, I think any claim for escape 
of water wouldve been excluded.
So, as Mrs K and Mr Ls claim was for an escape of water, I dont think I can say AIL acted 
unfairly, or outside of the terms and conditions of the policy, when declining it. And because 
of this, I dont think they need to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs K and Mr L were hoping for. And I want to reassure 
Mrs K and Mr L Ive thought carefully about their situation, and the financial implications this 
decision will no doubt have due to the significance of the damage the escape of water 
caused. But as Ive explained above, for me to say AIL should do something differently, I first 
need to be satisfied theyve done something wrong. And I dont think they have.
I also want to reassure Mrs K and Mr L I have considered their point of view regarding the 
date the damage was found falling within the first 30 days of their travel. But crucially, I dont 
think this alters my decision here as Ive already explained above, Im satisfied that it most 
likely was Mrs K and Mr Ls intention to remain out of the property for more than 30 days. 
And in this situation, Mrs K and Mr L had an obligation to make AIL aware of this and had 
they done so, AIL wouldve make Mrs K and Mr L aware before they travelled that any claim 
for escape of water, at any time during the time they were away, wouldnt be covered.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs K and Mr Ls complaint about Accredited 
Insurance (Europe) Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 Josh Haskey
Ombudsman