DRN-2735123
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ) is chasing her for a debt most of which she says 
she doesnt owe, as goods were returned. She wants it to accept that she doesnt owe the 
whole debt and remove the default it had recorded on her credit file.
What happened
Mrs K tells us that in October 2018 she ordered some household items from a company Ill 
refer to as IK. She says that these were purchased using credit which was provided by 
Ikano. The items purchased were of a type whereby the consumer would be supplied with 
the relevant parts but would be responsible for putting them together. She says that shes 
provided a receipt showing 67 separate items were ordered.
Mrs K explains that when the goods arrived, most were found to be damaged or unsuitable 
and were later returned to IK via one of its couriers. She accepts that whilst she returned 
most items some were retained. These were parts of a wardrobe that was later replaced with 
one of smaller dimensions. Mrs K states that the courier who collected the goods didnt 
provide a receipt for the rejected items saying the account would be automatically re-
credited once the items were returned to IK.
In February 2019, Mrs K says she received a letter from Ikano confirming that no further 
payments were due and the account was closed. Mrs K explains that as she had some 
family issues to deal with, she gave the matter no more thought. But in June 2019, she 
states that she noticed that Ikano had taken a payment of £88.73 from her bank account. 
When she followed this up, she says that Ikano told her it hadnt received any dispute letters 
or other information about the returned items. 
Since then Mrs K says its been chasing her for the balance of £3,105.27, which it said is 
owed on the account. She states that Ikano has also recorded a default on her credit file.
Ikano initially told our investigator that it that it was happy to update the account and remove 
the default. But that in the absence of a receipt or collection note, Mrs K would be 
responsible for the outstanding balance. Its since changed its position. And has said that it 
wont be removing the default.
Ive issued two provisional decisions on this complaint on 29 January 2021 and 8 March 
2021. I said that I intended to uphold the complaint. I said I thought it was more probable 
than not that Mrs K had returned the goods as she claimed. And that her explanations had 
been broadly consistent throughout. 
Following my first provisional decision both parties replied.
Mrs K replied saying that owing to a family crisis she hadnt been aware that Ikano hadnt 
collected the direct debits. And it was only in June 2019 when she saw the payment had 
been taken that she realised there was a problem. She also suggested that shed paid a 
further £120 deposit at the time of the purchase.
Ikano replied and provided a screen shot which it said it had been sent by IK. It said that this 
showed the details of the replacement wardrobe. And that there was only £10 difference 
between the cost of the items returned and the replacement items. And that these were the 
only items IK had acknowledged it had received back.
Since my second provisional decision was issued Mrs K has replied but said shed nothing to 
add to what shed already told us. Ikano responded and asked for further time to provide 
additional information. Despite this extension being allowed its not provided anything more.
In the absence of new information Im not minded to change the views Ive expressed in the 
previous provisional decisions. Which amounts to accepting that Mrs K returned the items as 
shes claimed. My reasons are largely repeated in my final decision which is set out below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In summary, this complaint surrounds the supply and alleged return of a large quantity of 
household items and fittings. Mrs K accepts that goods were ordered and supplied. But she 
insists that all the items, other than a wardrobe, were returned to IK. And that she should 
only have to pay for those items which she retained. For its part, Ikano says that without any 
proof showing that items were returned its entitled to charge Mrs K.
Theres clearly a significant factual dispute which divides the parties. And in the absence of 
some documentary information showing exactly when goods were delivered and a signed 
receipt of what was returned, its difficult to establish the precise chain of events, one way or 
the other.
Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ive had receipts for goods totalling £3,324. The fixed sum loan agreement relates to goods 
costing £3,204. And a deposit of £10 is recorded as having been paid. So that credit of 
£3,194 was provided. The balance seems to have been covered by a debit card payment. 
Ive seen a debit card receipt for a £120 payment. But it looks as if this has been treated as a 
separate transaction. As it doesnt form part of the fixed sum loan.
From the outset, it appears that there have been numerous administrative errors on this 
account. And the notes with which Ive been supplied by Ikano confirm this. It seems as if 
this was at least due in part to mistakes made by IK. This was then compounded by errors 
by Ikano. Ill detail some examples.
On the day of purchase, 29 October 2018, notes indicate that attempts to charge the 
account for the goods appeared at first to have failed. But when this was followed up, it was 
determined that the account had already been charged.
There was then a failure by IK to record that goods had been supplied and to set up the 
account for repayment. Notes from 4 January 2019 indicate that IK informed Ikano that it (IK) 
hadnt yet charged Ikano or completed the direct debit process.
When the direct debit was eventually set up - and for a reason which hasnt been fully 
explained - no payments were taken by Ikano until June 2019. Mrs K has said that in 
contacts shes had with Ikano she was told that this was because shed cancelled the direct debit mandate.  A point which she denies.  I accept that Mrs K didnt cancel the direct debit 
as Ikano was able to take the payment in June which wouldnt have been possible if it had 
been cancelled.
Ive inferred that the delay was most likely due to an error by Ikano. Which arose from it 
initially believing that the agreement had been repaid.
Mrs K had received a letter dated 10 February 2019 from Ikano, confirming that the account 
was settled. Ikano later explained that this resulted from a charge of £100  which had been 
erroneously credited  being reversed. And that this had caused the closure letter to be 
automatically triggered.
Going back to the start of the dispute, Ive not seen any signed receipts of what items were 
delivered. But as Mrs K isnt disputing that the goods she ordered were initially supplied this 
doesnt itself present a problem.
Mrs K has consistently maintained that she then returned the items, apart from the smaller 
wardrobe which was exchanged. Shes also provided what I find to be a plausible 
explanation as to why she wasnt given a receipt. Although a customer would be well 
advised to obtain a receipt, its hard for the customer to insist if met with resistance and an 
assurance that a record of the returns would be made. I find that Mrs K probably asked for 
some confirmation of the returns. But was assured it wasnt necessary.
And Ive seen references to text messages dated 22 February 2019, (referred to in contact 
notes of 1 July 2019) about refunds being ready. Ive not been supplied with these texts. So 
Im not aware of the detail. But reference to refunds would presumably only arise if goods 
had been returned. Which is consistent with what Mrs K has been saying.
I accept that Ikano has been informed by IK, that it (IK) has no record of any returned items 
other than those identified in a screenshot which relates to the items which both parties 
agree were returned and replaced. But I draw the distinction between what IK has recorded 
and whats probably happened.
My overall impression is that the errors in the administration of this account between IK and 
Ikano, is such as to cast substantial doubt on the reliability, completeness and the accuracy 
of the account records.
Where its been possible to find corroboration this has broadly supported Mrs Ks outline of 
events. Theres no doubt that some items were returned and a wardrobe was replaced. This 
is confirmed in the screenshot to which Ive previously referred. 
It seems improbable that Mrs K wouldve claimed to have returned all the goods with the 
courier if she hadnt done so. As a check with that courier wouldve been likely to reveal this. 
And her position has been consistent in maintaining that the other goods were returned. 
Ive seen no information which would cause me to doubt Mrs Ks word in this respect. And 
whilst Ikano has insisted IKs records dont show any return other than the wardrobe Im not 
aware of any enquiry having been made with the individual courier.
Its also entirely in keeping with her explanation that she didnt raise any issues until Ikano 
unexpectedly took a payment in June 2019.  Shed received the letter in February 2019 
indicating the account was closed. And I cant see that Ikano notified her of the error it had 
made in sending this letter, until she brought the complaint. Or informed her that it would be 
looking to take the direct debit payments.Mrs K has explained that the direct debit was left open as shed more pressing family issues 
to cope with. And shed assumed the required payments had been collected. It seems 
probable that anyone seeking to avoid payment would have ensured the direct debit was 
cancelled. 
If Mrs K had been made aware of the error regarding the account closure earlier, it would 
probably have been easier to trace the missing items. I think shes been put at a serious 
disadvantage by this mistake.
In summary, Im presented with two conflicting explanation of the circumstances. 
Mrs K states she returned all the goods other than the wardrobe items. Ikano says that as 
theres no record of this, its entitled to pursue her for the whole debt. And whilst Ikano hasnt 
directly said that it doesnt believe Mrs Ks version of events, its hard to draw any other 
inference.
Theres a lot of missing information which makes reaching a conclusive finding impossible. 
And I understand that neither party is likely to be entirely satisfied by my findings. But on the 
balance of probabilities I find that Mrs K returned the goods as shes explained.
There were several administrative errors on the account. So presented with the choice 
between Mrs K falsely claiming to have returned the goods or that their return wasnt 
properly recorded on IKs system, I find the latter by far the most probable explanation.
In the light of my findings, its necessary to determine the amount which Mrs K should now 
have to pay. And there are some problems to be overcome. Ive not been provided with a 
precise inventory of what was retained  only that in general terms it was parts of a 
wardrobe. 
The screen shot of the returned and replaced items in relation to the wardrobe shows that 
goods to the value of £400 were replaced by items costing £390. But Mrs K accepts that the 
parts of the wardrobe which she was able to use had been retained after they had first been 
delivered. As Im accepting that Mrs Ks version of the circumstances is the more reliable, 
and shes told me the total of items supplied and retained was about £500, Ill accept this 
figure. Its consistent with the details of the phone contact when she raised the complaint in 
July 2019, in which £480 - £500 was the value put upon the retained goods.
Ive also to deal with the matter of the default which Ikano recorded on Mrs Ks credit file. To 
date, Ikano has only collected the one direct debit payment of £88.73. It sent a notice of 
default dated 23 July 2019 in which said it had also cancelled the direct debit.
Ive not been provided with any information to show that if the direct debit hadnt been 
cancelled the remaining payments wouldnt have been met. I also find that if the direct debits 
had been taken from the start of the account - as ought to have been the case - its highly 
unlikely the account would have defaulted. 
In my opinion, and based on my findings, I consider that its fair and reasonable that the 
default should be removed. And Id then expect Ikano and Mrs K to make arrangements so 
that the remaining balance can be repaid. And subject to those payments being made as 
agreed Id expect the account to be recorded as settled.
Putting things right 
Ikano should now take the following action:1. Recalculate Mrs Ks initial account balance in respect of the fixed sum loan to reflect 
that only items valued £500 were supplied;
2. Remove the late payment charge of £25 that was applied on 28 June 2019;
3. Credit the payment of £88.73 thats already been made. And make arrangements 
with Mrs K for the remaining balance on the account to be collected;
4. Arrange for the default and any other adverse information in relation to this account 
recorded on Mrs Ks credit file to be removed.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im upholding this complaint. 
I require Ikano Bank AB (publ) to take the action Ive stipulated in the preceding section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman