DRN-4219466
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs G complain that Royal Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) have delayed in 
dealing with the claim for damage due to an escape of water, havent paid the full costs they 
have incurred and wouldnt extend the storage period for their furniture.
  
What happened
Mr G and Mrs G hold a joint buildings insurance policy with RSA. When dealing with this 
claim, they appointed a loss assessor to act on their behalf. 
On 8 September 2020 they had a leak in a water pipe that was in the screed under the utility 
room. They reported it to RSA. The source of the leak wasnt located until 26 November 
2020. 
RSAs loss adjusters appointed a contractor who visited on 17 February 2021 and completed 
a scope of works. A further inspection was undertaken on 28 April 2021 and a further scope 
of works was prepared. 
RSAs contractors started strip out work in June 2021. This wasnt all completed in 
accordance with the scope of works, with wallpaper in the hall not being removed and 
wooden floor in the dining room being left in place.  In July RSAs loss adjuster revisited the 
property and agreed that the wood floor needed lifting so it could be dried in accordance with 
the scope of works. 
The drying out works were signed off as complete on 10 September but on 28 September 
the contractors attended the property and high moisture readings were discovered in the hall  
walls where the wallpaper hadnt been removed. 
RSA said that this was as a result of a new leak or rising damp, not the original leak, and so 
wouldnt cover further work. Mr G and Mrs G obtained reports from a leak detection expert 
and a drain report, which found that there was a leak in some pipework in the downstairs 
WC, which was attributed to the strip out works, but otherwise there were no new issues. 
They also later obtained a damp report which found no rising damp. 
In September Mr G and Mrs Gs loss assessor made a complaint to RSA about delay and 
were paid £150 compensation for failures in service in not removing the wood floor sooner.  
RSA made a settlement offer in October 2021 but Mr and Mrs Gs loss assessor disagreed 
with the offer and raised further challenges, and so the settlement wasnt accepted. 
Following further correspondence back and forth, a second complaint was made on 20 
March raising issues about delays and RSA not completing adequate strip out works. 
Mr G and Mrs G asked for reimbursement for the leak damp and drain reports that they had 
done to show that there was no rising damp in their property, the costs of their repairs to be 
paid in accordance with the scope prepared by their own loss assessor, and the continuation 
of storage costs.
RSA sent their final response on 27 May but didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr G and Mrs G were unhappy with this response and so they brought their complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr G and Mrs Gs complaint and she thought that RSA 
had made a fair offer.    
 
Mr G and Mrs G disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case came to me to 
review.    
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
The delay in processing the claim/ inadequate strip out works
I can see that this claim has taken a long time to be resolved, and it has been the subject of 
a lot of correspondence back and forth between RSA and Mr G and Mrs Gs loss assessor. 
RSA say that there are challenges with a claim of this nature, and some delays are 
inevitable. Whilst I accept this, and I can see that in general there is gradual movement, it 
appears that there are some actions on both sides that have caused further delay. 
Mr G and Mrs Gs loss adjuster complained about delay previously and on 18 September 
2021 Mr G and Mrs G were awarded £150 compensation for delay in the lifting of the 
wooden dining room floor. The complaints handler couldnt find any other avoidable delay up 
until that point. As Mr G and Mrs G didnt refer this complaint to us, I now cant consider any 
complaint about delays that took place prior to this date.  
 
A settlement offer was made by RSA in October 2021 based on the agreed scope of works, 
and Mr G and Mrs G were given the option of either having the works completed by RSA or 
accepting the cash offer. 
However, following that I can see that Mr G and Mrs Gs loss assessor raised various 
disputes about the scope, and that her own quote for the same work was higher, reflecting 
higher labour costs in some areas. Im not satisfied that these queries and disputes added 
any value to the settlement of the claim, and I think that Mr G and Mrs G could have given 
RSA an answer about whether to accept the figure or use RSAs contractors in October 
2021. That would have avoided any further delay and brought the matter to conclusion. So 
Im not satisfied that the further delays after October 2021 can be attributed to RSA.
I do note that the failure to remove the wallpaper in accordance with the scope of works 
caused some of the difficulties later on down the line, with Mr G and Mrs Gs loss assessor 
arguing that the continuing damp arose from the failure of the contractors to strip the 
wallpaper in the hall. However, this hasnt been proven and I cant say that this issue in itself 
caused significant delays to the claim being resolved. 
  
The drain and damp reports
Although drying was completed on 10 September, a further loss adjuster visited on 28 
September, and found high moisture readings in the hall. He notified RSA on 4 October. 
RSA suggesting that this was a further leak or a rising damp issue although there was no 
evidence of either at that point. 
Mr G and Mrs G felt they were therefore forced to obtain further reports from a leak detection 
expert, a drain expert, and a damp expert to determine if this was the case. These reports 
confirmed that there was no further leak or drain issue but they did attribute some damp to 
damage to the piping in the downstairs toilet which it was said was as a result of the strip out 
work. Mr G and Mrs G asked for reimbursement of the cost of these reports in December, but 
RSAs loss adjuster said he wasnt willing to meet the cost because the issue was unrelated 
and likely rising damp.  
RSAs contractors came out again on 1 February to take further moisture readings and found 
high moisture which they again said was due to rising damp. As a result Mr G and Mrs G 
then engaged a damp specialist to prepare a report. In that report, the damp expert 
concluded that  It is not possible for these walls to suffer from conventional rising dampness 
due to the construction of this property being built off a 3ft concrete slab and walls having a 
physical damp proof membrane. They further said that the salt contamination was giving 
false high readings, and that they recommended that all affected walls were treated with a  
silicone sealer to prevent further salt precipitation. 
Having seen these reports, and considered RSAs actions, Im satisfied that Mr G and Mrs G 
acted reasonably in obtaining the reports. RSA were attributing the ongoing moisture 
readings to rising damp and or further leaks without providing any supporting evidence. It 
would obviously have been of concern to Mr G and Mrs G to find there might be further leaks 
or faults with their property, and so there would be no point in having reinstatement work 
done if there was another underlying issue that required resolving. So, I think these costs 
were reasonably incurred by them in trying to establish the cause before reinstatement work 
was done. Im satisfied on the basis of the reports that there was no further leak, nor rising 
damp, but had RSA not inaccurately suggested that rising damp was the cause, then these 
reports wouldnt have been commissioned, and I think RSA should therefore meet the cost 
of these reports as part and parcel of the assessment of the claim. 
The settlement offer
A settlement offer was made by RSA in October 2021 based on the agreed scope of works, 
and Mr G and Mrs G were given the option of either having the works completed by RSA or 
accepting the cash offer. 
As Ive said above, that I can see that Mr G and Mrs Gs loss assessor raised various 
disputes about the scope, based on her own quote to complete the work which included 
higher labour costs in some areas. 
The terms of the policy only require RSA to pay a settlement figure equivalent to the cost of 
them completing the works using their own contractors. They have shown that they could 
have completed the reinstatement work within the stated figure, and as such, Im satisfied 
that this figure was therefore reasonable. 
I note that in the end it was uplifted by 25% to reflect the rising costs in the building trade, 
and was paid over to Mr G and Mrs G on 22 August 2022, and so Im not proposing to 
increase the settlement offer.   
Storage costs
RSA ended the storage costs at the end of February. Mr G and Mrs G wanted them 
extended because the work hadnt been completed and they didnt want their items back 
until the work was completed. 
However, as the settlement offer was made in October, Im satisfied that there was sufficient 
time for the work to be completed before the cut-off date at the end of February and so I 
dont agree that it is fair for RSA to pay storage costs indefinitely while the loss assessor 
challenges them about issues and disputes the settlement figure.  In the light of these findings, I therefore intended to uphold Mr G and Mrs Gs complaint, and 
I invited the parties to comment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both RSA and Mr G and Mrs G have responded. 
RSA dont think that they should have to pay for the reports as they say they arent peril 
related. They said that their contractor had looked at the damp issue and concluded that it 
was due to an underlying problem or rising damp  and so they shouldnt have to pay for the 
reports. I disagree. I dont think that RSAs contractor undertook sufficient investigations to 
establish the cause of the damp patches, and given the failure to remove the wallpaper in 
line with the scope, it was very likely that they were at least contributed to by that. 
It was proven by the reports that there was no rising damp or further leaks as suggested by 
RSA, and so it seems to me that establishing the cause was part and parcel of the 
investigations that RSA should have been undertaking themselves. It therefore seems to me 
that it is fair and reasonable for RSA to reimburse Mr and Mrs G for these reports as it was 
due to RSAs inaccurate assessment of the damp that the expense was incurred. It is also of 
note that the drain report attributed some of the damp to RSAs contractors failure to cap a 
pipe during the strip out works. 
Mr G and Mrs G think that RSA should pay more compensation for the delays. I cant agree 
that this is the case. I note Mr G and Mrs Gs points, but I have considered the overall global 
delay in this case, and the majority of it was due to Mr G and Mrs Gs loss assessor, not 
RSA, and so Im satisfied that no additional compensation is due.  
 
In light of the above, Im making my final decision in line with my provisional findings.  
Putting things right
In order to out things right I think that RSA should pay Mr G and Mrs G:
£768 in respect of the leak, drain and damp reports they obtained
8% statutory interest on that sum from the date the invoices were paid to the date of 
settlement.  If RSA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr G and Mrs G how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr G and Mrs G a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mr G and Mrs Gs complaint and direct Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Limited to put things right as outlined above.   
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Joanne WardOmbudsman