DRN-3871604
The complaint
Mrs E complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to explain the implications of a loan payment 
holiday on her credit file.
What happened
Mrs E says she agreed a loan repayment holiday with HSBC for December 2021 and 
January 2022. She says HSBC didnt explain the implications of the payment holiday on her 
credit file and the adverse information it reported has affected a mortgage application. Mrs E 
says HSBC initially told her it made a mistake but later said it correctly reported the 
information to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). She would like the adverse 
information removed from her credit file.
HSBC says Mrs E spoke to it on 18 October 2021 about a payment break due to her change 
of job. It says it explained that the arrears would be reported to the CRAs and the payment 
break reported as an arrangement. HSBC accepts it gave incorrect information initially to 
Mrs E but says it correctly reported the arrangement and subsequent arrears until they were 
cleared. It also told Mrs E to speak to her mortgage advisor about any impact on a new 
mortgage application.
Mrs E brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
listened to the call in October 2021 and thought HSBC told Mrs E that it would report the 
arrangement on her credit file. The investigator also thought Mrs E had missed the 
November 2021 payment as well which was outside the agreement. And thought HSBC had 
written to Mrs E telling her the CRAs would be told about the arrangement which could 
affect future borrowing.
Mrs E doesnt accept that view and has submitted call recordings and documents. In 
summary she says HSBC cancelled the November payment and says she offered to clear 
the arrears in early 2022 but HSBC insisted on further income/expenditure calculations. Mrs 
E says her mortgage application was affected and now pays a higher interest rate. She 
would like just under £7,000 compensation for what has taken place and says HSBC 
reported arrears on her credit file until April 2022. Mrs E now accepts that she was told in 
October 2021 that the arrangement would affect her credit file.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and said that I thought HSBC had 
incorrectly reported the November 2021 payment as being missed in circumstances where I 
couldnt see any evidence Mrs E cancelled the payment. My provisional view was that HSBC 
correctly advised Mrs E during the October 2021 telephone call that her credit file would be 
affected by the agreement, and a provisional view allowed both sides to comment further on 
the events of early 2022. I made clear to Mrs E that I didnt consider compensation was 
justified here for the reasons I would explain and didnt think it would make any real 
difference to a lending decision by having three months of adverse information on a credit 
file compared to two months. I said any lender is likely to consider that for a short period be it 
three or two months that Mrs E experienced short-term financial difficulties.
 
I listened carefully to the first telephone call between the parties on 18 October 2021.  I was 
satisfied Mrs E was told by HSBC that the arrears would need repaying and that the 
arrangement would be reported to the CRAs. I was also satisfied Mrs E was correctly told to 
speak to her mortgage advisor about the impact on any future mortgage applications and 
was also told there would be nothing stopping her paying back the arrears (which would 
build up) at any stage. I could see Mrs E now accepts she was told there would be an impact 
on her credit file and I made it clear that I was satisfied that HSBC didnt mislead Mrs E or 
provide her with incorrect information. I thought it ought to have been reasonably clear from 
that telephone call that although payments would not be taken by HSBC that Mrs Es credit 
file would be affected and that the arrears would need repaying. And that those arrears 
would continue to be reported on a credit file until cleared. I also thought that HSBC 
confirmed that information in a letter to Mrs E in October 2021.
I didnt think HSBC had explained why the November 2021 payment wasnt taken. I was 
satisfied that the arrangement was for the December 2021 and January 2022 payments. I 
thought provisionally that HSBC may have made a mistake by cancelling the request for the 
November 2021 payment and for that reason I thought the fairest approach would be for that 
adverse information to be removed from Mrs Es credit file. I said I hope both sides provide 
further information about that part of the complaint before my final decision.
I appreciated that Mrs E says she was told to ignore some of the letters she was sent. I 
didnt think that had any real impact on this complaint as the second part of the complaint is 
about the reporting of the arrears until April 2022 and if Mrs E should have been allowed to 
have paid back those arrears before she did so. I didnt think HSBC had provided all of its 
records and call recordings on this issue to us. But I made clear that Mrs E didnt complain 
about those issues to HSBC and her complaint was about incorrect information in the 
October 2021 telephone call. I said I hope HSBC will provide that information and I thought it 
linked to the initial complaint in any event. I confirmed I had listened to the recordings 
provided by Mrs E.
I appreciated Mrs E had provided copies of telephone recordings between her and HSBC 
and said she ought to have been told that she could have cleared the arrears by the 
promise to pay option. But I thought HSBC had a duty to ensure such an option was 
affordable in the light of Mrs E asking for a payment break some months before, as her 
financial position had changed. I thought such an approach by HSBC was fair and 
appropriate and that it was reasonably entitled to carry out further affordability checks. I 
could also see that Mrs E repaid the arrears in April and May 2022 which suggested her 
financial position had sufficiently improved by that stage to allow her over a month period to 
repay the arrears. 
I also appreciated that Mrs E says HSBC didnt make clear that it would continue to report 
adverse information to the CRAs after the arrangement had ended. But I was satisfied 
HSBC did tell Mrs E during the first call that arrears will build up and that she ought 
reasonably to have realised that, as it would take some time after the arrangement ended for 
the arrears to be repaid. And that fact would have to be reflected on her credit file.
In any event I didnt think it likely that three months of adverse information compared to two 
months information about missed payments, which were eventually repaid, was likely to 
have had a significant impact on Mrs Es credit file. I said that as any would be lender would 
have seen that payments had resumed following a payment break and would know that 
inevitably an account would have arrears as a result. I thought it more likely that it was the 
two-month arrangement itself or payment break that impacted Mrs Es credit file but that was 
something she agreed to and was made aware of.Overall, my provisional view was that HSBC correctly reported the arrangement and later 
arrears to the CRAs and correctly told Mrs E it would do so. And based on the information I 
had seen I thought HSBC may have made a mistake by not taking the November 2021 
payment and should remove any adverse information about it from Mrs Es credit file. I 
appreciated Mrs E raised other issues such as the impact on her husband or HSBC not 
speaking to him. But I said I had concentrated on what I considered were the main issues 
and complaints and said I didnt intend to comment on every issue raised. I said that I didnt 
consider that compensation was justified here and couldnt fairly hold HSBC responsible for 
the higher interest rate mortgage Mrs E took out. I didnt think it likely the reporting of a 
missed payment in November 2021 had any real impact on a mortgage application when 
there was an agreed arrangement in place for two months.
HSBC has replied to my provisional decision and will remove the November 2021 adverse 
information from Mrs Es credit file. It hasnt provided any further information but says Mrs E 
was told about the credit file impact.
Mrs E maintains she was not in arrears and HSBC didnt tell her how to repay the money or 
tell her the account would be reported as in arrears.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional view 
and for the same reasons. I accept Mrs E will have some unanswered questions and will be 
disappointed by my decision. But Im satisfied for the reasons I have explained that Mrs E 
was told before the arrangement that there would be an impact on her credit file and that the 
arrears would require repayment. Im satisfied that the payment break meant there were 
arrears.
Putting things right
HSBC has agreed to remove the November 2021 adverse information from Mrs Es credit 
file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
remove the November 2021 adverse payment information from Mrs Es credit file as agreed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman