DRN-4192267
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as G, is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC 
confirmed a payment deferral plan on its Bounce Back Loan (BBL) only to then 
immediately withdraw the plan without notice.
Gs complaint is brought to this service by its director, whom Ill refer to as Mr P.
What happened
G had a BBL with Barclays and in May 2022 applied for Pay As You Grow (PAYG) 
payment deferral plan to be applied to the BBL. Barclays initially accepted Gs request and 
sent a written acceptance to G. However, Mr P later discovered that Barclays had cancelled 
the PAYG plan from Gs BBL the day after they had issued the written acceptance to G.     
Mr P wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint on Gs behalf.
Barclays responded to Mr P and noted that it had taken the commercial decision to no longer 
provide banking services to G and had closed Gs business bank account the month 
previously, in April 2022. Barclays said that, based on its decision to close Gs business 
bank account, G was no longer entitled to the PAYG plan on its BBL, Barclays also said that 
their initial acceptance of Gs PAYG plan request had been an error. 
As such, Barclays didnt feel they had acted unfairly by cancelling the PAYG plan from Gs 
BBL as it had. But Barclays did apologise to Mr P for not informing him that the PAYG plan 
had been removed from Gs BBL and offered to pay £150 to G as compensation for any 
trouble and inconvenience G had incurred. Mr P wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so 
he referred Gs complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel that Barclays had acted 
unfairly by withdrawing the PAYG plan from Gs BBL as it had  although they felt that 
Barclays doing so was justified by the arrears that had been present on the BBL when G 
applied for the PAYG plan in May 2022, and not regarding Barclays decision to close Gs 
business bank account, as Barclays had stated in its response to Gs complaint. Mr P 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Barclays have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
Mr P feels that G was entitled to receive the PAYG option it applied for in May 2022, and that 
Barclays therefore acted unfairly by effectively declining Gs request for it. But it must be 
noted that G had successfully applied for a prior PAYG payment deferral plan some months 
previously, in November 2021, which had meant that G had to make interest payments  but 
no capital balance repayments  towards its BBL for six months from November 2021.
But G hadnt made all the interest-only payments that were required of it during the first 
PAYG period but had only made three of the six payments required of it during that time. 
This meant that when G applied to Barclays to extend that payment deferral plan for another 
six months in May 2022, it was in a position of multiple arrears from the previous plan. 
Given the arrears present on Gs account as Ive described them, I dont feel that it was 
unfair for Barclays to take the decision to not offer a further six months PAYG plan to G. And 
this is because a condition of the PAYG plan was that G must make the interest payments 
for the BBL during the time the plan was in place  which G hadnt done during the six 
months the earlier PAYG plan had been in place. 
Had G kept up with the interest only payments on the earlier PAYG plan, Id almost certainly 
feel differently here, because in this scenario G would have demonstrated that it could afford 
to meet the interest-only payments required of it under that plan. But G hadnt demonstrated 
this, and instead appeared to have demonstrated that it couldnt afford to make the reduced 
interest-only payments required by the PAYG plan. 
Ultimately, because G had missed interest-only payments from the earlier PAYG plan, this 
meant that Gs BBL was in a position of arrears. And while I accept that the BBL scheme 
was set up to try to help businesses negotiate the difficult financial circumstances that 
occurred with the emergence of Covid-19, it wasnt the case that lenders such as Barclays 
were expected to ignore arrears that developed and werent repaid on BBL accounts or to 
not follow their arrears processes when payments required on a BBL  including a BBL 
benefitting from a PAYG plan  werent made. 
And so, I dont feel it was unfair or unreasonable for Barclays to not offer a further PAYG 
plan to G and to instead follow the arrears process they did  which ultimately led to 
Barclays issuing a formal demand for full repayment of the BBL by G in September 2022. 
I can appreciate how, from Mr Ps perspective, it was frustrating for Gs PAYG extension 
request to have been initially approved by Barclays, only to be later withdrawn. But Barclays 
have explained that the approval of Gs PAYG extension request was a mistake. And given 
what Ive explained above about the arrears on Gs BBL account, I dont feel that Barclays 
explanation is unreasonable here. 
However, I do feel that having made the decision to cancel the PAYG extension that had 
approved by mistake, Barclays should have notified Mr P about this and explained why they 
had taken the action they had. 
Barclays have also acknowledged that they should have notified Mr P as soon as the PAYG 
extension was cancelled. And theyve apologised to Mr P for this and offered to make a 
payment of £150 to G as compensation for any trouble or inconvenience caused.
Matters of compensation can be subjective. But the £150 that Barclays have offered here 
does feel fair to me, given the circumstances of this complaint, which include that this 
compensation is solely for the inconvenience incurred by G as a business resulting from it 
not being told of the cancellation of the extended PAYG plan in a timely manner, and isnt in 
any way for the act of cancelling the PAYG plan  which as explained above I dont feel was unfair. And I can confirm that this £150 amount is commensurate with what I might have 
instructed Barclays to pay to G here, had they not already offered to do so.
As such, while I will be upholding this complaint in Gs favour, Ill only be doing so on a 
limited basis to formally require Barclays to pay the £150 to G that theyve already offered to 
pay. And I wont be making any further instructions to Barclays beyond this.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr P was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given all 
that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
Barclays must make a payment of £150 to Mr G.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman