DRN-1650217
The complaint
Mr D complains that Santander UK Plc has closed his account and registered a fraud marker 
on national databases.
What happened
Santander received a report that a payment into Mr Ds account for £300 on 19 August 2019 
was fraudulent. It contacted Mr D and asked him to show he was entitled to the money. It 
says that as he wasnt able to, it closed his account and registered fraud markers at CIFAS 
and SIRA which are national fraud databases. It paid him £30 compensation as there had 
been a delay in giving him the remaining funds in his account.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that attempts had 
been made to take out the £300 from Mr Ds account as soon as it had been received at 
14:42 that day. Those attempts led to his account being blocked. And Mr D confirmed in a 
telephone call at 15:09 that he had been making the payments. All of the money had been 
withdrawn and spent by 16:50. And there had been multiple log-ins to his account with online 
banking during the day. 
On 29 August 2019 Santander received the fraud report. And the person who sent the 
money had reported that the goods advertised on social media and paid for hadnt been 
received. When Mr D first spoke to Santander he said that his friend had owed him the 
money. In another call he said that a friend had arranged for someone else to pay the money 
into this account and he had withdrawn it for him. Santander had asked him to show that the 
funds were legitimately his, but he didnt provide any evidence. Mr D had said when he 
contacted this service that hed given his card and PIN to someone else who had offered to 
pay him to use the account. And he wanted Santander to give him another chance to have 
an account.
Our investigator noted the different explanations and said that there is evidence Mr D was 
involved with the withdrawals. Mr D was aware the money was being paid in. And he 
reasonably knew his account wasnt being used for legitimate purposes.
Mr D didnt agree. He provided some social media exchanges he says were with the person 
who sent this money and it seems a separate payment for £20 using an online payment 
service. That person charged back the £20 and the payment service found in that persons 
favour. Mr D now seemed to say that he was selling the phone on social media himself, but 
he hasnt been totally clear about that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Santander 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
Mr D has given a number of varying explanations of what happened:
- He first told Santander that a friend owed him this money. He gave the name of that 
friend and wouldnt say why he was owed money as this was something personal.
- He then told Santander that he had allowed his friend to pay money into his account 
and then withdraw it.
- He told Santander that he had made all the withdrawals too.
- When he referred his complaint to this service during a call when his representative 
was present he said that he had allowed his account to be used by someone else 
and he had given his card and PIN to that person and been paid for it.
- Most recently he seems to say that he had received both an online payment service 
credit of £20 and the £300 payment from the purchaser of the phone. Mr D now 
seems to indicate he was a lot closer to the sale and that its the sender who acted 
fraudulently.
I think Mr D will understand that as hes given such different explanations its difficult to rely 
on what hes said. If he was reluctant to give the full story initially the question is why. That in 
itself indicates to me that this maybe wasnt a legitimate payment and likely that he thought 
he had done something wrong. I appreciate his relatively young age and have taken that into 
account in thinking about his actions. Theres no suggestion hes been intimidated into acting 
for another person. And so, I consider he fairly remains responsible for what happened on 
his account under any of the above explanations.
His account that the sender of the payment received a phone and has made a false claim is 
only supported by what he says and some social media messages and the chargeback for 
the £20 payment. The social media messages are difficult to verify and interpret and there is 
nothing specific to tie them to the £300 payment and show who sold a phone. Theres 
nothing more to show that he or a friend had a phone to sell or of where this came from. Or 
that he or that friend sold and dispatched this, and it was delivered. And that for example is 
something Mr D himself says that an online payment service didnt accept regarding the £20 
payment charged back. If a friend of Mr D was involved as he has said then that person 
hasnt come forward to help him confirm the explanation. I also take into account that this 
money was taken out as quickly as possible from his account and the reason for that is not 
clear. If Mr D as he said allowed someone else to use his account he hasnt always been 
open about that and I think would reasonably know this wasnt for legitimate purposes too.
On balance I find that Mr D hasnt given a consistent and credible account of what 
happened. He hasnt demonstrated for me that this money was legitimately in his account. 
Or that he has acted unwittingly in what happened in any of his explanations. So, I find it 
most likely that he was involved in the use of his account for fraudulent purposes.
Santander says that it applied the markers because Mr D received fraudulent funds into his 
account. So, Ive looked at whether Santander was fair to apply them, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that Santander needs to have enough information to make a formal report 
to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Ds account of events and the evidence Santander has provided, Im 
satisfied that Santander had sufficient evidence for the markers to be recorded. In coming to 
this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:- Mr D received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Santander at 
the time.
- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Santander had grounds to believe that Mr D had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
So, Im afraid I think there were grounds for it to close his account and apply the markers 
and I wont be asking it to do anything more. I appreciate Mr D will be very disappointed by 
the outcome.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman