DRN-3669110
The complaint
Mr N and Ms V have complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) failed to 
make it clear that they would lose travel insurance when they switched their account from a 
Flex Account to a Flex Direct account in October 2020.
Mr N and Ms V say that they realised that the Flex Direct account did not include travel 
insurance, but due to delays at Nationwide, they were prevented from switching their 
account back to a Flex Account. 
What happened
In its final response letter, Nationwide didnt think it had done anything wrong in relation to 
the cancellation of the travel insurance due to Mr N and Ms V switching their account from 
the Flex Account to the Flex Direct account. It did however agree that it couldve provided a 
better service when Ms V spoke to them via webchat on 27 November 2020 and agreed to 
pay £50 by way of an apology.
After referring the complaint to our service, our adjudicators considered the complaint, but 
they didnt think that Nationwide needed to do anything more in relation to this complaint.
Mr N and Ms V disagreed, and so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. I should also explain that where matters are 
in dispute and evidence is lacking, as is the case here, I need to decide what I think was 
most likely to have happened, based on everything that is available. And having considered 
everything, Im unable to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Switching account
I understand that Mr N and Ms V held the Flex Account for a number of years. This is a fee-
free account that provided travel insurance, providing certain criteria were met. I understand 
that Mr N and Ms V had paid additional premiums to the travel insurance to upgrade the 
cover.  However, Mr N and Ms V chose to switch their account from the Flex Account to a 
Flex Direct account online in October 2020. 
Having looked at archived versions of Nationwides website from October 2020, I cant see 
any information that suggests that the Flex Direct account includes travel insurance. Indeed, 
the Flex Direct account only includes banking benefits  no insurance products are included 
with the account. Therefore, whilst I dont know for sure what exactly Mr N and Ms V saw 
when they switched account, Im confident that they wouldnt have been presented with any 
information to make them think that it included travel insurance.
As such, I cant reasonably say that Nationwide misled Mr N and Ms V into thinking that 
theyll get travel insurance with the Flex Direct account. Instead it seems more likely that Mr 
N and Ms V incorrectly assumed that it also came with travel insurance, perhaps because 
both accounts had the word Flex within the account name. As Im sure Mr N and Ms V 
appreciate, Im unable to hold Nationwide responsible for this.
Therefore, because Mr N and Ms V effectively cancelled the Flex Account (by switching their 
account to another type of account), Im unable to conclude that Nationwide is at fault for the 
cancellation of the travel insurance policy. It also follows that Im unable to say that 
Nationwide should refund the additional premiums Mr N and Ms V paid to the travel insurer 
to upgrade the travel cover, given that it was Mr N and Ms V, not Nationwide, who 
subsequently cancelled the cover.
Changing their minds
I understand the main thrust of Mr N and Ms Vs complaint is that once they realised that the 
Flex Direct account did not in fact include travel insurance, they say that they contacted 
Nationwide to change their account back to the Flex Account. They argue that had 
Nationwide dealt with their communication properly, then they wouldve been able to revert 
their account back to the Flex account and continue with travel insurance.
In response to this point, Nationwide has explained that if Mr N and Ms V had cancelled the 
account switch within the 28 day cooling off period, Mr N and Ms V wouldve been able to 
revert their account back to being a Flex account, essentially as if theyd never cancelled it. 
Whereas if they changed their mind after the cooling-off period had expired, Mr N and Ms 
Vs account could still have been changed back to a Flex Account. However, the account 
would no longer include travel insurance, as it had been withdrawn as a feature of the 
account to new account holders by that stage.
Therefore, I have carefully considered everything that Mr N and Ms V and Nationwide have 
provided, to establish whether they did exercise their cooling-off rights. 
Nationwide says that Mr N and Ms V switched their account to a Flex Direct account on 29 
October 2020. And the first time I can see that Mr N and Ms V contacted Nationwide about 
the switch, was on 27 November 2020  which is when Mr N and Ms V say they received a 
letter from the travel insurer telling them that their travel insurance had been cancelled. 
Therefore, based on everything I have seen, Im unable to say that Mr N and Ms V did 
contact Nationwide to change their mind within the 28-day cooling off period.
As such, whilst I acknowledge that there mayve been delays in Nationwide getting back to 
Mr N and Ms V after they first contacted Nationwide on 27 November 2020, I dont think this 
adversely impacted their ability to exercise their cooling off rights, as those rights had 
already expired by then. 
Finally, I can see that Mr N and Ms V are unhappy that they were only informed about the 
cancellation of the travel insurance on 27 November 2020. They say that had they been 
informed of this sooner, they couldve exercised their cooling-off rights and reinstated the 
Flex Account and the travel cover.
I note that the letter (which they say was dated 16 November 2020) they received on 27 
November 2020 was from the travel insurer, not Nationwide. However, as this complaint is 
against Nationwide and not the travel insurer, Im unable to hold Nationwide responsible for 
the actions or omissions of a third party. As such, whilst I fully understand their frustration at 
the delay and unfortunate timing of the receipt of that letter, I cant say that Nationwide has 
actually done anything wrong or acted unfairly that resulted in Mr N and Ms V from being 
denied the ability to exercise their cooling-off rights in switching their account.
It therefore follows, that I dont think it is appropriate in this case to require Nationwide to put 
Mr N and Ms V back into the position they wouldve been in had they not switched their 
account from the Flex Account to a Flex Direct account.My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Ms V to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman