DRN-4037766
The complaint
Mr & Mrs V complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc mishandled a claim on a motor insurance 
policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is an executive car made by a premium-
brand car maker and first registered in 2017. 
For the year from early May 2022, Mr V had the car insured on a comprehensive policy 
branded with the name of an insurance intermediary. 
Mr V was the policyholder. The policy also covered Mrs V as a named driver. AXA was the 
insurance company that was responsible for dealing with any claim.
In mid-September 2022, Mr and Mrs V had a problem with his car and took it to a garage for 
diagnosis. 
Mr and Mrs V reported to AXA that  on a farm road - the car had hit a pothole which had 
caused damage to both rear air springs and the air supply unit.
AXA instructed an engineer who inspected the car in mid-October 2022 and said there had 
been a mechanical failure, which the policy didnt cover. 
Mr V complained to AXA that it should meet the claim and that it had been difficult to contact.
By a final response dated mid-January 2023, AXA turned down the complaint about 
declining the claim. But it apologised for shortcomings in its communication and said it was 
sending Mr V a cheque for £150.00. 
Unhappy with that, Mr and Mrs V brought their complaint to us within a couple of days.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that he 
couldnt dispute the professional opinion of the independent engineer who felt the damage 
was caused by mechanical failure, which was one of AXAs policy exclusions. The 
investigator also thought that AXA had fairly compensated Mr and Mrs V for the 
communication issues. 
Mr and Mrs V disagreed with the investigators opinion. They asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. He says, in summary, that:
Its not likely that both air springs & air supply unit failed at exactly the same time due 
to mechanical failure.
The garage removed the damaged parts to diagnose what the problem was.
So he doubts that the independent engineer examined the damaged parts when he 
inspected the car weeks later.
It is very unlikely that he can track down the damaged parts. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is impartial in making recommendations or decisions 
about a consumers complaint against a regulated financial firm.
AXAs policy terms excluded mechanical or electrical failure. That is a usual exclusion.
The engineers report to AXA included the following:
On examination I have found no evidence of impact to the right-hand underside of 
this vehicle where the air compressor is situated.
20 Oct. Discussions with [first name] at the repairers have highlighted that the air 
compressor has suffered a mechanical failure and has been replaced but they have 
not retained the damaged part. As the vehicle has been driven with the rear air 
springs deflated they will have to be replaced.
It is my opinion that this damage is mechanical failure and not impact damage
From that, I consider that it was reasonable for AXA to conclude that the air compressor had 
suffered a mechanical failure, causing deflation of both air springs, which, as a result of  
driving while deflated, required replacement. 
So I find that the car suffered a mechanical failure rather than accident damage. Keeping in 
mind the policy exclusion, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct AXA to meet Mr Vs 
claim.
Mr V wanted AXA to respond to emails and telephone calls. I accept there were 
shortcomings in the way AXA responded. Ive thought about the impact of those 
shortcomings on Mr and Mrs V at an already difficult time for them. I dont doubt that AXA 
wasted their time and made them feel unfairly treated.
However, Im satisfied that AXAs payment of £150.00 was in line with what I wouldve found 
fair if it hadnt made that payment. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct AXA to pay 
any more compensation.
Overall, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct AXA to do any more in response to this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 July 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman