DRN-4177957
The complaint
Mr M complains that London Community Credit Union Limited didnt send loan proceeds to 
his account. Mr M also says he is being chased for payments and has been threatened with 
court action.
What happened
Mr M says he went to a branch of London Community Credit Union Limited (LCCU) in 
August 2021 to apply for a £5,000 loan. Mr M says he spoke to a branch manager and 
provided his membership number to him, with the manager then giving him a schedule of 
payments for the loan.
Mr M says he signed documents upon request, but no copies were given to him. He returned 
to the branch a week or so later and was told the money was in a bank account. Mr M says 
he didnt give LCCU any account details, and that he checked his bank account but there 
was no sign of the money. 
Mr M complained to LCCU and then brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended that it should be upheld. She said LCCU hadnt responded to our numerous 
requests to send information and evidence showing that the loan proceeds went to an 
account of Mr Ms, or that this went to an account from details provided by him. She 
recommended that LCCU carry out and complete an investigation into where the funds went, 
and to stop all action against Mr M. Our investigator also recommended that LCCU pay Mr M 
£250 for the stress and inconvenience caused to him and to credit him with the loan 
proceeds if his loan application was successful.  
LCCU didnt reply and so Mr Ms complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its disappointing to see that LCCU hasnt sent anything to us about this complaint despite 
our investigator asking for their submissions on several occasions and speaking to LCCU on 
the phone about this. As it stands therefore, I have nothing from LCCU to consider in respect 
of their position on this complaint. 
Mr M has sent us a copy of his bank statement which Ive seen. The loan proceeds of 
£5,000 werent credited to this account. Although its possible this money went elsewhere 
upon instruction from Mr M, or that this sits in an account he holds with LCCU, I have 
nothing to show where this money went, that it was sent to an account Mr M owns, or any 
evidence around Mr Ms loan application being successful. 
I will therefore be upholding Mr Ms complaint as Ive not been sufficiently persuaded that his 
position on what has happened is incorrect. 
Putting things right
LCCU should, if they wish, carry out an investigation into where the loan proceeds went. If 
they can show Mr M that this went to an account of his, then it should show him sufficient 
evidence of this. For now, LCCU should cease all collections and recovery action against 
him and to remove any trace of this loan from Mr Ms credit file. If the loan proceeds havent 
been credited to an account of Mr Ms, or an account for which he gave details to LCCU, 
then LCCU should proceed to credit an account upon confirmation from Mr M if he still wants 
the loan. At that point, payments can begin to be collected from Mr M and any appropriate 
collections activity can start if necessary. 
I think Mr M has been caused distress and inconvenience by whats happened, and I will be 
directing LCCU to pay him compensation. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct London Community Credit Union Limited to do the 
following:
Carry out an investigation, if they wish, into where the loan proceeds went. If they 
can show Mr M that this went to an account of his or an account for which he gave 
instruction to send this money, then it should show him sufficient evidence of this. 
Until such time as this has been completed, they should cease all collections and 
recovery action against Mr M and to remove any trace of this loan from his credit file.
If the loan proceeds havent been credited to an account of Mr Ms, or an account for 
which he gave details to LCCU, then LCCU should proceed to credit an account 
upon confirmation from Mr M (if he still wishes to proceed with the loan). At that point, 
payments can begin to be collected from Mr M and any appropriate collections 
activity can start if necessary. 
Pay Mr M £250 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman