DRN-3425790
The complaint
J, a limited company, complain that Society of Lloyd's (SoL) refused to provide cover for 
one of its employees (H) on its group life assurance policy. 
What happened
Both parties are familiar with the background to this complaint so the below is only a 
summary of events. 
In June 2020 Js group life assurance policy migrated to its current underwriter, SoL. SoL 
couldnt underwrite cover for one of Js employees at the time, H, because H hadnt met an 
actively at work definition. 
SoL requested the additional information it needed about H to proceed with underwriting via 
a specific form. That form was completed and returned, but H hadnt answered a question 
within it about heart and circulatory disorders. SoL requested the missing information in the 
form be provided and also asked that H complete a separate questionnaire too. 
That questionnaire was completed, but the missing answer in the previous form still wasnt. 
SoL requested that information again and told J (through its broker) that itd had been in 
contact with H directly to explain what it still needed. 
SoL never received the missing information it needed about H, so it commenced the group 
policy as scheduled with Hs benefit restricted to nil. 
J didnt notice that H had restricted benefit until the following years renewal. Given the time 
that had passed by then, H was asked to complete a new form and SoL was able to proceed 
with its underwriting process. H had been diagnosed with a terminal illness by that point and 
SoL made the decision to decline cover. Sadly, H died later that year. 
J complained that SoL had reduced the late Hs benefit to nil due to a simple clerical error 
and hadnt done enough to flag the issue at the time. It said SoL should reinstate the late Hs 
cover and make any payments due, but SoL didnt uphold that complaint.
SoL said it was sorry learn of the late Hs death but explained it hadnt been able to 
underwrite their cover without the information it had originally asked for in 2020. It said its 
communications to both the late H and Js broker at the time had been clear and concise. 
And it explained that it would have made the same underwriting decision had the same 
situation arose for any other employee.
Unhappy with that position J brought its complaint to this service and one of our investigators 
looked at what had happened. They didnt think SoL had acted unreasonably though, so did 
not uphold Js complaint either. 
J disagreed and said a very low bar had been set. It said SoLs processes were not fit for 
purpose and it had not known that the late Hs cover was reduced to nil in 2020 because the 
information communicated to it at the time was unprofessional and inadequate. So, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank J for setting out its position and am very sorry to hear of the late Hs death. 
My findings will not address every point or argument made  they will instead focus on those 
matters I consider central to the outcome of this complaint. Though I am aware this will 
further disappoint J I will not be upholding its complaint against SoL for the following 
reasons:
J has asked this service to provide specific documents surrounding a number of 
SoLs policies and procedures: it says these are not fit for purpose. Its also asked 
that we carry out a wider investigation into the policies and procedures of other 
insurers across the industry. Although I appreciate why J has requested this, my role 
is to consider the individual circumstances of this complaint. This service will not be 
investigating the wider insurance industry as a result of Js concerns and although Js 
strength of feeling about SoLs processes is clear, the way in which SoL chooses to 
run its business is not something this service can interfere with.
To help an insurer decide what it is and isnt prepared to cover itll usually ask a 
range of different questions. An insurer is entitled to do this, and here, SoL asked a 
number of different questions about the late H to help it determine coverage at the 
time. While J says the late Hs cover was restricted because of a simple error, SoL 
has explained that whilst the missing answer remained its underwriting process could 
not actually continue for the late H. That was because the answer to that particular 
question would dictate whether or not it would need to request additional GP records. 
And, depending on the content of those records that would in turn dictate what cover 
it would or would not have offered for the late H. 
J says the late H only received one email about the missing information but looking at 
the timeline of events here I cant agree. SoL issued two separate emails to the late 
H about the information that was still outstanding. I wont recite those emails again 
here, but I am satisfied that both clearly drew attention to the outstanding information 
still required. 
J says it missed the information about the reduction in the late Hs cover because the 
policy documentation it received at the time had it buried on page four. Again 
however, I cant fairly agree. J was sent a quotation for the group policy in May 2020. 
It was three pages long with the third page detailing the quotation underwriting 
caveats/requirements. There, the late Hs benefit was listed as restricted to £0 and 
the same page also said, Please note member (H) is restricted to £0 benefit until 
underwritten and accepted. J was also sent a renewal certificate in June 2020. This 
was four pages long and page four also said:
Endorsements Applicable to this Scheme
The following Endorsements will replace or will be added to the Standard 
Terms and Conditions for this scheme.
1. 
2. 3. Members who have Restricted Benefits (RB)
Cover for member H is Restricted to a Maximum £0 Sum Assured Benefit 
until fully underwritten and accepted
I dont consider either of the above documents to be particularly lengthy. Nor do I 
consider the information about the reduced benefit to have been buried within them. 
I think it was reasonable to have expected J as the policy holder to have read what 
was being provided to it. And both documents noted above clearly set out that a 
reduced benefit applied to one of its employees. 
I know J has concerns about the number of parties involved in the policys migration. 
For example it says SoL liaised with the late H directly about some medical matters 
and a perfect storm for missed information existed given all those involved. I 
appreciate that different parties were involved in the migration of Js policy, but here I 
am only considering the actions of SoL. The late H had requested direct contact from 
SoL, which was something they were able to do. It would not be fair of me to 
conclude that SoL did something wrong by adhering to that request. And as I set out 
above SoL had made it clear to both the late H and J that Hs benefit was being 
restricted until it was able to be fully underwritten.
I fully appreciate that J believed everything was in order with its group policy. 
Unfortunately for J though, it wasnt and SoL had set out on more than one occasion 
it required outstanding information and the late Hs cover had been restricted. 
It wouldnt have been fair on all of Js other employees for the group policy to not 
commence on its proposed start date. The group policy was designed to provide 
cover for over 20 employees and apart from one individual SoL had all the 
information it needed to commence as planned. 
I appreciate J says it was only at the next years renewal it noticed the late Hs 
benefit was restricted, but like the investigator before me and for the reasons already 
given above I think this restriction had been sufficiently highlighted to J in the 
previous year. 
Once SoL received all the information it needed about the late H at renewal the 
following year it was able to proceed with its underwriting process and made a 
coverage decision. I appreciate the reasons for its decision may not have been 
shared with J, but SoL has explained its unable to disclose its reasons with J 
because the late Hs medical information had been provided to it in confidence and 
the late H had also asked that SoL liaise only with them directly in regard to any 
medical matters. 
My findings are in no way intended to detract from the impact of the late H passing without 
having any group benefit in place. But in all the circumstances Im not persuaded that SoL 
acted either unfairly or unreasonably, and so although Im sorry to further disappoint I will not 
be directing SoL to take any additional action.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Society of Lloyd's.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman