DRN-3264981
The complaint
Mr W complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited declined a claim for damage to 
his garage under his home insurance policy. 
Mr W is represented by Mr B in this complaint. 
What happened
Mr B says the detached garage next to Mr Ws home is showing signs of distortion to the 
concrete panel walls along with cracking to the concrete base. He says the neighbour had 
some time ago planted bamboo in their garden. He says rhizomes from the bamboo have 
penetrated beneath the garage base. He thinks this is the cause of the damage. 
Mr W approached his neighbours landlord whos insurer investigated the matter. Mr B says 
the insurer determined it wasnt responsible for the damage. It says the movement was 
caused by subsidence not bamboo. Mr W then made a claim to his insurer RSA. It 
investigated the matter and determined the movement was due to inadequate foundations 
when the garage was constructed. 
Mr B disagreed. He says the garage was built approximately 26 years ago. This replaced an 
existing garage that was built on a hardcore base. Mr B says in total a garage has been, on 
the same footprint for over 50 years and the current garage was built to the manufacturers 
specifications. He says building regulations dont apply to this garage, but that the floating 
concrete raft which sits on top of the hardcore base, provides an adequate foundation. 
Mr B says rhizomes have penetrated beneath the concrete raft. A hole has been excavated 
within the garage, through the concrete base to reveal this. This was arranged by Mr W. Mr 
B says the trial pits RSA has relied on were dug vertically downwards outside of the footprint 
of the garage. He doesnt think this can show the garage foundations are inadequate only 
that the surrounding ground is unsuitable for building on.
RSA didnt change its decision, so Mr B referred the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. He thought the expert opinion obtained by RSA 
was persuasive and showed the damage wasnt caused by bamboo. Rather the damage 
was shown to be the result of inadequate foundations for the garage. The policy terms 
exclude damage caused by poor or faulty design. Our investigator thought this supported 
RSAs stance and that it was fair to decline the claim. 
Mr B disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. I understand this will be 
disappointing for him, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Its the responsibility of the policyholder to prove, at least on the face of it, that they have a
valid claim under one of the insured events covered by the policy terms. If they can do so, 
then the insurer must pay the claim unless it can rely on one of the policy exclusions. 
Mr Ws claim is that his garage has suffered damage from bamboo rhizomes causing 
movement in the structure. In its letter declining the claim RSA says, the damage appears 
to be the result of gradual movement of made ground beneath the raft slab. The business 
has since referred to a policy exclusion to support the decline decision which says:
Policy exclusions
This insurance does not cover:
Defective construction or design
Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind caused by or resulting from poor or 
faulty design, workmanship or materials.
The engineers report RSA supplied says 
The site investigations have revealed that there are no foundations and that a raft design 
was used over 500mm depth of made ground. This is not considered to be adequate for the 
site conditions, and proximity of the nearby vegetation.
 
Normal good building practice should take into account the site conditions and foundations 
to be used and designed accordingly.
In this instance, there are no foundations and only a raft slab installed on made ground of 
500mm depth. Therefore, the lack of foundations and use of raft design are inadequate and 
do not meet the standards of good building practice that would have been relevant at the 
time of construction. 
In this instance, it is considered on the balance of probabilities that movement of the slab is 
due to inadequate foundations based on gradually compacting made ground and the design 
and construction of the raft slab failed to take the ground conditions into consideration. 
Unfortunately the conditions are not met in this instance and insurers do not have a liability.
Mr B says that beneath the concrete raft is a hardcore base. He says the trial pits that were 
dug to assess the suitability of the ground, were dug outside of the footprint of the garage. 
He says the trial pits werent dug at an angle under the concrete raft or through it in order to 
assess the make-up of the ground beneath. Mr B thinks RSAs engineer is basing his 
findings on assumptions of the ground beneath the concrete raft rather than fact.
I have read the site investigation report. This involved assessment of the ground the garage 
is built on using trial pits and an analysis of the soil taken from the pits. From the diagrams 
included in the report the trial pits were dug directly adjacent to the concrete raft and 
included some excavation extending beneath the raft.
We asked RSA for clarification that the concrete slab was constructed on top of an 
inadequate base. It provided the following comments:
In this instance, there was data for 2no.boreholes in close proximity provided by a reliable source. They both showed the same underlying soil conditions (ie made ground to 500mm). 
The trench also exposed the full length of the raft slab clearly identifying the inadequate 
depth of the raft/slab to the naked eye. Unfortunately the foundations to the garage are not 
of sufficient depth to cope with the site conditions.  
In this instance, the foundation/slab are founded at a depth of 200mm below ground level, 
bearing onto Made Ground described as medium compacted dark brown sandy silty topsoil 
with occasional gravel glass and brick fragments and carbon deposits extending to a depth 
of at least 500mm before firmer clay.
And:
Made Ground is used to describe ground that has been formed by material deposited by 
man. Thus made ground, or fill as it is sometimes called, results from human activity, in 
contrast to natural soil which has its origin in geological processes. Made ground is 
susceptible to shear strength failure and excessive settlements under loading due to voids 
and the compressibility of the fill material. Made ground would not be considered a suitable 
bearing stratum for traditional foundations. 
We asked RSA to comment specifically on Mr Bs view that its assessment didnt consider 
the ground beneath the concrete raft but rather the ground around it. It responded to say:
the trial holes already carried out by RSA via [its expert] to the left side are close enough to 
the raft for our purposes of assessing the design of the raft and soil type underneath. In this 
instance it is set upon made ground and we have review [sic] and assessed our response to 
this which we believe is adequate for a repudiation.
We provided RSAs response to Mr B and asked if he had any comments. He says RSA 
didnt excavate trial holes to the slab, as it indicated in its response. This was arranged by 
Mr W. Mr B comments on RSAs reference to not having sight of the slab excavation report. 
With his comments Mr B provided a drawing of the location of the trial pits RSA has referred 
to, photos showing the garage and rhizomes from the bamboo growth, technical information 
from the garage manufacturer and a photo from the 1990s showing the vegetation around 
the area where the garage is now situated. I have considered all his comments, including his 
view that the trial holes were in the wrong position to identify rhizomes or to accurately 
assess the ground the garage is built on.    
Im not an expert in this area, and I must rely on the opinion of experts where this is 
available. I think its appropriate that RSA obtained the opinion of an expert engineer to 
assess Mr Ws claim. This is what wed expect an insurer to do in these circumstances. RSA 
supplied a detailed assessment including analysis of the ground on which the garage is built. 
Its view is persuasive that the lack of foundations and the use of a raft design was 
inadequate in these circumstances. 
RSA refers to the concrete raft resting on, made ground. Mr B refers to this material as 
hard-core, which is sufficient to provide a foundation. Although I acknowledge his view its 
clear RSAs expert has assessed the ground and disagrees that this provides adequate 
foundation for the garage. Its expert was made aware of Mr Bs concerns over the position of 
the trial holes. And maintains these are adequate to assess the raft design and soil type.    
RSA refers to building regulations and says the garage didnt comply when it was built. Mr B 
says building regulations didnt apply to the garage because of its size and that its detached 
from the main house. He also says the garage was built to the manufacturers specifications. 
We asked RSA for its comments on these points. Its response says:The manufacturers guidelines mention the concrete slab. Although the concrete base may 
be specified correctly, there is no reference to the site the concrete base sits on. If this is put 
on poor ground then this will fail. The specification for the garage is different to specification 
suitable for the site. Whilst the concrete base complies with the standards in the guidelines, 
the base is only as good as the ground it sits on. In this case, the site was on poor ground so 
failure has occurred. 
Even if building regulations don't apply, when contractors construct foundations or any 
building, this should comply with good building practices which means the structure can 
withstand seasonal variations in the ground and must be built with sufficient integrity. A 
minimum is required from health and safety perspective whether or not building regulations 
apply.
In this case, the slab was constructed on inadequate degradable material and failure was 
inevitable. This therefore would not change our stance.
I have thought about the impact this has on Mr Ws claim. RSA doesnt dispute the garage 
was constructed based on the manufacturers specifications. However, its experts view is 
persuasive that the local ground conditions must also be considered to ensure adequate 
foundations are in place. So, whether building regulations strictly apply to this situation or 
not, I think the construction of the garage has been shown to be inadequate. As above, the 
policy excludes damage caused by defective construction or design.     
Mr B hasnt provided an alternative expert report that demonstrates a different cause of the 
damage. And as discussed here I think the view provided by RSAs expert is persuasive.  
I have read the newspaper article Mr B supplied. This shows damage caused where bamboo 
has grown up into the walls of a house. I understand why he highlighted this information. But 
it hasnt been shown that bamboo is the cause of the damage here. The expert opinion 
concludes the ground was inadequate to support the garage, which is why movement has 
occurred.
I acknowledge Mr Bs comments that there was no vegetation to consider when the garage 
was built. I dont dispute this, and I have seen the photo he supplied from the 1990s. But the 
cause of the damage isnt thought to be the result of vegetation (bamboo) it is the 
inadequacy of the ground on which the garage was built. So, I dont think this has an impact 
on my decision.
Having considered all of this, based on the evidence and expert opinion I think RSA treated 
Mr W fairly when relying on its policy terms and declining his claim. Im sorry to have to 
disappoint Mr W but I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore to resolve his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman