DRN-3245583
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs (AXAs) decision to decline a claim 
she made under her building insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again in 
detail here. But to briefly summarise:
Mrs Ms property suffered an ingress of water during a period of extreme weather.
 
She made a claim to AXA, for both internal and external damage, which she says 
was caused by a storm.
AXA declined the claim as it said the damage was caused by wear and tear  which 
is excluded  rather than by a storm.
The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator for the following 
reasons.
When our service investigates a complaint about potential storm damage, there are three 
main questions we ask ourselves. Unless the answer to all three questions is yes, its 
unlikely that a complaint would be upheld. The questions we ask ourselves are, based on 
the available evidence and on the balance of probabilities:
Did storm conditions occur on or around the date the damage is said to have 
happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with what we generally see as storm damage?
Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
All parties agree that there was a storm. So, as this isnt in dispute, Im satisfied that the 
answer to question one is yes.
AXA says that the damage to Mrs Ms roof is as a result of gradual damage or wear and 
tear. Mrs Ms policy includes the below exclusion, which applies to all sections of cover 
including accidental damage:
Damage caused gradually by wear and tear; or failure to fix a known issue (e.g. a 
visible leak isnt fixed which causes further damage);
AXAs position that the damage happened gradually is based on the report completed by its 
loss adjuster. This highlighted that the pointing had perished in numerous areas across the 
roof. It said this damage had happened gradually, due to wear and tear, and that no 
evidence of storm damage was present.
Mrs M disagreed and appointed her own surveyor to complete a report. But as with the loss 
adjusters report, Mrs Ms surveyor has highlighted various areas of the roof where the 
pointing had perished  and concluded that this was due to wear and tear. This report also 
concluded that the internal damage had occurred because of these external, wear and tear, 
issues.
Having reviewed the available expert evidence, I dont think the damage to Mrs Ms roof is 
consistent with the type of damage wed expect to see caused by a one-off storm event. I 
say this because a one-off event of strong winds or rain (or both combined) wouldnt be likely 
to cause the pointing to weather and crumble away in the way that has happened here. I 
agree that this damage is more likely to have happened gradually over time. 
It follows that I dont think the storm in question was most likely the main cause of the 
damage, but rather the storm highlighted the existing issues with the roof, which happened 
over a period of time.
This means that the answer to questions two and three, above, would be no. Based on this, 
and taking all of the available evidence into account, I think the decision AXA reached on 
Mrs Ms claim was in line with the terms and conditions of her policy, and that it was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman