DRN-3819061
The complaint
Mrs S complains that esure Insurance Limited is responsible for mishandling a claim on her 
motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to esure, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include claims-
handlers and others insofar as I hold esure responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a sports utility vehicle. Mrs S had it 
covered on a comprehensive policy with esure for the year from May 2021.
Unfortunately, in mid-January 2022, Mrs S reported that a third party had caused an 
accident and damage to the car. According to esure, the car was a total loss and its pre-
accident value had been £9,820.00.
Mrs S complained to esure that it was under-valuing the car. By a final response dated early 
March 2022, esure turned down the complaint. It said it was sending Mrs S a cheque for 
£9,820.00, subject to the policy excess.
Mrs S brought her complaint to us in late August 2022. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. The investigator 
thought that esure had acted fairly and reasonably in reaching its valuation figure of the car.
Mrs S disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
She was not at fault for the accident, so she should not be out of pocket.
We were, and still are, in unprecedented circumstances. The cost of second- hand 
cars increased by a third due to the pandemic. There is no wiggle room these days 
for negotiation on price.
The third party driver is acting dishonestly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules. We deal with a consumers complaint against a regulated financial firm. Im 
not going to comment on Mrs Ss concerns about the conduct of the third party driver or any 
complaint other than about the valuation.
The esure policy terms included the following: 
We wont pay more than the market value of your car at the time of loss, less the 
total excess payable
The market value is the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your car 
for on the open market immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment of 
the value is based on cars of the same make and model and of a similar age, 
condition and mileage at the time of accident or loss. This value is based on research 
from motor trade guides including: Glasss, Parkers and CAP. This may not be the 
price you paid when you purchased the car.
Those terms apply equally whether the policyholder is at fault or not.
The Financial Ombudsman Service expects an insurer to assess market value by reference 
to the retail figures in the trade guides. They are based on extensive research of likely selling 
prices. Im satisfied that they reflect changes in prices including changes up to the time of 
the accident in January 2022.
We find advertised prices less reliable as they are asking prices subject to negotiation.
For a vehicle like Mrs Ss at the time of the accident, Ive seen retail figures in the trade 
guides as follows:
Parkers £9,290.00
CAP £9,380.00
Glass's £9,820.00
Cazana £9,924.00
Mrs S would no doubt prefer the highest figure. But esures figure of £9,820.00 was within 
the range of those figures so I dont consider that it was unreasonable or unfair. I dont find it 
fair and reasonable to direct esure to increase its valuation or to do any more in response to 
this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct esure Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman