DRN-1148339
The complaint
Mr K says Barclays Bank UK Plc, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in July 2000. The policy was added 
to Mr Ks credit card account when he applied for the card by post. The policy cost 75p per 
£100 of the outstanding card balance and following a successful claim, it would repay 10% 
of the outstanding balance at the point of claim, for up to twelve months.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ks case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Barclays made Mr K aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to 
take it  although I can understand why he can no longer remember this. I say this 
because Ive seen a copy of the application form, and can see that he selected PPI 
before signing the application form in July 2000. And as the PPI wouldve appeared 
on his monthly credit card statements, then had the PPI been added to his account 
without either his knowledge or his consent, I would have expected him to query or 
challenge this in the first few months after the account was opened.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr K, so it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Mr K chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. He was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
which might have made it unattractive to him, such as being self-employed or having 
a pre-existing medical condition. And it seems like it wouldve been useful for him if 
he wasnt working because of an accident, sickness or unemployment  this policy 
wouldve paid out in addition and for longer than the employee benefits he says he 
had. And it wouldve allowed him to use any savings he may have had for other, 
more pressing things.
Whilst Mr K has told us he couldve relied on his family if the need arose, there could be no 
guarantee that his familys circumstances would allow this at some unknown point in the 
future. The policy was also competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr K 
would have made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I 
think he would still have taken out the policy.
Ive taken into account all of Mr Ks comments, but these points dont change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 January 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman