DRN-3644428
The complaint
Miss J complains about information Sainsbury's Bank Plc reported to the Credit 
Reference Agencies (CRAs) and about the distress and inconvenience she was 
caused during a time of financial difficulties.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known by both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss J has a credit card account with Sainsburys Bank. To maintain the account and 
avoid adverse information being reported to the CRAs she must make at least a 
minimum payment by a certain date each month. 
In April 2020 Miss J asked for support as she couldnt afford to make her monthly 
payments. Ultimately Sainsburys Bank supported Miss J from May 2020 to 
October 2020 through an Emergency Payment Freeze (EPF), which I understand was 
Sainsburys Banks term for a Covid-related payment deferral. 
A Covid-related payment deferral was based on guidance issued by the 
Financial Conduct Authority to support borrowers directly impacted by the pandemic. It 
meant no payments needed to be made, no adverse information would be reported to 
the CRAs, and the arrears would be dealt with at the end. 
I find Sainsburys Bank treated Miss J fairly by agreeing to an EPF as she asked for 
support, and she got it. It did, however, mean that when the first payment became due in 
November 2020, Miss J needed to pay about £270 to bring the account up to date  
about £145 to bring her back within her credit limit, and about £125 as a minimum 
payment. And she then needed to continue to make her contractual minimum payments. 
Unfortunately, Miss Js finances hadnt fully recovered so she was unable to do so.
Over the following year Miss J was in regular contact with Sainsburys Bank and there 
were various holds, payment arrangements and interest free periods agreed. Im 
satisfied Sainsburys Bank treated Miss J fairly here as she needed support, and it gave 
it. And while I note some mistakes were made, such as interest being charged in some 
months when it shouldnt have, Sainsburys Bank put this right. 
The crux of Miss Js complaint is how all this has been reported to the CRAs. 
Sainsburys Bank accepted it should have reported some things differently, such as only 
arrears (and not missed payments) should show during a payment arrangement. The 
investigator also pointed out adverse data showing during the final month of the EPF. 
Sainsburys Bank says it has made all the necessary changes. 
I have reviewed an up-to-date copy of Miss Js credit file and her credit card statements. 
Im satisfied whats showing on her credit file is an accurate reflection of how the account 
was managed and despite some of the CRAs not showing a payment arrangement, 
Sainsburys Bank has shown that status has been reported where it should be. 
Sainsburys Bank has a duty to report accurate information to the CRAs and although I 
note Miss J says she would have made full payments had she properly understood what 
would be reported, her contact history with Sainsburys Bank doesnt support this. Im 
not requiring Sainsburys Bank to change what its reported to the CRAs further. 
Sainsburys Bank accept it could have done some things better. The investigator thought 
the same. And so do I. Sainsburys Bank has agreed pay Miss J £200 compensation in 
recognition of this. Given overall I find Sainsburys Bank was supportive and that Im 
satisfied what it has now reported to the CRAs is accurate, I consider this a fair amount 
in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Sainsbury's Bank Plc to pay Miss J £200 (in total) as 
it has agreed to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman