DRN-4355607
The complaint
Miss M complains that OVO (S) Home Services Limited trading as SSE provided misleading 
information about the cover available under her heating breakdown policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint, and Ill explain why.
Miss M has provided a screenshot from a policy booklet which makes it seem as 
though an annual service was provided by OVO. Ive looked at the full document 
online and I see that this was for the SSE Home Services policy, which was a later 
policy offered by OVO and isnt the same cover held by Miss M. 
As OVO has explained in its final response letter to Miss M of 11 January 2023, the 
SSE Home Services policy does include an annual service, but Miss M holds SSE 
Heating Breakdown cover. 
Ive looked at the information that was sent to Miss M as part of her welcome pack. 
The letter explained that OVO would provide a free boiler service in year one only, 
and that this did not form part of the insurance policy. And in her policy terms, under 
a list of key exclusions and limitations, it says annual service of your system (system 
is defined within the policy as the boiler and controls or the central heating system).
Im satisfied this made it clear what cover Miss M held, and that the free boiler 
service was only offered by OVO in the first year. I therefore dont find that OVO 
misled Miss M. 
Miss M says she didnt receive the welcome letter and policy terms; however, I see 
that the welcome letter was sent to the correct address. 
Miss M has also said that shes on the Priority Services Register, and she thinks this 
means OVO should follow up any written correspondence with a phone call. Though 
as our investigator has explained, this register is relevant to the energy department 
and isnt offered under her heating breakdown cover. If Miss M would like OVO to 
communicate with her differently in respect of her heating breakdown cover, I would 
suggest that she advises OVO of this directly.
I therefore dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman