DRN-2880780
The complaint
Miss C complained that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender acted irresponsibly when 
it gave her unaffordable loans.
What happened
Miss C took out two Mr Lender loans as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest Repayment
1 02/05/2019 11/07/2019 6 £200.00 £74.56
2 09/03/2020 outstanding 6 £400.00 £146.46
When Miss C complained to Mr Lender, it didnt agree that it had done anything wrong. 
Mr Lender said that, as well as relying on information Miss C provided about her monthly 
income and expenditure, it also checked statistical information and looked at details held by 
credit reference agencies before it agreed to lend to her. And it believed that the information 
it had recorded for Miss C showed the loans shouldve been affordable for her. But as a 
goodwill gesture it confirmed that it would continue to support Miss C via the repayment plan 
already in place and once the outstanding balance was settled, it would remove any adverse 
information about the loan from her credit file. 
Miss C didnt feel that response went far enough to resolve her complaint. Whilst she would  
like the information on her credit file to be amended she would also like her details removed 
from Mr Lenders system. And she doesnt feel its fair that she should repay the amount Mr 
Lender says she owes over and above the loan amount she borrowed. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss C and Mr Lender told us about these loans. 
Overall, our adjudicator thought that given the loan amounts, what was apparent about 
Miss Cs circumstances and her history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate 
for Mr Lender to ask Miss C for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. Our adjudicator didnt think there was any reason why Mr Lender shouldve 
been prompted to check what Miss C had said about her financial situation. 
And our adjudicator didn't think that the number of loans Miss C had taken out, the amounts 
shed borrowed or the length of time shed been borrowing from Mr Lender shouldve alerted 
Mr Lender to think she was having money problems. 
So he didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint. 
Miss C disagreed with our adjudicators view. Miss C mainly said that her main complaint 
concerned the credit information Mr Lender had asked her for when she applied for loan 2. 
She told us that the question had been misleading and so she hadnt included the correct 
financial information that truly reflected her financial position at the time. Specifically, she 
said that it wasnt made sufficiently clear that she needed to provide information about her 
other short-term lending. And she is unhappy that parts of her online application form for 
loan 2 were auto-filled with information from her first loan application. Miss C told us she felt 
that had caused confusion so it was even easier to accept those figures without thinking if 
they had changed.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Im sorry Miss C feels our adjudicator didnt investigate the complaint thoroughly or properly 
address what she considers to be the main issue. Id like to reassure Miss C that Ive looked 
at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as our 
adjudicator. Ill explain why I say this. 
Mr Lender provided Miss C with high-interest loans intended for short-term use so it needed 
to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. Mr Lender was required to carry out 
proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any lending was sustainable for Miss 
C before providing it. Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding 
whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a 
lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it 
does to verify that information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. But we might 
think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the amount lent 
was high. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
did Mr Lender complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Miss Cs loan applications to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan 
in a sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did Mr Lender make a fair lending decision?
did Mr Lender act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I've thought about each loan in turn.
loan 1
I dont think Mr Lender was wrong to lend Miss C loan 1. The information Mr Lender had 
gathered about Miss Cs finances suggested that she was well able to afford this borrowing. It looks like she told Mr Lender her take home pay was around £1,650 and she gave a 
breakdown of her expenses  including telling Mr Lender that she was paying £200 towards 
other credit. 
This appeared to leave her with more than £500 to spend   which shouldve been ample 
disposable income to cover the cost of the £74.56 repayments on this loan.
Mr Lender felt that its credit checks didnt highlight any issues of concern.
Miss C opted to make an interest only payment during the application process  but that was 
an account feature available to all applicants and I dont think this alone was enough to 
prompt Mr Lender to think it might need to do more or better checks before agreeing to lend. 
Ive kept in mind that Miss C said there were serious gaps in the information Mr Lender 
relied on. She told us that over the course of 2019 she had taken out multiple loans with 
other providers of high cost credit  including a debt consolidation loan to help her pay other 
debt. 
Our adjudicator asked Mr Lender to provide us with more detail about what its credit checks 
had revealed. Mr Lender confirmed that for loan 1, it saw that Miss C had no other 
outstanding payday loans showing  and no defaults on her record going back over the 
previous 12 months. 
Although that doesnt seem to match what Miss C told us, its worth remembering that a 
lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some data might be 
missing or anonymised or not up to date. I also understand that not all payday and short 
term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. So a lenders credit check might 
not show all the information someone could see (or expect to see) on their own credit file.
I think the checks that Mr Lender did before agreeing this loan were proportionate. And 
taking into account the information that appeared on credit checks that Mr Lender carried out 
I dont think Miss Cs credit history showed anything sufficiently adverse that shouldve 
prompted Mr Lender to ask Miss C more searching questions about her financial situation or 
check the information shed provided. And looking at the information Mr Lender had 
gathered, it looked like Miss C shouldve been able to comfortably pay loan 1. 
So I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint about loan 1.
In the event, it looks like Miss C was able to repay the loan early  saving around £33 in 
interest. 
loan 2
Like the adjudicator, I think the gap in lending between loans 1 and 2 was long enough for 
Mr Lender reasonably to think that Miss C mightve put her finances in order as it looked like 
she hadnt been dependent on high cost short term loans during this period. This meant that 
when Miss C applied for loan 2 she was effectively starting over. I think it was fair for Mr 
Lender to treat this as a new stand-alone application (rather than thinking about it as the 
second loan in a continuous chain). 
As before, Mr Lender gathered information about Miss Cs income and outgoings and did a 
credit check. 
The loan looked like it should be comfortably affordable for Miss C on the figures shed 
declared. And I dont think there was anything in the information that Mr Lender had 
recorded for Miss C, or anything else that it shouldve been aware of, which wouldve caused 
Mr Lender to think this loan wasnt affordable for Miss C when she took it out. In saying this I've taken carefully into account that Miss C feels the information Mr Lender 
relied on wasnt accurate because the online application she completed was misleading and 
this led to her failing to appreciate that her other high cost loans should have been included 
in the information she provided.
I can completely understand that filling in online forms isnt always straightforward. I accept 
that when some information is already completed it can be all too easy to overlook this 
without thinking carefully about whether it is correct  in the way that Miss C mightve done if 
the boxes had been left blank and she had needed to fill in all the details herself. 
But in order to uphold her complaint I have to be able to say that Mr Lender acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in some way. Ive no reason to doubt Miss C when she says she 
misunderstood exactly what credit information was being asked for. But I think that the way 
the application form was set out was reasonably clear. And I dont think that using 
information held on file to fill some of the boxes was unreasonable - doing this could help 
applicants save time and all the information could be amended or updated. So these arent 
reasons for me to uphold Miss Cs complaint. 
Mr Lender was reasonably entitled to rely on the information she provided during the 
application process  it wouldnt be fair to expect Mr Lender to have known about 
information that Miss C didnt disclose if it wasnt information that I would expect it to have 
found out from its own proportionate checks. So Ive thought carefully about whether Mr 
Lender did proportionate checks before agreeing to provide loan 2  and I think it did. 
It took steps to verify Miss Cs income, pay frequency and her employer. Information it 
obtained suggested that her average pay was a little higher than the figure she had declared 
but Mr Lender worked with the lower basic monthly figure that Miss C had provided to 
ensure affordability. It relied on statistical information from the Office of National Statistics to 
help assess her application. 
Mr Lenders credit checks showed one current advance against income entry (in other 
words, probably a payday loan). But there was no record of any serious payment problems 
like a default or anything to suggest Miss C had entered into an arrangement with creditors 
and bankruptcy wasnt flagged up as an issue. 
I dont think there was anything in the credit check information that Mr Lender could see that 
wouldve made Mr Lender think that Miss C would be likely to find it difficult to afford the 
repayments for loan 2 in a sustainable way. 
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of lending to have a record of other similar loans or 
to be paying for other outstanding credit. Miss C had declared a figure of £200 for her other 
loans and I dont think that this information wouldve seemed out of line with what was 
revealed by Mr Lenders credit checks. So this information isnt enough to my mind to have 
prompted a responsible lender to think that it shouldnt have provided loan 2 to Miss C. And 
as things stand, I havent seen enough overall to be able to uphold any part of Miss Cs 
complaint. 
Im sorry that Miss C is finding it hard to repay all her borrowing. And I can appreciate 
Miss Cs concern that her financial situation wasnt fully reflected either in the information 
she provided or the other information Mr Lender obtained. But Mr Lenders lending decisions 
dont seem unreasonable to me based on the information it had available at the time. And, at 
this stage of the lending relationship, and given these loan amounts and the length of the 
loan terms, I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required Mr Lender to ask Miss C to 
prove what she was declaring or check other information sources to verify what she had told them (or omitted to say) about her financial circumstances. So I dont think Mr Lender did 
anything wrong when it made its lending decisions based on the information it had at the 
time.
I can appreciate that Miss C now feels that having to repay interest on her loan has unfairly 
added to her debt problems. But the loan documents set out the terms and the amount of 
interest payable and Miss C seemed happy with this when she signed up to the loans. I have 
explained why dont think Mr Lender had any reason to think that Miss C wouldnt be able to 
sustainably repay the full amount owing which included not just the original loan amount but 
also the interest as set out in the loan agreements. 
And I havent seen enough to make me think that Mr Lender acted towards Miss C in any 
other way that wasnt fair and reasonable. It looks like it worked constructively with Miss C 
when she needed extra time to pay. I think Mr Lenders goodwill offer to amend her credit file 
when the loan is paid is a well-intentioned gesture to reflect the sympathetic way it views her 
particular situation. And Mr Lender has offered to continue to discuss payment options with 
Miss C and treat her fairly and sympathetically as long as Miss C needs further time to pay 
what she still owes. So Im not planning to say that Mr Lender needs to do anything more.  
Just to remind Miss C, if she would like help to deal with her money problems theres more 
information about how to get free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact 
details if she gives us a call. 
I appreciate that what I've said in my provisional decision will be disappointing for Miss C. 
But I hope that setting things out as I've done helps explain how Ive reached this conclusion 
and reassures her that all her complaint points have been fully considered.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Miss C has sent me a copy of her credit file and asked me to reconsider what Ive said in 
light of the information shown. In brief summary, Miss C says that if further searches had 
been done when she made her loan applications Mr Lender would have been prompted to 
do more and better checks  and it would have seen information to show that further lending 
wasnt affordable for her. 
Mr Lender acknowledged my provisional decision and confirmed it had nothing further to 
add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.  
I have now heard back from both parties so I am able to issue my final decision.
I appreciate that Miss C feels strongly about what happened and she holds a different view 
to me. I would like to assure her that Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been 
said, including her comments in response to my provisional decision. Miss C hasnt provided 
me with any new information that changes what I think about this case. Im very sorry that Miss C had a problem with debt and I accept that in reality Miss Cs actual 
circumstances werent fully reflected either in the information she provided, or the other 
information Mr Lender obtained. 
But wed expect Mr Lender to decide Miss Cs lending applications based on the information 
it was reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. Although Miss C feels strongly that 
Mr Lender shouldve done more and gone further in its checks, I wouldnt reasonably expect 
Mr Lender to have asked to see the credit report information that Miss C has sent me, for all 
the reasons I've explained more fully in my provisional decision. And since that wasnt 
information that Miss C told Mr Lender about, then Mr Lender couldnt have known about it 
and I cant fairly say that Mr Lender shouldve known about it. So I still havent seen enough 
to say that Mr Lender acted unreasonably when it decided to lend to Miss C.   
Ive thought carefully about whether Mr Lender has acted in any other way that isnt fair and 
reasonable  but I havent seen enough to make me think that it has. So this isnt a case 
where it would be fair and reasonable for me to award any redress. 
After taking carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision, and as no further comments have been received in response to my provisional 
decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman