DRN-3886192
The complaint
Mr A has complained about QIC Europe Ltd. He isnt happy that it turned down a claim 
under his home insurance policy.
For ease of reading any reference to QIC includes its agents.
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Mr A had his home insurance policy with QIC and subsequently made a claim in May 2022 
in relation to damage caused to his swimming pool. But when QIC looked into the claim it 
turned it down so Mr A complained to QIC and then this Service.
QICs claim investigator visited Mr A and inspected the damaged swimming pool. But he 
thought the damage was most likely caused by wear and tear following poor maintenance of 
the pool and so the claim wasnt covered under the policy. The report outlined that Mr A had 
said he hadnt maintained the swimming pool other than having the water checked since he 
bought the house 15 years earlier. And the investigator concluded that the damage to the 
swimming pool stemmed from poor maintenance and wear and tear. Mr A said he slipped at 
the side of the pool and his fall caused one of the copping stones at the side of the pool to 
fall in and cause damage (in the form of a bulge to the lining of the pool). The claim 
investigator formed the view that the copping stone hadnt been maintained properly and so 
the mortar and cement had eroded allowing the stone to fall in.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr A and eventually decided to uphold the complaint. 
Initially he thought QIC had acted fairly in following its claim assessors opinion. But when Mr 
A provided further evidence, about the general maintenance of his pool, he changed his 
position as he thought QIC didnt have enough evidence to say the damage was caused by 
wear and tear. So, he asked QIC to reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions or to appoint another swimming pool expert to consider the claim.
As QIC didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im presently minded not to uphold this complaint. Although I understand our 
investigators position I dont think the further evidence Mr A provided is sufficient to say that 
QIC has done anything wrong.
QIC initially questioned whether Mr As claim was genuine as he changed his policy to cover 
his swimming pool a month before this claim. And during this call he asked what would 
happen if he had an accident describing circumstances similar to what has happened here.
But QIC has accepted Mr As claim is genuine, so I wont comment any further on this issue. 
And I note Mr As cover may not have been sufficient to cover this claim but QIC has 
acknowledged its call taker confirmed to Mr A that a claim like this would be covered and so 
it has considered the claim. As such, I dont propose to comment any further on this either. 
In looking at the claim I think QIC acted reasonably in sending its claim investigator to attend 
the swimming pool, consider the damage and to interview Mr A. His report was detailed and 
provided photographs supporting his position and the report highlighted that Mr A was 
questioned about how the copping stone became dislodged and fell into the swimming pool 
causing the damage. He said he did a flip, slipped and landed on the copping stone on his 
bottom. It dislodged and fell into the pool. He did manage to catch it. He did not realise the 
pool lining was damaged until the following day, when he saw the lining bulging. And went 
on to say that He was asked how the copping stones were fitted and he stated with cement. 
He had not noticed some of the cement grouting around some of the copping stones was old 
and well worn. The pool is about 15 years old, and it came with the house when he bought it. 
He has not maintained the swimming pool other than cleaning the water.
In the main Mr A accepts the general position outlined. But Mr A is clear that he didnt say 
that the swimming pool wasnt maintained other than cleaning the water. And he has 
provided some further evidence in support of his position.
However, Ive considered Mr As further supporting information and evidence and I dont find 
it as persuasive as QICs. It is clear his swimming pools water was maintained and there is 
some commentary about the general upkeep of the pool. And some detail explaining that the 
repair of the pool had commenced but this was halted mid-repair upon Mr As request as 
QIC wanted to attend to inspect the pool. While I accept the repair of the misplaced copping 
stone was stopped and that the pool was a little dirtier, given the delay in QICs claims 
inspector attending, this doesnt explain the general wider poor maintenance of the pool as 
highlighted by QICs claim investigator.
QIC has also asked its in-house surveyor to consider some of the further evidence Mr A 
provided in support if his complaint to this Service. And they supported the position QIC had 
originally taken following its claim investigators inspection. I have to rely on the expert 
evidence provided by both sides in forming my view. QIC has clearly highlighted general 
poor maintenance around the copping stones surrounding the pool. There is no suggestion 
that all these stones had been maintained sufficiently well - the pictures show cracks and 
gaps around the stones. And so, on balance, I think it is likely the copping stone that fell into 
the pool was loose and wouldnt have fell in had it been maintained properly as QIC has 
maintained.
Given all of this, and the fact that Mr A wont allow QIC to see and consider all of his further 
evidence I dont think I can say QIC have done anything wrong here. It has simply relied on 
the policy terms and conditions which exclude cover for any claim which relates to gradual or 
maintenance related loss or damage. However, if Mr A was to provide any further evidence 
or gain a detailed report supporting his position I would expect QIC to consider this. 
Replies
QIC didnt really respond but have provided some further information as requested by Mr A. 
While Mr A asked for a full copy of QICs report which he considered. He thought that QIC 
had focussed on the copping stone that had been partially repaired which was clearly 
damaged. He highlighted that by focussing on this stone that QIC wasnt acting fairly as the 
damaged stone had only been partly repaired at this stage. And he said again that the pool 
wasnt inspected for a while after the damage was caused and the pool was drained which 
meant that the pools condition had deteriorated by the time QIC attended.
Mr A also went on to question what was said in the call when he took out the policy and 
QICs initial questioning around the genuineness of the claim. And said that he intended to 
get an independent report supporting his position, but this has been delayed. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. I know this will 
come as a disappointment to Mr A, but Ill explain why. 
Although I can understand why Mr A feels his claim should be paid but he doesnt have 
sufficient evidence to support his position. I know he feels that QIC has solely focussed on 
the copping stone that broke and he got partially repaired in forming its opinion, but I dont 
think that is the case. 
QICs appointed expert looked at the whole of the swimming pool in forming their view. They 
said that in looking at the general condition of the whole pool, not just the area that was 
partially repaired, that the pool wasnt in a good state of repair generally. And that this 
potentially contributed to the claim that Mr A made. Having considered QICs report 
alongside Mr As evidence from his pool maintenance person I find QICs more persuasive 
as it is more detailed. And QIC got its in-house surveyor to look at everything afresh when 
Mr A provided his further supporting information and the surveyor agreed with the position 
QIC had originally taken.
I know Mr A feels that QIC has only considered the partially repaired stone, but I dont think 
thats right. I say this as QICs report says that Mr A had not noticed some of the cement 
grouting around some of the copping stones was old and well worn.. And QICs report 
clearly shows pictures from all around the pool and there is a level of damage or wear and 
tear that could have been a contributing factor here, especially as it would be difficult to 
envisage the edge stone (which is substantial) falling in when Mr A slipped on it as described 
if it wasnt already loose or in a state of poor repair.
I note that Mr A has raised questions around the call when he took out the policy. But as QIC 
has accepted the claim was genuine I dont propose to go over this again here. 
Overall, Im persuaded by QICs report and the photographs support the position outlined 
that some of the cement grouting was well worn. And so, I dont think QIC has acted 
unreasonably in turning down the claim as it feels the claim relates to gradual or 
maintenance related loss or damage. 
Finally, Mr A has indicated that he is considering getting an independent expert opinion. I 
know Mr A would like his complaint kept open, but I cant, in fairness to both sides, leave the 
matter open indefinitely. Mr A has had over two months to provide this from the date of my 
provisional decision and, as I highlighted then, if Mr A gains an independent expert opinion 
that supported his position I would expect QIC to reconsider his claim in line with the new 
evidence provided. And it is only fair that QIC should consider this in the first instance as this 
would be new evidence that it hasnt had the opportunity to comment on before now. So, Ill 
simply leave Mr A to advance this with QIC if he gains an independent expert opinion of his 
own.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman