DRN-2950263
The complaint
Ms B complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) wrongly 
calculated that she owed further money to it when a hire purchase agreement came to an 
end.  
What happened
On 22 September 2015 Ms B signed a 36-month hire purchase agreement with MBFS for a 
new car. The agreement recorded that Ms B was to make monthly payments of £297.83 and 
that the first was to be made one month after the date of the agreement  that is, on 22 
October 2015. The agreement would end on 22 September 2018, when Ms B would have to 
return the car or make an optional purchase payment of £11,300.
Ms B set up a direct debit to make the monthly payments, which were taken as planned until 
August 2018. About that time, Ms B changed her bank account. As a result, MBFS was 
unable to take payments due on 24 August and 24 September 2018.
Ms B also asked if she could extend the agreement because her new car was not yet ready 
for collection. She and MBFS signed a one-month extension to the agreement, ending on 24 
October 2018. She was to pay £288.47 in total. She requested a further extension but, whilst 
paperwork was prepared and sent to her, no further extension agreement was signed.
The car was returned to the dealership on 6 December 2018 and MBFS said that Ms B still 
owed it £559.49 in rental charges. Ms B did not agree with that figure and pointed to further 
payments she had made by cheque and by bank transfer. She and MBFS were unable to 
agree on the figures and so the matter was referred to this service, where one of our 
investigators considered it. She thought however that MBFS had correctly calculated the 
amount due, but Ms B did not agree and asked that an ombudsman review the case.  
I did that and issued a provisional decision. I thought that MBFS had overcharged, but not by 
as much as Ms B had calculated. 
I was satisfied that Ms B had paid for the rental of the car up to 24 October 2018. She had 
referred to a bank transfer made to Mercedes Benz on 24 September 2018, but I did not 
think this was a rental payment. It was not for a sum that correlated with the finance 
agreement; further, a payment in respect of that agreement would have been referenced 
MBFS, so I was satisfied it must have been for something else. 
However, MBFS had produced a final invoice for £466.24 plus VAT, based on the car having 
been returned 48 days after the end of the (extended) agreement. There was a dispute 
about how the car had been returned, but no dispute about when it was returned  on 6 
December 2018. There only 43 days between 24 October and 6 December 2018, not 48. 
The daily rate was calculated as one thirtieth of the monthly rate when the agreement ended 
in October 2018. But that rate already included VAT, so it appeared that MBFS had added 
VAT to a figure which already included it. That, together with the difference in the number of 
extra days rental, led to an over-charge of nearly £150. I recommended that MBFS re-
calculate Ms Bs final invoice accordingly. 
Neither MBFS nor Ms B responded to my provisional decision.         
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because neither party has commented on my provisional findings, I see no reason to depart 
from them.   
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that, to resolve this complaint, Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited should re-calculate Ms Bs final invoice based on (i) the car 
having been returned 43 days after the end of the agreed period and (ii) the daily rate of 
£9.62 including VAT. If necessary, it should refund any overpayment and pay Ms B £25 in 
recognition of any inconvenience to which she has been put. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman