DRN-2331972
The complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt update his credit record properly after he 
came out of Bankruptcy in 2015, or after he complained in May 2020.
What happened
Mr H was bankrupt for a year, from September 2014. He had two debts with HSBC which 
were written off as a result. HSBC added a default marker to Mr Hs credit file, showing the 
debts hadnt been fully paid off. But HSBCs system didnt pick up when the bankruptcy 
came to a formal end in 2015. 
In April 2020, Mr H went to a mortgage broker, who told him there was an active default 
showing on his credit record. Mr H complained to HSBC immediately, on 1 May. On 20 May, 
HSBC wrote to Mr H explaining the oversight, and saying theyd changed his credit record to 
show the debts were partially settled. They also paid him £1,000 compensation.
Mr H complained further, as when he looked at his credit record, it showed money still owed. 
HSBC said this wasnt the case, but noted the date of the default was recorded as October 
2014, rather than September. They corrected this, and compensated Mr H with a further 
£200.
Mr H came to us because he felt the compensation wasnt enough. He said hed struggled to 
get credit over the years because of the error, and so lost out on opportunities to be 
financially better off. He also provided medical records, saying the issues these showed 
were linked to the error and his inability to get credit. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint. Hes explained that the default didnt need to be 
removed from the credit file at the end of the bankruptcy, only marked as partially settled, 
which is what HSBC did. He also said the error didnt seem like the main reason Mr H hadnt 
been able to get credit over the years. So his view was HSBC had done enough to resolve 
the complaint. 
Mr H didnt agree with that finding, feeling not enough weight had been given to the impact 
these issues had on his medical conditions. So the case has come to me for review, and a 
final decision about how it should be resolved. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first part of the complaint  that Mr Hs credit record wasnt suitably updated in 2015  
seems to be accepted by HSBC. The second part  that the correction they then made 
wasnt accurate  is denied though. So Ive first looked at that in more detail.
When HSBC updated Mr Hs credit record in May 2020, they marked his accounts as 
partially settled. That appears to be accurate. Mr Hs bankruptcy saw him stop paying 
towards his debts with HSBC, meaning the accounts were rightly marked as in default. If 
Mr H had paid the debts off, the default records wouldnt have disappeared, but the debts 
would be marked as settled. But Mr H didnt pay the debts back  HSBC wrote them off. So 
partially settled is the accurate term to use. 
Looking at the credit records Mr H has shown us from late May 2020, I can see it took a few 
days longer than HSBC thought it would for their changes to show. That doesnt seem to be 
an error on their part. It seems more likely to reflect how long it took the credit reference 
agencies to update their records. 
In any case, Mr Hs latest credit report shows the default records have come off his credit 
record. This is to be expected, as the defaults happened more than six years ago. As such, 
theres no longer any action needed to correct the records. 
I appreciate Mr H feels the difference between the defaults showing as outstanding and 
partially settled has affected his ability to get credit over the years. Theres no evidence 
though of credit providers citing this as the reason for his not getting credit. Other factors, 
particularly his bankruptcy, seem like theyd be more significant. So Im not going to link any 
difficulty Mr H had getting credit over the years to the error on his credit record. 
That then means HSBC dont need to resolve the impact Mr Hs ability to get credit has had 
on him. So the medical records Mr H has shown us dont factor in to my decision. 
I appreciate it was upsetting when Mr H found out in May 2020 that there was an error on his 
credit record. That upset was relatively short-lived though, as HSBC corrected the record by 
the end of the month. And theyve compensated for the upset and inconvenience caused. 
Putting a financial value on an emotional impact is a matter of opinion. The combined £1,200 
that HSBC gave Mr H is a significant amount of money in my view. It does enough to 
acknowledge the upset caused for him during the month he was aware of the problem and 
was waiting for it to be fixed.
So overall, I find HSBC dont need to do anything else to correct Mr Hs credit record, and 
they dont need to pay him any more compensation. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman