DRN-4138774
The complaint
Mr B complains about the value Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited placed on his vehicle 
after he made a claim on his car insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says that Admiral can pay a cash sum to replace the damaged vehicle. It 
explains the most it will pay is the market value of the vehicle and it defines that as 
replacing the vehicle with a similar make, model, year mileage and condition based 
on market prices immediately before the loss happened. It goes on to say the value 
is based on research from industry recognised motor trade guides. 
In this instance, Mr Bs vehicle did not appear in the motor trade guides. Admiral 
therefore asked the opinion of an engineer as to the value of Mr Bs vehicle. It 
appears the engineer based that valuation on the average of two adverts and then 
deducted over £2,000 for the fact the vehicle had higher mileage than the advertised 
vehicles. 
It is not the role of this service to value a vehicle, we look at all of the information 
available to see if the insurer has offered a price that reflects a fair market value in 
line with the policy terms. In instances where the vehicle doesnt appear in motor 
trade guides, I recognise that this can be more difficult. 
I think Admiral acted reasonably by asking an engineer to provide their opinion on the 
value of the vehicle. However, here the engineer made a deduction for mileage at a 
set rate, but I have not been provided with any justification as to how that reflects 
market rates in relation to this particular vehicle and therefore, I cant say that 
deduction is fair. I accept generally that higher mileage will have an impact on the 
value of a vehicle, however I havent been provided with the evidence in this 
particular case why the rate is fair.
Mr B only purchased the vehicle around two months prior to the loss and therefore I 
think it is reasonable to also take this into account. There is also evidence available 
to me of a vehicle with similar mileage being advertised for a higher price than 
Admiral have offered.
Overall, having considered everything available to me, Im persuaded that the price 
Mr B purchased the vehicle for £7,800, most likely reflected a fair market value of it at 
the time of loss, even taking into account a reduction for mileage. I think this is 
supported by the fact the engineer initially started their valuation at a higher price of 
£8,245 before any deduction for mileage was made.
Admiral offered Mr B £25 compensation for the delay in providing him with its 
response to his complaint which I think is reasonable. Complaint handling itself isnt a 
regulated activity and therefore I wouldnt look to change this. 
 For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Admiral should pay Mr B a total of £7,800 in settlement for his vehicle. If it has already made 
payment of part of that amount to Mr B, it should arrange to pay any outstanding amount 
with interest added at 8% simple per annum from the date of the original payment to the date 
of settlement. 
Admiral is entitled to deduct any applicable excess.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint against Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman