DRN-1163625
 
The complaint
Mr I and Ms A complain that Acumen Financial Advisers Ltd carried out credit searches 
without their consent. They ask that it removes the searches from their credit files.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr I and Ms A contacted Acumen. They needed an agreement in principle 
(AIP) to reserve a new build property. Mr I says he told Acumen they didnt want searches 
on their credit files and asked that it only apply to lenders that did soft searches before 
an AIP. 
Mr I and Ms A told Acumen they'd had a AIP from a lender. Acumen applied to this lender on 
their behalf, but the AIP was declined. Acumen applied to a second lender, which also 
declined to issue a AIP. There was a discussion about Mr Is name and credit commitments. 
Acumen re-applied to the first lender, which then issued a AIP. Mr I and Ms A said they 
would deal with the lender directly.
Mr I and Ms A later found that the second lender had carried out two hard searches which 
were recorded on their credit files. They made a complaint. 
Acumen says it obtains customers consent to credit checks before dealing with requests for 
agreements in principle. Its adviser doesnt recall Mr I saying he only wanted soft searches. 
It said searches had to be repeated due to discrepancies with Mr Is name and credit 
commitments. Acumen said one or two searches would have an extremely small impact on a 
credit file  as proved by Mr I and Ms As successful application for an AIP.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld. He said Acumen hadnt 
provided evidence that it told Mr I and Ms A that searches would be done and how this 
would be recorded on their credit files. The adjudicator didnt think the searches would have 
had much of an impact on Mr I and Ms As credit files. He said Acumen should pay £50 
compensation to Mr I and Ms A for the inconvenience.
Acumen agreed and sent a cheque to Mr I and Ms A. Mr I and Ms A didnt agree, asking for 
more compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that searches were carried out when Acumen applied for AIPs on behalf 
of Mr I and Ms A. Mr I and Ms A provided screen shots showing two searches by one of the 
lenders on their credit reports.
It seems likely there was some discussion about searches. Acumen says it always asks for 
consent to searches before dealing with requests for AIPs. Mr I says they told Acumen not to make any applications which would involve a hard search. Acumen's adviser doesn't 
recollect this. There's no written record of what was discussed. 
I think the onus here is on Acumen to demonstrate it told Mr I and Ms A that searches would 
be carried out and recorded on their credit files, and got their consent to this. It's unable to 
provide a record of having done so.
Our adjudicator asked Mr I and Ms A for copies of their credit reports, to help understand 
how the two searches might have impacted their credit record. Mr I and Ms A said they didn't 
want to pay for copies of their reports. I appreciate Mr I and Ms A are concerned about their 
credit record, but they haven't provided evidence that the record of the two searches has 
caused difficulties or any loss. 
Putting things right
Acumen agreed to pay compensation of £50 for the upset and inconvenience this matter has 
caused to Mr I and Ms A. I think that's fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Based on the available evidence, I think it's unlikely the searches made in relation to the 
AIP application had an impact such as to make it fair and reasonable to require Acumen to 
pay further compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Acumen Financial Advisers Ltd to pay £50 
to Mr I and Ms A, if it hasn't already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman