DRN-3319349
The complaint
Miss H complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim under
her car insurance policy.
What happened
Miss H was involved in a car accident in June 2021 when she says she bumped into another
vehicle at a roundabout. She says there was slight damage to her car. When driving home
after the accident a warning light came on and the engine was making a funny noise. At
this point Miss H says she pulled over and arranged for her car to be taken back to her home
on the back of a recovery truck.
Miss H says Advantage arranged for her car to be taken to a garage and repaired. After the
repair the garage arranged for her car to be driven back to her home. When Miss H next
drove the car, it broke down after half a mile. She says the garage collected the car and
advised there was no coolant in the engine. It has since been found that there is significant
damage to the engine requiring extensive repairs.
Advantage says that the engine damage happened when Miss H drove the car after the
accident. It says she told it the engine overheated when driving home and the warning light
came on. Advantage says its policy terms exclude any damage caused by the car being
moved after an accident.
Miss H says she stopped driving as soon as she noticed a problem. She thinks the damage
was caused by the garage driving the car to her home without being repaired properly. She
thinks Advantage should have paid for the repairs or declared the car a write-off. Because of
this she referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld Miss Hs complaint. She thought the drive back from the garage
could have contributed to the engine failure. And that the garage had delivered back the car
on the understanding it had been repaired. She didnt think Advantage had acknowledged
the contribution the garage had potentially had on the engine failing.
Our investigator thought it fair for Advantage to reassess Miss Hs claim. Because the car
had been sold by Miss H in a damaged state to avoid further costs, our investigator thought
the business should provide a payment for £11,723. This was to cover the difference
between the payment she received for the damaged car and the undamaged market value.
She suggested 8% interest should also be payable to Miss H in compensation.
Advantage didnt agree. It says Miss H caused the damage by driving the car after the
accident. The business asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2022 explaining that I was intending to not uphold 
Miss Hs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Miss H feels frustrated and disappointed by Advantages decision not
to cover the cost of the damaged engine. The repairs have been shown to be very
expensive, costing more than £10,000. And this is for damage Miss H thinks the garage
caused by not identifying a problem and driving the car to her house.
This service doesnt assess whether or how damage to a vehicle is caused as this is a
matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and engineers. Our role
in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has considered all the
available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for additional repairs.
Advantage arranged for an engineers report. I think this was reasonable in the
circumstances and what we would expect an insurance company to do. The report
concludes that the damage to the engine was caused by Miss H continuing to drive the car
after the accident without realising her car had lost all its coolant.
I have read the report in detail to understand the engineers conclusion. He says following
the accident the garage replaced the radiator and that the engine didnt appear overly noisy
and coolant and oil levels were correct. Following the subsequent breakdown, the car was
sent to the main dealer. It was here that the engine was confirmed to have overheated to an
extent that a replacement was needed.
The information from the main dealer confirms a new engine is required, due to heavy
condemnation [sic] of water.
The engineers report says:
The normal checks were completed by running the vehicle up to operating temperature and
checking for leaks etc. No issues were identified during road test or during the 4 mile
delivery back to the customer It is unfortunate that the vehicle then developed further
issues after delivery however the root cause remains the same that the vehicle was driven
by the customer after the claim incident with no coolant which then caused damage to the
engine.
The policy terms under What isnt covered under sections 1 and 2 on page 18 say:
Any additional damage resulting from your Car being moved by anyone insured under your
Policy after an accident, fire or theft.
Miss H explains that she attempted to drive home after the accident but pulled over when
warning lights came on and it was making a funny noise. I acknowledge her comments
that she is not an engineer and until the lights came on only thought she had a cracked
bumper. But its clear she did drive the car following damage that had been caused to the
cars radiator. Its because she drove the car it developed a funny noise and the warning
light came on. The indication being that damage was caused to the engine at this time.
Its clear from the engineers report that the radiator needed replacing and coolant had
leaked out due to the accident. The invoice from the garage confirms coolant was replaced
during the repair. Having considered this, its clear the damage caused by the accident was
more significant that Miss H describes. The impact was severe enough to damage the cars
radiator, allowing coolant to leak out. I think its likely this will have been visible on the road.Certainly, given the damage caused by the accident, and the severity of impact this implies, I
think it would have been a reasonable precaution for Miss H to have not driven her car but
arranged for its recovery.
When considering all of this I find Advantages view persuasive that the engine damage
occurred because there was no coolant in the engine when Miss H drove the car after the
accident.
I have thought about Miss Hs argument that the garage should have identified a problem
with the engine, and it caused damage by driving the car to her home.
I must be guided by the expert opinion here, which is the engineers report provided by
Advantage. The report explains that the normal checks were undertaken including a road
test and that the car was showing no issues when it was delivered back. It maintains the
underlying root cause of the engine damage was it being driven with no coolant after the
accident.
I certainly think its unfortunate the underlying issue with the engine wasnt identified prior to
the car being delivered back to Miss H. But its clear the car was driven without coolant after
the accident. I think the engineers view is persuasive that the damage occurred when Miss
H drove the car. The garage was able to get the car running again for a short period. But on
balance I think its reasonably been shown that the damage had already been done by this
point.
Im sorry that Miss H has incurred significant expense because of the damage that was
caused to her cars engine. This must be very upsetting for her. But I think Advantage has
justified its decision not to pay for repairs, because the engine damage was caused when
she continued to drive the car after the accident. Because of this I think Advantage treated
Miss H fairly in relying on the policy terms and declining to pay for the repairs. So, I cant
reasonably ask it to do any more to resolve her complaint.
I said I was intending to not uphold Miss Hs complaint.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Advantage responded to say it agrees with my provisional decision and has no further 
comments. 
Miss H responded with two emails. In the first she says damage potentially caused by the 
garage when driving her car hasnt been considered. And that the report provided by the 
garage is one sided and biased. She says Advantage knew about the damage and did not 
relay this correctly to the garage. Miss H says she paid a £250 insurance excess charge only 
to receive a damaged car in return. She is disappointed that the ombudsman hasnt helped 
her and again refers to a biased view of the situation presented by corrupted companies.
In her second email Miss H queries if there was another report post repairs to see what 
damage the garage caused when driving it. She queries how the garage can be sure it didnt 
add to the damage. And why repairs were carried out, knowing the car had been driven, only 
to then refuse to carry out further repairs when the engine damage was known. Miss H says 
it wasnt acknowledged that the garage drove the car and the damage this couldve caused. 
Miss H says her car showed minimal damage after the accident and was told by 
Advantages engineer that he/she would have driven it. She describes a scenario where a 
friend was instructed by the police to drive their car to safety after an accident. She asks if this had been the case here, would the decision be different. Miss H also talks about a 
scenario where a patient can ask for a second opinion from an anaesthetist. She says the 
point being made is Advantage had the option to appeal to the ombudsman twice, and asks, 
where is mine. 
Miss H also queries if she was treated fairly when her car was sent to the manufacturer. And 
says she was forced to trade in her car for a fraction of its worth, because it couldnt be 
stored without cost to Miss H. Because of this the car cannot now be independently 
inspected.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained that our service relies on the opinion of experts in 
these circumstances. The expert opinion provided confirms damage was caused when the 
car was driven, with no coolant, after the accident. The garage repaired the car, replaced the 
radiator, and coolant, and was able to get it running again. From the report provided the 
engine was operating normally at the time it was tested, and no issues were noticed when it 
was delivered to Miss H.   
I acknowledge Miss Hs comments about whether the garage knew about the circumstances 
of the accident, and that she had driven the car. But I dont think this has an impact on the 
outcome. 
The garage was made aware that the oil light had come on and the engine was making a 
funny noise. It identified the problem with the damaged radiator and lack of coolant, along 
with the other repairs needed. It attempted to repair the car, which I think has been shown to 
be appropriate course of action. The engineer report determined the damage to the engine 
occurred when Miss H drove it with no coolant. Although the damaged radiator and missing 
coolant were replaced by the garage, the engineer confirms that the damage had already 
been done by this point. It was the car being driven without coolant by Miss H that ultimately 
resulted in the engine failure shortly after the car was returned to her. 
I understand Miss H is upset with the outcome of her claim, and that she paid £250 despite 
the repair being unsuccessful. But based on the information provided I dont think it was 
unreasonable for the garage to carry out the repairs described. As above, the repairs initially 
succeeded in getting the engine running, and the tests showed it was operating within 
normal parameters. Its very unfortunate that significant damage had already been caused to 
the engine when it was driven after the accident. But this wasnt known at the time repairs 
were attempted. Advantage charged the excess fee in line with Miss Hs policy terms, which 
I think was fair. 
I acknowledge that Miss H has strong views that in driving her car the garage caused or 
contributed toward the engine damage. I thought about this when writing my provisional 
decision. But I think the engineers report is persuasive that damage was caused when it 
was driven without coolant by Miss H after the accident. I acknowledge she says that no 
independent assessment of the damage can take place now. But this is something Miss H 
could have arranged prior to selling her car back to the manufacturer. 
I dont dispute Miss Hs view that she thought the car had suffered only minimal damage. But 
the policy terms are clear in excluding damage caused by driving a vehicle after an accident. 
The car was damaged to an extent that allowed the coolant to leak out, which will likely have 
been visible on the road. In the circumstances I maintain my view that a reasonable precaution will have been not to drive the car. 
I acknowledge Miss Hs description of the scenarios she thinks relate to her complaint. But I 
dont think these have relevance here. She wasnt told to move her car by the police after the 
accident, so this didnt influence her decision to drive it. Miss H had the opportunity to 
provide evidence in support of her complaint to this service. And the opportunity to appeal 
my provisional decision. So, I dont agree that Advantage has had an opportunity to appeal 
when she hasnt.
Miss H queries whether she was treated fairly when her car was taken to the manufacturer. 
My understanding is this was done to allow the manufacturer to assess the damage to the 
engine. In the circumstances, I dont think this was unreasonable.  
Im sorry that Miss H has suffered a significant financial loss because of the engine damage 
caused to her car. But I think Advantage acted fairly when relying on its policy terms and 
declining to pay for repairs relating to the engine damage.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Miss Hs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman