DRN-3853001
The complaint
Mr P complains that Investec Wealth & Investment Limited failed to manage his investment 
portfolio in line with the discretionary mandate he agreed to.
What happened
In 2017, Mr P held an account with Investec and agreed for his portfolio to be managed on a 
discretionary basis. His portfolio was created after receiving his share of trust proceeds. It 
was assessed that Mr Ps portfolio was to be managed in line with the balanced risk 
mandate.
Amongst other assets in Mr Ps portfolio there were two holdings  one in IPF and one in 
PFG which are the main subject of complaint. Its recorded that these holdings were to be 
held to await long term recovery as the value had decreased whilst in the trust holding. In 
2018, Mr P had expressed concern over the value of these two holdings, at one point asking 
for them to be sold up to his CGT allowance. However, the portfolio continued to contain the 
holdings.
Mr P complained that the holdings made the portfolio imbalanced and fell outside of the 
agreed mandate. He felt Investec shouldve done more to put this right and mitigate the 
losses he experienced whilst holding them.
Our Investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. She explained that the mandate for 
Mr Ps discretionary portfolio specifically said there would be no more than 10% of the 
portfolio in any single stock, but that both these holdings were above that threshold. She 
said this made the portfolio unsuitable and suggested redress in line with our long 
established approach  to compare Mr Ps portfolio with a benchmark and pay any loss.
Mr P agreed. Investec disagreed and made the following points:
- The PFG and IPF holdings werent included in the portfolio as Mr P decided he 
wanted to keep those holdings for any potential recovery
- The valuations made clear that these holdings were outside of the main discretionary 
mandate as they were marked with the letter H to show the holdings were restricted
- Mr P was told he could reduce the holdings if he wanted to
- The opportunity was given to Mr P to change his strategy of excluding the holdings 
from the discretionary management of the portfolio but he didnt take up this offer
- As the holdings were excluded from the wider management of the account they are 
outside of the mandate
Our Investigator responded to say that it appears Mr P agreed to continue with the PFG and 
IPF holdings at the suggestion of Investec. She said theres no evidence to show the 
holdings were classed as being execution only and its clear they were under the direct 
management of Investec. She reasserted that the complaint should be upheld.
Investec responded to say that the IPF and PFG holdings were ringfenced rather than 
execution only. It said they formed part of the advice but not the mandate and Mr P had 
agreed to this. Investec explained that as the holdings were ringfenced and didnt form part 
of the portfolio mandate, the level of the holdings didnt make it unsuitable for Mr P. It said it 
was Mr P that decided on this strategy and course of action.
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to reach a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint for similar reasons to our Investigator. Investec 
hasnt managed Mr Ps portfolio in line with his attitude to risk and agreed mandate  making 
it unsuitable. Ill explain why.
In 2017 Mr P agreed to a discretionary agreement with Investec. Its recorded that the 
agreed mandate was the medium/balanced risk mandate. The Mandate fact sheet says:
Consideration: No individual stock should account for more than 10% of the equity content 
of the portfolio.
At the time of the agreement, the holding for IPF made up 11% and the holding for PFG 
made up over 15% of Mr Ps overall portfolio. So, Mr P had significantly more than the 10% 
threshold. Theres no indication on any of the documentation from around this time that the 
IPF and PFG holdings fell outside of the discretionary agreement. And, it appears from 
Investecs latest submission that the holdings formed part of the agreement but fell outside 
of the mandate. So, Ive considered what this meant for Mr P, and whether it made his 
portfolio unsuitable for him and if so, that he was made aware of this.
The holdings are mentioned in Mr Ps 2017 periodic review. In this it says: 
a large percentage position in [PFG and IPF] was transferred and post discussions with 
client, happy to hold looking for a recovery in the respective share prices prior to disposal. 
Client understands the associated risks.
It appears the holdings were discussed but as they made up part of the portfolio, and the 
discretionary service, Id have expected there to be reasons why they should be held and 
pointers to the fact the holdings were higher than the agreed mandate and the risks 
associated with that. But I cant see this was pointed out.
In 2018, Mr P raised concerns over the continual losses these specific holdings were 
experiencing and asked to dispose of some. But it appears from the phone call Ive listened 
to that Investec advised him to continue with the strategy of holding on to them and waiting 
to recover. I acknowledge that it was Mr P that decided to do nothing, but this was based on 
information from Investec and crucially, Mr P had an agreement and paid for the service in 
relation to this. Effectively, I believe Mr P kept these holdings as he felt Investec was 
advising him to do so. In a later call in November 2018 the Investec investment manager 
said Are you happy to take our advice and continue to hold for now? This was in response 
to Mr Ps concerns over both the weighting of the PFG and IPF holdings and the 
performance. So its clear to me that Investec managed these holdings and decided this was 
the best course of action for Mr Ps circumstances.
Investec says it gave Mr P the opportunity to include the holdings as part of his mandate  
and it explained at this point its Investment Manager wouldve ensured action was taken to 
bring the portfolio in line with the mandate. Investec quoted the following in support of this:we would not look generally to hold circa 30% of the portfolio in [PFG and IPF] however 
we decided to run with the exposure as a result of the large share price falls seen, 
particularly in PFG just prior to the transfer to you. If you are unhappy holding the positions 
and continuing to run the risk whilst we wait for recovery in value please do confirm. I am 
happy however running the above strategy for you.
Whilst this does enable Mr P to make some decisions, it effectively confirms that this 
strategy is what Investec is advising him to do. And whilst it refers to the size of the holdings 
in the portfolio, it doesnt specifically point out that this would make the portfolio fall outside 
of the agreed mandate or that it was posing too much risk for Mr P. The correspondence 
later refers to a ring fence but I dont think Investec made it clear that this could mean this 
level of holding isnt suitable for Mr P. 
Mr P was paying Investec for its discretionary management of his portfolio. The only option it 
gave Mr P was to run the strategy of holding on to the PFG and IPF shares or manage them 
himself. So, Mr P could reasonably expect that the strategy and portfolio management would 
be in line with his agreed risk profile and mandate. But I cant see that it was. Investec 
managed Mr Ps whole portfolio, so even if the mandated concentration percentage for 
single holdings was slightly out of line, the whole portfolio had to be balanced to meet Mr Ps 
risk profile. But over a quarter of his portfolio was concentrated in two very similar holdings 
which appear to present a high level of risk. 
Whether these funds were ringfenced or not, Investec had a duty to manage Mr Ps whole 
portfolio in line with his risk profile and having such a large concentration in one area skewed 
his portfolio to the extent that it wasnt suitable for him. This is demonstrated in the 
investment proposal whereby the suggested allocation of UK Equities is 28% but the 
inclusion of these holdings brought that level to 52%. The evidence shows me that it was 
Investec advising Mr P to keep these holdings in place with the knowledge they presented a 
high level of risk.
I appreciate that the role of a discretionary investment manager is a balancing act, but Mr P 
was paying for a service where he could expect his portfolio to be managed in line with his 
agreed objectives and risk profile. I cant see that Investec did this. Investec has asked me to 
decide at which point the strategy relating to the PFG and IPF holdings shouldve changed  
as it has explained Mr P didnt decide to change strategy or take over the management of 
these holdings himself. But Ive already explained the portion of those holdings didnt meet 
the mandate, and skewed the overall portfolio to the extent that it was unsuitable for Mr P. 
And this was the case from the start of his agreement with Investec  in 2017. So, in my 
view Investecs initial advice and management of Mr Ps portfolio as a whole was unsuitable 
for Mr Ps agreed circumstances and risk profile. So, it needs to put this right.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
P as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable 
advice.
I take the view that Mr P would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr P's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Investec do?To compensate Mr P fairly, Investec must:
Compare the performance of Mr P's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Investec should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Discretionar
y PortfolioNo longer in 
forceFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate 
ceased to 
be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the Investec should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Investec totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr P wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr P's circumstances and risk attitude.My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Investec Wealth & Investment Limited should 
pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Investec Wealth & Investment Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr P in a 
clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman