DRN-3368664
The complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr A was given a loan by Santander in July 2017. He borrowed £5,600 that he agreed to 
repay in 12 monthly instalments. Mr A repaid the loan, as planned, in July 2018.
Mr As complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think Santander 
had been wrong to give the loan to Mr A. So he didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr A didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr As complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time Santander gave this loan to Mr A required it to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he 
owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Santander had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr A. In 
practice this meant that Santander had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt 
cause Mr A undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for 
Santander to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider 
the impact of any repayments on Mr A. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Santander did what it needed to before agreeing to 
lend to Mr A.
Santander gathered some information from Mr A before it agreed the loan. It asked him for 
details of his income, and his normal expenditure. And it says it checked his credit file to 
assess how much he was repaying to other creditors and how he had managed credit in the 
past. But Santander hasnt provided us with the results of that credit check.
Mr A was entering into a significant commitment with Santander. He would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of a year. So I think it was right that Santander wanted to 
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr As financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. But without the results of the credit check 
I cannot reasonably conclude that Santanders checks were proportionate. 
But although I cant conclude that the checks Santander did before agreeing the loan were 
sufficient, that in itself doesnt mean that Mr As complaint should succeed. Id also need to 
be persuaded that proportionate checks would have shown Santander that Mr A couldnt 
sustainably afford the repayments. Mr A has provided us with a copy of his credit file so I am 
able to use that to see what it is likely the checks would have shown Santander.
Mr A told Santander that he was earning around £1,578 each month, and that his normal 
expenditure was £400. Given the circumstances of this loan application I dont think it was 
necessary for Santander to take further steps, such as asking Mr A for copies of his bank 
statements, to verify what hed said about his disposable income. So it would seem 
reasonable for Santander to conclude, based on what Mr A had declared, that he would be 
able to afford the loan repayments in a sustainable manner.
Mr As credit file doesnt suggest that Santander would have seen anything that I think 
should have caused any concerns. It appears that Mr A had managed his credit well in the 
past. At the time he took the loan he had two small credit card accounts, and an overdraft on 
his main bank account. Taken together I dont think those accounts should have led 
Santander to conclude that either Mr A was over-reliant on credit, or that he was facing any 
other problems managing his money.
I appreciate that over the following twelve months, although he repaid this loan on time, Mr A 
appears to have faced increasing pressure on his finances. He made another loan 
application to Santander in November 2018 that was declined, as the lender saw evidence of 
extensive short term borrowing when it checked his application. And that would suggest that 
Mr A was finding it difficult to meet his financial commitments over that time. But those 
problems were not apparent at the time Santander approved the first loan in 2017. So I dont 
think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman