DRN-2512625
The complaint
Miss B complains about Brazier Consulting Services Ltd (BCS) and the service they 
provided when making a claim for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI).
What happened
Miss B instructed BCS to make claims for mis-sold PPI in September 2018. She signed the 
relevant Letters of Authority (LOA) and BCS submitted the claims to the lenders. Lender B 
responded explaining there was no PPI on Miss Bs account. But Lender S upheld Miss Bs 
claim and awarded Miss B a PPI refund in February 2019.
Miss B received the offer from Lender S but wanted to discuss this further with BCS. She 
attempted to contact BCS but couldnt get through. As Miss B was abroad at the time, she e-
mailed BCS to make them aware of this and asked them to respond to her query about the 
offer by e-mail only. But Miss B didnt feel like she received an answer to her question about 
the offer Lender S made. 
BCS continued to invoice Miss B for their settlement fee, in line with the terms and 
conditions of the agreement. But Miss B didnt pay this, as she wanted her questions 
answered first. BCS passed the amount Miss B owed to a third-party debt collection 
company, who Ill refer to as W, and Miss B found this action to be threatening and unfair. 
So, she raised a complaint.
Miss B complained about the information BCS provided to her before she signed the LOAs. 
She said BCS told her she had PPI with Lender B, and this turned out not to be the case. 
So, she felt shed been mis-led into using BCSs services. She also complained about BCSs 
failure to discuss the offer made by Lender S with her, despite her efforts to make them 
aware she was abroad at the time. She also disputed BCSs ability to charge their fee, as 
she didnt sign a second LOA she was sent. And because of this, she didnt think BCS were 
fair to refer her to W, who BCS had described as a legal representative. She also raised 
concerns with the way BCS handled her DSAR request. 
BCS didnt issue a response to Miss Bs complaint within the eight-week time period, so Miss 
B referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. She recognised the information 
BCS gave Miss B regarding Lender B was incorrect. But shed seen on system notes that 
BCS acknowledged this in December 2018 and apologised, and she thought this was fair. 
She thought the LOA for the claim against Lender S was separate and she couldnt see that 
Miss B had cancelled the agreement. So, she thought BCS were fair to continue with the 
claim and, as the claim was upheld by Lender S, she thought BCS acted reasonably when 
invoicing Miss B for their settlement fee even though a second LOA hadnt been signed.
She also recognised BCS had issued their DSAR response a day later but explained this 
complaint was better dealt with by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). And she 
thought Miss B had been confused by Ws involvement but didnt think BCS had incorrectly 
referred her to a representative. So, she didnt think BCS needed to do anything more for the 
above.
But she didnt think BCS had failed to contact Miss B appropriately to discuss the offer made 
by Lender S. She thought Miss B made BCS aware she was abroad and needed to discuss 
this offer by e-mail. And from what shed seen, she didnt think BCS did this reasonably. And 
she understood how this wouldve upset and frustrated Miss B. So, she thought BCS should 
pay Miss B £75 to compensate her for this. Miss B accepted this offer. But BCS didnt. BCS 
thought theyd made it clear to Miss B that they felt the offer made by Lender S was 
reasonable in the invoice theyd sent. So, didnt think Miss B theyd done anything wrong 
when not discussing this with Miss B further. As BCS didnt agree, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss B. I recognise that Miss 
B was abroad for most of the time this claim, and its associated complaint was ongoing, and 
this wouldve made the issue more stressful for her. I can understand why Miss B wanted to 
ensure the offer Lender S made was fair before accepting it. And when she encountered 
issues with BCS when asking this question, I can understand why Miss B wouldve been 
upset. I can also understand why Miss B wouldve been confused and worried when the 
amount she owed was passed to W. For these reasons, I can understand why Miss B may 
dispute the fee BCS were charging her, as she was unhappy with the level of service she 
received.
But for me to say BCSs settlement fee shouldnt be paid, Id need to be satisfied that theyd 
completed no work of value on the claim. Or, that BCS didnt have the necessary authority to 
complete the work on Miss Bs behalf in the first instance. And I dont think thats the case.
Ive considered Miss Bs comments about being mis-led into using BCSs services. BCS 
havent disputed they told Miss B she had PPI with Lender B, only for Lender B to confirm 
otherwise. And BCS have admitted this was a mistake. They apologised for this at the time 
and I think this is a fair resolution, as Miss B didnt lose out financially by this mis-
information.
But I dont think this error mis-led Miss B into agreeing for BCS to undertake further claims 
on her behalf. Ive seen Miss B signed a separate LOA for the claim against Lender S. So, I 
think this was a separate agreement for a separate claim. It was Miss Bs own decision to 
authorise BCS to look into claims against lenders other than Lender B. And as she signed 
the LOA, I dont think BCS did anything wrong by submitting the claim which led to a 
successful refund.
I recognise Miss B didnt sign the second LOA BCS sent. But the LOAs are used to ensure 
the lenders correspond with companies such as BCS as the representative of the customer. 
They dont impact the agreement customers such as Miss B entered into. I cant see 
evidence to show Miss B cancelled her agreement with BCS and I dont think choosing not 
to sign a LOA is enough to show she wanted to cancel it. From what Ive seen, BCS 
submitting the claim to Lender S and Lender S upheld it from that submission. I also think Miss B was aware BCS were progressing this claim on her behalf and she was happy for 
them to do so as she sought their advice after Lender Ss offer was received. So, I think BCS 
acted fairly when invoicing Miss B for their settlement fee. So, I cant say this did anything 
wrong on these points.
And when Miss B didnt pay BCSs fee, I can see they referred the outstanding amount to W. 
I think this caused some confusion for Miss B, and this led to her complaint about being 
referred to a representative. But from what Ive seen, I dont think BCS incorrectly advised 
Miss B about this. I can see they emailed Miss B in July 2019 to confirm her debt had been 
passed to W and also provided a contact number. This is something they were entitled to do 
after their fee hadnt been paid. Because of this, I dont think they did anything wrong for this 
point of complaint.
But I do think BCS failed to communicate with Miss B reasonably after Lender S made their 
offer. Miss B has provided a screenshot of her husbands call list which shows a call was 
made to BCS on 12 February 2019. Miss B says she spoke to BCS, but the advisor she 
spoke to was unable to answer her question about the offer. She says she explained she 
was abroad on this call and wanted to be contacted by e-mail the next day. BCSs system 
notes dont show any record of this call. But as Ive seen a call was made to BCS on that 
day, I think its most likely that it did. So, I wouldve expected BCS to note Miss Bs request 
to receive contact by email only. And for her request for contact to be fulfilled. But I cant see 
that it was.
From the system notes provided, I can see BCS did try to contact Miss B. But the majority of 
this contact was by call and text, which Miss B wouldnt have been able to receive. Ive seen 
one note recording the dialling tone as an overseas tone, so I think BCS were aware Miss B 
wasnt in the country at that time. As BCS failed to contact Miss B by email as I think she 
requested, Ive seen Miss B had to chase BCS by email. And when she did, she received 
information about why BCSs fee was payable, but I cant see there were discussions about 
the offer itself. So, I think BCS failed to answer Miss Bs question reasonably. 
I understand BCS think they made it clear in their invoice that they thought the offer was 
reasonable. But Ive seen from the terms and conditions of the agreement that BCS would 
inform you of all offers that we receive from the defendant; evaluate them and
contact you to inform you of the decision and discuss if we think it is fair. So, I think BCS 
had an obligation to discuss the offer with Miss B if thats what she wanted to do. I think she 
made efforts to do this but BCS failed to fulfil this. And because of this, I think their service 
fell below the standard Id expect to see.
Miss B had also confirmed she did receive a response to her DSAR, but it was received a 
day late. Complaints about failing to comply with DSAR requests fall under the jurisdiction of 
the ICO, rather than our service, so this isnt something Ive considered further. 
Putting things right
As I think BCS failed to communicate with Miss B effectively after Lender S made an offer, 
Ive then considered what I think BCS should do to put things right.
I think BCSs failure to acknowledge Miss Bs request for contact by e-mail only led to Miss B 
having to spent time chasing BCS for a reply. I think this wouldve been frustrating and 
upsetting. Also, I think if BCS had responded to Miss Bs request for a discussion about the 
offer then its likely she wouldve accepted it sooner. So, she wouldve have had access to 
the funds owed to her in a shorter amount of time. Our investigator suggested a payment of 
£75 to recognise the impact Ive detailed above, and I think this is similar to what I wouldve 
recommended. So, I think BCS should pay Miss B £75 to acknowledge the frustration and upset Miss B felt.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Miss Bs complaint about Brazier Consulting 
Services Ltd and direct them to take the following action:
Pay Miss B £75 to recognise the frustration and upset she was caused after the 
failed to take into account her communication requests.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman