DRN-3988672
The complaint
Mr S complains that Secure Trust Bank Plc breached his Individual Savings Account (ISA) 
agreement.
What happened
Mr S says he opened a cash ISA with Secure Trust with the intention and agreement that his 
ISA would be transferred from a third party provider and that he would also add a lump sum 
contribution into the ISA. He says when the account was opened, he deposited this money 
into the ISA, however, after a few weeks he noticed the transferred funds were not showing 
online. Mr S says he spoke with a Secure Trust call handler on 27 May 2022, and he was 
told a form had been sent to his address to be signed, but he never received the form. He 
says he was told via email that an ISA bond certificate had been issued to him, but he hadnt 
received this either. Mr S told them he wanted to close the account with immediate effect. He 
wanted to be paid the funds deposited into the account including the accrued interest. Mr S 
made a complaint to Secure Trust.
Secure Trust partially upheld Mr S complaint. They said as the third party he was 
transferring from required a form via the post for ISA transfers then a manual ISA transfer 
form was posted to him on 27 April 2022. They said Mr S needed to sign this. Secure Trust 
said that they offered to send him out another form on 27 May 2022, but he declined this. 
They said a senior advisor attempted to ring Mr S on 1 June 2022, however, the call didnt 
connect, and they were unable to leave a voicemail. Secure Trust told Mr S that he could 
close the ISA but as per the terms of the account there would be a 90 day early access 
interest charge and they gave him details of how he could close the account with this 
penalty. They said it was not their process to call or email customers regarding the manual 
ISA transfer form. Secure Trust said they agreed with him that the welcome letter they sent 
could be clearer by advising him they might need further information if a manual ISA transfer 
is required, so they escalated this feedback to a department manager. Mr S brought his 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr S complaint. He said that when Mr S received the 
welcome letter he thought the transfer would be underway from the third party provider to 
Secure Trust. He said that based on the third party ISA providers requirements, Secure 
Trust needed to send him a manual form which needed to be signed by Mr S, which they 
sent him on 27 April 2022. Our investigator also said they sent out his ISA bond certificate 
on 6 June 2022. He said as Mr S opened a one year fixed rate ISA, the terms say a penalty 
(loss of interest) will be applied if its closed before maturity and thats why the account had 
not been closed to avoid any loss of penalty interest.
Mr S asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said the account was solely open on the basis that Secure Trust would open 
an ISA meaning that it was strictly subjected to transferring his external ISA to this new 
account and it wasnt connected to any bond, but nothing was done to comply with his 
agreement. He said he received no further information or notification, so it was only when 
phoning them that he became aware that nothing had been done to transfer the funds, so he 
gave notice to close the account within the time limit on 27 May 2022 when he spoke to 
them on the phone.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Id like to explain to Mr S that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their ISA transfer procedures and policies, such as what they should include in a welcome 
letter, or how they should communicate with customers when further information is needed 
(via by post or another channel) and whether they should follow up on this if they dont 
receive anything back within a certain timeframe. It would be the role of the regulator  the 
Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct Secure Trust to make changes 
to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Ive considered what Mr S has said about the account being solely opened to transfer his 
external ISA into this account. But Mr S wanted the account to not only transfer his external 
ISA into, but to also contribute a lump sum to the ISA. So I cant say that the ISA he opened 
was just to receive the external ISA. I say this as Secure Trust have sent us a screenshot of 
the application process. In the Funding your ISA section of the application form it says 
Deposits to your cash ISA must be made from your Nominated Bank Account. If you wish to 
transfer current or previous tax years cash ISA deposits to fund this cash ISA you must give 
the transfer instructions as part of this application. Transfer instructions cannot be given after 
the application form is completed. It then asks how do you intend to fund your ISA. The 
options are transfer, deposit or both. Secure Trust have told us that Mr S wanted both as he 
was both aiming to transfer from his third party provider and to deposit into this ISA.
So Im satisfied that there was one application for one account. Secure Trust have confirmed 
that had the transfer request been successful then the funds would have been deposited in 
the same account with the same details as the deposits he made into this account. While at 
times the ISA has also been referred to as a bond, this is because the bond represents the 
fixed nature of the product. This is not a separate product to the cash ISA Mr S applied for  
a one year fixed rate cash ISA. So Im satisfied that the agreement was for one cash ISA to 
be opened, and the evidence shows only one was opened. 
Mr S cash ISA was opened on 20 April 2022. Secure Trust sent a letter to Mr S registered 
address on this date to inform him that his ISA was opened. I can also see that they issued 
Mr S a temporary password via email and I can see that Mr S changed the password on the 
following day. So he should have reasonably been aware that his account was opened on 20 
April. 
The letter contained details of how Mr S could pay into his one year fixed rate ISA and Mr S 
did make deposits into this account. In the section regarding transferring an ISA it says If 
you requested to transfer an existing ISA to us when you applied, we are now in the process 
of arranging the transfer with your current provider. But while Mr S would say Secure Trust 
did nothing, Im not persuaded by this. As per the letter, they were in the process of 
transferring the ISA, but unfortunately, the provider who Mr S was transferring from 
requested paper based transfer forms. 
Secure Trust sent Mr S an ISA certificate to him on 6 June 2022, but Mr S says he didnt 
receive this. But Im unable to hold Secure Trust responsible for the delivery of post when this would be out of their control. It would also be out of their control if his third party ISA 
provider were unable to accept electronic requests and they needed a paper based transfer 
form, which Mr S needed to sign and return the form. 
I asked Secure Trust for the times Mr S has logged into his account. They have sent a 
screenshot to evidence that Mr S was able to log into his account multiple times between 21 
April 2022 and when he rang them on 27 May 2022, so he would have been aware the ISA 
transfer had not completed. 
Ive listened to the call Mr S had on 27 May 2022 with Secure Trust. The call handler 
explains that they sent the ISA transfer form to Mr S in the post, and he says he never 
received it. She says they would need to send a new form to transfer the ISA and Mr S asks 
if he can do this over the phone, but the call handler confirms the third party provider who he 
was transferring from can only deal with paper based forms. Mr S asked to close the account 
instead of her sending out a new transfer form. She explained she wouldnt be able to close 
the account when Mr S asks about a penalty and she arranges a call back with a manager 
A member of staff did attempt to call Mr S on 1 June 2022. Mr S was told this at 17:04pm on 
the same day. Secure Trust would aim to give a call back within 72 hours. But the attempted 
call back took longer than 72 hours. This is because of the weekend. Secure Trust could 
have been clearer that they meant 72 hours excluding non working days, but Im satisfied 
they did try and call Mr S. Secure Trusts account notes for Mr S show that a further call was 
made on 6 June 2022. So it does appear he was able to speak to a manager, albeit later 
than the may have wanted to.
Mr S has said several times from 27 May 2022 that he wanted to close his account and 
close it immediately. But Secure Trust have told him that there was a 90 day penalty to do 
this and asked Mr S if he wanted to proceed with this, and Mr S confirms absolutely Not. 
So this is why Secure Trust did not close his account when he asked them to as he would 
have incurred a penalty without his agreement to close the account with a penalty. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr S account. This is what he and Secure Trust 
would have been bound by when he opened the ISA with them. The terms and conditions 
are clear that A 14 day cancellation period applies to this account. If you change your mind 
within the 14 days after we open the account for you, you may close it without charge and it 
will be as if you never had the ISA. So Mr S would have had 14 days from after they opened 
the account for him to close the account without charge. But Mr S did not request for his 
account to be closed within this timeframe.
The terms and conditions of the account also clearly show that This is not a flexible ISA. 
You may withdraw the whole balance by closing the account. If you decide to close the 
account before it matures on 18 May 2023, we make an early access charge of 90 days' 
interest. So Im satisfied that Secure Trust were acting in line with the terms and conditions 
by telling Mr S there would be a 90 day interest penalty if he wanted to close the account 
after the 14 day cooling off period had passed. So it follows I dont require Secure Trust to 
do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman