DRN-3008702
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy because Santander UK Plc has declined to reimburse her the money she 
lost when she attempted to purchase a car, which it later emerged was not owned by the 
seller.
Background
The details of this case were clearly set out by our investigator when he wrote to Santander 
upholding Miss Gs complaint. As such the facts are well-known to both parties and I dont 
need to detail them at length here.
But briefly, Miss G was looking to purchase a car. She found one that looked suitable listed 
for sale on a well-known online vehicle marketplace. Miss G contacted the seller and 
arranged to travel to inspect the vehicle. She also completed a HPI check on the vehicle 
which didnt generate any concerns.
When Miss G arrived at the address provided by the seller, she advised him she was there 
and he explained he was at a supermarket but would be there shortly. The seller arrived with 
the vehicle, allowed Miss G to test drive it and provided the cars log book and MOT. Miss G 
noticed the vehicles log book was registered to a woman and questioned this. The seller 
explained the car was registered in his partners name but that he was selling it for her. 
Happy with the car, Miss G agreed to pay £2,900 for it and made the payment to the seller 
on 25 March 2021 by bank transfer.
After the sale, Miss G says she realised the seller hadnt signed the section of the log book 
he was required to and chased him several times, but he kept advising her he was too busy. 
Around two weeks later, while driving, Miss G was pulled over by the police. She was told 
the car had been reported as stolen a few days after Miss G had bought it. The police were 
satisfied Miss G was an innocent party and allowed her to drive the car home before it was 
seized and returned to its true owner.
The police department who investigated this complaint have provided further details on how 
this scam came about. The car was advertised initially online by a dealership. The seller 
paid the dealer for the car using an illegitimate card and arranged for the car to be shipped 
by a transport company to the other side of the UK. The same day the car was delivered, it 
was placed for sale for a lesser price (which is the advert Miss G saw).
When the illegitimate card payment wasnt successful with the dealership, being unable to 
contact the seller, the dealership reported the car as stolen. Unfortunately, neither the dealer 
nor the delivery company had any legitimate address for the seller by which to contact him 
and so far police have been unable to trace the seller. 
The police have confirmed this is being treated as fraud due to:
The turnaround time between the purchaser buying and reselling the car
The purchaser selling the car immediately at a loss
No address or details being provided by the purchaser
The use of an illegitimate card
Santander is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
authorised push payment fraud (APP scams) in all but a limited number of circumstances.
Santander didnt think it was liable to reimburse Miss G for her losses. It said the CRM Code 
didnt apply to the payment Miss G had sent because it considered this was a civil matter 
between Miss G and the seller. Santander said that when buying items from a private seller, 
there is an accepted risk that the remedy available to the buyer is to sue the seller. It said 
that the car Miss G intended to buy did exist, but the seller may not have had authority to sell 
it, although also suggested the seller may have been selling the car on behalf of their partner 
as an agent.
Santander also said that even if this complaint was covered by the Code, they dont consider 
Miss G had a reasonable basis for believing the transaction was legitimate. For example, 
they said the log book demonstrated the car was legally owned by another party.
Miss G didnt agree with Santanders outcome and asked us to consider her complaint. An 
investigator thought this had been an APP scam, and that the CRM Code did apply here. He 
thought Santander ought to have refunded Miss G in full under the CRM Code.
Santander didnt accept these findings, so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached broadly the same outcome as that reached by our 
investigator and for similar reasons. In summary, I am satisfied that:
The payment falls within the scope of the CRM Code. I consider Miss G was the 
victim of an APP scam here. The seller does not appear to have had any legitimate 
intention, but rather a showed a clear intent to defraud. I do not consider this to be 
the type of civil matter excluded under the CRM Code. 
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Santander should have refunded the money Miss 
G lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case. 
In the circumstances, Santander should now fairly and reasonably refund the money 
Miss G lost. 
The money was sent from Miss Gs current account. It is not clear how she would 
have used the money if Santander had refunded it when it should have done, so 
Santander should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% 
simple per year. This interest should apply from the date Santander first declined to 
reimburse Miss G to the date of settlement.
I have carefully considered Santanders reasons it considers Miss G should not be refunded 
under the CRM Code. But these do not persuade me to reach a different view here. I am 
satisfied the CRM Code applies to Miss Gs case, and I am not persuaded Miss G failed to 
meet her requisite level of care under the CRM Code (a failure to meet that level must be 
established for Santander to choose not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code). 
I am satisfied the CRM Code applies here for the following reasons:Miss G was tricked into sending £2,900 to a fraudster. From the information Ive 
seen, including information from the Police investigation  Im persuaded that, on 
balance, there was never any intent on the part of the seller for this to have 
constituted a legitimate sale.  The seller had deceived the dealership to part with the 
car by using a fraudulent payment card, ensured neither the dealership nor the 
delivery company had any traceable address for him, avoided all further contact with 
the dealer, put the car back up for sale on the same day, before the car could be 
recorded as stolen and then provided a cover up reason to Miss G for why the log 
book provided wasnt in his name. For these reasons Im satisfied that Miss G fell 
victim to a sophisticated scam, designed from the outset to defraud her of money. I 
therefore find the exclusion in the CRM Code covering private civil disputes, such as 
where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier does not apply in this case, and 
this case should not be excluded on that basis. I dont agree that there should be any 
discrepancy on whether this exclusion applies, regardless of whether the seller was 
private or otherwise, if the intention of the sale from the outset was always to 
defraud. I find Miss G was the victim of an APP scam and one within the remit of the 
CRM Code.
In all the circumstances, I am satisfied this transaction falls under the remit of the 
CRM Code, and given that Santander is a signatory, it follows that the CRM Code is 
applicable to Miss Gs losses.
Im satisfied that Santander has not shown that Miss G lacked a reasonable basis of belief 
prior to making the payment because:
Before viewing the car, Miss G carried out a HPI check. Unfortunately, at this time, 
the car hadnt yet been declared stolen and there was therefore no cause for 
concern.
Miss G had carried out an inspection of the vehicle, including test driving it, as well as 
receiving documentation for the vehicle. While Miss G identified a discrepancy on the 
log book over the vehicle owner, I think the reason she was given by the seller was 
plausible. In the absence of any effective warning from Santander, in the particular 
circumstances of this case, I consider Miss G acted reasonably by taking this 
information at face value. I think the risk that this could be a stolen car was one that I 
find would have likely appeared a remote one to Miss G, given shed met the seller, 
believed she knew where he lived, had test drove the car and been handed its 
documentation, without any significant concerns.
While Miss G paid less for the car than the seller had paid the dealership, I dont 
think the price was so different that this shouldve raised concerns with Miss G  I 
dont consider the cars price was too good to be true.
In summary, I find that the CRM Code is applicable here. I find that Miss G met her requisite 
level of care under the CRM Code and was therefore entitled to be fully reimbursed in 
accordance with the provisions of the CRM Code. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out by the investigator and above, Ive decided that Miss G ought to 
have been fully refunded under the CRM Code. I therefore direct Santander UK Plc to pay 
Miss G:
The £2,900 Miss G lost to the scammer 
8% simple interest from the date Santander initially declined to consider Miss Gs 
claim for reimbursement under the CRM Code to the date of settlement.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman