DRN-3876614
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that AWP P&C SA didnt tell them that their previous insurer had 
declined medical cover for Mr B under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B hold travel insurance as a benefit of their packaged bank account. Their policy 
was previously underwritten by an insurer Ill call X. However, in November 2021, the bank 
changed its travel insurance provider to AWP. 
In June 2022, Mrs B contacted AWP to declare a new medical condition. She says that AWP 
told her that X had declined medical insurance cover for Mr B in 2019. It offered to carry out 
a medical screening for Mr B at that point to determine whether it could offer Mr B medical 
cover.
Mr and Mrs B were very upset, as they said they hadnt been told that X had declined 
medical cover for Mr B. And they didnt know what the justification for the withdrawal of cover 
had been. They were also unhappy, as they said theyd unknowingly travelled without 
medical cover for Mr B in place. So they made a complaint to AWP.
AWP said it hadnt been passed any of Mr Bs medical information by X and that it didnt 
know why X had declined medical cover. It reiterated its offer to carry out medical screening 
for Mr B. But it told Mr and Mrs B that theyd need to speak to X to find out why it had 
declined cover.
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy with AWPs position and so they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. He felt that if Mr 
and Mrs B were unhappy with Xs decision to decline to offer Mr B medical cover, theyd 
need to raise this with X. He didnt think AWP was responsible for Xs decision.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed. They maintained that AWP shouldve told them that X had 
previously declined medical cover for Mr B. They still felt that X must have passed on 
information about Mr Bs medical history to AWP, which they thought AWP shouldve passed 
on to them.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B, I dont think AWP has 
treated them unfairly and Ill explain why.
Its common ground that in November 2021, Mr and Mrs Bs bank changed its travel 
insurance provider from X to AWP. Ive seen a template copy of a letter AWP says the bank 
sent to its customers to tell them about the change and how it might affect their cover. It 
stated that if upgrades had been purchased from X (which would include any cover taken out 
for declared medical conditions), then X would continue to underwrite those upgrades until 
the expiry date. Otherwise, standard cover would apply on AWPs terms following the 
change of insurer. 
AWPs policy terms and conditions include the following:
We cannot automatically renew your upgrades or pre-existing medical condition 
endorsements if you (or anyone else to be insured on the policy) have a pre-existing medical 
condition that needs to be declared, even if we have provided cover in the past.
AWP says that X didnt provide it with any details of Mr and Mrs Bs medical history when the 
switch happened. It also says that it wasnt aware of any decision by X to decline medical 
cover for Mr B in 2019. On the other hand, Mrs B says that AWP told her that Mr B hadnt 
had medical cover with X. 
Ive listened to a number of calls between Mrs B and AWP. In the first of those calls, Mrs B 
called up to declare her own new diagnosis. AWPs call handler told Mrs B that X hadnt 
provided any medical information to AWP when the change happened and that shed need 
to go through a full medical screening with AWP for her own conditions. In a later call, Mrs B 
referred to AWP having told her that Mr B had been declined medical cover by X. So it isnt 
clear whether AWP told Mrs B that X had declined cover or not. A short while later, AWPs 
call handler restated that X hadnt supplied it with Mr and Mrs Bs medical history and that 
there werent existing medical upgrades for either Mr or Mrs B in place. It reiterated that Mrs 
and Mrs B would need to go through medical screening with AWP in order to determine 
whether medical cover could be offered. If Mr and Mrs B didnt have existing medical 
upgrades in place (which were underwritten either by X or AWP), I think this was an 
appropriate suggestion from AWP.
In either event though, AWP wasnt responsible for any decision which may have been made 
by X to decline medical cover for Mr B in 2019. Such a decision would have been made by 
X, based on its own underwriting criteria. And it wouldve been for X to communicate such a 
decision to Mr and Mrs B. I can understand Mr and Mrs Bs concerns that they werent fully 
insured during this period. But as Ive said, it wouldve been Xs responsibility to have told 
them about any cover decline in 2019 or while it insured the policy. I cant fairly hold AWP 
responsible for any potential errors by a legally separate entity.
AWP has its own underwriting criteria and so it would have needed to complete medical 
screening with Mr B to decide whether it was prepared to offer medical cover. This would 
have remained the case even if X had previously declined cover for Mr B, in line with its 
underwriting guidance. I understand Mr B opted not to go through screening with AWP, but I 
think it was appropriate for AWP to present Mr and Mrs B with a choice for him to do so. 
As the investigator explained, if Mr and Mrs B want to understand why medical cover was 
declined for Mr B by X and why they werent told about it, then its open to them to complain 
directly to X about that issue. But overall, I simply dont think AWP has made any error here 
which it needs to put right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman