DRN-3641678
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money he lost when he was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
Mr C lives abroad but was looking to invest some of the savings he held in the UK and so 
asked an associate of his to look for possible investments for him. His associate got in touch 
with a bank, who Ill refer to as P, and arranged an appointment to discuss possible 
investments. But, before the appointment took place, the associate received a phone call 
from someone claiming to be from P and offering an opportunity to invest in a bond. 
Unfortunately, we now know the caller was a scammer who had cloned Ps details and was 
only pretending to be working for them.
The associate passed on the information about the investment to Mr C and gave the 
scammer Mr Cs contact details so they could speak to him directly. Mr C had a number of 
phone calls and email conversations with the scammer, in which he was asked to provide a 
copy of his passport and driving license and was sent a brochure and a document to sign. 
And Mr C then made three payments, totalling £50,004.99, to the payment details the 
scammer gave him.
The scam was uncovered when Mr Cs associate decided they wanted to invest themselves 
as well and called the phone number the scammer had given them. But the number was 
disconnected and, after investigating further, Mr C and his associate found out the scammer 
had cloned Ps details. Mr C then reported the scam to HSBC and asked it to refund the 
money hed lost.
HSBC investigated and said it felt it had provided sufficient warnings to Mr C before he made 
the first payment, but hadnt provided any further warnings before the second and third 
payments. It also said it felt Mr Could have done more to make sure he was dealing with a 
genuine company before making each of the payments. So it offered to refund 50% of the 
second and third payments, totalling £12,950. Mr C wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, 
so referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the case. They didnt think the warning HSBC had shown 
Mr C before the first payment was effective. And they didnt think HSBC had established that 
Mr C made the payments without a reasonable basis for believing that they were genuine. 
So they felt HSBC should refund all the money Mr C had lost as a result of the scam. HSBC 
disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think HSBC should refund all the money Mr C lost as a result of this scam. 
Ill explain why below.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code). This code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim 
of authorised push payment scams, like the one Mr C fell victim to, in all but a limited 
number of circumstances. And it is for the firm to establish that one of those exceptions to 
reimbursement applies.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Did Mr C ignore an effective warning?
The CRM code sets out that an effective warning should enable a customer to understand 
what actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not doing so. And 
it says that, as a minimum, an effective warning should be understandable, clear, impactful, 
timely and specific.
HSBC has sent us a copy of the warning Mr C was shown when making the first payment to 
the scammers. It says:
This could be a scam
Using your debit or credit card may offer you more protection against fraud.
Fraudsters can intercept emails or invoices and alter account details so they appear 
genuine. Its important to check:
Where youre sending the money by contacting the person or company directly
The email address to ensure its from the correct company or person
For irregularities in any email or invoice, such as spelling mistakes or incorrect 
formatting
The seller before making a purchase. Beware of false websites and reviews
For high value items, for example a car, make sure you physically see it before 
sending moneyVisit our Fraud Centre to find out more
By choosing to continue, you agree youve read out warning and are happy to proceed. You 
accept we may not be able to recover your money if its sent to a fraudsters account.
While this warning does explain the risks and consequences of fraud, and set out actions a 
customer can take to address those risks, I dont think its specific enough to Mr Cs 
circumstances to be effective in this case. The warning talks about making a purchase and 
seeing items before sending money, which arent relevant to what Mr C was doing. It talks 
about contacting the company directly, which Mr C thought he was doing when he spoke to 
them over the phone. And it doesnt explain what an investment scam, like the one Mr C fell 
victim to, would look or feel like.
So I dont think the warning HSBC showed Mr C before the first payment was effective in his 
circumstances. And HSBC accepts it didnt show any further warnings before the second 
and third payments. So I dont think Mr C ignored an effective warning in relation to any of 
the payments he made.
HSBC has argued that it was prevented from showing Mr C an effective warning, because 
he selected that the first payment was for making a large purchase, rather than making an 
investment. But, when assessing whether this exclusion to reimbursement under the CRM 
code applies, I think the relevant test is whether the consumer ignored an effective warning  
not whether the bank was prevented from providing a more effective warning. I can then only 
look at the warning that was actually shown to Mr C. And, regardless of why this warning 
was shown, I dont think it was effective in Mr Cs circumstances. So I dont think he has 
ignored an effective warning in relation to these payments.
Did Mr C have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments?
This was a sophisticated scam in which Mr C was contacted by a number of different people 
through several contact methods and was sent a number of documents.
Mr C says he spoke to two different people claiming to be from P, one who claimed to be an 
account manager and one who claimed to be an accountant. And he communicated with 
them through both phone calls and emails. He was also sent a number of documents, 
including a brochure which Ive seen and think looked relatively professional, and a contract 
to sign. And he was asked to provide his passport and driving license to verify his identity. 
So I think its reasonable that these things will have made the investment seem genuine to 
him.
Mr C was also introduced to the scammers by his associate, which will have given them 
some credibility in his eyes. And hed asked his associate to look for investments for him, so 
the investment opportunity wouldnt have come out of the blue and it wouldnt have seemed 
suspicious for him to be contacted about it. 
HSBC has said Mr C should have done more checks into the company he was investing with 
and the people he was speaking to. But Mr C says he looked into P and saw that they were 
well reviewed. And he says he saw other bonds they were offering with similar interest rates 
to what he was being offered. So he appears to have tried to do some checks into the 
company he was investing with, but just not uncovered the possibility of the company being 
cloned. And while Mr C could have done more checks, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
him not to do more  particularly as the contact hed had and the documents hed been sent 
appeared to be genuine.HSBC has also raised that Mr C was asked to send money to an account with a different 
name to that of the company he thought he was investing with and that he misled it about 
the reason for the payments. But one of the documents Mr C was sent by the scammers 
explained that the money was to be sent to a segregated account for his protection and, as 
the document looked relatively professional, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr C to 
accept this explanation. And Mr C has explained that he said the payment was for a 
purchase rather than an investment as he didnt want HSBC to try to sell him one of its own 
investments instead. And while this wasnt the reason HSBC was asking what his payment 
was for, I dont think Mr Cs explanation for saying the payment was for a purchase suggests 
he didnt have a reasonable basis for belief that the investment was genuine.
So I think Mr C did have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments.
Overall then I dont think HSBC has established that any of the exceptions to reimbursement 
under the CRM code apply here. So I think HSBC should refund Mr C the money he lost in 
full, under the terms of the CRM code.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Refund the remaining £37,054.99 Mr C lost as a result of this scam
Pay 8% simple interest on this refund from the date it initially responded to Mr Cs 
claim until the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman