DRN-4187622
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled a claim 
he made under his home insurance policy for subsidence.
What happened
As the circumstances arent in dispute, Ill summarise the main points:
Mr D got in touch with Admiral in late 2019 about crack damage in his home. Admiral 
accepted the damage was caused by subsidence and the claim was covered.
Monitoring took place and vegetation thought to be causing the movement was 
removed. Admiral thought the building was stable and progressed to the repair stage 
of the claim.
In November 2021 the schedule of work was finalised. Plans were put in place to 
begin repairs in January 2022. They were scheduled to take six weeks.
By April 2022, work was yet to complete and Mr D complained.
Admiral accepted work had taken too long, apologised, and offered £250 
compensation. Problems continued and Mr D complained again.
Admiral responded to the second complaint in July 2022. In summary it:
oAccepted the work had continued to take too long, the standard of repair was 
poor, and the repairs had left Mr D without essential facilities.
oApologised again and offered a further £300 compensation.
oAgreed to arrange a meeting for the outstanding work, and a timescale to put 
it right, to be agreed. And to refund the cost of putting some issues right.
oAgreed that alternative accommodation should have been considered. It 
offered to discuss a resolution to this point with more detail about how many 
people were impacted and for how long.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He said Admiral had failed 
to provide the level of service it ought to have done and this had had a significant 
impact on Mr D. To put things right, he said Admiral should increase compensation to 
a total of £700. And it should also pay an appropriate disturbance allowance as Mr D 
should have been moved into alternative accommodation.
Admiral accepted what our investigator said. Mr D asked for his complaint to be 
referred to an Ombudsman. In February 2023 he said some of the work remained to 
be completed  and some of the work previously done had already started to fail. He 
also said he was suffering a financial loss as a result of being tied to renewing his 
policy with Admiral whilst the claim was outstanding for longer than it should be.
Our investigator said the scope of the complaint was limited to events up to Admirals 
second complaint response in July 2022. And he wasnt satisfied that Admiral had 
acted unfairly in relation to the premiums.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator explained, this complaint will only consider events up to and including 
Admirals complaint response in July 2022.
Mr D has been clear that the claim has continued since then. If he has any concerns with 
how the claim has been handled since July 2022, hes entitled to raise a new complaint with 
Admiral. And if it doesnt resolve that complaint to his satisfaction, he may be entitled to refer 
it to this Service for review.
Turning back to the current complaint, Mr Ds focus has been on what happened after work 
began in January 2022. Admirals internal notes show it was originally scheduled to take 
around six weeks to complete the work. At the time of the complaint response in July 2022, it 
had taken six months  and was incomplete.
Whilst Admiral has suggested events beyond its control have contributed to the delay, it 
hasnt provided any persuasive evidence about this. It seems to have accepted responsibility 
for the delay, offering £550 initially. And it accepted our investigators recommendation to 
increase that figure to £700.
So its without doubt that Admiral had caused avoidable delays in the order of four to five 
months by July 2022. During this time, Mr D has had to live in his home whilst work was in 
the process of being carried out in many rooms simultaneously. Its clear this has had a 
significant impact on him and his family, limiting his enjoyment of his home, adding to his 
distress and inconvenience and causing him a great deal of frustration. Taking all of that into 
account, Im satisfied a total of £700 compensation is reasonable up to July 2022. Any 
amounts Admiral has already paid can be deducted from this total.
Its also without doubt that Admiral ought to have offered Mr D alternative accommodation 
prior to the start of the work. Because it didnt, in addition to the non-financial challenges 
noted above, Mr D has also suffered financial losses as a result of being without essential 
cooking facilities. There may be other costs hes faced too. Thats what a disturbance 
allowance is intended to remedy. Our investigator suggested Admiral calculate an 
appropriate allowance. Its agreed to do so, although Mr D says it hasnt done so yet.
In principle, Im satisfied paying a reasonable daily allowance, based on the people impacted 
and the length of time they were impacted, is a reasonable way of putting things right. 
Admiral should take into account usual industry rates and the likely financial impact of living 
in this home whilst the work was being carried out. To do this, Admiral will need to 
proactively engage with Mr D, find out the relevant information, and make a payment.
Admiral is obliged to handle claims fairly and promptly. It offered to look into calculating and 
paying a disturbance allowance in July 2022, but so far it doesnt seem to have done so. I 
would expect it to do so now as a matter of urgency to put things right.
I understand Mr D considers the outstanding claim means hes obliged to renew his policy 
with Admiral as hes tied to it. And its increasing premiums means hes losing out 
compared to what he may be able to pay on the open market.Strictly, Mr D isnt required to renew his policy with Admiral. It remains liable to resolve his 
claim fairly and promptly whether he continues to be its customer or not. But, in practice, he 
may find his options on the open market are very limited as a result of both the outstanding 
claim and the fact his home has had subsidence. The latter point means that even if the 
claim had been finalised earlier, its likely he would still have found his options on the open 
market limited and its unlikely he would have found more competitive cover available. He 
hasnt shown otherwise. The impact of subsidence would have been the case regardless of 
how promptly Admiral resolved the claim, so its not something I can attribute to the delay.
As a result, Im not satisfied that Admirals delay has caused Mr D a financial loss as a result 
of being tied to Admiral. However, if hes unhappy with the specific premium increases 
Admiral have applied to his policy, thats something hes entitled to complain to it about.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
 
I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) to:
Pay a total of £700 compensation
Calculate and pay an appropriate disturbance allowance
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman