DRN-3603925
The complaint
Mr N complains about the way U K Insurance Limited trading as Privilege Insurance (UKI) 
settled a claim against his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to all parties so I wont repeat it here in detail. In 
my decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
In summary, Mr Ns windscreen cracked in December 2021. He went online to book a repair, 
but says the next available appointment was for 10 January 2022. Mr N says he a nurse and 
relied on his car to get to work which was no longer drivable due to the cracks. 
Mr N also says he tried to book an earlier appointment online directly with UKIs approved 
repairer, but a similar date was given, at the cost of over £1,000. 
Mr N ended up arranging his own engineer to replace the windscreen at a cost of £588. 
They replaced the windscreen the same day Mr N tried to book an appointment with UKIs 
approved repairer. Mr N then submitted his costs to UKI. 
UKI offered to reimburse Mr N £125 only and referred to the policy terms. They say as Mr N 
employed his own engineer  rather than using an approved repairer  their liability was 
limited to £125 for the claim. Mr N wasnt happy. He says he took the steps he did as 
otherwise he would have had to wait far too long for their approved repairer which just wasnt 
an option given his individual circumstances. So, he complained. 
UKI responded to it maintaining their position, so Mr N approached our service. 
I issued my provisional decision on 12 July 2022, which said: 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The policy terms say: if you arrange windscreen repairs or replacement with someone who 
isnt an approved windscreen supplier, you dont need to get our approval beforehand. 
However, well only cover a limited amount  see Section 5: Windscreen damage and page 
17. 
Section five goes on to say if a policyholder arranges a different supplier for a replacement, 
UKIs liability is limited to £125 only. Thats what Mr N did  although he has his reasons as 
to why, which Ill come on to. But I cant fairly conclude UKI acted unfairly when settling Mr 
Ns claim by paying him £125, as thats what the policy says UKI will do in these 
circumstances. 
Turning to Mr Ns reasons for employing his own engineer rather than using UKIs approved 
repairer. I understand why he did this. He says hes a nurse, his place of work isnt easily 
accessible via public transport, and relies on his car to get to work, amongst other things. 
It's important, however, I explain this section of Mr Ns policy isnt designed to respond in 
such a way other insurance policies  marketed as an emergency response policy  would. 
Although Mr N didnt think the appointment date of 10 January 2022 suited him, I must also 
bear in mind the reasons given by UKI as to why this happened. 
During the time between Mr N trying to arrange an appointment, and the date he says he 
was given  10 January 2022  this was the festive period. This included bank holidays, 
weekends, and a period where its very likely for staff to be on annual leave. So, taking this 
into account  and the fact this section of the policy isnt intended to provide an emergency 
response  I dont find eight working days to be so unreasonable that it means UKI should 
now settle Mr Ns claim outside the policy limits. 
I note our investigator thought UKI should meet 50% of Mr Ns costs as he felt Mr N took 
reasonable steps to comply with the policy terms initially. I can understand why this could 
reach a fair outcome in a scenario where Mr N made UKI clear of his individual 
circumstances and why he needed an earlier appointment, but they failed to do something 
differently. But that didnt happen here, so I cannot fairly conclude UKI ought to have done 
something differently here in the absence of knowing Mr Ns individual circumstances at that 
time. 
Overall, whilst I do understand why Mr N took the steps he did, Im currently unable to say 
UKI applied the policy terms unfairly or failed to do something differently knowing Mr Ns 
individual circumstances. So, I currently dont require UKI to do anything further. I appreciate 
my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr N. 
My provisional decision 
My provisional decision is I dont uphold the complaint.  
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mr N responded to my provisional decision. He says UKI never paid him £125 to settle the 
claim. So, our investigator contacted UKI to clarify this. 
UKI says the claim wasnt paid as they never received an invoice from Mr N that 
demonstrated the works had been carried out. As such, our investigator sent UKI the invoice 
Mr N provided us with. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties agreed UKI hasnt paid anything to Mr N towards the claim settlement. Our 
investigator provided UKI with the invoice Mr N sent to us, and UKI will now review this and 
settle the claim in line with the remaining policy terms I set out within my provisional 
decision.
Returning to the question I must answer here which is: whether I think UKI handled the claim 
reasonably and treated Mr N fairly. Overall, Im satisfied they did. The policy clearly sets out 
how it would respond to the circumstances of Mr Ns case. As such, I maintain I dont agree 
it would be fair or reasonable for me to direct UKI to reimburse the full costs Mr N paid when having his windscreen replaced by his own engineer, rather than UKIs approved supplier. 
So, I wont be directing UKI to do this which I appreciate will disappoint Mr N. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman