DRN-2185040
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J, who are represented by a third party, say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) 
trading as Halifax, mis-sold them a regular premium mortgage payment protection 
(MPPI) insurance policy in November 2001. 
Mr and Mrs J say they didnt want or need the MPPI. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs J took out the MPPI cover to help protect their mortgage repayments in the 
event that Mr J was unable to work or were to lose his job. The cost of  the MPPI part of  
this was around £28 per month and could have paid £462 per month in the event of a 
successful claim.
The MPPI was part of a product called Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). As well 
as providing mortgage protection like the policy above, the TMPP also provided life 
insurance and critical illness cover. However, in this decision I will only be looking at the 
MPPI element. 
Our adjudicator in this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. As Mr and Mrs J have 
disagreed their complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
Ive looked at what Mr and Mrs J have told us about the sale which is of course helpful. 
But as with any complaint Ive also borne in mind the possibility that recollections, 
however genuine, are likely to be affected by time. Similarly, not all of the documentation 
from the sale that I would have liked to see is available. Because of this, my decision is 
based on the balance of probabilities  i.e. whats more likely to have happened, based 
on what Ive seen and what the parties have told me. Ive also used what I know about 
BoSs procedures and how it sold these types of policy. 
Mr and Mrs J told us that they bought the MPPI at a meeting. And BoS has confirmed that 
it made a recommendation that they take out the cover. That means BoS needed to 
ensure the policy was suitable for their situation. BoS also needed to provide enough 
clear information so Mr and Mrs J could make an informed choice as to whether they 
should buy the cover. 
Ive seen screenshot evidence taken from BoSs computer system that shows the 
policy was discussed with Mr and Mrs J and that Mr J was asked questions to check 
that he was  eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been affected by any of the main 
policy exclusions. 
On balance, whilst not necessarily ideal, I think this is enough for me to me think that 
Mr and Mrs J had made the decision to go ahead and take out the MPPI cover. I also think 
its likely that there was some level of discussion about the MPPI at the time they took it out. 
And in relation to Mr and Mrs Js comment that they were convinced into taking the MPPI, I 
think its important to make a distinction between being told that its worthwhile having the 
cover to being told that they had to have it.
In addition, its likely that Mr and Mrs J would have had to authorise the monthly premiums 
to be drawn from a bank account by way of a direct debit or similar method. So I think it 
follows that that Mr and Mrs J were aware they had a choice about taking out MPPI and 
decided it was something they wanted to go ahead with. 
Next, Ive looked at the question of whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs J. As 
Ive already said, Mr J had confirmed he was eligible for the cover. And I havent seen 
anything to suggest he would have been affected by any of the main policy exclusions. 
Ive also not seen anything to suggest that the monthly cost of the cover was unaffordable 
for them and I think the monthly premiums - given the type and number of protections 
each policy offered - were comparable with similar products marketed at around the time 
they were sold.
Mr J had some employer benefits if he wasnt able to work, but this was limited to no 
more than 3 months. He also told us he had some savings and redundancy cover in 
place. Mr J also said that his wife would have helped out with meeting the monthly 
payments if necessary. But these factors dont necessarily mean the policy was of no 
use to them. The MPPI would have paid out for up to 24 months in the event of a 
successful claim, which would be in addition to and for longer than Mr and Mrs Js 
existing benefits. And in the event he had to make a claim, having the policy would 
have meant that Mr and Mrs J most probably wouldnt have to dig into their existing 
savings. Finally, whilst having a partner who is potentially able to help meet the 
mortgage repayments is a good thing, it very much depends on individual 
circumstances which can easily change. 
Taking out this mortgage meant taking on a significant financial commitment over an 
extended period. Policies like this are designed to offer protection in financially difficult 
times and they would have provided Mr and Mrs J with cover over and above any 
other protection they had elsewhere. So, given their situation, I think the concept of 
protecting themselves with cover like this could be viewed as a worthwhile and 
sensible precaution.
I also think its likely that at around the time of the sale they would have been given a 
policy document which explained details of the cover and how to claim. And even if I cant 
be sure that everything happened in the way it should have done, from what Ive seen Mr 
and Mrs J agreed to take out this policy and it was suitable to their situation. 
Ive seen that Mrs and Mrs J are unhappy that the TMPP included life cover. To be 
clear, thats not something that Ive looked into here, my consideration having been 
limited to the MPPI cover, intended to provide protection for accident, sickness and 
unemployment. Similarly, the response to their complaint by BoS related only to MPPI. Finally, Id also like to reassure Mr and Mrs J that Ive taken into account their 
response to our adjudicators findings. I am sorry to have to disappoint them on this 
occasion. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. And so I dont think 
Bank of Scotland plc needs to do anything more put matters right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 October 2020. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman