DRN-1708020
 
The complaint
Mr I complains about the change in terms relating to his savings account after Skipton 
Building Society (SBS) merged with another business. 
Mr I also complains that he was given conflicting information about the requirement for 
identification. 
What happened
Mr I had a savings account with a different business and on 24 September 2018 he was sent 
a letter to confirm the maturity date as 22 September 2019 and that he would be contacted 
30 days in advance for maturity instructions. SBS subsequently merged with the original 
business.
On 31 August 2019 Mr I says he contacted SBS to find out what was happening with his 
savings as he was buying a property. On 2 September 2019 SBS sent Mr I maturity 
information. SBS also told Mr I he would need to provide identification to obtain his funds. 
Mr I completed his maturity instructions and returned them to SBS. Hes told us the funds 
were paid to him without any request for identification being made by SBS. 
Mr I complained and SBS responded on 1 October 2019 and said that when it merged with 
the original business the account terms changed. As a result, SBS only had to give two 
weeks notice of the maturity date. SBS also said that the request for ID was genuine. But 
SBS didnt explain why the funds had been released without any request for ID being made 
to Mr I. 
Mr I referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. She thought 
SBS had dealt with Mr Is case fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr I asked to 
appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by reviewing the change in account terms and maturity notification period. Mr I says 
he wasnt made aware that, following the merger, SBS would only provide 14 days notice of 
maturity. But SBS has sent us a copy of the information pack and revised terms it says was 
sent to all the original business customers. The revised terms explain that SBS only 
provides 14 days notice of maturity, not 30 days. 
Mr I says this information wasnt sent to him and he believes it was only available online. But 
SBS says the information about the merger was sent to all the relevant customers, and I 
think its most likely the revised terms were sent to Mr I. 
Even, if I wasnt persuaded SBS had sent the revised terms to Mr I, I would still need to 
consider whether there has been a financial loss in this case. Mr I called SBS on 
31 August 2019 to query his account and SBS sent details of his maturity options around two 
days later. Mr I returned the maturity instructions in good time and the funds were released 
without delay. There was no financial loss to Mr I in this case. And, as Ive said above, I think 
its more likely than not that SBS did communicate the revised terms to Mr I when it merged 
with the original business. 
I agree that SBS has provided somewhat conflicting information about whether Mr I needed 
to provide identification. Mr I spoke with a member of branch staff on 2 September 2019 and 
the business notes show he was told identification would be required to withdraw his funds. 
But Mr I has told us SBS released his funds on maturity without asking for identification. As 
Ive said, I agree this was inconsistent and Mr I was given conflicting information.
Before I can make an award, I need to consider the impact of an error on a consumer. Here, 
Mr I was given conflicting information about whether he needed to provide identification. 
Mr Is funds were released without any delay and there was no loss caused by SBS 
inconsistent information. I agree the lack of consistency would have been frustrating. But Im 
not persuaded that there are grounds to award compensation to Mr I. I think the impact of 
this issue was limited and, ultimately, Mr Is funds were released in line with his instructions. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr I but I havent been persuaded to uphold his complaint. Whilst I 
agree some of the information provided by SBS was inconsistent, the impact on Mr I was 
limited. Im satisfied SBS notified Mr I of his maturity options in line with the terms and I 
havent seen anything to show there was a delay or loss in this case. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman