DRN-2807430
The complaint
Mrs M complains about problems noisy brakes and high fuel consumption with a car she 
acquired through a Hire Purchase Agreement with RCI Financial Services limited (RCI). She 
would like to reject the car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I agree with our investigator for the following reasons:-
I have no evidence that Mrs. M raised her concern with the brakes or her desire to 
reject the car within thirty days of getting it, as she says she did. So, I cant conclude 
that she did so. So, it wouldnt be reasonable to allow rejection on that basis.
Ive seen evidence Mrs M raised a problem with brake noise, and her desire to reject 
the car in November 2019.  We would usually say at least one attempt to repair is 
reasonable, so I dont think RCI were wrong to not allow rejection at this point.
The brakes were taken out and cleaned in November 2019, but the brake noise 
couldnt be replicated. In December 2019 and February 2020, the front brake pads 
and discs were replaced. The work in February 2020 was noted as due to a 
manufacturing defect. Mrs M took her car to a garage in February 2021 which 
confirmed the brakes were excessively noisy and recommended replacing the front 
pads and discs. Its clear there has been an ongoing issue with the brakes from at 
least six months of Mrs M getting the car.
RCI has said the brake noise is characteristic of the car that Mrs M has. I dont think 
that can entirely the case as a manufacturing defect was noted in February 2020. 
The problem seems to be an ongoing one not addressed by replacement of discs 
and pads since that has been tried several times already. 
I am conscious Mrs M took out an agreement for a new car and as such I think she 
could reasonably expect it to be fault free for some time. I dont think its 
unreasonable to allow her to reject the car  I am persuaded there is an ongoing 
problem that hasnt been resolved in three attempts
I agree some compensation to cover costs, time without the car whilst repairs were 
undertaken and for the inconvenience. As both sides have accepted our 
investigators recommendation, I dont feel I need to go into that any further here.
Part of Mrs Ms complaint related to low mileage. RCI felt the mileage achieved was 
reasonable. Ive noted in an email to us in 2021 Mrs M mentioned driving at 70 mph 
on motorways. So, I am not persuaded there was a mileage issue. I see no point in 
considering this further as I am allowing rejection based on the car being faulty.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement RCI Financial 
Services Limited should:-
End Mrs Ms agreement with no more monthly payments needing to be paid
Collect the car at no cost to Mrs M
Refund repair costs, on proof of payment, and that these relate to the brake issues, 
of £29.17
Pay Mrs M £136.13 as compensation for the time her car was off the road.
Pay Mrs M £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Show the agreement as settled on Mrs Ms credit file ensuring no adverse 
information is recorded in relation to this agreement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman