DRN-2731682
The complaint
Mr A complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 2002. The policy was part of a 
Total Mortgage Protection (TMP) package, which provided life and critical illness cover as 
well as PPI. It was taken out in one of the banks branches when Mr A was applying for a 
mortgage. This decision is only about the PPI part of the TMP. The PPI policy provided Mr A 
with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. It cost just over £26 a month for the 
PPI part of the TMP (which cost £44.72 a month in total) and could have paid out £438.66 a 
month for up to two years if Mr A made a successful claim. 
 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr As case. 
I have decided not to uphold Mr As complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr A suggests he wasnt given a choice about taking out the PPI as he doesnt believe it was 
discussed at the time, nor does he think he was advised to buy it. Instead he was told he 
should have it alongside his mortgage. There isnt a lot of information from the time, although 
thats understandable as Mr A got the mortgage nearly 20 years ago and repaid it in 2004. I 
wouldnt expect either Mr A or Halifax to keep information indefinitely. But it does mean Ive 
had to reach my decision on the information we do have and what we know about how 
Halifax sold these policies at the time.
I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr A and the bank, but I can see from the 
banks internal records that it asked Mr A questions about his personal circumstances and 
health, and recorded his answers. These are the sort of questions typically asked when 
recommending insurance. So I do think there was some discussion about the PPI and other 
insurances sold as part of the TMP, even though Mr A can no longer remember this.
Mr A says he was told he had to have the PPI. Ive thought about this, but without some 
further evidence that he was given no choice but to buy it in order to get the mortgage he 
wanted, I cant safely conclude it was compulsory. Saying it was a good idea, and explaining 
the benefits of a policy, for example, doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold.
From what we know about Halifax, it made it clear PPI policies were optional. 
Overall, despite what Mr A remembers, I think the bank made him aware that PPI was 
optional and he chose to take it out.
The bank has accepted that it recommended the policy to Mr A, which means it had to check 
it was suitable for him.  It doesnt look like it was unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen 
of his circumstances at the time. I say this because:
- Mr A was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.  
- Mr A says he had some work related benefits that paid out if he couldnt work due to a 
sickness or accident. But the policy would have paid out in addition to the occupational 
benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. Having the policy in place would mean Mr 
A could use his work-related benefits to pay for other expenses. This would probably 
have been all the more important when the policy was sold given that Mr A was solely 
responsible for repaying the mortgage. 
- Mr A wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. 
As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely Mr A 
needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
- From what Ive seen, the PPI was paid for separately from the mortgage  so Mr A would 
have completed a direct debit mandate for this. I dont know exactly when he knew the 
cost  it may have been in his meeting. But I think he would have known he was paying 
something for it. Ive seen nothing to suggest it was unaffordable or that the benefit was 
insufficient to meet his monthly mortgage repayments.
Its possible the information the bank gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But he chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of 
cover. As Ive already said Mr A wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and 
the policy seems to have been affordable, I think it unlikely Mr A would have made a 
different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think he would still have 
taken out the policy.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman