DRN-4023615
The complaint
Miss B complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) unfairly declined 
her request for a refund, in respect of a dispute about an undelivered order. 
What happened
In June 2022 Miss B used her AESEL credit card to place an order for some footwear and a 
bag, but she says the parcel wasnt delivered to her address. When Miss B followed this up 
with the merchant it said the courier had confirmed the parcel was delivered. 
Unable to get anywhere with either the merchant or the courier, Miss B contacted AESEL in 
July 2022 to ask if it could assist with getting a refund. AESEL raised a chargeback, but the 
merchant defended it and provided a photo of the parcel being delivered and the couriers 
GPS location, as proof of delivery. AESEL didnt think it could challenge the merchants 
defence, so it closed Miss Bs dispute and sent Miss B a letter to confirm this, but Miss B 
didnt receive this letter and only learnt the dispute had been closed, after chasing up a 
response.
Miss B complained about the outcome of her dispute, AESEL accepted its customer services 
couldve been better, it applied a payment of £75 to Miss Bs account. But it didnt think it 
had made a mistake in closing the chargeback.
 
Miss B said the photo taken was not of her flat and the GPS information only confirmed the 
courier was on her road, not that the parcel was delivered to her flat. AESEL opened a 
section 75 claim on Miss Bs behalf on 1 September 2022, and asked Miss B to provide a 
photo of her front door, which she did on 2 September 2022. When Miss B followed up her 
claim in October 2022, she was informed that no further action had been taken because it 
was awaiting the evidence from her. Miss B confirmed she had already provided a photo of 
her front door. 
Miss B referred her complaint to our service, she was unhappy with how long AESEL was 
taking to give her an answer. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He didnt think AESEL made a mistake 
when it closed Miss Bs chargeback dispute. However, he thought AESEL had enough 
evidence to reach a decision on Miss Bs section 75 claim. On balance he didnt think the 
parcel was delivered to Miss Bs flat, so he thought there had been a breach of contract. To 
put things right he recommended AESEL rework Miss Bs credit card account, as if the 
£985.99 transaction wasnt made. And if this resulted in a credit balance, AESEL should add 
8% simple interest per year for the credit duration. He thought the £75 compensation 
payment was fair.
AESEL advised that it had already upheld Miss Bs section 75 claim and had issued a 
cheque for £985.99 on 1 February 2023. It calculated the 8% simple interest per year 
payment due from the date of the transaction to the date of settlement was £47.11.
Miss B disagreed; she didnt think the £75 compensation payment went far enough. She 
says AESELs delay in considering the evidence, caused unnecessary stress and it took too 
long to give her an answer.
The complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point or particular piece of evidence, its not because Ive failed to 
take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order 
to reach what I think is the right outcome. And our rules allow me to do this, this reflects our 
informal, free service as an alternative to the courts.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Generally, where a consumer raises a dispute about a transaction made on a credit card, the 
card provider can consider the dispute under two guises- chargeback and section 75 claim. 
AESEL considered both, and Ive set out my findings under the headings below.
Chargeback
The chargeback scheme is voluntary, and a card issuer doesnt have to do a chargeback. 
But AESEL did raise a chargeback for the reason of goods or services not being provided. 
As Miss B says she didnt receive her order, Im satisfied AESEL raised the claim correctly. 
Chargebacks are decided based on the specific card schemes rules, not on the merits of the 
dispute between the cardholder and the merchant. In this case it is American Express 
schemes rules that apply. 
Where the merchant defends the chargeback, the bank doesnt have to carry out a detailed 
investigation, rather they must decide if the evidence provided satisfies the scheme rules. 
So, Ive looked at the relevant chargeback scheme rules which say that if the merchant can 
provide proof that the goods were successfully delivered, then the chargeback is invalid.
In this case the merchant provided the couriers GPS location and a photo showing the 
parcel being delivered. And I can understand why Miss B challenged why they didnt provide 
proof of a signature or provide specific evidence that the goods were delivered to her actual 
address, but the scheme rules didnt require the merchant to do this. Based on the rules, I 
dont think AESEL made a mistake when it closed the dispute, after the merchant defended 
the chargeback.
Section 75
Miss B provided AESEL with a photo of the outside of her flat, which looked distinctly 
different from the image provided by the merchant. In the circumstances AESEL agreed that 
on balance, the order hadnt been delivered to Miss Bs address and this amounted to a 
breach of contract. AESEL refunded the transaction, and also agrees to pay 8% simple 
interest per year from the date of the transaction to the date of the refund, and I think this is 
fair.
Customer servicesAESEL accepts that Miss B didnt receive its expected level of customer services, and it has 
already credited her £75 to reflect this. Miss B doesnt think this goes far enough; she is 
unhappy with how long it took AESEL to give her an answer on her section 75 claim. But 
there isnt a time limit on section 75 claims. However, I can see that Miss B had provided a 
photo of her front door on 2 September 2022 and there appears to be a months delay where 
Miss Bs section 75 claim wasnt progressed. I also accept Miss B was caused some stress 
whilst not knowing whether the transaction would be refunded and has spent some time 
pursuing this matter. In the circumstances I think its fair for AESEL to pay Miss B a further 
£75 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is I instruct American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) to;
pay Miss B an additional £75 compensation to reflect the stress and inconvenience 
caused
pay Miss B 8% simple interest per year from the date of the transaction to the date of 
the refund (£47.11)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Karen Dennis
Ombudsman