DRN-3696176
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about how Hiscox Insurance Company Limited dealt with a claim
against their travel insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs W have travel insurance as part of an annual
portfolio insurance policy. The policy relevant to this complaint started in March 2021
and ended in March 2022.
Mr and Mrs W booked a family trip. Their departure date was 25 July 2021 and their
original plan was to spend until 1 August 2021 on a flotilla sailing trip then from
1 August 2021 to 8 August 2022 on an island.
On 29 July 2021, during their sailing trip, Mr and Mrs Ws daughter, Miss W, had a
positive lateral flow test for Covid-19. Mr and Mrs W and family returned to the marina
and Miss W took a PCR test, which was also positive. Mr and Mrs W and their family
were required to quarantine on a boat in the marina from 29 July 2021 to 7 August 2021.
Mr and Mrs W say that their boat didnt leave the marina and their children werent
allowed to leave the boat, as they werent vaccinated. As Mr and Mrs W were
vaccinated, they were allowed to leave the boat to purchase food and essential items.
They changed boats on 30 July 2022, at the request of the trip provider and the same
quarantine requirements applied.
Mr and Mrs W rearranged the island part of their trip but had to reduce it from seven to
five days. The island part of their trip was now from 8 August 2021 to 12 August 2021.
So, Mr and Mrs W returned home after the return date they had originally planned.
Mr and Mrs W made a claim against their policy for the cost of lateral flow and PCR
tests, non-refundable expenses in relation to the part of their trip on the island and
£4,984.57 in relation to four days of their sailing trip.
Hiscox settled Mr and Mrs Ws claim in part but didnt pay for the loss of four days of the 
sailing trip. It said that Mr and Mrs W had used the boat for the full duration of the trip, so 
the accommodation and travel costs werent unused. Mr and Mrs W didnt think that was 
fair and pursued their complaint to this service. Hiscox subsequently offered
Mr and Mrs W £1,600 under the cabin confinement benefit on a without prejudice basis. 
Mr and Mrs W want Hiscox to pay the balance of their claim.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that Mr and Mrs Ws 
trip wasnt curtailed, as they didnt return home early. The investigator said that whilst  
Mr and Mrs W didnt experience the trip theyd planned, they didnt have unused travel
and accommodation costs in relation to the sailing trip. She didnt think that Hiscox acted 
unfairly in declining part of Mr and Mrs Ws claim.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree with the investigator. Mr W responded to say:
The insured trip was the flotilla sailing trip. Quarantining on a boat isnt the 
same as being on an insured trip, so Hiscox should settle their claim for unused 
travel, accommodation and pre-booked activities and excursions that they paid 
for but couldnt use.
Its counter intuitive to say that their insured trip wasnt curtailed because they 
went on to spend five days of their planned island holiday and went beyond their 
original return date, as they were unable to curtail their trip because they were in 
quarantine, which is an insured peril under the policy.
They werent able to enjoy the benefit of their original insured trip due to 
quarantining, so are out-of-pocket for the cost of the flotilla sailing trip.
They are prepared to accept £1,800 in full and final settlement of the matter. 
As there was no agreement between the parties the complaint was passed to me to
decide.
My provisional decision
On 26 August 2022, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case, in which I 
indicated that I intended to uphold the complaint. I said:
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy.
Ive set out above the policys definition of an insured trip. Mr and Mrs Ws 
insured trip was from 25 July 2021, when they left their home, to 12 August 2021, 
that is, the date they arrived back at their home. I dont agree that the insured trip 
here was only the flotilla sailing trip.
The policy covers Mr and Mrs W cancelling or cutting short a trip where thats 
necessary because of being put in quarantine. Hiscox hasnt disputed that
Mr and Mrs W and their family quarantined. And in these circumstances, Hiscox will 
pay for unused travel, accommodation and pre-booked activities and excursions
The cancellation provisions dont assist Mr and Mrs W here, as they apply prior to the 
commencement of the insured trip, so before 25 July 2021. The curtailment provisions 
apply when a trip is cut short. Thats not what happened here. In fact,
Mr and Mrs Ws trip was extended as they originally intended to return on 
8 August 2021 but returned home on 12 August 2021.
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs Ws trip wasnt curtailed, as defined by the policy. So, 
Hiscox was entitled to decline part of their claim. But Ive gone on to consider 
whether that leads to a fair and reasonable outcome. In doing so, its important to 
note that the policy doesnt cover loss of enjoyment. Im looking at  whether
Mr and Mrs Ws trip was effectively curtailed by what happened here.
The circumstances of this complaint are slightly unusual. The trip Mr and Mrs W 
originally planned went from 25 July 2021 to 8 August 2021 and included two parts: a 
flotilla sailing trip followed by a stay on an island.The dominant purpose of the flotilla sailing part of the trip was to participate in a 
specified activity, namely cruising with a skipper on board, a lead crew in another 
boat and in the company of other boats. I understand thered be a set sailing route, 
mooring at several destinations and sociable evening activities.
Mr and Mrs W couldnt participate in the flotilla sailing trip from 29 July 2021 until
1 August 2021. Their experience of being on a boat in a marina for 10 days with only 
Mr and Mrs W being allowed to leave the boat for essential purchases fell very far 
short of what theyd planned for this part of their trip. In the particular circumstances 
here, Mr and Mrs Ws quarantine meant that the flotilla sailing trip was effectively 
curtailed on 29 July 2021.
I dont think its fair or reasonable for Hiscox to decline part of Mr and Mrs Ws claim 
on the basis that they used the boat for the duration of their planned flotilla sailing trip. 
I think its fair and reasonable for Hiscox to treat the flotilla sailing part of                    
Mr and Mrs Ws trip as effectively curtailed on 29 July 2021 until 1 August 2021. So, I 
propose to direct Hiscox to deal with the remaining part of Mr and Mrs Ws claim 
under the curtailment provisions of the policy.
The amount in dispute when Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to this service was 
£4,984.57, which related to four days loss of the flotilla sailing trip. Hiscox has made a 
goodwill payment of £1,600 under the cabin confinement provisions in relation to 
cruise cover. Obviously, those provisions are not strictly applicable here as               
Mr and Mrs W were not on a cruise and were not confined by a ships medical officer. 
Hiscox can take that payment into account when it deals with the remaining part of   
Mr and Mrs Ws claim under the curtailment provisions.
Mr W has referred to the balance of his claim as £3,659.57 but it appears to me to be
£3,845.57 (£4,984.57 less £1,600). Its not clear to me how Mr W has reached the 
higher amount. If he wishes to rely on that figure, he should explain why, and Ill 
consider the matter further before coming to my final decision.
For the reasons Ive explained, I intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and direct 
Hiscox to deal with their remaining claim under the curtailment provisions, taking into 
account the payment of £1,600 it has already made. As Mr and Mrs W have been kept 
out of the use of the balance of their claim, Hiscox should also pay interest on this 
amount at the simple rate of 8% per year from the date Mr and Mrs W made the claim 
to the date Hiscox makes payment.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr W responded to say that he accepted my provisional decision. We received no 
response from Hiscox.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Neither Mr and Mrs W nor Hiscox have provided any substantive comment on the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I see no reason to depart from those 
conclusions. 
For the reasons I explained, I think its fair and reasonable for Hiscox to treat the flotilla 
sailing part of Mr and Mrs Ws trip as effectively curtailed on 29 July 2021 until                      
1 August 2021. So, Hiscox should deal with the remaining part of Mr and Mrs Ws claim 
under the curtailment provisions of the policy, taking into account the payment of £1,600. it 
has already paid and paying interest on the settlement amount. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Hiscox should deal with Mr and Mrs Ws remaining claim under 
the curtailment provisions, taking into account the payment of £1,600 it has already made. 
As Mr and Mrs W have been kept out of the use of the balance of their claim, Hiscox should 
also pay interest on this amount at the simple rate of 8% per year from the date                     
Mr and Mrs W made the claim to the date Hiscox makes payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Hiscox Insurance Company 
Limited should now take the steps Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman