DRN-3135420
The complaint
Mrs V and Mr W complain because Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt paid a 
cancellation claim under their travel insurance policy. 
All references to URV include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Mrs V and Mr W held an annual travel insurance policy, provided by URV. The policy was 
purchased in November 2019. 
Mrs V and Mr W were due to travel abroad in September 2020, to a country which Ill call S. 
Their flights were booked on 10 July 2020, when S was exempt from Foreign, 
Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth 
Office (FCO)) advice against all but essential travel due to the circumstances surrounding 
Covid-19.  However, FCDO advice subsequently changed to advise against all but essential 
travel to S. 
Mrs V and Mr W therefore didnt travel but they were unable to obtain a refund from their 
airline, so they made a claim under their policy with URV for the cost of their flights. 
URV said Mrs V and Mr Ws claim wasnt covered, as their policy didnt provide a benefit for 
the cancellation of a trip in these circumstances. Unhappy, Mrs V and Mr W complained to 
URV before bringing their complaint to the attention of our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened but said he didnt think URV had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably by declining Mrs V and Mr Ws claim. Mrs V and Mr W didnt agree 
with our investigators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Rules and guidance set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say that 
insurers should handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken 
these rules and guidance into account when considering Mrs V and Mr Ws complaint. 
I understand this claim didnt arise because Mrs V and Mr W were disinclined to travel. 
However, insurance policies dont cover every eventuality and an insurer is entitled to decide 
what level of risk it is prepared to accept in return for the payment of a premium. The level of 
cover available under a travel insurance policy can vary widely  and did so prior to the 
Covid-19 pandemic - and its up to a policyholder to make sure they purchase a level of 
cover which suits their needs. 
URVs obligations to Mrs V and Mr W in the event of a trip being cancelled are set out on 
page 8 of their policy terms and conditions, under the heading Cancellation. This says that 
URV will pay for certain costs if a policyholder is unable to travel for one of a list of specific, 
insured reasons. These are:
you or a travelling companion is ill, quarantined, injured or dies before the trip starts.
a close relative or a close business associate in your home country is ill, injured or 
dies before the trip starts. 
the person you are going to stay with is ill, injured or dies before the trip starts. 
you are required for jury service or as a witness in a court of law. 
your private dwelling becoming uninhabitable following fire, storm or flood, or your 
presence being required following a burglary occurring at any time after we have 
accepted this insurance. 
you or a travelling companion being made redundant.
you or a travelling companion being unable to travel due to the requirements of HM 
forces.
Mrs V and Mr Ws trip wasnt cancelled for any of the above listed reasons. 
Furthermore, page 8 of the terms and conditions of Mrs V and Mr Ws policy specifically 
states:
BE AWARE! No cover is provided under this section for:  
the advice or recommendation of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office applicable at 
the time of your departure.   
So, not only are the circumstances which Mrs V and Mr W found themselves in not listed as 
an insured event under their policy, these circumstances are also specifically excluded from 
cover. So, Mrs V and Mr Ws claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions their policy.
Our investigator explained this and also said, I think correctly, that there is no section of Mrs 
V and Mr Ws policy which covers the circumstances they found themselves in. He also 
commented on an exclusion relating to travelling against FCDO advice which is set out in the 
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) and in the general exclusions at page 7 of 
the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr W has provided a number of submissions about this exclusion, all of which Ive 
considered. But, even if I were to agree with everything Mr W has said about the exclusion, 
this wouldnt make any difference to the outcome of his and Mrs Vs complaint. Mrs V and Mr 
W didnt travel against FCDO advice, so the presence of this exclusion in their policy isnt the 
reason they have no cover for their claim. 
It may be the case that Mrs V and Mr W would have had no cover at all under their policy if 
theyd gone ahead and travelled to S regardless against FCDO advice. But this doesnt 
mean its unfair or unreasonable for URV to decline their claim for cancellation of a holiday 
due to a change in FCDO travel advice. Theres an exclusion on page 8 of Mrs V and Mr Ws 
policy, which Ive outlined above, which I think clearly and transparently outlines that theres 
no cover if a trip is cancelled due to FCDO advice. The presence (or absence) of an 
exclusion relating to travelling against FCDO advice doesnt alter this. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs V and Mr W, but I dont think their claim is covered under the 
terms and conditions of the policy they held. And, I dont think there are any reasonable 
grounds upon which I could fairly ask URV to accept this claim outside of the policy terms 
and conditions. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman