DRN-3626174
Complaint
Miss T has complained about a credit card (and subsequent credit limit increases) MBNA 
Limited (MBNA) provided to him. She says it would have been clear that she was already 
struggling if proper affordability checks had been carried out and she had to take out other 
credit cards to pay this one off.
Background
MBNA provided Miss T with a credit card with an initial limit of £1,600.00 in November 2015. 
MBNA increased the credit limit on Miss Ts credit card, by £500, to £2100.00 in May 2016. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Miss T and MBNA told us and thought that MBNA 
shouldnt have provided the credit limit increase to Miss T as proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have shown it to be unaffordable. So she thought that Miss Ts 
complaint should be partially upheld. MBNA disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
My provisional decision of 15 July 2022
I issued a provisional decision  on 15 July 2022 - setting out why I wasnt intending to 
uphold Miss Ts complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a 
summary of my findings. 
I started by saying that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and 
irresponsible lending on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me Miss Ts 
complaint.
I went on to explain that MBNA needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, what this meant was that MBNA needed to carry out proportionate checks to be 
able to understand whether Miss T could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
the credit becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed 
expect a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
MBNA said it agreed to Miss Ts initial application after she provided details of her monthly 
income. It says it also considered Miss Ts expenditure by carrying out a credit search which 
showed Miss T had some existing commitments which she had maintained well. In its view, 
the information gathered showed Miss T could afford to make the repayments she was 
committing to. Furthermore, MBNA also argued that Miss Ts account conduct demonstrated 
that she could afford the £500 limit increase provided in May 2016. 
On the other hand, Miss T said the credit card was unaffordable and shouldnt have been 
provided to her.
I carefully thought about what Miss T and MBNA said. 
MBNA provided a record of the results of its credit searches. These searches appeared to 
show that Miss Ts debt total was reasonable in comparison to her income and her existing 
debts appeared to be relatively well managed. 
Our investigators assessment suggested that Miss T already had a high credit limit on 
another credit card with another provider, so MBNA needed to obtain further information. But 
I wasnt necessarily persuaded that £5,000.00 was such a high limit which, in itself, meant 
that any further lending was demonstrably unsustainable. 
Secondly, Miss T took advantage of the promotional rate on balance transfers on her MBNA 
account and transferred some of her outstanding debt onto her MBNA card. So I wasnt 
actually persuaded that the initial granting of the credit card did increase Miss Ts 
indebtedness. If anything, it reduced how much interest she would end up paying going 
forward for a reasonable period.
In terms of the credit limit increase, I wasnt persuaded by MBNAs argument regarding            
the limit being affordable because Miss T could have refused it when offered. And I was 
particularly concerned that MBNA seemed to be suggesting that a lesser standard, in terms 
of affordability checks, applied in circumstances where a credit limit increase was proactively 
offered, rather than when a borrower made an active application. I wasnt and Im still not 
persuaded that lenders using such a model to drive business means that a reasonable 
understanding of whether a limit increase is affordable before it is provided isnt necessary.   
That said, even though I had concerns with MBNAs arguments, I still thought that the credit 
limit increase provided was affordable in this case. I said this because the retrospective 
income and expenditure assessment carried out by our investigator (and which I went 
through) did appear to show enough left over each month, in order to repay the balance of 
the increased credit limit within a reasonable period of time. This was especially as there 
would be promotional interest rates applied to the account for periods too and this wasnt 
factored in.   
I did accept that Miss T appeared to be suggesting that her actual circumstances may not 
have been fully reflected either in the information she provided, or the information MBNA 
obtained. And I was sorry to hear what she said about struggling to repay her credit card. 
But I went on to explain that it was only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in 
circumstances where a lender did something wrong. And given the circumstances here, I 
didnt think that reasonable and proportionate checks would have showed that the decision 
to initially provide the card or increase the credit limit was unfair. 
As this was the case, I concluded by saying that I intending to issue a final decision which 
found that MBNA didnt do anything wrong, or act unfairly, when deciding to lend to Miss T. 
So overall I wasnt intending to uphold Miss Ts complaint. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither party responded to my provisional decision, or asked for any further time to do so.My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail why I wasnt intending to uphold Miss Ts complaint. And as neither 
party has provided any further arguments for me to consider, Ive not been persuaded to 
alter my conclusions. So Im still not upholding Miss Ts complaint. 
I do appreciate this decision is likely to be very disappointing for Miss T. But I hope shell 
understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 15 July 2022, Im not 
upholding Miss Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman