DRN-3034327
The complaint
Mr L is complaining that Metro Bank PLC closed his account and that they gave him the 
wrong information when he spoke to them about it.
What happened
Mr L had a cash account with Metro Bank.
On 12 April 2021 Metro Bank wrote to Mr L to say they were going to close his account on 
13 June 2021. They said this was in line with term 11.2 of their terms and conditions.
On 14 April 2021 Mr L called Metro Bank. He spoke to an adviser about his account. The 
adviser said that if any more fraud occurred on Mr Ls account, Metro Bank may have to 
review how they banked with him.
Mr Ls account was closed. He called Metro Bank to ask why. At first the adviser said he 
would raise a complaint for him over the phone. But then the adviser told Mr L hed need to 
go into a branch to find out more about why his account had been closed.
Mr L complained to us. Metro Bank sent Mr L their final response. They said his account was 
closed because of the number of fraud complaints hed raised in a short space of time.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. Mr L didnt agree. He felt hed been given 
wrong information in the call of 14 April 2021. He said Metro Bank told him different things 
about his account being closed.
Mr Ls complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
A business can decide if they choose to provide a service to their customers. If they decide 
to close a customers account they are able to as long as they give fair notice.
Metro Bank wrote to Mr L to give him 60 days notice that his account would be closed. So 
this gave him enough time to make other arrangements. Metro Bank referred him to the part 
of the terms and conditions, which gave the reasons they may choose to close an account.
Metro Bank said they werent able to give Mr L a suitable service because of the level of 
fraud he was reporting. And theyve told us and Mr L this is why they closed his account.  
Having reviewed what has happened I dont agree Metro Bank have made a mistake or 
treated Mr L unfairly by closing his account.
The adviser Mr L spoke to on 14 April 2021 wasnt wrong to tell Mr L that the way he was 
handling his account could cause them to review things. And I dont agree there was a 
promise that Mr Ls account would stay open if he didnt make any more fraud complaints. 
Its not clear why the adviser didnt explain that Metro Bank had already sent Mr L a letter 
about closing his account. But Mr Ls position would not have been different if the adviser 
had done that. His account would still have been closed. And Metro Banks letter gave him 
fair notice.
I know Mr L says he didnt receive the letter saying his account would be closed. But I can 
see that it was sent to his address. So I dont agree that this is Metro Banks fault. Metro 
Bank said they didnt know about any difficulty Mr L had with receiving letters at the time. 
And I havent seen anything to show Mr L told them about this.
The adviser Mr L spoke to about his complaint in June could have been more helpful. I 
should let Mr L know that Metro Bank have apologised for this, through us. They dont need 
to do anything else.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L. But I dont agree Metro Bank have treated him unfairly. So Im 
not going ask them to do anything more here.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint, for the reasons Ive explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman