DRN-2217655
The complaint
Miss B complains that AIG Life Limited declined her claim for total permanent disablement 
(TPD) which she made on her life and critical illness assurance policy.
What happened
In 2010 Miss B took out decreasing term life and critical illness cover with Fortis Life UK 
Limited, which is now known as AIG Life Limited (AIG). Her policy also included cover for 
total permanent disability which would be assessed against whether she was able to carry 
out her own occupation.
Unfortunately, in December 2015 Miss B became mentally unwell and was diagnosed with 
Mixed Affective State disorder. So she contacted AIG in order to make a claim. Miss B was 
told her condition wasnt a specified critical illness under the policy, so she put in a claim for 
TPD. At this time Miss B was in full time employment in a senior management role within the 
education sector but was off work due to her illness. AIG investigated the claim, but Miss B 
was then able to return to work a few months later and so her claim wasnt successful.
In February 2020 Miss B submitted another TPD claim. In her claims form she explained 
shed taken voluntary redundancy in mid-2019. She said shed struggled since 2015, didnt 
sleep for weeks when she had an upcoming meeting and felt she couldnt cope with the 
pressure caused by work. When she submitted the 2020 claim, she was employed in a full-
time leadership role at a college but on a short-term contract  it was due to end later that 
month. 
AIG then contacted Miss Bs employer, her GP and her consultant psychiatrist for further 
information to help it consider the claim. It received responses from all parties, but Miss Bs 
treating psychiatrist would not complete a report providing their opinion on whether the 
definition of TPD had been met. Once AIG had received these responses, it asked for the 
opinion of its chief medical officer (CMO), who said they couldnt conclude Miss B had no 
prospect for improvement. In June 2020 AIG wrote to Miss B to tell her it had declined her 
claim. It highlighted that shed been in temporary work until recently and that her consultant 
had noted her mood around this time was good and her response to treatment positive. 
Miss B thought her claim had been unfairly declined, so she appealed the decision and later 
raised a complaint. 
Miss B said shed been unable to fulfil the requirements of her new role, even though it was 
at a lower level than her previous job. She said shed had over a week off work in January 
because her anxiety had gotten worse throughout the employment and caused sleepless 
nights. Miss B explained this also had a negative impact on her physical wellbeing. Miss B 
said she didnt visit her doctors about this as she tried to deal with things using the coping 
tools shed been given. Unfortunately, she ended up bed ridden for days. Miss B said shed 
declined the offer of an extension to her short-term contract of employment due to her ill 
health. She pointed out that it was not viable for her to have to drive when the increased 
medication she was taking to cope made her drowsy.
Miss B also highlighted that shed qualified for an ill health pension with another provider and 
for a personal independence payment (PIP). She stressed the only reason shed been in a 
good mood when she saw her consultant is because she was no longer in work. She didnt 
think it was fair to look at one moment in time rather than considering her health as a whole. 
In addition to concerns about her claim, Miss B also became unhappy with the way AIG 
handled things. She said there were failed call-backs and a lack of response to some of her 
messages about appeal the claims decision. She also felt there had been a data breach 
when AIG sent information to her old email address.
AIG maintained that the permanency of Miss Bs inability to work had not yet been 
established and improvements could be possible with appropriate support and medication. 
It noted Miss B was looking for work again. But AIG agreed it had failed to log her appeal 
and upheld this part of her complaint.
When Miss B was unable to resolve things with AIG, she brought her complaint to our 
service. Our investigator looked into things and was of the view that AIG had acted 
reasonably in declining the TPD claim as he didnt feel the evidence showed the definition 
had been met. But he thought AIG should pay Miss B £150 compensation for the delays in 
logging her appeal and the upset this caused.
AIG agreed to the suggested compensation, but Miss B didnt think this was a fair outcome 
because she also felt she had a valid claim. So the matter has been passed to me to 
consider.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to read about the health difficulties Miss B has faced over the past few years. 
From the evidence Ive seen, I can see her illness has had a profound impact on her life.
I appreciate that Miss B has qualified for PIP and for early access to her pension due to her 
ill health. And I can see why she feels this supports the fact she should be entitled to claim 
under TPD. But whilst I recognise there are similarities in the thresholds for these payments, 
there are also differences. Given this, the receipt of these payments does not necessarily 
mean Miss B qualifies for TPD benefit. So, when looking at whether AIG has acted 
reasonably here, I need to consider the specific contract Miss B had with AIG, and not 
payments Miss B qualified for through other bodies. 
Miss Bs policy schedule is clear that AIG will assess her entitlement to TPD cover against 
the own occupation criteria providing she is in employment before becoming unable to 
work. The relevant section of the terms and conditions states:
The person covered is not doing any paid work and has been diagnosed with an illness, 
injury or disability that totally prevents them from doing the essential duties of their 
occupation. 
By essential duties we mean the ones necessary to perform their generic trade or profession 
and not those required to perform their specific job.
In all cases the incapacity must be permanent and irreversible. The diagnosis needs to be 
made by an appropriate consultant and confirmed by our Consultant Medical Officer. 
To establish whether the incapacity is permanent usually takes at least 26 weeks.Permanent is defined as expected to last throughout the person covereds life without 
prospect of improvement, irrespective of when the cover ends of the person covered retires.
Irreversible is defined as cannot be reasonably improved upon by medical treatment and/or 
surgical procedures used by the National Health Service in the UK at the time of the claim.
Whilst I dont doubt the impact of Miss Bs illness, my role here is to look at whether AIG has 
acted reasonably in declining her claim. And having reviewed the evidence provided, I think 
AIGs decision that Miss B did not meet this definition was fair  Ill explain why.
Before I do, Id like to clarify that I wont be addressing each and every comment made by 
Miss B or AIG. I mean no discourtesy by this and Id like to reassure both parties that Ive 
considered all the comments and medical evidence theyve provided to our service as part of 
this complaint. But Ill only address what I see to be relevant to reaching a fair and 
reasonable outcome. 
At the time Miss B made the claim, she was still doing paid work. I understand that Miss B 
doesnt consider her short-term contract in the college to be a continuation of her own 
occupation - in her emails to AIG she described this as a lower level role. But having 
reviewed the job descriptions provided to AIG by both of her employers, it seems to me that 
the two roles were broadly comparable. Both were full time, in the same sector, with senior 
responsibilities and similar salaries. Whilst Miss B may have felt her new role was less 
senior, no two jobs are the same and from what Ive seen Im satisfied it was reasonable for 
AIG to consider Miss Bs new job to be in line with her own occupation as per the terms and 
conditions. So Im satisfied she didnt meet the TPD definition at that time.
But Miss Bs short-term contract ended shortly after she made her claim and so she was not 
in employment when AIG made its claims decision a few months later. I have noted Miss B 
was offered an extension to this contract which she declined. But Miss B has said she turned 
down the extension because the role was making her unwell, so she felt she could not 
continue to work on medical grounds. Whilst Miss Bs employer had no record of illness 
related to mental ill health, Miss B told us the physical ailment that had prevented her from 
working was caused by her poor mental health at this time. And the medical notes seem to 
support her account as she explained this to her psychiatrist when she met with them a few 
weeks later. But whilst Miss B clearly felt unable to continue that particular role at that time, 
on the grounds of her health, this isnt the same as saying she will never be able to continue 
in her own occupation again  which is what is required to meet the definition of TPD. 
Ultimately, nowhere in the evidence Ive seen has Miss Bs consultant, her GP or the CMO 
said Miss B will never be able to return to her own occupation. Ive also seen no evidence to 
convince me the CMOs opinion is wholly unreasonable. 
Miss Bs GP had said that her line of work was exacerbating her symptoms, but I dont think 
its unreasonable that AIG hasnt considered this comment sufficient evidence to make the 
claim payable. Firstly, Miss Bs GP doesnt specialise in her condition. So, theyre not an 
appropriate consultant as per the definition in the policy and arent best placed to comment 
on how Miss Bs condition impacts her ability to perform her occupation. In addition, this 
statement alone doesnt demonstrate that Miss B is not able to carry out her own occupation 
or that she will never be able to do so. 
Im aware Miss Bs consultant has also said:
Miss B suffers with recurrent episodes of illness requiring intensive support 
Due to the nature of her illness any significant stress can lead to a relapse and has 
done on multiple occasions in the past. 
It is clear over the last number of years that work related stress of any kind has been a very significant trigger for her episodes of illness 
But for the same reasons as outlined above, I dont think this demonstrates Miss B is totally 
and permanently unable to continue her own occupation. Whilst its clear that historically 
work-related stress has been a very significant trigger in her episodes of illness, this doesnt 
mean that this is something that Miss B might not be able to manage over time or with 
further support or treatment.
I appreciate Miss B was concerned when AIG made a similar point in its email to her. 
She felt its observations were speculative and noted that AIG saying she might get better 
doesnt mean that she will. But TPD is a high threshold as can be seen in the definition 
above. The evidence cant just show Miss B might not improve, it has to show, on balance, 
that she will not. So whilst there remains a reasonable possibility, in the opinion of the 
medical specialists, that Miss Bs might be able to carry out her own occupation, Im satisfied 
AIG can fairly decline this claim.
Ive thought about the fact Miss Bs consultant psychiatrist refused to complete the form AIG 
sent asking for their opinion on how Miss Bs condition impacted her ability to work and 
whether shed be able to return. So AIG didnt have the consultants stated view on whether 
Miss B was able to carry out her own occupation, only its CMOs. But AIG did have the 
letters the psychiatrist sent to Miss Bs GP following their consultations outlining their 
assessment of her health. And having looked at the letter from 2020 shortly after Miss B left 
her temporary role, there is nothing that would indicate the consultant felt Miss B would be 
unable to return. The letter notes she found a few weeks towards the end of her contract 
difficult, but that she self-managed this. The psychiatrist observed Miss Bs mental state was 
stable and that she was again seeking to find work  although its not clear if this was in the 
same occupation. I recognise Miss B has told us her good mood was due to the fact she 
wasnt in work. And I dont doubt Miss B has found balancing work and her condition 
incredibly difficult. But in light of the available medical evidence and given how recently 
Miss B was in paid employment in her own occupation, I dont think its unreasonable for AIG 
to say this definition hadnt yet been met. And in these particular circumstances, I also dont 
think it needed to do anything further to assess whether the claim was payable. I would note 
that the terms and conditions of the policy clearly state it usually takes 26 weeks to establish 
if incapacity is permanent.
I can see AIG reassured Miss B that this decline was based on current evidence. It reviewed 
the new evidence she submitted after its initial decision and I can see it also offered to 
arrange an independent psychiatrist review if she wanted. Whilst Miss B hasnt accepted this 
offer, this shows me AIG would be willing to reassess the claim in light of new evidence, as 
Id expect. 
Im conscious Miss B has since cancelled her policy and so will not be covered if she meets 
this definition in the future. Given what Miss Bs told us about her circumstances, I 
appreciate that this decision will come as a significant disappointment to her. I do not wish to 
add to her distress but for the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont think AIG has done 
anything wrong in relation to its claim decision and so I wont be asking it to do anything 
further here. 
Im aware AIG upheld Miss Bs complaint about its customer service during the appeals 
process. At our investigators suggestion, it has since agreed to pay Miss B £150 
compensation in relation to this. And it seems to me that this is fair given the distress Miss B 
said she experienced, and the inconvenience caused by the delay. I cannot comment on whether there has been a data breach here, but if Miss B continues to 
have concerns over the handling of her data, she can raise this with the Information 
Commissioners Office, as it is responsible for data privacy for individuals.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. I direct AIG Life Limited to pay 
Miss B £150, if it has not already done so, for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
customer service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
  
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman