DRN-3274138
The complaint
Miss F and Mr S have complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) failed 
to resolve issues with their car under their motor insurance policy, following a collision.
What happened
Miss F and Mr S were insured with Admiral at the relevant time. In April 2020, a vehicle 
collided with their stationary car during the night and they reported the incident to Admiral 
the next morning. 
There was visible, moderate damage to the passenger door of the car, its wheel arch and 
other parts of the passenger side of the car. Admiral organised repairs through its approved 
repair garage and included repairs relating to the passenger side wheel bearings. Miss F 
and Mr S were initially happy with the work to the vehicle. After a few weeks however, Miss 
F and Mr S realised that the car was making what they referred to as a bearing-like noise at 
30mph and 60mph.
In June 2020, Miss F and Mr S booked the car in for service with another garage. The 
garage didnt provide an in-depth diagnosis, however they advised that the noise may be 
related to wheel bearings. Mr S spoke to Admiral to discuss how this could be resolved. 
Admiral advised Mr S to contact the original approved garage and to book it back in. The 
approved repair garage looked at the car again and advised that they couldnt isolate the 
problem, however they replaced the passenger side bearing again. This didnt solve the 
problem and Mr S expressed his dissatisfaction and said that he didnt wish the same 
garage to be used. He felt that they hadnt carried out proper investigation or examination.
Miss F and Mr S asked a dealership garage to see if it could isolate the problem. Admiral 
agreed and asked Miss F and Mr S to get a quote and report. The dealership garage 
diagnosis identified the noise to be coming from the driver side and stated;- Carried out 
Diagnosis to noise from n/s/f. Found noise to be coming from o/s/f as wheel bearing noisy 
and wheel buckled. Also Differential noise from Gearbox. Suspect from Accident as car was 
pushed from n/s/f into kerb o/s/f. It then provided a quote for parts at a cost of £1,229.17.
Admiral reviewed the information and instructed an independent assessor to inspect the car. 
The assessor didnt consider that all of these parts required renewal and advised further 
investigation was carried out. Mr S agreed, however Admiral believed that it had carried out 
adequate further investigations and refused to carry out further work.
Miss F and Mr S then arranged to have the driver side wheel bearing replaced. They said 
that this did resolve some of the noise problem but didnt eliminate it. They considered that 
there was still a problem with some portion of the steering. Admiral paid £250.06 for the part 
and £50 compensation as a goodwill gesture. Miss F and Mr S remained unhappy with the 
treatment they had received from Admiral and complained to this service. They also raised 
additional concerns that since the repair was carried out by Admiral, some internal panels at 
the front of the car were no longer secure.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He noted that the dealership garage thought the 
cause of damage was likely to be on the driver side. He also noted that this was reviewed by 
an Admiral engineer, who also looked at the circumstances and initial damage report. That 
report considered that there would be insufficient force to have moved Miss F and Mr Ss car 
significantly while parked as it was just a glancing blow.
Our investigator believed that Admiral held more information related to the claim than the 
dealership garage, including pre-incident images and placed more weight on its findings. He 
said that he didnt have enough evidence to suggest that the noise was a direct result of the 
accident. He was satisfied that Admiral treated Miss F and Mr S in a reasonable manner by 
repairing the damage they were made aware of initially. He noted that Admiral also 
completed a road test and the noise was not identified. He didnt think Admiral needed to do 
anything further in the circumstances.
Miss F and Mr S remained unhappy with this outcome and in the circumstances, the 
complaint was referred to me to reach a decision in my role as Ombudsman. In December 
2021, I issued a provisional decision for this complaint and explained why I was minded to 
uphold Miss and Mr Ss complaint as follows; -
I appreciate that there are opposing views expressed by the respective experts in relation to 
this complaint. Im not persuaded however that Admiral has acted fairly and reasonably in all 
respects in handling this claim under the terms of Miss F and Mr Ss insurance policy. Ill 
explain why.
The policy terms and conditions contain the following provision;
Damage to your car
If your car is damaged as a result of an accident you will be covered for the damage to
 your car
We will decide how to settle your claim and will either.
 pay to repair your car, or
 pay a cash sum to replace the damaged car or item. We may reduce the settlement, or ask 
you to contribute towards the repair costs, if the parts replaced were already worn or 
damaged
A decision will be made based on the garage/engineers recommendation.
Under the heading; General conditions of your cover, the policy also states as follows; 
We are entitled to
 appoint an Approved Repairer to repair your car. In the unlikely event the repairs are 
considered unsatisfactory, the Approved Repairer will have the option to rectify their work. 
Should the repairs still be considered unsatisfactory, you may then use another repairer 
providing we have confirmed it and agreed the work to be carried out.
Admiral has stated that it could see no errors with the service that Miss F and Mr S received. 
It referred to the independent assessors report it received in January 2021. The report 
advised that not all the parts quoted for by the main dealer would be required and the 
assessor recommended further investigations were carried out to determine the source of 
the noise.
Admiral considered that numerous tests had already been completed to try to determine 
where the noise was coming from and that further investigations were not required. It was of 
the view that the noise wasnt related to the incident or repair process. It did however 
acknowledge that the noise was emanating from the driver side.
Admiral also pointed out that Miss F and Mr S didnt initially advise of any damage to the 
driver side of the vehicle nor that the wheel of the vehicle had hit the kerb due to the reported impact. It said that there was nothing to support the noise issue being related to the 
claim or repair process.
Miss F and Mr S remained of the view that the repair has not been completed to an 
adequate standard and the car still had an issue following the collision. Miss F and Mr S said 
that the noise only occurred at certain speeds, which wasnt immediately detected following 
the initial repairs carried out by Admiral. They explained that his was due to where they lived, 
that they didnt drive often and when they did so, it tended to be at low speeds. They said 
that as time passed, the problem became more noticeable.
Whilst there was no noticeable damage to the driver side, Miss F and Mr S said that the 
third-party vehicle collided with the side of their car and this may have pushed it against the 
kerb and damaged the driver side steering area. Initially they hadnt realised that this may 
have been an issue. Miss F and Mr S thought that the approved repairer would have 
performed appropriate checks to see whether there was any issue to the steering column 
and to evaluate issues on the opposite side of the steering column.
I have considered all these points and examined the evidence and all the relevant 
documents and reports in order to come to my provisional conclusion. 
Firstly, I do appreciate that Admirals approved garage initially carried out the expected 
diagnostics and repairs and then looked at the car a second time and carried out further 
work. I also appreciate that Admiral arranged for a further examination by an independent 
assessor. Its unfortunate that a problem emerged following the repairs. Admiral has 
however acknowledged that a noise was still present following the work and despite 
numerous tests to try to determine where the noise was coming from. 
Nevertheless, I provisionally conclude that its more likely than not that the on-going noise 
issue was caused by the collision. Photographs show moderate damage to the passenger 
door and wheel-arch, indicating a collision at some speed and/or force. Although invisible, 
its more likely than not that the force of impact itself or forcing the car against the kerb 
caused damage to the driver side wheel bearings and damage to other parts of the steering, 
suspension or gear mechanisms. 
I accept that its possible that the noise was caused by normal wear and tear. The bearing 
type noise was only reported some weeks after the repairs had been carried out. I accept 
however Miss F and Mr Ss reasons why they may not have reached the optimum speeds to 
notice the noise immediately. The dealership garage also provided a view that the accident 
caused damage to the driver side and therefore generated the noise.
I therefore find on a provisional basis that its more likely than not that the noise problem was 
caused by the incident. Ive also found on a provisional basis that the noise problem 
continued following all repair attempts. This would have caused continuing inconvenience 
and concern to Miss F and Mr S.
The independent assessor appointed by Admiral recommended further investigations were 
carried out to determine the source of the noise, as he didnt consider that all parts quoted 
for by the dealership garage were required. This specific and reasonable recommendation 
was declined by Admiral and I dont consider it was fair or reasonable to do so. Following an 
incident, the general principle is that the insured policyholder should be placed back in the 
position s/he would have been prior to the incident. Miss F and Mr S were not.
Ive also considered the fact that damage to the driver side of the car wasnt initially reported 
to Admiral by Miss F and Mr S. I dont consider that this is unreasonable and not something 
Id expect a policyholder to necessarily appreciate. The effects of a collision, based on visible and less visible damage, would be a matter within the expertise of Admirals 
authorised garage and engineer.
In all the circumstances, Im minded to uphold Miss F and Mr Ss complaint. They should be 
placed back in the position they would have been before the incident. Although Miss F and 
Mr S originally agreed that all the parts quoted for by the dealership garage were not 
required, the problem persists. In all the circumstances, I consider that the dealership garage 
diagnosis to be persuasive. I also accept that on the balance of probabilities, more extensive 
work is required than originally anticipated. The dealership garage quote stated; [the car 
make] standards are that if car is hit in such a way then complete front suspension is 
replaced along with steering rack and steering column and due to noise from Gearbox this 
will also require replacement.
The problem remains and initial solutions have been tried and have failed and Admiral has 
declined to carry out further investigations. I consider therefore on a provisional basis that 
the only fair and reasonable way in which to resolve the issue is to adopt the 
recommendations of the dealership garage as to the work which will be required. 
Alternatively, if Admiral consider that the car is beyond economic repair as a result, it may 
treat the car as a total loss or write off.
I also note the inconvenience and trouble which Miss F and Mr S have experienced in trying 
to resolve the issue with Admiral over a long period. Whilst I accept that Admiral has gone 
some way to try to diagnose and resolve the issue, I dont consider that they have taken all 
reasonable steps to address the complaint. The policy terms states what happens in the 
unlikely event the repairs are unsatisfactory, and an opportunity has been given to the 
approved repairer to rectify the problem. The next step is that Miss F and Mr S are entitled to 
choose their own repairer if agreed by Admiral. In the circumstances, I consider on a 
provisional basis that Admiral should agree to this.
Whilst its payment of compensation of £50 was stated to be a gesture of goodwill due to 
delays, I dont think this adequately compensates for the inconvenience, trouble and distress 
experienced by Miss F and Mr S in view of the unresolved problem with their car for a 
lengthy period of time.
In my provisional decision, I asked both Admiral and Miss F and Mr S if they had any further 
comments or evidence which they would like me to consider before I made a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss F and Mr S have no other final points they would like to make. Admiral has provided a 
comprehensive response however, which Ive considered in detail. Im grateful to Admiral for 
the time and consideration its given to this matter. Ive adopted the headings provided in its 
response for this final decision. Ive also accepted some points made by Admiral in its 
response. Overall however, my final decision is to uphold Miss F and Mr Ss complaint for 
the following reasons. 
Its more likely than not the on-going noise issue was caused by the collision.
I appreciate that Admiral has carried out extensive investigations. It states that; We believe 
we have evidenced our final decision and arrived at the correct outcome which in our opinion 
rules out "balance of probability" stance. Our service bases its decisions on whether we think its more likely than not that a business has acted in a fair and reasonable manner (the 
civil standard of proof). In this case I dont consider that it has.
Admiral doesnt accept that there was a significant impact to the drivers side front wheel and 
that the claim related to a glancing blow to the passenger side with some wheel scuffing. It 
states categorically that there was no further mechanical damage to this vehicle as a result 
of the incident.
Admirals claim noted do not refer to a glancing blow however. They refer to moderate 
damage and the photographic evidence shows damage which is more than wheel scuffing. 
It shows moderate damage, with a gouge in the door panel and indents to the edges of the 
front panels and a flat tyre. I consider it more likely than not that this was caused by a 
moderate rather than a glancing blow.
As to further mechanical damage, its noted that this is a relatively new vehicle. Whilst its 
possible that the on-going noise issue is related to wear and tear, I consider that as the 
noise was first reported following the incident and continued following repair, its more likely 
than not that it was caused by the blow. This is supported by the findings of the dealership 
garage which I find to be persuasive in the absence of evidence that the approved repair 
garage specifically investigated possible damage to the driver side as a result of the incident. 
In addition, Admiral instructed an independent assessor to inspect the car and he advised 
that further investigation was carried out. This suggests that the assessor was mindful of an 
on-going problem which hadnt been resolved. Admiral declined this opportunity.
Admiral argue that if damage had occurred to the driver side mechanisms, then it would 
expect far heavier damage, for instance to the driver side wheel and evidence of this alleged 
forceful secondary impact and buckle type damage to the wheel where it impacted the 
kerb. It also says; The suspension, steering, transmission and gearbox all have impact 
mitigating components to avoid this type of damage even from general use...  Ive taken 
these points into consideration. Nevertheless, in the absence of the further recommended 
investigation, the evidence we have from the dealership garage is that; -Carried out 
Diagnosis to noise from n/s/f. Found noise to be coming from o/s/f as wheel bearing noisy 
and wheel buckled. Also Differential noise from Gearbox. Suspect from Accident as car was 
pushed from n/s/f into kerb o/s/f. It had considered damage to the driver side, whilst the 
approved repairer had not. It clearly refers to the wheel having been buckled.
 
Contrary to the view given by the dealership garage, Admiral doubts that the car was hit with 
sufficient force to have moved the vehicle sideways so as to strike the driver side front wheel 
against the kerb. In addition, it didnt think this would cause significant damage to the extent 
quoted for by the dealership garage. I agree with that this hasnt been conclusively proved. 
The independent assessor instructed by Admiral however had provided the solution of 
further investigation. In the absence of the recommended further investigation, I find that its 
more likely than not that the ongoing noise was caused by damage on the driver side of the 
vehicle. Also I find it more likely than not that this had been caused by the blow to the 
passenger side (whether this was due to the blow itself or to being shunted into the kerb).
Collision at some speed
I note that Admiral has quoted this as an extract from the provisional decision. Admiral state 
that speed could and cannot be ascertained from damage images alone. Admiral is correct 
that there is no evidence available of the speed that the third-party vehicle was travelling at 
the time of impact. The wording however in my provisional decision is; - Photographs show 
moderate damage to the passenger door and wheel-arch, indicating a collision at some 
speed and/or force, [my emphasis]. I remain of the view that the type of damage shown in 
the photographic evidence indicates a collision at some speed and/or force.Admiral again refers to a glancing blow, and that; The vehicle has not been impacted direct 
in the side (T-bone type). The reference to moderate damage by the approved repair 
garage, the photographic evidence, the written evidence of wheel buckling on the driver side 
and indeed the on-going noise issue lead me to consider that the blow was at least 
moderate. The conclusion remains therefore that, on the balance of probabilities, the 
collision was the cause for the on-going issue with Miss F and Mr Ss car.
Although invisible its more likely than not that the force of impact itself or forcing car against
kerb caused damage to driver side wheel bearings and damage to other parts of the 
steering, suspension or gear mechanisms
Admiral states that on its investigations, this is not the case, and that there was no evidence 
of a claim-related impact on the driver side front wheel; So there would then be no damage 
to the suspension, steering rack, drive shafts, transmission and gearbox. It also states; - a 
quick internet search brings up many threads of "noise" and issues similar to those alleged 
by this PH all of which are inherent to this make/ model.
Miss F and Mr S produced evidence in the form of a quote from its dealership garage which 
stated; - [the manufacturer] standards are if a car is hot [sic] in such a way then complete 
fromt [sic] suspension is replaced along with steering rack and steering Column. And due to 
noise from Gearbox this will also require replacement. This doesnt necessarily evidence 
damage to all of these components and the provisional decision refers to damage to the 
steering, suspension or gear mechanisms [my emphasis]. 
The independent assessor subsequently provided the view that all these parts probably 
didnt need to be replaced and Miss F and Mr S acknowledged this. Unfortunately, no further 
assessment was carried out as recommended by the assessor appointed by Admiral. In the 
absence of this, I consider it more likely than not that the collision had caused damage to 
one or more of such components. Also, in the absence of the further recommended 
diagnostic to isolate the issue, repair in accordance with manufacturer standards is a 
reasonable solution.
As to whether the noise could have been an inherent problem with this model, this is 
introduced as a new argument by Admiral without further evidence. The specific evidence in 
this case is that Miss F and Mr S reported that the noise emerged following the collision and 
that the noise issue improved but was not eliminated by replacement of driver side bearings. 
The dealership garage referred to a buckled wheel on the drivers side. I conclude that its 
more likely than not that the buckled wheel, noise and on-going problem was caused by the 
collision.
Its possible noise caused by normal wear and tear but policy holder may not have reached
optimum speeds to notice noise immediately
The full extract from the provisional decision states; I accept that its possible that the noise 
was caused by normal wear and tear. The bearing type noise was only reported some 
weeks after the repairs had been carried out. I accept however Miss F and Mr Ss reasons 
why they may not have reached the optimum speeds to notice the noise immediately. The 
dealership garage also provided a view that the accident caused damage to the driver side 
and therefore generated the noise.
Admirals position is that the noise is an unrelated service wear and tear issue. It said that 
the vehicle was road tested by the approved repairer on completion of work and that it found 
no claim-related issue at that time. Miss F and Mr S reported hearing the noise at certain 
speeds. They accounted for the fact that they didnt immediately report the noise as they were urban drivers and not frequent drivers. This meant that they didnt immediately reach 
the relevant speeds at which the problem became apparent.
Both parties have accepted that there was a noise issue and indeed the approved repairer 
made attempts to resolve the issue. I note Admirals reference to the fact that a subsequent 
road test. I have no doubt that a road test happened, and that no noise was detected on that 
occasion. Admiral has however accepted that the noise continued and on balance I conclude 
that the noise was a continuation of an issue caused by the collision and was therefore 
covered by Miss F and Mr Ss motor insurance policy.
Its unreasonable to expect a policy holder to report all areas of damage. The effects of a
collision based on visible and less visible damage would be a matter within the expertise of
Admirals authorised garage and engineer
The complete extract from the provisional decision states; - Ive also considered the fact that 
damage to the driver side of the car wasnt initially reported to Admiral by Miss F and Mr S. I 
dont consider that this is unreasonable and not something Id expect a policyholder to 
necessarily appreciate. The effects of a collision, based on visible and less visible damage, 
would be a matter within the expertise of Admirals authorised garage and engineer.
Admiral states that it provides approved repairers with a description of the incident and the 
damage areas reported. It says that this is used as a baseline for assessment and that the 
repairers will look at any likely transfer damage. It confirms that it doesnt expect a 
policyholder to do anything but advise Admiral of damage they see on the vehicle.
This is noted and appreciated, nevertheless, its Admirals correspondence which contains 
the following paragraph;- As part of my investigation, I also listened to the first notification of 
loss call on 15 February 2020, during which we were not advised of any damage to the 
offside of the vehicle or that the wheel of the vehicle has hit the kerb due to the reported 
impact.   
  
Admiral repeats that in its view; there was no transfer damage caused or identified by any of 
the parties who have investigated this claim. The "expertise" of Admirals authorised garage 
and engineer (as well as independent) has been used and applied in arriving at the outcome 
in this case. There is alternative evidence however from the dealership garage, which I 
consider to be persuasive, that noise was coming from the drivers side and the wheel was 
buckled. The evidence also refers to differential noise from the gearbox which the garage 
suspected to be from the accident. I agree that this isnt conclusive evidence, however in the 
absence of the recommended further investigations, Im satisfied that its more likely than not 
that the on-going issue was caused by the collision.
The dealership garage quoted as saying if car is hit in such a way then a complete front
suspension is replaced along with steering rack and steering column and due to noise from
gearbox this will also require replacement
The wording from the dealership garage is quoted above. Admiral states that the dealership 
garage assertion would need clarification, however it maintains its stance that on its 
investigations, this assertion would not be relevant to this case; - as no damage to these 
components were caused in the claim incident, and that this issue;- is one of wear and tear 
service maintenance so is PH responsibility to attend to. I have considered this matter 
above however and this doesnt alter that conclusion.
Subject to the points noted, accepted and altered as above, in all the circumstances, I 
uphold Miss F and Mr Ss complaint. Ive concluded that the provisional decision provides a 
fair and reasonable outcome to the matter.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Miss F and Mr Ss complaint against Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited. I require it to do the following within 28 days of Miss F and Mr 
Ss acceptance of this final decision;-
-  Settle Miss F and Mr Ss claim by covering the costs of the repairs in accordance with the 
car makers standards as identified in December 2020, or alternatively if Admiral considers 
that the car is beyond economic repair as a result, it may treat the car as a total loss or write 
off.
- Pay additional compensation in the sum of £200 to Miss F and Mr S for the inconvenience, 
trouble and stress theyve experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman