DRN-3894698
The complaint
Mr C complains that he placed an order for opening a new position on IG Index 
Limiteds platform but when the order was filled, it had incorrectly closed an existing position 
instead.
What happened
Mr Cs position
Mr C opened a Contracts for Difference (CFD) account with IG Index Limited (IG) in April 
2022. He says he placed a buy order on IGs platform on 26 May 2022, but when the order 
was filled it showed to have incorrectly closed an existing position instead. He says this 
position closed without his permission and holds IG responsible for this change.
He says his trading strategy was to trade at the peak and then re-hedge at a higher point if 
the price continued to rise and this was not possible as the order netted off before he was 
able to execute his strategy. He says he contact IG to reinstate his position, but they could 
only do this at their original price levels. He says this resulted him not being to make a profit 
and run a bigger loss which over a period cost him up to £50,000.
After complaining to IG, it became clear he was using an old version of the mobile 
application and says this was because he was never prompted to update the application. He 
still maintains that he did not opt to net off. He feels strongly that as it is IGs application it 
is their responsibility to ensure this application is accurate and up to date and should have 
forced users to update this and this is what he says other providers do. 
To resolve his complaint, he would like to be compensated for his losses.
IGs position 
They issued their final response in July 2022 saying they did not make any changes to the 
account deal settings such as net off or force open. These are set by the client on the trading 
platform and any amendments would have been done by the client alone.
As neither party say they made the changes to his default settings, IG considered whether 
any system/application updates would have resulted in a reset of the settings on the mobile 
application. IG confirmed that it may be the case that if there is a network issue whilst the 
application is being reinstalled, it may not retrieve all the default settings from the database.  
However, where this situation does arise, IG say the following message would be displayed 
on the deal page your force open/net off settings havent fully loaded. Please check them 
below. before placing a trade. Check settings. This is displayed near the top of the deal 
page in a coloured box and would be visible to anyone on this page. IG confirm that no 
issues were reported on 26 May 2022 or when Mr C placed his deal. 
IG also say any updates to the mobile application would automatically be prompted by 
iPhone and is not something that would be prompted by them. They say any prompt or 
request to update the application would be dependent on Mr Cs own phone settings and 
whether this had been disabled. They say this is something outside of their control and is for 
Mr C to manage himself.
They say upon investigation they could not see anything to suggest there was a change 
made by IG. They also established that when the order was placed at 16:29, Mr C used his 
phone trading app on which the net off option was selected. 
As a gesture of good will, IG agreed to reinstate the long and short positions at their original 
price levels as well as refund the realised loss. They say there was no guarantee the trades 
would have behaved as he had predicted and didnt agree to compensate him for any loss of 
opportunity or potential loss of profit.  They also later agreed to offer a refund of the 
overnight funding charged from 26 May 2022 to 16 August 2022 when the trade was closed. 
This amounted to a total of £650.
Mr C didnt accept the offer made as it didnt compensate him for the loss he incurred, and 
he continued to dispute that the settings were working correctly. Unhappy with this outcome, 
he brought his complaint to this service.
Investigators view
The investigator here didnt uphold his complaint. He said it was more likely that using an old 
version of the application caused a change in default settings. He says any updates to the 
application should have happened automatically unless the device Mr C used was set not to 
install automatic updates and that there was no regulatory requirement for a firm to ensure 
customers used the latest version of the application. He said the data suggested the force 
open default was changed to net off by the customer and concluded there wasnt enough 
evidence to suggest an error on IGs part let to the closure of Mr Cs positions.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators view, so this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding what is fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant regulation and best 
industry practice, but its for me to decide, based on the information and evidence that I have 
been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. Having done so, I am not 
upholding this complaint and for broadly similar reasons as the investigator. I will explain 
further.
In establishing what happened, I would expect firstly to see if any changes were made to the 
default setting on the account which would have been force open. IG confirm there are two 
ways to make changes to the force open/net off option. 
1. Under default option in the main settings panel on the left had side on the main page. 
This would set the default on all deals/order placed.
2. When placing an individual deal/order, the force open and net off option is set there. 
When a change is made from the default position, the mobile application would net off by 
closing an already open position. Mr C and IG both confirm no changes were made by him 
and IG also say theyve not made any changes to his account, and I am satisfied that no 
changes were made to the main default settings as outlined in (1) above.The default preference staying as force open in the main settings doesnt guarantee that 
this is what would have happened with all trades going forwards. This because this option 
can also be changed on the individual deal ticket without making any changes to the default 
preference. It would automatically show as being the default setting (as set in 1 above) but 
can be manually changed for each individual deal/order without impacting the default setting 
on any other deal/order placed. So, I looked at this screen to see what information was 
visible. It is critical to note that the deal page specifically confirms When filled Net Off/Force 
open before the deal is placed, but I accept this may not have been so clear to Mr C as he 
was using an old version of the mobile application. 
I considered Mr Cs position with using an old version of the application. He says IG should 
be forcing its customers update the application, but Im not persuaded by this. I dont see 
that this is within IGs control particularly when it is Mr C himself that would need to update 
this from his iPhones application store. On balance, it is more likely as IG have explained 
that Mr C may have disabled this function himself and he should look to review his phone 
settings. I think it would be unreasonable to hold IG responsible for updates on personal 
mobile phones that they have no control over.
Whether this was the old version of the application or new, given the nature of this feature, 
IG say the default setting would be irrelevant, and I agree with them. As the preference can 
be changed when placing individual trades, it is more important to look at which option was 
selected when trading rather than the default position of the account. On this occasion, the 
evidence I have seen shows it is recorded as net off so this option was selected when he 
placed his deal.
IG have provided evidence of Mr Cs trading history showing 198 working orders. So, placing 
these types of working orders that nets off positions on his account was not uncommon. His 
trading history shows numerous positions where the force open option has been changed 
to net off and the same can be said for his trades on 26 May 2022. The trading data for this 
day shows he has made changes to the force open option on various positions. This change 
would need to be done individually on each deal placed and explains why IG were unable to 
see any change in the main default settings. On balance it is more likely than not, that Mr C 
was responsible for these individual changes, whether intentionally or not. 
I appreciate how disappointing this must be for Mr C particularly as hes lost considerable 
money but looking at this complaint and the evidence provided to me, Im not persuaded that 
any wrongdoing on IGs part has been established. If he does continue to have any concerns 
in relation to the way in which IG operates, Mr C could refer his complaint to the regulators, 
the Financial Conduct Authority.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint against IG Index Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman