DRN-3441562
The complaint
Ms and Ms B complain about the way RAC Insurance Limited (RAC) have dealt with a 
claim under their legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy.  
Ms B has led this complaint with our Service, so Ill just refer to her throughout. Any 
reference to RAC includes any agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known and has been detailed by our Investigator 
previously, so Ive summarised events.
Ms B holds an LEI policy with RAC that was taken out in March 2020. In December 
2021 Ms B made a claim under the policy for an employment dispute; saying shed 
been unfairly dismissed in August 2021. 
RAC said it wouldnt provide cover under the policy because the event claimed for, 
was a continuation of issues that started before the inception of the policy. It referred 
to bullying allegations from 2016 and events around a workplace accident in 2019 
that led to her being off work since. 
Ms B disagreed saying she wasnt aware there would be a need to claim before the 
inception of the policy. And, Ms B said she was unhappy she had to find her own 
legal advice and pay for this herself because of where she lives. 
In its final response, RAC reiterated its reasons for declining the claim. RAC also 
relied on an additional term to decline the claim; saying Ms B had raised the claim 
more than 90 days after the insured event so she wouldnt be covered by the policy.     
The complaint came to this Service and our Investigator didnt uphold it. She felt RAC 
hadnt done anything wrong as the issues that led up to the event claimed for, started 
before the policy was incepted. And that Ms B ought reasonably to have been aware 
those issues could lead to a claim. Therefore, our Investigator said it was fair for RAC 
to rely on this policy exclusion to decline the claim. 
Our Investigator also said the solicitors reviewing the claim werent required to 
provide legal advice and RAC werent wrong in telling Ms B to instruct her own 
solicitors, given the claim had been declined.
Ms B disagreed, saying she wasnt aware dismissal was a possibility until her 
occupational health consultant mentioned ill-health retirement in May 2021. 
Our Investigator looked again but didnt change her mind, saying although the 
dismissal happened after the policy was taken out, the chain of events had begun 
prior. So, Ms B ought to reasonably have been aware there was a dispute that might 
lead to legal action. Our Investigator also said RAC were right to decline the claim as 
the claim was made to RAC more than 90 days after Ms B was dismissed.
Ms B still disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
RAC has declined this claim on the basis of several exclusions. Ill consider these in 
turn to decide if RAC has acted fairly when declining Ms Bs claim. 
Under the heading Costs and Expenses Incurred for which no cover is provided it 
states Where the Insured Event had commenced or occurred before the first period 
of insurance and Where at, or prior to, the start of the first period of insurance, in 
Our reasonable judgement, You should have realised that a claim might occur. 
Insured Event is defined as The incident or series of incidents which may lead to 
a claim or claims being made under the terms of this cover
Im satisfied these terms are clear, and are common in LEI policies. Thats because 
this type of cover is intended to cover uncertain risks, not things that have already 
happened or are going to happen. Its also common for the terms to exclude events 
where the policyholder was aware of the issues before policy inception. 
Ms B doesnt feel her unfair dismissal claim predates the inception of her policy. 
So, the question I have to answer in this case is whether RAC did anything wrong in 
declining Ms Bs claim for the reasons above. 
In doing so Ive considered the sequence of events in Ms Bs case carefully to 
establish when the Insured Event started  and whether Ms B ought reasonably to 
have realised a claim might occur before she took out the policy. 
Its not disputed that Ms B was dismissed over a year after the policy was taken out. 
But, in the lead up to this, its clear Ms B has had several issues with her employer 
that she described in herself in one of her claim forms. I wont detail these again 
here, but these include events dating back to 2016, and her managers actions 
around June 2019 when she was off sick.
To support the claim for unfair dismissal, Ms B is relying on her employers lack of 
absence management. By the time Ms B took this policy out in March 2020, shed 
been absent from work for around 11 months. During this time, she had several 
issues with her employer and so seems most likely to me that she felt she was being 
treated unfairly in relation to her absence before the policy started. 
Im satisfied Ms B had issues with the way her absence was being managed prior to 
inception of the policy  and the chain of events leading on from this culminated in 
her dismissal. So Im satisfied the insured event started before the policy was 
incepted  and Ms B ought reasonably to have been aware from as early as 2019, 
when her manager didnt implement the attendance policy correctly, that the issue 
might result in a claim. 
So, Im satisfied it was fair for RAC to rely on this exclusion to decline Ms Bs claim 
and I wont be asking it to do anything to put things right. 
While there has been discussion of other exclusions RAC has relied on, I wont go 
into these any further as it wont change the outcome of this claim for the reasons 
given above.
Im also satisfied the reason Ms B has had to pay for her own legal costs is because 
this claim isnt covered under her policy  not because of where she lives. And as our Investigator said, its right she wouldnt be entitled to any legal advice from the 
solicitors assessing her claim, given it had been declined.  
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman