DRN-3055923
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly rejected his credit card account application.
What happened
Mr S says he applied in a Santander branch on 11 March 2021 for a credit card account. He 
says the application was rejected and so provided evidence of his good credit score. Mr S 
says he was told by Santander staff that the application had been accepted before being told 
it had again been rejected. He would like to know why and questions if a disputed County 
Court Judgement (CCJ) was to blame.
Santander says it rejected the application due to a low internal risk score. It says it 
reassessed the application but came to the same conclusion. Santander says its lending 
decisions are confidential but says it told Mr S the reason for the rejection.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator didnt 
think there any evidence on Santanders records about Mr Ss application being successful. 
And thought it had told Mr S the reason for the rejection, namely the low internal credit 
score.
Mr S doesnt accept that view and says he hasnt been given any real explanation and says 
he is offered credit card accounts by other providers all the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Im satisfied that Santander fairly assessed Mr Ss credit card account application on two 
occasions and concluded that his internal credit score was too low. I am sure Mr S 
appreciates that Santander must carry out an assessment on any lending application to 
ensure affordability and I think it is reasonably entitled, when exercising its commercial 
judgement, to decide what its attitude to risk is. So, Im satisfied that Santander is entitled to 
decide with whom it has a lending relationship and did tell Mr S why it couldnt offer him a 
credit card account.
I appreciate Mr S would like further details for that rejection, but I also think Santander is 
entitled not to reveal details of its lending criteria in any further detail. And that such 
information is likely to be commercially sensitive. I also make clear to Mr S that I have not 
seen any evidence on Santanders records that his application was ever successful or that 
the disputed CCJ played any part in the lending decision.
I accept Mr S will remain disappointed with my decision, but I think this brings an end to what 
we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman