DRN-4126629
The complaint
Mr H complains National Savings and Investments wont let him change his contact details 
unless he calls and gives an agent his full password.
What happened
Mr H has Premium Bonds with National Savings and Investments. Hes told us that he has 
dyslexia and that this means he has difficulty writing. Hes also told us that he sometimes 
gets numbers muddled up, but that he has strategies to manage this.
Mr H says hes not been able to access his account ever since National Savings and 
Investments introduced two step authentication. He says thats because National Savings 
and Investments need a mobile phone number to send him a one-time passcode to, and it 
wont let him change his contact details unless he calls and gives an agent his full password. 
Mr H complained to National Savings and Investments about this in March 2023.
National Savings and Investments looked into Mr Hs complaint and explained how its 
processes for changing his password worked. Having done so, National Savings and 
Investments said it didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Mr H wasnt happy with National Savings and Investments response and so complained to 
us. He did so in April 2023. Our investigator didnt think National Savings and Investments 
had acted unfairly. Mr H didnt agree with our investigator and asked for his complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman. So, his complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H contacted National Savings and Investments in January 2023 to check the details of 
premium bonds his parents had bought for him. National Savings and Investments confirmed 
he owned £2s worth of Premium Bonds and sent him the details. Mr H then asked to be 
registered for National Savings and Investments online and phone service. He was sent a 
temporary password in March 2023 which he then tried to change to a password of his own 
choice. Mr H was told hed have to call National Savings and Investments in order to do this 
as it needed to register his security telephone number and thats something that National 
Savings and Investments says its customers have to do with it and cannot do online. Mr H 
called National Savings and Investments  as hed been asked to do so  and was asked to 
confirm what he wanted his new password to be. I can understand why Mr H might not have 
felt safe providing his new password in full over the phone  businesses regularly tell their 
customers that they wont be asked to give their whole password (if they have one) for 
obvious reasons. So, I dont think it was unreasonable of Mr H to complain about this. 
National Savings and Investments investigated Mr Hs complaint and, having done so, 
explained how the member of staff his call would be transferred to  so that he could change 
his password  is able to update his password whilst at the same time not knowing Mr Hs 
identity. Our investigator didnt think that this was unfair or unreasonable.
Ive spoken at length to Mr H and its clear hes very unhappy about the idea of giving the 
password he intends to use over the phone to a National Savings and Investments agent. 
And he makes the point that even if the agent doesnt know his identity  because hes 
transferred anonymously  that hell have to give them his mobile number, so theyll know 
both his full password and his mobile number. Again, I can see what Mr H is saying here. 
The agent wouldnt, however, know Mr Hs address or account number or any of his other 
information. On balance, given everything Ive just said, I dont think National Savings and 
Investments has acted unfairly or unreasonably.
I explored with Mr H when I spoke to him what role, if any, his dyslexia has played. And Im 
satisfied that it hasnt had an impact here. Its clear that Mr H is more concerned about the 
fact that his calls are potentially being dealt with by a call centre overseas and that his data 
wont, as a result, be held as safely as it would be in the event it was held in the UK. Ive 
explained to Mr H that if he wants to complain about this then thats a matter for the ICO.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman