DRN-2651107
The complaint
Mr T complains AXA Insurance UK Plc have unfairly settled a motor insurance claim against 
him, with him at fault.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Most motor insurance policies contain a term which says the insurer can take over 
and deal with the claim - and I can see this is the case with Mr Ts policy. It isnt for 
this service to decide who is liable for an accident, however we do look at whether 
the insurer has acted reasonably in reaching its decision
From reviewing all information available to me, Ive not seen anything that persuades 
me AXA didnt consider what Mr T has said, or the information he provided. Mr T sent 
in a statement and a diagram setting out his version of events, which I can see AXA 
received. Following this AXA made the decision that Mr T should be held liable for 
the claim
I can also see a discussion took place between Mr T and AXA following this in 
May 2020, when he disputed the liability decision. So I think AXA have considered 
what Mr T have said, but having looked at the information available theyve decided 
liability lies with Mr T and not the third party
Mr T has also made comments about the Highway Code  and I can see this 
featured in his conversations with AXA. As Ive said, this service cant consider 
whether Mr T was liable for the accident or not. But I do think this further 
demonstrates AXA have thought about what hes said, regardless of whether both 
Mr T and AXA agree on its interpretation
So taking all of the above into consideration, I dont think AXA have to do anything 
further
So for these reasons I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision Is that I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman