DRN-3616567
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund a payment it says was 
made as part of a scam.
What happened
S employed another limited company, that Ill call N, to install some automatic gates. N had 
been recommended by someone they knew after it had successfully installed some gates for 
them.
A representative of N came to S premises and measured up. N asked for a 50% payment 
upfront, which S, having seen that N was a limited company and had various social media 
profile pages, paid by bank transfer. 
N never carried out the work  despite promises that it would start. S complained and 
became aware that other people had paid for work that hadnt been carried out.
S also complained to Santander. It said the matter was a civil dispute, so it wouldnt refund S 
under the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model CRM Code, which 
requires firms like Santander to refund victims of authorised push payment scams in all but a 
limited number of circumstances.  
S disagreed, it said that other customers of N had received a refund and it didnt understand 
why Santander hadnt provided one. It also thought that Santander should have intervened 
and questioned the transaction. 
One of our investigators didnt uphold S complaint. They were of the view that N was a 
legitimate company and not a scam. The investigator pointed to the fact the business had 
premises, an official van with the company logo on the side, customer testimonials and had 
successfully completed work for other people as evidence of this. They could also see that 
the business existed on the official record of companies.
S disagreed. In summary, it said:
- N never filed any accounts and, in any case, it is both easy and inexpensive to 
register a company. There also arent any checks carried out on new companies.
- N may have just completed one actual job and used this as a way of scamming other 
people. 
- Theres no proof N was actually trading from the address listed on Companies 
House. 
- The fact N had inspected the proposed works had little bearing on whether it was 
perpetrating a scam as that would be the only way for N to obtain a deposit.
- Its also not expensive to adorn a van with a company logo. 
- Social media pages are free to set up and theres no evidence the photos they 
displayed were actually Ns work.
- The customer reviews may also have been fabricated.
- Contrary to the investigators claim that S was communicating with N for some time 
after the payment was made, N only answered S calls when it called from a different 
number.
- The way in which N was dissolved was not in line with how a company should be 
wound up if it had become insolvent. 
- Ns social media pages suggests about 20 other people lost out in the same way. 
This represents a significant return for N. 
- The investigator hasnt put enough weight on evidence from the receiving bank which 
shows that other people reported the same issue.
- The fact the police and Trading Standards didnt investigate what happened isnt 
determinative and likely has more to do with a lack of resources, rather than a lack of 
evidence. 
- There was no explanation as to why customers of another bank had been refunded. 
- Overall, the investigators view was based on opinion, rather than fact and S wants to 
know the criteria on which Santander decide whether a matter is a scam or a civil 
dispute. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate how strongly S representatives feel about whats happened. I dont dispute that 
they paid money for a service and received nothing. But the CRM Code isnt a general 
protection for consumers against non-receipt of services. Instead it only applies in very 
specific circumstances  where the customer has been the victim of a scam. 
S would like to know the precise criteria which Santander have used to decide whether the 
circumstances it finds itself in are a scam or not. I dont believe any such criteria exist  the 
basis for any consideration is set out in the CRM Code  a document which is freely 
available online. 
The CRM Code defines an authorised push payment scam (so far as is relevant to this 
complaint) as a transfer of funds where:
The Customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed were legitimate 
purposes but which were in fact fraudulent.
The Code doesnt define fraudulent but to give its ordinary meaning: something done by or 
involving deception. Therefore, in order to say what happened was a scam, Id need to be 
satisfied that N acted dishonestly when it accepted payment from S. In other words: did N 
accept S money while having no intention of completing the agreed work?
The evidence for this is mixed. S points to other people in a similar situation to it. It also 
notes that other customers have received their money back. Im afraid that other people 
being in the same situation as S doesnt necessarily mean that N took S money (or anyone 
elses) dishonestly. It could simply mean that the business was unable to fulfil a number of 
orders when it began to struggle financially. I also cannot comment on why other banks may 
have decided to refund their customers.S quite rightly points out that a company that owes money should be placed into liquidation, 
rather than dissolved. During the liquidation process any creditors will have the opportunity 
to lodge claims against any remaining funds. That doesnt appear to be what happened 
here. I can see that there was an objection to the business being struck off and that it 
remained active until December 2021. Companies House does not provide any further 
information about this  but its likely that someone owed money by N objected to the 
dissolution. Whether any legal action commenced is unclear. 
Ive also been able to connect N with a number of other businesses on Companies House. 
Though N and those businesses do not share the same director, at least one has an almost 
identical website to Ns. This supports S claim that N may have simply started another 
company and continued to provide its services.
Ive also noted that there doesnt seem to have been any accounts filed by N and I 
acknowledge that starting a new company is not a difficult or expensive process (and 
neither, for that matter, is operating social media pages). But all of this is not necessarily an 
indication of fraud, it could simply suggest a badly managed business and there are reasons 
for me to think the latter. 
We do know that N had completed some work and, considering the recommendation S 
received, had done this work to a reasonable standard. I note S comments about the 
possibility of N not actually operating from the address on Companies House, but my 
understanding is the recommendation came from a business that neighboured N in the same 
trading estate  so it seems likely that they knew N was actually operating out of the address 
given. 
Ive also received further evidence from the bank which operated Ns account. It is known by 
both parties that bank received a number of claims from people in the same situation as S. 
Ive seen details of those claims and can see that all were received after S made its payment 
to N. Ive also reviewed Ns bank statements over that year and it does appear that the 
account was being used for normal business expenditure (including after S payment was 
received). Im unable to share those statements with S, but they are enough to convince me 
that N had carried out several successful jobs for a number of people. The statements, along 
with the other evidence mentioned, are also enough to convince me that N was not a 
business set up in order to defraud people.
It is very difficult to establish if and when a legitimate business might have decided to start 
taking customers money without any intention of carrying out work. In a case like this, the 
only way of establishing this with any degree of confidence would be for a police or 
(perhaps) Trading Standards investigation to take place. I am not aware, despite the 
apparent number of complaints against N, that any such action has taken place.
S draws comparison to other crimes which it says have taken place but the police havent 
decided to investigate. However, in this case, the person behind this alleged scam is named 
on Companies House and, presumably, wouldnt be too difficult to locate. 
In any case, the lack of a police investigation is not the fault of Santander. Neither is it for our 
service to prove that N werent operating as a scam. Instead, I must decide what I think is 
more likely than not in the circumstances. I realise this must be frustrating for S, but Im not 
able to decide that Ns actions were criminal when there is mixed evidence for this and a 
lack of any formal investigation by the police.S has clearly lost out here and Im sympathetic to its position  but Im only deciding whether 
the bank should provide a refund to it. Im satisfied that Santander hasnt made a mistake in 
deciding this was a civil dispute. 
In addition, I dont think the payment S made was sufficiently out of character or unusual for 
Santander to have had any concerns about it. But, even if it had, given that at the point the 
payment was made, neither S nor Santander would have any idea of the later issues S 
would have with N and there was (and continues to be) disagreement over whether what 
happened was a scam at all, I cant reasonably conclude that any intervention would have 
caused Santander concern or made a difference to S decision to go ahead with the 
payment. 
Finally, while this will be of little consolation to S, I can confirm that when S reported the 
matter to Santander, its funds had already been removed from Ns account. So, even if 
Santander had contacted the receiving bank to ask for the return of the funds, I cant see 
that it would have changed S position. But, in any case, as Ive concluded that this matter is 
a civil dispute, there was no obligation on it to do this. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman