DRN-3707926
The complaint
Miss J and Miss W complain QIC Europe Ltd unfairly declined their buildings insurance
claim.
Miss J and Miss W are being represented by I. But for ease I will refer to Miss J and Miss W
below.
All references to QIC also include its appointed agents.
What happened
Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full 
timeline or list every point that has been made.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full
again here. However, Ive summarised events that led to the complaint below.
Miss J and Miss W made a claim for an escape of water, due to a burst water tank at
their property, in February 2021.
After completing investigations, QIC declined the claim. It concluded the property
was unoccupied and unfurnished, so was excluded from cover. 
Miss J and Miss W disagreed and have reiterated they lived at the property, with
minimal furniture in the property due to it being their first home.
Unhappy with QICs response, Miss J and Miss W brought the complaint to our
service. Theyve since had repairs carried out themselves at the property to rectify
the damage.
Our investigator recommended Miss J and Miss Ws complaint be upheld. He didnt think 
QIC had applied the exclusions fairly and was persuaded it was more likely Miss J and Miss 
W were living at the property.
To put things right he recommended QIC:
Settle the claim in line with remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Add 8% simple interest to any settlement, up to the date it was made to 
Miss J and Miss W.
As most repairs had been made to Miss J and Miss Ws property, costs should be 
cash settled subject to sufficient evidence being provided.
Amend any claim accordingly on any database and provide confirmation to 
Miss J and Miss W the claim had not been declined.
Pay Miss W and Miss J £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience
caused.
QIC didnt agree with our investigator. In doing so it has asked for the matter to be put to an
ombudsman with further comments for consideration.
The complaint then passed to me.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 2 September 2022. In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Miss J and Miss W, and QIC, have provided detailed submissions. I want to assure all
parties that Ive considered these carefully but Im going to focus my decision on what I see
as the central issues to this complaint. I dont intend this as a discourtesy, rather it reflects
the informal nature of our service and my role in it.
Im intending to uphold Miss J and Miss Ws complaint for the following reasons:
The policy says cover will not be provided if the property is unoccupied or unfurnished. QIC
has applied this exclusion when declining Miss J and Miss Ws claim.
The policy defines the home as unoccupied when not lived in for more than 30 days in a row.
The policy defines unfurnished as being without enough furniture and furnishings for normal
living purposes.
Normal living purposes isnt defined in the policy. However, if I think of its meaning to an
ordinary person, Id consider this to be somewhere to sleep along with facilities and means
with which to eat and wash.
Miss J and Miss W were first time buyers and had owned the property for around three
months at the time of the incident. They have acknowledged there was only a small amount
of furniture in the property, something I dont find unusual for first time buyers - and for the
amount of time they had owned the property.
But having considered the information available I think there was enough present in the
property to meet the general definition of normal living purposes.
QIC itself provided photos of cutlery and food found at the property. While the photo may
show a limited amount of cutlery, there were two knives, two forks and two spoons  enough
for both Miss J and Miss W to have one each.
QIC highlighted the lack of food found at the property  noting what it did find was typically of
an instant variety or could be boiled. But I dont think this itself is a definite indication of
someone not living at the property as the types mentioned are still food and there was still
means to prepare or eat food in the property.
Miss J and Miss W said there was food present in a fridge in an outbuilding which was not
inspected initially by QIC, and later removed. Miss J and Miss W have provided several
statements from neighbours, family and a contractor carrying out work at the property at the
time of the incident. In their statement, the contractor says the fridge had been moved due to 
work in the area where it was usually stored, and that food was present in the fridge.
The contractors statement also says a mattress was present at the property along with
toiletries in the bathroom. QIC has questioned the independence of the contractors
statement but Ive not seen any reason to question its validity The comments have come
from what appears to be an independent email address, and the work the contractor
completed has been paid for  so they have no financial interest in the claim.There is also further evidence of furniture being present at the property such as a wardrobe
that has been damaged  of which Miss J and Miss W say was still at the property recently,
and of which they have provided photos.
QIC commented that Miss W and Miss J do not have a TV Licence or Broadband at the
property. Miss W and Miss J have provided evidence they applied for Broadband in
December 2020 but were unsuccessful in obtaining it. Theyve also said they were not using
anything that required a TV licence.
While these points alone dont prove they were living at the property, I also dont consider
QICs point here shows they werent. A TV licence is a requirement if watching certain
television channels, but it isnt a requirement for a number of independent streaming
services, which are easily available by using a mobile phone.
I also note that the electric usage at the property in the months leading up to the incident
was higher than the average amount for the number of people occupying it. I do consider
there were works being carried out at the property, which may account for some usage, but if
the property was unoccupied, Id reasonably expect this to be lower.
I understand why QIC might have had cause for concern that Miss J and Miss W werent
living at the property. But having reviewed everything available I think its more likely the
property was occupied and lived in, and therefore I dont think QIC have sufficiently shown
the exclusion has been applied fairly to decline the claim.
I also consider the damage in question was caused by the water tank in the loft bursting.
And Ive not seen anything that persuades me that in the event Miss J and Miss W werent
occupying the property as QIC suggest, it would have made a difference to outcome of the
escape of water.
Putting things right
QIC said it would only expect to indemnify the policyholders back to the position they were in
prior to the loss. This is the function and general purpose of most insurance policies. So, I
wouldnt expect QIC to reimburse Miss J and Miss W for anything other than the loss they
incurred as a result of the escape of water or were not reasonably entitled under the terms of
the policy.
But should there be a dispute over any future settlement, that wouldnt prevent Miss J and
Miss W bringing a complaint to QIC about it, and/or being able to refer to our service should
they be unhappy with its response.
Considering the impact QICs decision caused, and the impact explained by
Miss J and Miss W, I do think theyve suffered significant distress, So I do think
compensation is due. In the circumstances I think £300 is in the correct region to recognise
the inconvenience and distress Miss J and Miss W have suffered.
So to put things right I intend to direct QIC to:
Consider the claim under the remaining terms of the policy.
Miss J and Miss W have completed works to rectify the issues, so on production of
sufficient proof, QIC should reimburse these costs. QIC should pay 8% simple
interest on this amount from the date Miss J and Miss W made the payment, to the
date it makes settlement.
Amend and remove any adverse data from relevant databases relating the claimbeing declined.
Pay Miss J and Miss W £300 compensation.
Responses to my provisional decision
I responded to say they had no further comments to add.
QIC didnt provide any further response to my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered all available evidence. I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
decision  or my reasoning. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss J and Miss Ws complaint.
To put things right, I direct QIC Europe Ltd to do as Ive set out in my provisional findings.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman