The complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Miss W says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
Briefly:
In 2004 Miss W took out PPI at the same time as taking out a high street store card. Both 
were done during a store visit. The policy provided protection for Miss Ws card payments in 
the event she couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The monthly 
benefit was 15% of the outstanding balance and it cost £1.50 for every £100 Miss W owed 
on the card. The premiums continued to be payable during a claim and they did attract 
interest.
The policy also provided price and purchase protection. But Miss Ws not complained about 
these things, so I wont consider these in this decision. It does mean however that I have 
assumed the full cost of the policy to the PPI element.
At the time Miss W says she was employed and says she was entitled to sick pay of more 
than three months pay. She also said she had no other means at her disposal, and she was 
in good health at the time.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said the evidence 
showed Miss W chose to take out PPI. And there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or 
inappropriate for her.
Miss W disagrees, so the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Miss Ws case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and my reasons are set out below.
I think AXA made it clear that Miss W didnt have to take out the PPI and that she
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this.
AXA has provided a copy of Miss Ws store card application. And here I can see that 
Miss W signed a separate section to take out PPI which read: Yes, I would like to 
protect my account with Account Cover By having to sign to take out the policy, I 
DRN-1141070dont think shed have been under the impression that she had to have it. If Miss W 
didn't want PPI she could've left this section blank.
So overall, I think Miss W chose to take out PPI, and she did so without undue 
pressure.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Miss W  Ive seen no evidence to support the
view that it did - so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to
make sure Miss W got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Miss W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
shouldve been  for example I cant see that the significant exclusions to and limits
on the cover were sufficiently drawn to her attention. But she chose to take out the
PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her
circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the
exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. And while she had some sick pay, she didnt
have any other means she could rely on to make her payments. Because of this and
given the policy had the potential to clear the outstanding balance in full, I think it
would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her
off taking out the cover.
In light of my findings above, I dont think Miss W has lost out as a result of having PPI with 
her store card. So AXA doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons I've set out above, I've decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no 
award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 February 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman