DRN-2613043
The complaint
T, a limited company, complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC refusing to provide its 
company secretary with an authentication card. Its also unhappy that Barclays withheld its 
number when it called one of its representatives.
T is being represented. Any reference to T will include information provided by its 
representatives.
What happened
In 2020, T complained about Barclays refusal to issue an authentication card to its registered 
company secretary, Miss B. T noted other representatives had been issued with these cards 
which it said was needed to securely access its online banking services. T also complained 
about Barclays using a withheld number when calling one of its representatives  it thought 
this was an unacceptable approach to security. T considered Barclays should have advised 
its representatives about this in writing before calling.
Barclays rejected Ts complaint. It said that where any official of a business account is an 
existing Barclays customer and they hold a debit card, as Miss B does, it doesnt issue them 
with an authentication card. In these cases, the persons debit card is used to identify them 
when logging in to Barclays online services and this in turn allows the customer to view all 
accounts they are authorised to use. Barclays noted that due the Covid-19 crisis, its agents 
have been working at home. This has meant it amending the way it calls customers and it 
does involve withholding its agents numbers.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In brief, she thought Miss B was given access 
to Ts account in a secure manner. Overall, she didnt think Barclays had done anything 
wrong as it had correctly followed its processes.
T disagreed. It didnt think Miss B should have to use her personal details to access Ts 
account  it considers this does, or will do in the future, present a security risk. T also knows 
of a person that has been issued with an authentication card, despite having access to other 
Barclays accounts. T asked for the matter to be escalated to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would point out that Ts representatives have made numerous points in support of its 
complaint. We are an informal service and our rules allow me to focus on what I consider 
relevant. So if theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored anything  I 
havent. Ive looked at, and taken into account, everything thats been sent to us.
I also need to clarify that I wont be commenting on the hypothetical scenarios such as what 
would happen if T terminated Miss Bs employment  Barclays have explained what T will 
need to do to stop Miss Bs access to its account if this situation happens. And I dont need 
to comment on it further to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I appreciate the representatives of T dont think Miss B using her own debit card is a secure 
way to do things and feel strongly that she should be given her own authentication card. But 
its for Barclays to decide what processes it wants to adopt for its customers. This is within 
the legitimate exercise of its commercial judgement and isnt something I can influence or 
ask Barclays to change.
Looking at whether Barclays have applied its process fairly, I think it has. In this case, Miss B 
can access Ts online account without an authentication card using her own debit card  her 
debit card is simply used to identify her which is all the authentication card does. I dont think 
theres any evidence to show this has compromised the security on her own account or Ts 
account. So whilst I appreciate shes unhappy about having to use her debit card to access 
Ts online services, I think Barclays has applied its process fairly in this case.
I understand Ts representatives have said Miss Bs colleagues have been sharing 
authentication cards with her. Barclays have explained this against its terms and conditions. 
And I cant fairly say this is something that has been caused by Barclays as Miss B can 
access Ts account in the way the bank has said. Ive also noted what T says about knowing 
somone in similar situation having an authentication card. Not knowing the full facts of that 
particular case, it wouldnt be fair for me to comment on it. But having considered the full 
facts of this case, Im satisfied Barclays process has been applied fairly in respect of T.
In terms of Barclays calling Ts representative using a withheld number, Barclays have 
explained this measure was put in place in response to the restrictions brought about by the 
Covid-19 crisis. Under these circumstances, I dont think Barclays has done anything wrong. 
This isnt condoning a particular way of working  its simply deciding whether Barclays has 
acted fairly or reasonably in the circumstances. And Im satisfied, given the unprecedented 
circumstances it was facing, this was a fair and proportionate response.
I also note the time and effort Ts representatives have put into trying to resolve this matter. 
But given I dont think Barclays has done anything wrong, I wont be making an award for 
distress and inconvenience in this case. 
For all these reasons, Im not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman