DRN-2509997
The complaint
Mr F complains about what happened when The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) offered 
to make a chargeback request for him.
  
What happened
Mr F said he paid a consultant to help him make an application. He said he was given to
understand that one payment of $1,990 would cover all the consultants services. Then later
he was told it would cost much more to continue and complete the application. Mr F said he
complained, and the consultant offered a refund of just $800.
Mr F contacted RBS, and he said it told him it could get his money back. It paid the money
into his account, but then it took it back again. Mr F said he didnt get any notification that
RBS was doing this until after it was done.
Mr F told us that he got in touch with RBS after this, and it sent him the documents. He took
a few days to reply. Mr F said he contacted RBS a couple of days after this, and was told it
was too late now to dispute this, and his chargeback claim wasnt going ahead.
RBS said that this transaction was actually two payments, one for £1,196.29 which left Mr
Fs account on 22 July, and a second for £401.44 which left on 23 July. It started a
chargeback request for him in late November, and as part of that it credited both those
amounts back to Mr F on 22 November.
RBS said that it received a reply from the merchant on 24 December. There seems to have
been some confusion about whether a reply was sent on to Mr F at that time. At one point,
RBS said that Mr F wasnt told this because of an internal error. Another note says that the
documents were sent to him by post. RBS says it was expecting a response by 6 January.
On 13 January, RBS took back the amounts it had previously paid Mr F, totalling £1,582.29.
This put him in unauthorised overdraft. Mr F contacted RBS shortly after this, and RBS said
documents were then sent to him by email.
RBS said it hadnt received a reply from Mr F, but it also said that the evidence the retailer
has supplied, confirms that the calls you had with them is what the charge was for. So it
said it couldnt continue Mr Fs chargeback claim.
On 3 February, Mr F was charged £6 for an arranged overdraft, £40 for an unarranged
overdraft and £2.75 as an unpaid transaction fee.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that our service
couldnt look at complaints about complaint handling, so she wouldnt consider that RBS had
said in its letter to Mr F that hed only complained once.
Our investigator thought that RBS did write to Mr F on 24 December, telling him that the
money it had paid him would be taken back on 13 January. Although it then couldnt locate
the reply he sent on 21 January, our investigator didnt think this made any difference,
because she said that what Mr F sent through wasnt enough to allow RBS to change its
position.
Our investigator said she thought that RBS would reasonably have expected that Mr F would
receive its letter telling him that it would remove the temporary credit from his account before
it actually did so, on 13 January.
Mr F didnt agree. He said that he didnt get any letter until 18 January. And before this, all
his contact with RBS had been by email. So the money was taken before he got the letter.
Our investigator still thought this letter was sent on 24 December, and she didnt think it was
unreasonable for RBS to write rather than email. So she didnt think RBS had to pay Mr F
compensation for going into unauthorised overdraft.
Mr F also said that he had responded within the 30-day deadline, so RBS ought to have
considered his response. And it didnt tell him it wasnt pursuing his chargeback after he sent
more evidence. Our investigator agreed that RBS shouldve considered Mr Fs response. But
she still didnt think it would change the outcome. And RBS had told Mr F it wasnt going
ahead with his chargeback on 23 January, when Mr F called for an update.
Mr F said that if a chargeback was always a limited right, then RBS shouldve told him this
when it first offered to make a claim for him. Our investigator said she wouldnt expect RBS
to do that. And she wouldnt expect RBS to consider the relevant regulatory guidelines for
this merchant. She thought that was something that Mr F should take up with the relevant
regulator.
Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
I dont think that RBS has to pay Mr F all the money he paid for services in July 2019. 
But I do think it should make a payment to him for poor service. Ill explain why I think 
that.
Firstly, Mr F has said he missed out on an offered refund of $800 from the merchant. 
But I dont think its RBSs fault that Mr F didnt get that refund. Considering the 
emails Mr F has shared with our service, it appears that Mr F had refused this offer 
some time before RBS offered to help.
RBS offered to make a chargeback request for Mr F. Mr F says that RBS shouldve
explained that this was a limited right. I think its very difficult for RBS to say, when it 
hears about a chargeback, whether its likely to be successful or not. It only has one 
side of  the story then. It just doesnt know what the merchant will say. So I wouldnt 
have expected RBS to warn Mr F at the start that this chargeback was unlikely to be 
successful.
RBS sent Mr Fs chargeback through to the merchant, and at the same time, it paid a 
credit into Mr Fs account for the disputed amount. RBS then received a reply, which 
robustly defended the claim.
There appears to be some confusion about whether the merchants reply was sent to 
Mr F. RBS has said at one point that this was overlooked. But it has also said it was 
sent. Mr F told us he received a letter on 18 January. I dont think that assists me in deciding if its likely that RBS did send a letter on 24 December, as this could have 
been posted after Mr F contacted RBS to complain it had taken the credit it made to 
him back.
But whether this letter was posted in December or not, I still think that RBS provided 
Mr F with poor service at this point. In its complaint response letter, RBS said that it 
would send documents by ..email, if an email address is held. We know it did have 
an email address for Mr F.
I think that RBS should always have emailed Mr F when it got the reply from the 
merchant. I think it would be a rather poor decision to send documents which RBS 
knew were time sensitive, on Christmas Eve 2019, with a deadline for replies of 6 
January 2020. I think there would always be a risk that Mr F would not receive this in 
time. These documents shouldve been emailed to Mr F.
When the money was taken out of Mr Fs account, he wasnt expecting this. So he 
went into unauthorised overdraft, which cost him in fees, and affected his credit 
score. Mr F has since been able to move money from elsewhere, and I would expect 
his credit score has also improved again.
Because RBS hasnt been able to show us that it wrote to Mr F on 24 December, and 
also because I think that documents shouldve been emailed to Mr F then in any 
event, I do think that RBS bears some responsibility for the fact that Mr F didnt get 
any warning that his account would be debited before RBS took the credit back, on 
13 January. So I think it should pay Mr F £45 to cover the charges he incurred 
because he wasnt expecting this money to be taken back.
Mr F then put together, at somewhat short notice, a response to the merchant. RBS 
didnt consider this. I can understand that this has shaken Mr Fs faith in the 
chargeback process. But, like our investigator, I dont think that this response 
changed the overall outcome. Mr F said that the merchant is required to issue a 
contract before it charges him, and it hadnt done that. But the document he sent us, 
which he says are the rules around providing this sort of service, doesnt say that a 
contract must be issued first. It just says its better to issue a retainer agreement first, 
and if thats not done, it should be done within ten days. That doesnt support Mr Fs 
argument.
Mr F also said that the key, for him, is what was said on phone calls with the 
merchant, when he was promised that the payments he was making would be the 
only payments required. But RBS cant get those calls, and the card scheme 
operator, who actually makes any final decision on a chargeback, wouldnt generally 
consider that sort of evidence. This chargeback would be considered on the basis of 
the documents both sides could provide. And the merchant could build a strong 
defence, on the documents it had.
That doesnt mean Mr F is wrong. It just means that a chargeback wasnt likely to be 
upheld.
Because I dont think this chargeback would have been upheld, even if RBS had 
done everything right, I dont think RBS has to pay Mr F now the money he spent on 
these two disputed transactions.
But I do think RBS has provided Mr F with poor service at points. So, in addition to a
payment of £45 to cover fees, I also think RBS should pay Mr F £100 in 
compensation. I think that provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr F didnt reply. RBS said it had nothing to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc must pay Mr F a total of £145 in 
compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman