DRN-2219691
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) misinformed and misled him into 
reducing his overdraft. 
What happened
Mr D had an overdraft on his Santander current account, which had a limit of £800. He 
phoned Santander in May 2020 to explain he couldnt afford the overdraft charges due as 
the onset of the pandemic meant he wasnt able to get a job. Santander explained it wasnt 
charging any interest on the first £500 of any overdraft. So Mr D wouldnt pay any interest or 
charges going forward if his overdraft limit was reduced to £500. Mr D says he wasnt told 
that agreeing to this meant that hed lose access to the additional £300 he was previously 
allowed to overdraw. He complained when he wasnt able to access these funds.
Santander responded and agreed it could have handled the call better and offered £30 
compensation for this. But it thought Mr D had clearly agreed to reduce his overdraft to £500 
in order to ensure he didnt pay any future overdraft charges. So it didnt agree that Mr D 
was misled into reducing his overdraft. As Mr D said he was struggling Santander referred 
him to its financial support team. Mr D remained dissatisfied and referred his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked at Mr Ds concerns. She didnt think that Santander had 
misled Mr D into reducing his overdraft. So she said that the £30 Santander offered was fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Ds complaint and didnt recommend that it 
pay Mr D any more compensation. Mr D disagreed with our investigator. He said £30 wasnt 
adequate compensation for having lost £300. Mr Ds complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman as a result.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint. Ill 
explain the reasons for my decision.
Mr Ds loss
In the first instance, I think its important for me to explain Mr D hasnt lost £300. I say this 
because although overdraft funds had, prior to the rule changes in April 2020, previously 
been included in a customers account balance any funds were nonetheless provided as part 
of a credit facility. And a bank has an ongoing obligation to monitor a customers repayment 
record as well as only advancing funds in circumstances where a consumer is able to repay 
what they are being lent.   
Was Mr D misled into reducing his overdraft limit?
Ive listened to the call Mr D had with Santander in May 2020. Mr D told the representative 
he couldnt afford to pay his overdraft charges and also pay his bills. He asked if Santander 
could provide any help. The representative explained banks werent able to charge interest 
on the first £500 of any overdraft as a result of rules introduced because of the pandemic. So 
Mr D wouldnt pay any interest, fees or charges on any balance up to £500 but as Mr D had 
an overdraft limit of £800 hed pay interest on any overdrawn amount between £500 and 
£800. The representative offered Mr D the opportunity of reducing his limit to £500 to ensure 
he wouldnt pay any charges at all while the temporary pandemic rules were in place. 
Mr D agreed to this but was transferred to another representative as the first one wasnt able 
to complete the process. Ive also listened to the content of the discussion with the second 
representative. I think its important for me to start by saying that the second representative 
told Mr D he could choose to only use the first £500 of his existing overdraft limit and he 
wouldnt incur any charges. But Mr D asked if his limit could be changed to £500, as thats 
what he wanted the first representative to do but she wasnt able to. The content of the call 
indicates that the second representative was also having difficulty amending Mr Ds overdraft 
limit at that time. He told Mr D that hed try again to process his request either the next day 
or early the following week.
Having considered the content of these calls, I dont think that Mr D was misled or 
misinformed into reducing his overdraft limit to £500. Its important to note that Mr D told the 
representative that he was aware that he was overdrawn by £508.42 and he knew if his 
overdraft was changed down it would go to £500. He queried whether hed be charged for 
this additional amount but was told by the representative he wouldnt. 
I have considered the possibility that Mr D was referring to the £500 interest free portion 
being applied to his overdraft. But the second representative confirmed he didnt need to 
make any changes for this to happen and Mr D could simply choose to ensure he paid no 
charges by going overdrawn by more than £500. In my view, Mr D saying he wanted the 
overdraft changed, irrespective of this, indicates that he wanted his limit reduced.
So Im satisfied that Mr D chose to reduce his limit and he wasnt misinformed or misled into 
doing so. 
Did Santander respond to Mr Ds request for help in a fair and reasonable way?
Ive also looked at whether it was fair and reasonable for Santander to reduce Mr Ds 
overdraft  irrespective of his request - bearing in mind the circumstances. Mr D said his 
income wouldnt increase as hed hoped and planned because his future job prospects, once 
he finished his course would be affected by the pandemic. And he wouldnt be able to afford 
to pay the scheduled interest and charges on his overdraft as a result. 
Mr D was offered two options. He was offered the option of not having to pay any interest at 
all by reducing his limit to £500, or him staying within the first £500 of his existing limit. He 
was also offered the option of paying reduced charges by making no changes to his 
overdraft limit and only paying interest on the first £500 he was overdrawn. 
Im also mindful that Santander agreed to waive any charges on the small amount Mr D was 
over £500. So Santanders solution and agreement to Mr Ds request prevented Mr D from 
getting a further £300 into debt as well as provided him with immediate relief. And Mr D 
doesnt tell he was relying on the additional £300 he was agreeing not to have access to and 
there was no indication this was going to cause him financial hardship either. So Im satisfied 
that Santander did exercise forbearance and bearing in mind all of the circumstances, it took 
fair and reasonable steps to respond to what Mr D has said about his financial position.I know Mr D now wants Santander to increase his overdraft limit back to £800. Santander 
says it cant just increase his limit without first assessing his ability to repay. Santander is 
required not to lend irresponsibly and as Mr D told Santander he was unable pay the interest 
and charges on his existing limit of £500 (let alone repay what he owed within a reasonable 
period of time), I dont think its unfair for Santander to want to assess he can pay the 
additional amount hes asking for before agreeing to lend it to him. On the contrary, I think it 
would be unfair and irresponsible to provide further funds in these circumstances without first 
checking Mr D can repay them. 
Overall and having carefully thought about everything, I dont think that Santander did 
anything wrong. Im very sorry to hear Mr D has been struggling. But I dont think Santander 
treated him unfairly when reducing his overdraft. And given his circumstances, I dont think 
its unfair to assess whether he can repay any further funds before agreeing to increase his 
overdraft limit. So Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint and I dont think that Santander needs 
to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman