DRN-3630326
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited failed to carry out some policy 
reviews on a whole of life policy she has. As a result, Mrs R says she was unable to raise a 
mis-sale complaint with the independent financial adviser (IFA) who sold the policy as they 
are now dissolved.
What happened
Mrs R is the policyholder of an Aviva whole of life policy taken out in 1990. Aviva didnt 
complete the policy reviews that were due in 2010 and 2015.
In early 2016 Aviva realised theyd made an error and wrote to Mrs R explaining theyd put 
Mrs R back in the position she would have been in if the reviews had taken place. This 
meant the fund value and ongoing premiums would be sufficient to maintain the life cover 
until the next review in 2020 without any change to the cover and premium. 
At the 2020 review Aviva wrote to Mrs R to tell she would need to increase the premium from 
£15.00 to £53.70 per month or reduce the life cover to £13,020 and keep the premium the 
same. Mrs R subsequently reduced the life cover to £13,020 and complained to Aviva that 
she hadnt realised the policy was reviewable when it was recommended by the IFA. Mrs R 
said if she had seen the 2010 and 2015 reviews, she would have known this and complained 
to the IFA. And that now shes complained to the IFA, shes found out the business dissolved 
in 2019. As a consequence, Mrs R said shes missed the opportunity to complain about the 
mis-sale of the policy.
Aviva responded to the complaint and said they werent responsible for the sale of the policy, 
but they accepted theyd got things wrong at the time of the reviews. Aviva confirmed theyd 
taken action to put the policy back into the place it should have been in to pass the reviews. 
Aviva also paid Mrs R £150 for the inconvenience theyd caused her in this regard.
Mrs R wasnt happy with the response from Aviva and brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators looked into things and thought that Aviva had 
put Mrs Rs policy back into the place it would have been in had the reviews been passed. 
And he thought that by carrying out this adjustment and paying Mrs R £150 this was a fair 
and reasonable remedy.
Mrs R didnt accept what the Investigator thought and asked that an Ombudsman decides 
the complaint. Its now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs R has strong views that the failure of Aviva to carry out the 2010 and 2015 
reviews meant shes missed out on the opportunity to raise a mis-sale complaint with the 
IFA. However, for very much the same reasons given by our Investigator, Ive decided the 
remedy completed by Aviva is a fair and reasonable one. I will now explain why.
The mis-sale of the policy
In this case its not disputed the policy was sold by an IFA and that in 2019 the IFA business 
was dissolved. Aviva didnt sell this policy so arent responsible for the sale and what may 
have been said when it was sold. 
The crux of this complaint is that Mrs R feels that if Aviva had carried out the reviews in 2010 
and 2015, she would have understood the premiums were reviewable. She says that if shed 
known this in 2010 or 2015, she would have complained to the IFA. But now, because the 
IFA is dissolved, she cannot. Mrs R says she has raised a complaint with the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS), but they have told her they cant consider her 
complaint as the policy is more than 15 years old.
Ive thought very carefully whether the actions of Aviva prevented Mrs R from complaining to 
the IFA before it was dissolved. Mrs Rs position on this matter is a reasonable one if she 
didnt have reason to believe the policy was reviewable before 2019. However, by 2016 
Aviva had written to her to tell her the 2010 and 2015 reviews had been missed, and that 
theyd increased her policy value to rectify the matter. In essence Aviva ensured the policy 
didnt fail the reviews by carrying out an adjustment. Not only that, but Aviva clarified how the 
policy worked in their January 2016 letter. Aviva said, We've also taken steps to make sure 
your policy now works as it should do. This means at future reviews, under the terms of your 
policy, we'll check the premium can support your sum assured until the next review date. If it 
can't, you can choose to either pay a higher premium or we'll reduce your sum assured.
The above statement was also clearly detailed in the Your questions answered section of 
the document Aviva sent with the January 2016 letter. 
Mrs R says these statements didnt make it clear the policy was subject to review, and that 
premiums and life cover may change. However, Ive decided these statements did made it 
reasonably clear this was the case. Aviva also clearly explained the policy would be 
reviewed again in 2020. And that in the 2020 review they would check to see if the level of 
premium being paid would continue to support the life cover provided. If it didnt, Aviva said, 
we'll ask if you'd like to pay a higher premium, to keep your sum assured at its current 
level. If you choose not to pay more, we will reduce your sum assured to a lower level that 
can be supported by the current premium until your next review date.
So, taking into account what Aviva sent Mrs R in January 2016, Im persuaded Mrs R was 
reasonably aware by this date the policy was reviewable and what that meant for future 
cover and premiums. And Ive decided it would be unfair and unreasonable to conclude 
Aviva caused Mrs R to miss complaining to the IFA about a mis-sale until she had received 
the received the 2020 review.
The missed reviews
Mrs R has asked why Aviva didnt carry out a full review in 2016. To be clear I think they did, 
to the extent that they rectified the policy and explained the premiums would sustain the sum 
assured until the next scheduled review in 2020. It wasnt until the policy was reviewed again 
that Aviva could reasonably tell Mrs R the premium wouldnt sustain the life cover for a 
further five years.
Ive considered the actions Aviva took when they discovered theyd made errors in 2010 and 
2015. I would expect Aviva to put the policy back into a position where it wouldnt have failed 
a review, and to issue clarification about future reviews. This is what they did, so I wont be asking them to do anything else in this regard. Aviva apologised for the missed reviews and 
accepted Mrs R had been caused some inconvenience. They paid Mrs R £150 for the 
inconvenience and I think this is fair and reasonable when taking into account theyd also 
carried out the rectification to the policy in 2016.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint and I wont be asking Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman