DRN-2846296
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund to her the money that she 
paid for a carpet.
What happened
Mrs D used her Nationwide credit card in April 2017 to pay £546.01 for a bedroom carpet. 
She says that one of the main reasons for choosing the carpet was that it had a lifetime 
warranty. She made a warranty claim to the supplier in 2020 when a stain on the carpet 
couldnt be removed but it said that she hadnt applied for the warranty. Mrs D then claimed 
a refund of the cost of the carpet from Nationwide under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974. 
It said that there were no grounds for it to settle a claim against the supplier as the evidence 
didnt demonstrate a breach of contract or any misrepresentation. It also said that the 
warranty that was offered doesnt have any cash value so would fall outside the criteria for a 
section 75 claim. Mrs D wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that her complaint should be upheld. He said that it was 
more likely than not that the leaflet about applying for the warranty wasnt delivered to Mrs D 
and he was comfortable that its failure to do so represented a breach of contract. He also 
believed that Nationwide was responsible for the misrepresentations of the supplier as Mrs D 
relied upon there being an inclusive lifetime warranty prior to entering into the contract. 
He said that Mrs D wasnt claiming for the purchase of the warranty as her claim was about 
the sale of the carpet that she was told would include a lifetime warranty  and given the 
cost of the carpet he said that section 75 did apply. He recommended that Nationwide 
should refund the sum of £546.01 for the carpet to Mrs D. 
Nationwide has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says that 
Mrs D didnt apply for the warranty so theres been no breach of contract by the supplier. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
in certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a 
consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the 
provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier;
to be able to uphold Mrs Ds complaint about Nationwide, I must be satisfied that 
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of the carpet 
and that Nationwides response to her claim under section 75 wasnt fair or 
reasonable  but Im not determining the outcome of Mrs Ds claim under section 75 
as only a court would be able to do that;
there doesnt seem to be any dispute that the carpet was offered with a lifetime 
warranty and Mrs D says that one of the main reasons for her buying that carpet was 
the lifetime warranty;
the price of the carpet, including the lifetime warranty, was £546.01 so I consider that 
the price of the carpet is within the financial limits for a claim under section 75;
Mrs D says that she wasnt given a leaflet by the supplier about the warranty and 
wasnt told that she needed to apply for the warranty;
in complaints like this, where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances;
as the warranty was important to Mrs D, I consider it to be more likely than not that 
she would have completed the warranty application if shed been told it about;
I consider it to be more likely than not that the supplier didnt give the leaflet about 
the warranty to Mrs D and that she wasnt told that she needed to apply for the 
warranty;
I consider that to have been a breach of contract by the supplier for which Nationwide 
is liable under section 75 so I dont consider that its response to Mrs Ds claim has 
been fair or reasonable;
I consider that the breach of contract has caused Mrs D to not have the protection 
that would have been provided by the lifetime warranty and that her carpet, which is 
now stained, wont be repaired or replaced under the lifetime warranty; and
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Nationwide to take the action described 
below.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Nationwide to pay (not 
credit) £546.01 to Mrs D to refund her for the cost of the carpet.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Ds complaint and I order Nationwide Building Society to pay 
£546.01 to Mrs D.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman