DRN-4515144
The complaint
Mr T complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Financial Solutions Wales Ltd 
(FSW), to transfer deferred benefits from his defined benefit (DB) pension with British Steel 
(BSPS) to a personal pension.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one
of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ts employer would be set up  the BSPS 2.
In September 2017 Mr T got in touch with FSW for advice on his BSPS pension and they 
recommended him to transfer his DB benefits into a personal pension. Mr T followed this 
advice.
In November 2021, Mr T complained about the advice he received. FSW rejected his 
complaint. They said the transfer met Mr Ts objectives of taking control of his pension and 
taking it more flexibly and that their cashflow showed financial viability.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He didnt think the advice was suitable. 
FSW disagreed but a few months after the investigators assessment, in October 2022, they 
carried out a loss calculation as recommended by the investigator in an attempt to settle the 
matter. They also offered Mr T £500, without admission of liability, for any distress the matter 
might have caused him. The calculation was carried out with an assumed retirement age of 
57 as recommended by the investigator. The calculation showed Mr T had a surplus of 
around £94,000 in his pension and had not suffered a financial loss by transferring.
Mr T rejected the offer and asked for his redress to be calculated once new FCA rules about 
redress for unsuitable DB transfer advice were published in April 2023. His representatives 
also noted the assumed retirement age should be 65 as it was uncertain when Mr T will 
retire.
FSW carried out updated calculations in October and December 2023. These still showed 
that Mr T had not suffered a financial loss. They again offered Mr T £500 for any distress 
caused.
Mr T remains unhappy with the outcome and disagrees with the redress methodology. He 
feels its unfair that colleagues have previously received high compensation payments and 
he receives nothing. He believes a calculation should be carried out based on data and 
economic assumptions in 2021 when he complained. Mr T asked for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand FSW is still disputing unsuitable advice has been given. However, nonetheless 
they agreed to carry out a redress calculation in line with FCA guidance and rules to put Mr 
T as much as possible in the position he would have been in if he had not transferred his DB 
pension. So I dont see the need to address the suitability of their advice to Mr T in detail.
However, I would like to note that I agree with the investigators view that the advice was 
unsuitable for largely the same reasons. 
Mr T was 49 at the time of the advice and aimed to retire at 57. I can see from emails at the 
time that he was keen on transferring and he set out his objectives as taking £50,000 in tax 
free cash at age 55 for home improvements and then take an income from 57. He was 
aiming for returns of 4-6% after fees and living primarily off the interest earned in his 
pension.
FSW transfer analysis showed that in order to match his DB benefits at age 57 he needed to 
meet a critical yield of 6.26% if benefits were taken as tax-free cash and reduced income or 
8.25% if only income was taken. Compared with the PPF benefits the critical yields were 
6.39% and 7.1% respectively.
Mr Ts risk profile was recorded as low medium and in his first email to FSW he said he 
wanted cautious funds. I think it was unlikely he could consistently meet these returns and 
FSW acknowledged in their report that Mr T had a shortfall in his pension of around 
£330,000 to be able to replicate his DB benefits at age 57 if he transferred out. I appreciate 
FSW carried out various cashflow reports to show that he could take higher income from age 
57 and not run out of money until his mid-eighties. However, this still depended on robust 
investment returns and both Mr T and his wife could have lived longer than this. The 
cashflows did not allow for spouses benefits which given the couple relied on Mr Ts income 
this would have been important.
In my view Mr T didnt need to take any risk with his BSPS pension which was his main 
retirement provision. He had savings and significant disposable income which he was 
planning to use to increase his savings until retirement. He also had a defined contribution 
pension through his employer with employer and employee contributions totalling 21% which 
means he would have accrued more benefits over the following eight years which he could 
have used flexibly.
He could have paid for home improvements with savings and if necessary use his defined 
contribution pension. And the income from the PPF or the BSPS2 at 57 would have more 
than covered his outgoings. He could have topped this up with his flexible pension benefits 
in earlier retirement years if he wanted to. 
I recognise that Mr T was worried about his employers situation and his pension falling into 
the PPF was seen by him and colleagues as the worst possible outcome. However, even if 
this happened, Mr T could retire early and meet his objectives. And I think FSW could have 
done more to alleviate his fears and concerns around this.Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr T needed to give up guaranteed benefits to meet his 
objectives. I acknowledge that Mr T was keen on transferring, however on balance I think he 
would have listened to the adviser if they had explained that it wasnt in his best interest to 
give up his DB benefits and that the returns he was envisaging might not be possible to 
achieve year on year.
Having said all of the above, FSW have carried out loss calculations and in this decision I 
will focus on whether the method and offer of compensation is fair in the circumstances of 
this complaint.
Putting things right
The aim is to put Mr T back in the financial position he would have been in at retirement had 
he remained in the DB scheme. FSW carried out a calculation using a specific BSPS 
calculator provided by the FCA which is what I would expect them to do in the 
circumstances. 
The calculator uses economic and demographic assumptions to calculate how much a 
consumer needs in their pension arrangement to secure equivalent BSPS retirement 
benefits that they would have been entitled to under either BSPS2 or the PPF (as uplifted to 
reflect the subsequent buy-out), had they not transferred out. 
If the calculation shows there is not enough money in the consumers pension arrangement 
to be able to buy an income matching the BSPS benefits they would have received, the 
shortfall is the amount owed to the consumer. If the calculation shows there is enough 
money in the consumers pension arrangement, then no redress is due.
The BSPS calculator has been developed by actuaries and is programmed by the FCA with 
benefit structures of the BSPS, BSPS2 and PPF (including the impact of the subsequent 
buy-out) and relevant economic and demographic assumptions which are updated regularly 
so they are as accurate as possible. This information cant be changed by firms.
The calculator also makes automatic allowances for ongoing advice fees of 0.5% per year 
and product charges of 0.75% per year which are set percentages by the FCA.
I have checked the inputs that were entered by FSW which are personal to Mr T. These 
include Mr Ts personal details, his individual benefits from the BSPS at the date he left the 
scheme and the value of his personal pension. The calculation also assumes that if he had 
not been advised to transfer his benefits from the BSPS, he would have moved to the 
BSPS2 and that he would have taken his DB benefits at age 65. 
The calculation in Mr Ts case shows that there is no shortfall to his pension and that he has 
sufficient funds to be able to replicate his DB benefits in retirement and have nearly 
£125,000 surplus. Whilst I think the advice at the time wasnt suitable and Mr T was taking 
risks he didnt need to, he has achieved decent returns on his pension and the transfer has 
in fact worked out in his advantage. Im satisfied that Mr T has not suffered a financial loss 
by transferring his pension. 
I dont think its reasonable to ask FSW to use outdated assumptions from 2021. FCA rules 
and guidance are clear about how any DB transfer loss needs to be calculated and this is 
based on up-to-date assumptions at the point of calculation. The aim of redress is to put Mr 
T as much as possible back into the position he would be in if he had not transferred and to 
make up any losses he might have incurred. Over the past year interest rates have increased significantly and annuities have become 
cheaper. So based on current assumptions Mr T is able to buy a guaranteed income with his 
pension that replicates BSPS2 benefits and have a substantial sum leftover. It would not be 
fair to compensate him for losses he hasnt suffered.
Mr T previously asked me to consider a higher award than the £500 offered by FSW for 
distress and inconvenience. He said the pension transfer had affected his mental health and 
impacted on his quality of life. He said he found managing a personal pension stressful and 
that the future uncertainty is weighing heavily on him. 
I'm sorry to hear that Mr T has been struggling with his mental health. However, I've taken 
into account that Mr T is professionally represented and received an investigator's view in 
his favour last year. So he ought to have been reassured that if there was a shortfall in his 
pension he would likely be compensated. Also, he has had a financial adviser throughout 
who is looking after his finances, so he doesn't have to manage the pension himself. The 
new adviser essentially has told him he will only need the tax-free cash element of his BSPS 
fund and existing savings to fund his retirement which would leave him with a very significant 
lump sum he can leave untouched. So I think he would have been reasonably reassured 
about his financial security in retirement.
FSWs offer of £500 is in line with what I would award for considerable stress and worry, so I 
consider this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and I wont ask FSW to increase 
this amount.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Financial Solutions Wales Ltd to pay Mr T £500 as 
offered previously if they havent paid this to him already. No further loss calculation is 
required.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman