DRN-4078791
The complaint
Mr H complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) is refusing to refund him the 
amount he lost as the result of a scam.
Mr H is being represented by a third party. To keep things simple, I will refer to Mr H 
throughout my decision
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary Mr H found an advertisement on Facebook for an investment in cryptocurrency. 
The investment appeared to be endorsed by a well-known celebrity. Interested in the 
investment Mr H completed an online data capture form.
Mr H then received an email from GM group (X) followed by a call. X explained the 
investment to Mr H and set him up with an account. 
Mr H has explained that X appeared very professional, and he was allocated his own 
account manager. Mr H was asked to download the screen sharing application AnyDesk and 
X helped Mr H open a new bank account with Wise and an account with Binance that it said 
was needed for the investment.
Mr H could access all the accounts and could see his investments via the account he had 
with X in real time. This made Mr H feel comfortable the investments he was making were 
genuine. 
Mr H made the following payments on Xs instruction:
Date Payment Method Merchant Amount 
18 March 2022 Debit Card Calltrax.com £200
24 March 2022 Transfer Skrill £10
25 March 2022 Transfer ClearBank £200
13 May 2022 Transfer Wise £5
14 May 2022 Transfer Mr H £365
16 May 2022 Credit Wise - £200
17 May 2022 Credit Skrill - £50
17 May 2022 Transfer Mr H £650
17 May 2022 Transfer Mr H £2,250
When Mr H tried to make a further payment into the scam for over £2,000 the payment was 
stopped, and his online account was suspended. No further payments were made into the 
scam. 
Our Investigator upheld Mr Hs complaint in part and suggested that NatWest should refund 
Mr H the £200 payment he made to ClearBank on 25 March 2022. NatWest agreed but Mr H 
didnt agree so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has not been disputed that Mr H has fallen victim to a cruel scam. The evidence provided 
by both Mr H and NatWest sets out what happened. What is in dispute is whether NatWest 
should refund the money Mr H lost due to the scam.
Recovering the payments Mr H made
Mr H made payments into the scam via his debit card and the method of transfer.
The first payment Mr H made was via his debit card. When a payment is made by debit card 
the only method of recovery NatWest has is to raise a chargeback.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed.
NatWest has explained it didnt raise a chargeback for this payment as Mr H would have to 
provide specific evidence to prove he did not receive the service he paid for from the payee 
for the chargeback to be successful. I think this is reasonable given the circumstances of the 
complaint.
The remaining payments were made via transfer and when a payment is made in this way 
NatWest has limited options available to it to recover the payments.
I have considered if Mr H should have received a refund under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. But the CRM code only applies when domestic 
payments (as the result of a scam) are sent to another person. Here most of the payments 
Mr H sent funds to accounts held in his own name.
The only payment I can see that would have been covered by the CRM code is the one Mr H 
made to ClearBank on 25 March 2022 for £200. As this appears to have been made to a 
different person because of a scam via transfer, I think it is fair that this payment should be 
refunded under the CRM code.
Should NatWest have reasonably prevented the payments the remaining payments Mr H 
made? 
It has been accepted that Mr H authorised the payments that were made from his account 
with NatWest, albeit on Xs instruction. So, the starting point here is that Mr H is responsible.
However, banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether NatWest should have been aware of the scam and stepped in 
and questioned Mr H about them. And if it had questioned Mr H, would it have been able to prevent the scam taking place.
The payments Mr H made into the scam were for relatively small amounts and were spread 
across several days. The payments were also made to a legitimate payee. It wouldnt be 
reasonable for me to say NatWest should step in every time one of its customers makes a 
payment to a new business especially when that business appears legitimate. So even 
though its likely Mr H saw a basic scam warning when he made at least some of the 
transfers I dont think it would be reasonable for me to say NatWests fraud prevention 
systems should have been triggered and it should have done more to prevent Mr Hs loss.
As Ive said above Mr H should have received a refund under the CRM code for the payment 
he made to ClearBank on 25 March 2022. But NatWest is not responsible for any of Mr Hs 
other losses.
Putting things right
National Westminster Bank Plc should refund the £200 payment Mr H made into the scam 
on 25 March 2022.
National Westminster Bank Plc should add interest equal to that Mr H would have earned on 
this amount in his savings account to the amount it pays Mr H from the time Mr H made the 
payment to the time National Westminster Bank Plc provides the refund (less any lawfully 
deductible tax).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require National Westminster Bank Plc to put things right by 
doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman