DRN-3003481
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy Society of Lloyds has declined a claim they made under their 
buildings insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs P have been represented by Ms P throughout so Ill refer to her only.
  
What happened
Ms P got in touch with Lloyds to claim for the cost of putting right damage to a boundary 
wall. It acts as a retaining wall, with the neighbours garden adjacent and at a lower level. A 
section of the wall collapsed into the neighbours garden. Ms P says a tree fell onto the wall 
and caused the damage.
Lloyds appointed a loss adjuster, who inspected the damage and reported on what theyd 
found. Lloyds declined the claim because it thought the wall had been gradually damaged 
by tree roots, eventually leading to its collapse. It didnt agree the tree had fallen onto the 
wall.
Our investigator was persuaded by the loss adjusters report and thought Lloyds had acted 
fairly by declining the claim. Ms P disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage caused by falling trees. It also covers accidental damage  but 
not accidental damage caused gradually. I think its accepted the wall damage was 
accidental, because it was unforeseen and unintended.
This means that if the wall was damaged by a falling tree, the claim should be covered. If it 
was damaged as a result of tree root growth, or anything else gradual, the claim can be 
declined.
So Ive considered the evidence provided by both parties about what caused the damage to 
the wall.
The loss adjuster says it spoke to Mr and Mrs Ps tenant. Its report says the tenant had 
noticed tree roots appearing in the garden and causing the wall to fail. As a result, the tree 
was removed. The loss adjuster thought the tree roots had undermined the wall over a 
period of time and gradually caused the wall to fail. Its provided photos which show roots 
near to where the missing section of wall is.
Ms P says the tenant disputes speaking to the loss adjuster and giving this account of what 
happened. Shes provided an e-mail from the tenant, which says the tree fell on the wall and 
caused it to collapse. Shes also provided an e-mail from the neighbour, which says the tree 
fell, followed by part of the wall and some of the previously retained earth.
Ms P has provided a copy of an invoice for removing the tree, dated shortly before the claim 
was made. It describes the work undertaken as dismantle a fallen tree. And the notes from 
her initial call to make the claim say she reported a tree falling onto and damaging the wall.
Ms P has been clear throughout that the tree fell and damaged the wall. I think that position 
is supported by the tree removal invoice and the neighbours comments.
Both parties have reported the tenant saying different things. I dont know what they said to 
the loss adjuster and their e-mail is very brief, so I dont think its fair to place much weight 
on it in favour of either party.
I dont find the loss adjusters report very persuasive. Theres little explanation for why they 
thought the damage was more likely caused by gradual root growth than a falling tree. Whilst 
the photos clearly show some tree roots nearby, there arent many, theyre not particularly 
big, and they dont cover much of the area where the collapsed wall. So I havent been 
persuaded they support the loss adjusters point of view.
I think its more likely, based on all the evidence, that the tree fell and damaged the wall. 
Because of that, Im satisfied it was unfair for the claim to be declined. Lloyds should now 
accept the claim.
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs P have been caused some avoidable trouble and upset by Lloyds 
unfairly declining the claim. Whilst I dont think Lloyds is responsible for all of the time the 
claim has taken, if it had accepted it when Ms P had provided all the relevant evidence, the 
wall would have been repaired long ago  and the inconvenience of continuing to deal with 
the claim and have a damaged wall would have been lessened. I think £150 would be 
appropriate compensation to pay.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms P responded to say she had nothing further to add.
And Lloyds responded to say it accepted my provisional decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further comments, I see no reason to change my 
provisional findings.
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Society of Lloyds to:
Accept the claim
Pay £150 compensation
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman