DRN-3111668
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that AWP P&C SA has turned down a cancellation claim they made
on their travel insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs M booked a UK-based trip in February 2020. Around the same time, they took
out an annual travel insurance policy, which was underwritten by AWP. They booked train
tickets and accommodation (for a party of four adults). They were due to travel between 26
and 29 March 2020.
However, on 16 March 2020, Mr M developed symptoms of Covid-19. In line with
government guidance, he began to self-isolate. As a close contact, Mrs M also needed to
self-isolate for 14 days from the point Mr Ms symptoms began. As a result of Mr Ms
symptoms, Mr and Mrs M cancelled their trip. They made a claim on their travel insurance
policy.
AWP turned down the claim. It said the cancellation section of the policy didnt covers claims
related to changes in Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) guidance. Mr and Mrs M said
though that AWP told them that the claim wasnt covered because they hadnt provided
medical evidence to show that it was medically necessary for Mr M to cancel the trip.
As Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with AWPs decision, they asked us to look into their
complaint.
Our investigator asked for AWPs file of evidence. But it didnt provide us with any
information to consider. Based on the evidence Mr and Mrs M had sent us, the investigator
thought Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. As Mr and Mrs M werent travelling
abroad, she didnt think any FCO guidance was relevant to the circumstances of the claim.
But she noted that the cancellation section of the policy did cover a policyholders illness.
And in this case, Mr M had begun to suffer from symptoms of Covid-19.  
She acknowledged that the policy terms required Mr M to provide evidence to show that itd
been medically necessary to cancel and that he hadnt provided anything from his GP.
However, at the time Mr M had become ill, the UK governments advice had been to self- 
isolate for seven days from when symptoms developed and not to seek medical advice
unless symptoms deteriorated. So in these circumstances, she thought it was reasonable for
AWP to pay Mr Ms claim in the absence of a completed medical certificate.
AWP didnt respond to our investigators assessment.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 September 2021. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I didnt think it was fair for AWP to turn down Mr and Mrs Ms 
claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive thought carefully about, amongst other
things, the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms policy and the circumstances of their
claim to decide whether AWP has treated them fairly.
I can see from AWPs final response to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint that its referred to the
claim being declined because the cancellation section of the policy doesnt cover changes to
FCO advice. Like our investigator, I dont think this is relevant here. Thats because Mr and
Mrs Ms planned trip was due to take place in the UK and so FCO guidance wouldnt apply.
So Ive turned to consider the applicable policy terms, as these form the basis of Mr and Mrs
Ms contract with AWP. As Mr and Mrs M didnt go on their planned trip, I think it was
appropriate for AWP to consider the claim under the cancellation section of the policy. This
sets out the following:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for the unused portion of
your travel and accommodation costs (including Inter Rail ticket costs) that you have paid or
contracted to pay and you suffer a financial loss because you cannot get a full refund if you
cancel before the start of your trip or cut your trip short and return home early during the
period of insurance because of the following:
1. the death, bodily injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of you, a close relative
or any person you have arranged to travel or stay with during your trip.
This section of the policy also says that AWP wont pay claims where: (a policyholder has)
failed to obtain a medical certificate from a medical practitioner, confirming that cancellation
of the trip is necessary.
Mr M says that he cancelled the trip on 16 March 2020, after he began to suffer symptoms of
Covid-19 (including a bad headache; fatigue and a loss of smell and taste). On this basis
then, Im satisfied that Mr M suffered the onset of an illness in line with the policy terms,
which led to the cancellation of his trip. Theres no dispute that Mr M didnt get a medical
certificate from his GP which demonstrated that the cancellation was medically necessary.
So strictly, Mr Ms claim isnt covered.
Generally, Id consider it was for a policyholder to provide enough evidence to show they
have a valid claim on their policy. And Id generally expect a policyholder to provide medical 
evidence showing it was necessary to cancel their trip. But in this case, Ive considered the 
wider circumstances, given the unprecedented situation Covid-19 presented. At the time Mr
M developed symptoms, the UK government had given advice about what people suffering
from symptoms of Covid-19 should do. The advice was for people to self-isolate in their
homes for seven days from the date of onset of the symptoms. And those who lived in the
same household as a symptomatic person were advised to self-isolate for a 14-day period.
The public were advised against seeking advice from their GP, or from the NHS 111 service,
unless their symptoms deteriorated. And at that point, there was no widespread testing
scheme available.
On this basis then, it seems reasonable that Mr M was unable to provide medical evidence
to show that it was necessary to cancel his trip. Thats because it seems he was following
the governments advice to self-isolate. And in the absence of a testing scheme, I wouldnt
expect Mr M to be able to provide evidence of a positive Covid-19 test result. Id add that
given the government advice for those sharing a household with a symptomatic person was
to self-isolate for 14 days, it seems that Mrs M was effectively quarantined by Mr Ms illness
from 16 March 2020, which wouldve meant she missed the entirety of the planned trip. This
is also something the cancellation section of the policy covers.
In my view, the fair outcome here is for AWP to reassess Mr and Mrs Ms claim, in line with
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy and any applicable excesses.I asked both parties to send me any further evidence they wanted me to consider.
Mr and Mrs M accepted my provisional findings. AWP didnt respond by the deadline I gave.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as Mr and Mrs M agree with my provisional decision and AWP hasnt 
responded to it, I see no reason to change my findings. So my final decision is the same as 
my provisional decision and for the same reasons,
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.
I direct AWP P&C SA to reassess Mr and Mrs Ms claim, in line with the remaining
terms and conditions of the policy.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman