DRN-3658181
The complaint
Mr J complains that Lloyds Bank PLC have declined his credit card application and 
discriminated against him because of his age.
What happened
Mr J says he applied for a Lloyds cashback Mastercard credit card on 2 December 2021, but 
his application was declined. Mr J wrote to their personal lending decisions department, 
requesting an explanation. 
Lloyds responded to Mr J and they said that his original application was declined due to their 
credit scoring system which took into account a number of factors such as income, 
occupation, residential circumstances, existing borrowing and information supplied by credit 
reference agencies, but for business reasons they do not share how they calculate the 
decision. 
Lloyds said they had assessed Mr Js application again, taking into account additional 
information Mr J provided, but they couldnt change their original decision. They said 
information from the credit search showed that the usage of a credit card in the last several 
months had increased significantly. They also said that he had a high level of mortgage debt 
across several facilities and for these reasons it would not be responsible to offer him a new 
credit card. Mr J made a complaint to Lloyds and pointed out inconsistencies in their 
response. 
Lloyds did not uphold Mr Js complaint. They said that their underwriters had reviewed his 
application in line with their appeals process and upheld the initial decision. Lloyds said that 
any decision they make does not mean that they received any adverse information from the 
credit reference agencies, or he is a bad payer, only that he does not meet their risk profile 
at this time.
Mr J spoke to a Lloyds complaint manager on the phone. He suggested that the real reason 
that Lloyds would not give him a credit card was based on his age and this represented age 
discrimination, especially as he is still working full time and therefore not relying on pension 
income. He says that the complaint handler declined to either confirm or deny his age was a 
critical factor. Mr J brought his complaint to our service and he said the available evidence 
suggests that the real reason for refusing the card is based on age discrimination.
Our investigator partially upheld Mr Js complaint. He said Lloyds terms and conditions show 
they do not have to disclose the reasons why the credit card was refused, although Lloyds 
did point out that increased credit card spending toward the end of 2021 was a factor in the 
application being refused. He also said that the decision to reject the application was not 
based on anything discriminatory around Mr Js age.
Our investigator said that Lloyds had provided Mr J with poor customer service as the letter 
he sent them on 11 December did not receive a reply, so Mr J was inconvenienced by 
having to email Lloyds on 2 January 2022. They also included an error with Mr Js postal 
address on a letter which was dated 6 December 2021 and included templated wording 
which they did not edit, which gave the impression they did not review the further information 
Mr J provided. Our investigator recommended that Lloyds pay Mr J £50 for the impact the 
customer service would have had on him.
Mr J asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said Lloyds used inaccurate information to determine whether he should have 
one of their credit cards or not, despite the information was pointed out to them that it was 
inaccurate. He said Lloyds were guilty of age discrimination in considering his application 
and in the conversation he had with the complaint manager, she refused to deny that age 
discrimination was the key factor in Lloyds decision to reject his application, therefore this 
was an admission that age discrimination was a factor or the factor in the rejection of the 
application.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Id like to emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the enforcer for 
the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts as an 
informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. So I must be 
clear to Mr J from the outset that Im unable to instruct Lloyds to tell him the exact reason(s) 
that his application was declined for. This is because this is a commercial decision for Lloyds 
to make. If the reasons were made public, people may use this sensitive information to try 
and manipulate Lloyds systems.
Mr J has complained that Lloyds are discriminating against him because of his age. In other 
words, they have breached the Equality Act 2010. Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into 
account when deciding this complaint  given that its relevant law  but Ive ultimately 
decided this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable. If Mr J wants a decision that 
Lloyds have breached the Equality Act 2010, then hed need to go to Court.
Ive listened to a phone call which Mr J had with a complaint manager on 12 January where 
the appeal is being discussed. They talk about his credit card usage elsewhere and the 
complaint manager says she explained the circumstances to the underwriter why the credit 
card usage had increased but Mr J explains he pays the balance off and it shouldnt make a 
difference.
The complaint manager then asks Mr J about his mortgages. Mr J explains that on one of 
the mortgages he has, he was trying to extend the mortgage term until he was 80, but the 
person he was speaking to left the company, but this was all sorted now. The complaint 
handler encourages Mr J to check what this has done to his credit file and she says that their 
lending criteria showed there was an issue with the mortgage, not just that you were 
extending it, erm so I would maybes check your credit file on that. Mr J asks if she means 
with the banks credit file or with a particular credit reference agency (CRA). The complaint 
manager confirms he should check it with three main CRAs and she gives him the names of 
these CRAs. Mr J says he will get in touch with them. The complaint handler says given 
that information, were not able to offer you a credit card. 
Near the end of the call, Mr J tells the complaint handler that I know the real reason behind 
this, okay, Ill tell you confidentially what the real reason behind this is  its my age, credit card companies are ageist. The call handler says I certainly hope not, but Mr J says hes 
researched this and they will get to the bottom of this and hell let her know how he gets on 
with this.
While the call handler doesnt explicitly say this is not the case, she also doesnt say this is 
the reason why Mr Js application was declined. But Im not persuaded that because 
somebody doesnt explicitly say something, that they are agreeing with him. I say this 
because the complaint manager had told Mr J earlier in the call that staff and applicants 
arent given the exact reasons generally why an application is declined, otherwise people 
may be able to manipulate the system. Although on this occasion they had already set out 
the reasons why the underwriter had declined the application, and at no point age was 
mentioned. But she did mention he may want to check his credit file about how one of his 
mortgages was reported to the CRAs by his lender. So Im not persuaded the call handler 
agreed with Mr J here that age was the reason why his application was declined.
Lloyds have categorically told me that a customers age would not be a reason to decline an 
application for credit. And that their credit card has no maximum age limit. Lloyds say that 
any application would be subject to credit scoring and assessment. Given the evidence here, 
I'm satisfied that's what Lloyds did here. 
Ive considered what Mr J has said about Lloyds basing their decision on inaccurate 
information. He also provided us with a copy of his credit file. But Im not persuaded that they 
would have based their decision on inaccurate information. I say this as they will have seen 
the usage of his credit card. Mr J has told us about this and the reasons for this, and 
factually speaking, while his usage doesnt increase over each month over the six months 
prior to his application, from the figures hes provided, the figures do increase month on 
month for the three months prior to the application. From August to November 2021, the 
balance changes from £878.12 to £6,867.89 which is an increase of nearly eight times the 
amount. Although Mr J has explained this was due to spending for Christmas presents, this 
still may concern a lender. 
In addition, Mr Js credit file shows two mortgages with a combined total of £194,026, so 
while Mr J says this represents 19% of the value of the properties, Im not persuaded that 
Lloyds are being unfair by saying the actual outstanding balance as opposed to the loan to 
value of the properties is high. Although I appreciate property values (and therefore lending 
on properties) will vary greatly across the country. 
Mr Js credit file shows at least two of the credit reference agencies are reporting four 
adverse accounts. Included in his credit file, I can see two of these adverse markers relate to 
each of his mortgages with one showing as the worst status as a month in arrears and one 
showing he was previously subject to an arrangement to pay which normally means that an 
agreement has been reached to pay less than the contractual payment and it is typically 
used when a borrower is having financial difficulties and cant afford to pay the contractual 
payment. 
In addition a utility company also reported his worse status as one month in arrears. While 
Mr J has explained what happened here and he may be able to provide letters about this, 
the fact still remains they are still showing on his credit file. A credit file should be an 
accurate representation of his payment history. Mr J may wish to speak to the 
companies/credit reference agencies involved here to amend his credit file if this information 
is inaccurate as lenders may view this as Mr J not being able to manage his contractual 
payments on time on four of his accounts.
In addition, Mr J may wish to consider registering a notice of correction with the CRAs to 
explain what happened here. This is a short explanatory note that he can add to an entry on his credit file, to explain the background to that entry. So anyone who searches his credit 
report, such as a credit card provider, would see the notice of correction and take the notice 
into account if they viewed his credit file. Prospective lenders will each consider a notice like 
this differently and it isn't a guarantee that they will put the underlying payment information to 
one side. But given how strongly Mr J feels here - it is an option that is open to him. He 
would need to contact the CRAs to do this.
Ive also considered that Lloyds didnt respond to Mr Js letter dated 11 December. Ive seen 
a copy of this letter date stamped by them on 14 December, so I cant say this didnt reach 
them. Our investigator has suggested that Lloyds pay Mr J £50 for the poor service provided 
here. 
I agree that this amount of compensation would be proportionate for what happened here. I 
say this as Lloyds also included an error with Mr Js postal address on a letter they sent him. 
This letter also included templated wording which they did not edit, which gave the 
impression they did not review the further information he provided them. So Im persuaded 
that £50 for poor customer service would recognise the impact that this would have had on 
Mr J. So it follows Ill be asking Lloyds to put things right for him.
Putting things right
Our investigator has suggested that Lloyds pay Mr J £50 which I think is fair in the 
circumstances. Im persuaded this reflects the impact on Mr J for Lloyds giving him poor 
customer service.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part. Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr J £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman