DRN-2523601
The complaint
Mr T (with support from his wife Mrs T) complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited
mishandled his claim on his motor insurance policy (on which she was a named driver).
 
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authority dispute 
resolution rues (DISP). One of those rules is that a consumer must first complain to the 
financial firm and wait up to eight weeks for a final response before we can deal with a 
complaint.
Where I refer to Tesco, I refer to Tesco Underwriting Limited and I include other companies
and individuals insofar as I hold that company responsible for their actions.
Mr T had a large Sports Utility Vehicle, first registered in 2010. By 2019 it had a recorded
mileage of around 100,000. For the year from mid-August 2019, Mr T had an insurance
policy under which Tesco was responsible for dealing with claims.
Later in August 2019, Mr T took his family and his vehicle to a mountainous area. He
reported an incident to Tesco. While reversing in a campsite car park - he had accidentally
got the nearside rear wheel onto a boulder, from which it slid off. There was little visible 
damage. But the vehicle had become undrivable. Mr T had called for roadside assistance 
for which Tesco wasnt responsible.
Later Mr T made a claim to Tesco for damage to the vehicle. Tesco instructed a repairer and
arranged a courtesy vehicle until early September 2019. Tesco also instructed an engineer.
He said the vehicle had suffered mechanical failure. So Tesco declined the claim.
Mr T complained to Tesco. It wrote a final response dated 7 October 2019 declining the
complaint. In February 2020, Mr T got an independent engineers report. Mr T brought his
complaint to us on 2 April 2020.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that the
incident was accidental damage. She recommended that Tesco should:
1. pay the claim;
2. refund Mr T £180.00 the cost of his independent report;
3. pay Mr T £150.00 for the stress and inconvenience caused.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr T 
and to Tesco on 22 December 2020. I summarise my findings:
I didnt consider that Tesco treated Mr T fairly by declining his claim.
Subject to any further information from Mr T or from Tesco, my provisional decision was that 
I was minded to uphold this complaint. I intended to direct Tesco Underwriting Limited to:
1. meet Mr Ts claim for accidental damage to his vehicle in line with the policy terms 
but without reliance on any term that excludes mechanical failure; and
2. pay Mr T £350.00 for distress and inconvenience; and
3. reimburse Mr T £180.00 for the cost of his engineers report; and
4. pay simple interest on the amount of £180.00 at the yearly rate of 8% from 1 April 
2020 to the date of reimbursement. If Tesco considers that HM Revenue and 
Customs requires it to withhold income tax from that interest, it must tell Mr T how 
much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Tesco said it had nothing to add in response to the provisional decision.
Mr T agrees with the provisional decision. But he adds the following:
He and his wife needed a large reliable car as they made frequent long trips to their 2 
children in boarding school.
He and his wife had two cars.
His was the main family car.
His wife owned an older estate car. It had an unreliable automatic gear box. She 
used that car only in emergencies. It was unsuitable for use with the children.
She had no intention of replacing her car when it "died". They only needed one car 
after she had surgery and lost work. He used public transport to his job.
In August 2019 he paid the premium for the Tesco policy for his car for a year.
His car is the top of the range model and was factory- fitted with the Premium Audio 
System. The car also contained a factory- fitted rear headrest DVD entertainment 
system. Tescos valuation through Glass has not taken this into account. Additional 
upgrades included running bars, the tow bar and the specialised paint. Had Tesco 
offered him £9,750, he wouldve complained at the time that this was not the real 
value of the car. A more realistic valuation was £11,499.00.
The policy entitled him to a courtesy car and Tesco supplied one at the end of August 
2019.
Had Tesco accepted the claim in 2019, he wouldve preferred the car to be repaired.
On 6 September Tesco rejected the claim. It didnt repair his car. Tesco removed the 
courtesy car. Mr T was left with no reliable transport.On 24 September it was necessary for his wife to hire a car 4 days at £90.00 to 
collect their son from school.
In November 2019, he had to replace it with a new, reliable family car. He and his 
wife traded her car to part- purchase a larger estate car. 
In addition to the premium for the Tesco policy, he had to pay the additional cost of 
£199.00 to another insurer on 13 November 2019 for the new car. 
16 months after the accident, there are two cars like his for sale online at £11,486.00 
and £11,495.00. 
His car has been sitting on his driveway since September 2019 because it is 
undrivable and apparently needs a new engine. 
As he was forced to buy a replacement car last year, he doesnt wish to have his old 
car repaired. 
In addition to the costs incurred and any compensation, he wishes Tesco to remove 
the car and to pay him the monetary value of the car at the time of the accident, 
rather than discuss any salvage value with Tesco.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular, Ive considered the expert engineering evidence.
Ive seen an invoice dated late February 2019 for a fan belt and a timing belt kit for Mr Ts
vehicle. I accept Mr Ts evidence that a mechanic fitted them. I havent seen enough
evidence to say that he fitted them incorrectly.
The policy covered accidental damage, but it didnt cover mechanical failure.
The policy terms included the following:
How we will settle your claim under sections A or C
We will choose whether to repair the car or pay you a cash amount equal to the cost 
of the loss or damage.
So it would be Tescos choice whether to repair the car or to pay its pre-accident value.
The policy terms included the following:
Section D - Courtesy Car
What is covered
To keep you mobile, within the geographical limits only, we will offer you a small 
courtesy car (typically a small city car) free of charge, while the car is being repaired 
by one of our approved repairers following an accident or insured incident that has 
resulted in a claim under your policy.
Once we have decided that the car can be economically repaired by one of our 
approved repairers and if it cannot be driven, we will provide the courtesy car on the 
next working day for as long as the repairs take.If the car can still be legally driven (in other words, it is roadworthy), we will deliver 
the courtesy car when the car is collected for repairs.
The approved repairer may, with your agreement, provide an alternative solution 
more suitable to your requirements...
From that, I find that Mr T was only entitled to a small courtesy car, not a large estate car. 
And he was only entitled to a courtesy car while his was being repaired. He wasnt entitled to 
a courtesy car if his was beyond economic repair.
Tescos engineers report included the following:
 the ancillary drive belt has broken with parts of the debris becoming lodged
within the camshaft drive belt causing the engine timing to jump resulting with internal
engine damage. We also confirm that the water pump is relatively new which would
suggest that both belts have been fitted recently. In our opinion this is mechanical
failure
there was no evidence of any damage to the rear therefore we conclude that this is
engine failure .
From that and from the invoice, I find that the ancillary (or auxiliary) drive belt and the
camshaft drive (or timing) belt were both from about February 2019.
I think its common ground that  in late August 2019  the ancillary drive belt broke. But I
keep in mind that it was a relatively new belt. And I accept Mr Ts statement that there had
been no unusual noises or other warning of its failure.
Mr Ts engineer noted the following:
 the right hand side of the engine bay, on the inner edge of the right hand wheel
arch, is not protected and the auxiliary drive belt and its pulleys can be seen through
the aperture when looking in behind the right hand front wheel.
From that, I find that there was a gap through which the right front wheel might throw debris
onto the ancillary drive belt.
Mr Ts engineer went on to describe damage to the timing belt. He said the following:
Not only is this beginning to shred on its outer edge, but it is sharply cut on the
camshaft pulley, which is not typical of the type of damage that would be incurred
when the auxiliary drive belt shredded, but is consistent with a foreign object, such as
a stone or a small piece of gravel, entering into the timing cover, disturbing the
auxiliary drivebelt and the timing beltthe condition of the timing beltnot only
indicates that it has been rubbed by the auxiliary drive belt, but also that there have
been sharp objects within the timing cover which have caused damage to the
fabric of the belt.
He concluded as follows:
the cause of the failure of the engine was that during the manoeuvre on the gravel,
over the rock, the out turned right hand front wheel may have thrown up gravel or
other debris into the position of the pulleys, causing the failure of the belts
Tescos in-house engineer commented as follows:
In my opinion it is likely and evident from the fraying of the engine timing drive beltthat this has been deteriorating over a period of time and eventually failed causing
the belt to jump coincidentally after the policy holder hitting the rock and moving the
vehicle forward. This could be linked to the new belt and water pump being fitted and
the engine timing drive belt being incorrectly adjusted as the adjustment of the belt is
critical for its lifespan and operation. To give you an idea of how long the belt should
remain serviceable, Volvo recommend changing the belt as part of their maintenance
schedule at around 100 ,000 miles so you wouldnt expect to see the belt deteriorate
to the extent it has. If like the policy holders independent engineer has suggested
that a stone had caused the damage to the belt, you would only expect to see one
area of damage to the belt not around the complete circumference.
So Tesco says the failure of the timing belt and the hitting of the rock happened
coincidentally. But that is too much of a coincidence for me.
I prefer the explanation of Mr Ts engineer. I find that  during an unusual manoeuvre  a
sharp piece of stone damaged the belts which damaged the engine. I accept that this was
accidental damage to the vehicle. So I dont consider that Tesco treated Mr T fairly by
declining his claim.
As I expect Tesco to meet Mr Ts claim, I dont find it fair to direct Tesco to reimburse any of
the premium that Mr T paid for the whole year from mid-August 2019.
From what Ive seen the vehicle needed a replacement engine. I find it likely that the vehicle 
was beyond economic repair. So I dont find that Tesco treated Mr T unfairly by taking away 
the courtesy car in early September 2019.
In any event, the policy would only have provided a small courtesy car. So Tesco wasnt 
obliged to provide a car large enough for a long journey to collect Mr Ts son from boarding 
school later in September. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Tesco to reimburse 
the cost of the hire car.
Apart from that journey, Mr T and his wife managed with the old estate car until November 
2019 when he part-exchanged it for the larger estate car. 
I havent seen evidence of his payment for insurance. But Mr and Mrs T still had two cars 
and two insurance policies. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Tesco to 
compensate them for the cost of insuring the newer estate car.
Ive thought about assessing a pre-accident value for the vehicle and then deducting the 
policy excess.
Tesco placed a value of £9,750.00 on the vehicle. But theres no evidence that Mr T
complained to Tesco about that before complaining to us that the pre-accident value had
been £11,500.00. So I dont consider that it would be within the DISP rules for me to resolve 
- at this stage - a complaint about the valuation of the vehicle.
 Putting things right
Therefore I find it fair and reasonable to direct Tesco to meet Mr Ts claim in line with the
policy terms but without reliance on any term that excludes mechanical failure.
I also find it fair and reasonable to direct Tesco to reimburse the cost of Mr Ts engineers
report. As his invoice is marked as paid on 1 April 2020, I will direct the addition of
interest from that date at our usual rate.However, I dont doubt that - by a decision Ive found unfair  Tesco caused Mr T
inconvenience in his travelling arrangements and distress at having his claim denied. That
includes his inconvenience and distress at seeing his wife and children inconvenienced.
As this inconvenience and distress has gone on for well over a year, I dont agree with the
investigator that £150.00 is enough compensation. I find £350.00 fair and reasonable.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Tesco Underwriting Limited to:
1. meet Mr Ts claim for accidental damage to his vehicle in line with the policy terms 
but without reliance on any term that excludes mechanical failure; and
2. pay Mr T £350.00 for distress and inconvenience; and
3. reimburse Mr T £180.00 for the cost of his engineers report; and
4. pay simple interest on the amount of £180.00 at the yearly rate of 8% from 1 April 
2020 to the date of reimbursement. If Tesco considers that HM Revenue and 
Customs requires it to withhold income tax from that interest, it must tell Mr T how 
much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman