DRN-1908562
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are being represented by a claims management company. Theyre 
complaining about Legal & General (Portfolio Management Services) Ltd because they say 
they received inappropriate advice to invest in Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs). Their 
representative says they invested too much of their money and that the selected investments 
were too risky.
What happened
In 2000, Mr and Mrs D each invested £7,000 in ISAs with Legal & General following advice 
from one of its advisers. Mr D invested in Legal & Generals North American Trust and Mrs D 
in its Worldwide Trust. The investments were cashed in 2006.
I previously issued my provisional decision explaining why I thought this complaint should be 
upheld. A copy is attached. Legal & General didnt accept my provisional decision. It 
provided factsheets for the North American and Worldwide Trusts and made the following 
key points:
The factsheets clearly confirm the Worldwide Trust was classified as medium risk 
and the North American Trust as high risk. These factsheets were provided to Mr and 
Mrs D and they self-selected their funds knowing this information.
The factsheets also set out that both funds invested in overseas assets and the risk 
of this is that variation of exchange rates may cause the value of the overseas 
investments to increase or decrease. So, Mr and Mrs D would have been aware the 
value of their investments could decrease due to the overseas investments.
The factsheet for the North American Trust confirms the fund was suitable for 
investors seeking capital growth.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having reconsidered the case, including 
Legal & Generals response to my provisional decision, my conclusions havent changed.
I dont think theres any dispute Mr and Mrs D were looking to invest for growth and were 
willing to tie their money up for a period of time. My concerns with the advice centre on the 
risks associated with the selected funds and whether these were consistent with the risks 
they were willing to accept.
I thank Legal & General for providing relevant factsheets, which confirms my previous belief 
the funds were predominantly equity-based and invested extensively in overseas assets, thereby exposing investors to additional risks caused by currency fluctuations. I note the 
classification of the funds, one of which was assessed as medium-risk and the other as high-
risk, but its not my role to comment on how Legal & General classifies the risks of its funds.
As I said in my provisional decision, the information from the time of sale about the degree of 
risk Mr and Mrs D were willing to accept is contradictory. In particular, I was mindful that the 
advisers suitability letter says:
Your main concern is to protect the value of your capital over the medium to long term.
When the sales documentation is considered in conjunction with Mr and Mrs Ds overall 
circumstances, including the fact that their savings were held in entirely risk-free accounts 
apart from a relatively small Personal Equity Plan (PEP) investment, it remains my view that 
they werent willing to accept a significant degree of risk to their capital. It follows that I think 
the risks associated with the North American and Worldwide Trusts made them unsuitable 
investments for Mr and Mrs D.
Legal & General still seems to want to rely on its view, as recorded in the suitability letter, 
that Mr and Mrs D selected the funds themselves. But as I said previously, I think this 
overlooks a large part of the advisers responsibility to provide suitable advice. 
Mr and Mrs D dont appear to have been experienced or knowledgeable investors and I think 
they would reasonably have relied on what the adviser told them over and above any 
explanatory literature provided. I dont believe it was good enough for him to simply provide 
information about  the range of funds and let them make their own choice with no further 
comment. The advisers responsibility to provide suitable advice extended to making sure 
the selected funds were suitable. If Mr and Mrs D were insistent on selecting funds that 
werent suitable, the adviser should have explained this to them, made it clear they were 
acting against his advice and set out the possible consequences of doing so. Theres no 
evidence in the sales documentation that Ive seen to indicate such a conversation took 
place.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
If Mr and Mrs D accept my decision, Legal & General (Portfolio Management Services) Ltd 
must pay them compensation calculated using the method set out in my provisional decision. 
It should provide Mr and Mrs D with details of its calculations in a clear and understandable 
format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
James Biles
Ombudsman