DRN-3983411
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy with Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) because it declined his travel 
insurance claim. Hes also unhappy with the service IPA provided in the handling of the 
claim.  
What happened
Mr I took out and annual multi-trip travel insurance policy which commenced on 
11 April 2022. IPA was the underwriter on the policy.
He booked a trip for August 2022 but cancelled his flight because his probation 
period at work was extended for one month.
Mr I submitted a claim to IPA for the cost of the cancelled flight and IPA declined it. It 
said extending a probation period isnt an event covered under his policy.
Unhappy with IPAs response, Mr I brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into it and didnt uphold it. He concluded that the reason for 
cancelling the flight didnt meet the criteria and wasnt covered under his policy. He 
also said IPA hadnt given incorrect information regarding the claim when Mr I called 
on 8 September 2022. 
Mr I disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its 
been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for these reasons:
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out 
rules and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS). ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle 
claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Ive considered the relevant section of the terms and conditions of Mr Is policy. 
Page 25 sets out the cover available in the event of cancelling a trip. I can see that 
there is cover for redundancy. However, there is no cover for cancelling a trip due to 
extending a probation period at work. Im not persuaded therefore that the claim is 
covered for what happened in Mr Is circumstances because Mr I hadnt been made 
redundant when he cancelled his trip.
Mr I has said IPA informed him in a telephone call that he would be covered in the 
event of redundancy. Ive listened to the call and the call handler did say Mr I would 
be covered for redundancy. But that was in response to Mr I who told the call handler 
that he was being made redundant. So, in the context of what Mr I had said, the call 
handler gave the correct information. Mr Is actual situation at the time of cancelling 
the flight was that his probation period at work was being extended. At this point, the 
circumstances werent that he had cancelled the flight because of being made 
redundant. There is cover on Mr Is policy for redundancy but the situation he found 
himself in when he cancelled the flight isnt covered. 
I appreciate Mr I cancelled the flight based on the conversation he had with the call 
handler. However, as Ive said above, the call handler only gave information in 
response to what Mr I had told him. I cant see that IPA did anything wrong during the 
telephone conversation.
Overall, Ive taken everything into account, Im satisfied that Mr Is claim hasnt been 
declined unfairly or unreasonably. I also dont think that the service Mr I received was 
poor. It follows that I dont require IPA to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Is complaint about Inter Partner Assistance SA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr l to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman