DRN-2164307
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd.s handling of the insurance renewal for 
his buildings and contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A received a renewal quote from Triton towards the end of July 2019, to renew his 
buildings and contents insurance policy at the end of July 2019. To ensure his policy 
remained in force, Mr A paid the full premium before the renewal date. The amount paid was 
£557.06.
In February 2020 Mr A saw a notice on the regulators website. It urged all Triton customers 
to check the validity of their insurance policy. Mr A decided to call the insurer shown on his 
renewal quote from Triton.  The insurer told Mr A that Triton hadnt had access to any of their 
insurance products since the end of January 2019. They told Mr A that any policy he thought 
he had with them wasnt valid and he should contact Triton to make a complaint and request 
a refund of the premium he had paid. 
Mr A tried to make a complaint to Triton, but he was unable to get through to them. Their 
phone lines and email address were disconnected. As he didnt hear anything from Triton 
and he never received his money back, he raised a complaint through our service.
Our investigator asked Triton to provide their response. They didnt so the investigator 
upheld the complaint for Mr A. He asked Triton to refund the premium of £557.06, pay 
interest on that amount and pay Mr A £100 compensation for the upset the matter had 
caused him.
As Triton didnt respond to our investigators opinion, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information is incomplete, Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities, 
or whats most likely to have happened. In this case, Triton havent provided our service with 
any information, so my decision is based solely on what Mr A has provided. I find his 
information plausible and persuasive.
Mr A paid Triton before his policy renewed to ensure his policy remained active. And, once 
he was aware that he didnt have any insurance cover in force, he made sure he sought 
cover with an alternative insurer. 
Mr As original insurer cancelled their agreement with Triton in January 2019. Unfortunately, 
Triton havent responded to our request for information so I cant provide Mr A with an 
explanation as to why the error occurred. But Im satisfied Triton shouldnt have offered Mr A 
any insurance cover with the original insurer. And they should have refunded the money 
Mr A paid to them.
Given this, its reasonable for Triton to refund the premium paid by Mr A. Mr A has also 
confirmed that he tried to speak to Triton to get his money back, and he wasnt able to get 
through to anyone. Tritons phone lines werent connecting, and Mr As email couldnt be 
delivered. Because of this upset, its also reasonable for Triton to pay Mr A £100 
compensation. I think this amount fairly recognises the inconvenience and upset caused in 
this case.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd must:
Pay Mr A his premium of £557.06;
Pay interest at eight per cent simple on the amount due from the date Mr A paid for 
his insurance policy to the date this amount is paid; *
Pay Mr A £100 compensation for the upset hes been caused.
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd deducts 
income tax from the interest it should tell Mr A how much has been taken off. Triton 
Insurance Brokers Ltd should give Mr A a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman