DRN-3253491
The complaint
Miss K complains about National Westminster Bank Plc (NWB) and their decision to close 
her account after they determined it to be in persistent debt.  
What happened
Miss K held a credit card account with NWB. In August 2019, Miss K received a letter from 
NWB explaining over the previous six months, shed only paid the minimum or close to the 
minimum payment on her account. Because of this, they invited Miss K to increase her 
minimum payments. 
Miss K called NWB where she states she was told she didnt need to increase her minimum 
payments. But Miss K decided to do this anyway, increasing her direct debit to £100 each 
month. And she continued to use her credit card account.
In March 2020, Miss K received another letter from NWB. This asked Miss K to contact them 
to discuss ways in which to repay her account balance as shed remained in persistent debt. 
And it gave two options available to Miss K. Either, repay the balance within six months and 
keep the credit card open or repay the balance over a longer term and the card would be 
closed.
Miss K called NWB and explained she was unable to repay the balance within six months. 
So, a repayment plan of £100.68 per month over a 48-month term was agreed. But Miss W 
was unhappy with this, so she raised a complaint.
Miss K didnt think NWB had made it reasonably clear to her that the £100 shed voluntarily 
paid per month wasnt enough to prevent her account being closed. When Miss K called 
NWB in August 2019, she said she was told she didnt need to increase her monthly 
repayment so she thought shed been advised incorrectly. And she thought if shed been 
given the correct information, she couldve made increased payments that wouldve allowed 
her to keep the account open. So, she wanted to be compensated for the upset and 
inconvenience this had caused her. 
NWB responded and upheld Miss Ks complaint. They thought they had acted fairly when 
deciding Miss Ks account was in persistent debt and they thought theyd followed the rules 
introduced by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) surrounding this. They explained their 
actions were aimed to help Miss Ks financial situation, ensuring she didnt pay further 
interest and charges. But they were unable to find a call recording of the conversation 
between Miss K and themselves in August 2019. So, they didnt dispute that Miss K had 
been given incorrect information and offered £50 to recognise this. Miss K was unhappy 
about this, so she referred her complaint to us.
During this time, the repayment plan and the card closure Miss K agreed was delayed due to 
COVID-19 and in July another repayment plan for £100.59 was put into place for a period of 
39 months. The first payment for this repayment plan was taken in October 2020, when Miss 
Ks account was closed. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought NWB had 
followed the correct process for accounts deemed to be in persistent debt. So, they didnt 
think NWB had done anything wrong by closing Miss Ks account when she made them 
aware she was unable to clear the outstanding balance within six months. And they didnt 
dispute Miss K had been given incorrect information when calling NWB, as NWB hadnt 
disputed this. But they thought the £50 NWB had already offered was a fair one, so didnt 
think NWB needed to do anything more.
Miss K didnt agree and she provided photos of the letters she received from NWB which 
she didnt think provided the information our investigator stated was included within them. 
So, she maintained her view that NWB had acted unfairly. Our investigator responded to 
these photos and explained her view remained unchanged as she thought the letters shown 
within the photos made it clear to Miss K she was in persistent debt. Miss K remained 
unhappy, so her complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss K. Ive no doubt Miss K 
thought she was managing her account well as she was making her minimum payment on 
the account each month. And when she received a letter from NWB, she voluntarily 
increased her direct debit to pay more than her minimum payment. So, when she received a 
letter from NWB explaining she had to either clear her balance within six months or close her 
account with a repayment plan, I can understand why shed be left worried and confused. 
Even more so because this wasnt made clear to her in the call between her and NWB in 
August 2019. So, I can appreciate why she thinks NWB have acted unfairly.
But for me to say NWB have acted unfairly and crucially, do something more than they 
already have, Id need to be satisfied they failed to follow the persistent debt guidance set 
out by the FCA. And if I think they did, I also need to be satisfied that, on the balance of 
probability, Miss K was likely to have done something different which wouldve prevented her 
from needing to choose one of the two options put to her. And in this situation, I dont think 
thats the case. 
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I want to be clear on exactly what Ive 
considered. Im aware Miss K had another complaint about NWB which has been 
investigated separately by our service. This decision focuses solely on NWBs decision to 
class Miss Ks account as in persistent debt, the options Miss K had available to her 
because of this, and the information they provided her about this as they followed the 
persistent debt process. 
Ive seen the letters Miss K received in August 2019 and March 2020 about her account. 
And Ive compared these against the template letters NWB say they sent to Miss K. Having 
done so, I think there appears to be some differences between the letters NWB believe they 
sent, and the ones Miss K received. So, I can understand why Miss K has rejected our 
investigators initial view and queried some of the information that was included.
But even though it appears the letters Miss K received arent the exact templates NWB now use, I dont think this necessarily means theyve acted unfairly. In the letter Miss K received 
in August, I think it makes it reasonably clear to Miss K that she needed to increase her 
minimum monthly repayment if she could afford to do so as the way she was managing her 
account was causing her to take longer to repay the account balance.
I think Miss K was able to ascertain this from the letter, as she voluntarily increased her 
direct debit amount the same month. I think this letter also made it reasonably clear the need 
for an increased payment was to help Miss K in clearing the outstanding balance. But Ive 
seen Miss K continued to use the account and her outstanding balance had actually 
increased by December 2019. So, I think it shouldve been clear to Miss K that her increased 
direct debit payment hadnt increased enough to begin clearing her balance.
As Miss Ks account hadnt began to clear, NWB wrote to Miss K in March 2020 explaining 
she needed to contact them to discuss repayment options to help her clear the outstanding 
balance, which they classified as persistent debt. And they gave Miss K 60 days to do so, 
which falls in line with the guidance provided by the FCA. This letter provided Miss K with 
two options, either to repay the balance within six months or agree a repayment plan but the 
caveat to this was the closure of the account. And Ive seen Miss K called NWB and a 
repayment plan was agreed for just over £100, as Miss K wasnt able to clear the 
outstanding balance. These options, and the way Miss K was given advance notice of these, 
again falls in line with the FCA guidance and what Id expect to see. So, I dont think Im able 
to say NWB acted unfairly when deciding Miss Ks account was in persistent debt. And I 
recognise it was Miss Ks decision to choose the repayment plan as a way to pay this debt 
off.
But I recognise Miss Ks main concern relates to the information she was given in the call 
she held with NWB in August 2019. NWB havent been able to locate this call but have 
accepted Miss Ks version of events and offered her £50 to recognise the misinformation she 
was provided. As NWB accepted this, I dont intend to dispute the fact they made an error or 
discuss the error itself any further.
But I have thought about the impact this error had and whether the £50 NWB have offered is 
fair. Miss K doesnt think it is as she believes, if the advisor had made her aware on the call 
of the specific increase needed on her direct debit to avoid further persistent debt action, 
shed have paid this. And so, she wouldnt have been left in a situation where she was on a 
repayment plan without the ability to use her account.
But Ive thought about what I think is most likely to have happened if NWB had given the 
correct information on the call. And having done so, I dont think Miss K wouldve found 
herself in a different situation. This is because Ive seen no evidence to suggest to me that 
Miss K wouldve been able to increase her direct debit so significantly that it began to clear 
her outstanding balance, as well as pay for any further purchases made on the card. Miss K 
was given the opportunity to clear the outstanding balance over six months and she couldnt 
afford to do so. And when a repayment plan was discussed, Miss K agreed to repay the 
outstanding balance over 48 months with a monthly repayment of just over £100. 
So, based on this information, I think its reasonable for me to assume that Miss K wouldve 
been unable to afford to increase her direct by much more than the £100 she did increase it 
to voluntarily. And because of this, I think its likely her account wouldve remained in 
persistent debt and shed have found herself in the same situation. So, considering this, I 
think the £50 NWB had offered is fair one and in line with what I wouldve directed had it not 
already been made as I think it addresses the actual mis-information provided but also takes 
into consideration Miss Ks account wasnt materially impacted. And because of this, I dont 
think NWB need to do anything more on this occasion.I understand this isnt the outcome Miss K was hoping for. And I recognise its unlikely to 
change her opinion that shes been unfairly treated. But I want to re-emphasis to Miss K that 
NWBs decision to close her account and agree a repayment plan was to act in her best 
interests to prevent her from continuing to make significant payments on interest towards a 
balance shed shown over a period of time she was unable to repay. While I recognise Miss 
K may see the removal of her ability to use the account as a punishment, I think NWB have 
taken action to try and help improve Miss Ks financial situation by helping her repay her 
outstanding debt. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Ks complaint about National 
Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman