DRN-3843703
The complaint
Mr P complains Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) irresponsibly lent to 
him.
What happened
Mr P opened an account with Shop Direct in October 2018. The initial credit limit for this 
account was £750. Mr P complains Shop Direct irresponsibly approved this account. Mr P 
says Shop Direct did not complete reasonable and proportionate checks prior to setting up 
the account. Mr P says had Shop Direct done so, it wouldve realised the amount of credit he 
was provided with was unaffordable to him. Mr P says he was struggling at the time of the 
application, including having missed and late payments on his existing accounts. 
Shop Direct responded to Mr Ps complaint saying that it had lent responsibly. It says it 
carried out proportionate checks prior to lending. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and agreed with Shop Direct. She felt Shop Direct 
had completed proportionate checks prior to approving the account. These checks did not 
suggest Mr P would be unable to afford the credit being provided.
Mr P disagreed with the outcome and asked for an ombudsmans review. Both parties have 
agreed the account was defaulted, and subsequently sold to a third party. A judgment was 
set aside for the outstanding debt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.   
Mr P and Shop Direct are aware of our services approach to irresponsible and unaffordable 
lending complaints; so, for the sake of conciseness I wont set out the detail here.
 
Having carefully considered all of the information that has been provided, Im satisfied this 
complaint should not be upheld. This is for the same reasons that our investigator set out to 
Mr P previously. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to him.
As noted above, Mr Ps account was opened in October 2018, and had a credit limit of £750. 
This limit was not increased after the account was opened. 
Shop Direct says it searched Mr Ps credit file and used the information which Mr P provided 
on his application to make a decision to lend to him. The credit file search demonstrated that 
Mr P had a very low existing level of credit (only £50 at the point of the application), and that 
he had maintained all of his existing repayments well, with no late or missed payments 
markers being highlighted. Shop Direct says these checks were proportionate to the amount 
of credit being advanced.
Having reviewed the information which has been provided, Im satisfied the checks 
completed in this instance were proportionate. I say this because the value of the credit 
being advanced was relatively low, and the results of the checks which Shop Direct 
completed did not demonstrate that it needed to gather further information from Mr P in order 
to gain a better insight into his finances, when compared to the information Mr P had 
provided on his application.
As well as being satisfied the checks were proportionate, Im also satisfied Shop Direct 
made a fair decision to lend to Mr P. This is because the information it was provided 
demonstrated that Mr P was managing his finances well and had a very low amount of 
existing credit. This would suggest the limit which was being advanced (which was also 
relatively low), would more likely than not be affordable for Mr P to manage.
So it follows that Im satisfied Shop Direct acted fairly when providing this account to Mr P.
I appreciate Mr P says that he was experiencing financial difficulties at the time of the 
application, and that the account subsequently fell into arrears in 2019. He has provided our 
service with a different credit file search. He says he had a number of missed and late 
payments prior to this application. Whilst I understand Mr Ps point of view, Shop Direct is 
entitled to rely on the information it was provided at the time of the application. This 
information did not show any negative markers, and as explained above it did not seem 
inconsistent with the information which Shop Direct was provided during the application 
process. So Im satisfied that it was not unreasonable for Shop Direct to rely on the 
information it gathered when making its decision. And as Ive explained above Im satisfied 
Shop Directs decision to lend in this instance was reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman