DRN-2902048
The complaint
Mr M complains on behalf of his business, M, about the costs paid by Irwell Insurance 
Company Limited following a claim on a business protection insurance policy. He says the 
way costs have been paid has resulted in the indemnity limit being used up and this has left 
M out of pocket.
What happened
In 2011 M took out professional fee insurance underwritten by Irwell to meet the costs that 
might arise as a consequence of a client's tax affairs becoming the subject of an 
investigation by HMRC. After the policy was taken out HMRC notified a client, which I will 
call J, that it intended to start an enquiry into its accounts. 
HMRC started a second enquiry into a separate business conducted by a director of J who I 
will call Mr P. He was not a client of M. 
A little later, M was instructed by Mr P to assist with the enquiry into his personal business 
affairs in addition to those of J. M billed their costs for work relating to J to Irwell under the 
insurance policy and billed Mr P separately in respect of the enquiry into his business and 
personal tax affairs.  
In 2018, M reached an impasse in their negotiations with HMRC. Irwell appointed another 
firm (C) to act as its agent in dealing with the claim. C didnt apportion its charges between J 
and Mr P when they were presented to Irwell. Irwell settled both sets of costs and set these 
against the indemnity limit of £75,000. 
C made a recommendation for J and Mr P to settle the amounts demanded by HMRC but 
both J and Mr P then appointed another firm to take over negotiations. A settlement was 
later agreed to settle both Js and Mr Ps tax affairs. But Irwell hasnt agreed to pay the final 
costs of the negotiation on the basis that the policys indemnity limit will be exceeded.
M has complained that Irwell should not have made any payment to C without their prior 
approval as the policyholder, and should not have made any payment in respect of costs 
relating to Mr Ps personal tax affairs as he wasnt covered by the professional fee protection 
arrangements at the time the enquiry was launched. 
To resolve matters, M would like Irwell to remove Cs charges relating to dealing with Mr P 
and reimburse the outstanding costs up to the limit of £75,000.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She said Irwell didnt need to 
obtain Ms consent before paying costs, but she agreed with M that the enquiries relating to 
J and Mr P were separate. And as Mr P wasnt a client of M when the claim was made, she 
said cover under the policy wouldnt extend to him. 
Both M and Irwell raised further comments but these didnt lead our investigator to change 
her view. She noted that Mr P had been a client of M from 2012 onwards, but the claim had 
started before then and the policy wouldnt provide cover where a claim arises from 
something that had already started before the policy was taken out or a client was added to 
it. So she maintained her view that any costs relating to Mr P should not be covered.
The investigator said Irwell should calculate what costs had been paid incorrectly in relation 
to Mr P and compare those to the outstanding costs; if there was any indemnity limit left 
these should be used towards those costs.
Irwell says the total claim is £101,000 and even if the costs are reallocated, ultimately that 
would result in Irwell still paying £75,000 and Mr P paying £26,000; calculating exactly to 
who and by whom those sums are paid is likely to be a time consuming and expensive 
exercise which will provide little benefit to any party.
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The history of this matter is quite complex and dates back many years. Ive considered all 
the information carefully but the crux of the matter is simply whether costs relating to work 
done on the enquiry into Mr Ps affairs are covered under the policy terms. So while I have 
considered everything my decision will focus on the key points relevant to that question.
The policy provides cover as follows:
The insurer will provide up to £75,000 in respect of:
Fees incurred by your accountant attending meeting with H M Revenue and Customs 
(HMRC) or responding to correspondence from HMRC when you are subject to a HMRC 
check, enquiry, visit, meeting or dispute
The policy terms also say there is no cover where:
a claim arises from facts or events that existed at the inception of this Policy or the
time a client was declared for inclusion under this Policy, about which the client or
Policyholder knew or ought reasonably to have known was likely to give rise to a claim under
this Policy.
So the policy provides cover for costs relating to clients of M, but this doesnt include costs 
relating to something that already existed before the time the client was included under the 
policy.
From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied the only claim made in 2011 was in relation to J. 
At that point Mr P wasnt a client of M, he wasnt included in the policy and a claim wasnt 
made in relation to him. 
Mr P he became a client of M in 2012 and was added to the policy. But even if a claim were 
to have been made in relation to Mr P in 2012, it would have been excluded under the policy 
term set out above as a pre-existing event.
So costs relating to Mr Ps affairs are not covered and should not be paid by Irwell; only 
costs relating to work done on the enquiry relating to J should have been paid. But Irwell has 
paid costs relating to work on Mr Ps enquiry. So M has had costs it shouldnt have had 
because some of the costs that have been paid arent covered under the policy. And the indemnity limit has now been reached in a way it may not have been if Mr Ps costs werent 
included. So Ive considered what would have happened if the error hadnt occurred. 
If the claim had been dealt with correctly, only costs relating to Js enquiry would have been 
paid. And if the costs paid to date in respect of that are less than the indemnity limit, then 
there would remain a sum that could be used to pay the outstanding costs.
The outstanding costs are said to be £26,000. So to resolve matters, Irwell should calculate 
what it has paid incorrectly for Mr Ps costs and compare it to the outstanding costs of 
£26,000 for work relating to J. This should be straightforward to work out as M has explained 
that it billed costs for Mr P and J separately.
Irwell says calculating exactly which sums are to be paid by who may provide little benefit if 
ultimately M receives the same amount. But without calculating the costs, its not possible to 
say whether the correct amount has been paid by Irwell and how much of the indemnity limit 
is still available. M is entitled to have the correct amounts paid under the policy. M will need 
to provide evidence of the costs paid by Mr P to ensure it doesnt receive double payment. If 
Mr Ps costs are less than £26,000 then M hasnt lost out as the limit of indemnity would 
already have been reached. But if they are more, these should be deducted to see whats 
left. If for example, Mr Ps costs are £30,000 then the gap would be £4,000 (£101,000 less 
£30,000 equals £71,000). As the indemnity limit is £75,000, the amount of indemnity left 
would be £4,000.
Putting things right
Subject to M providing a breakdown of costs relating to J and Mr P respectively, together 
with evidence of costs relating to Mr P billed to and paid by him, Irwell should: 
calculate the costs that were paid incorrectly for Mr Ps costs and compare it to the 
outstanding costs that are left (approximately £26,000) for J; and
if there is any limit of indemnity left after deducting Mr Ps costs, these funds should 
be paid towards the outstanding balance in respect of costs relating to J. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Irwell Insurance Company Limited 
to take the steps set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman