DRN-3112115
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mrs and Mr E say they were mis-sold this PPI.
Santander UK Plc is now responsible for the sale, so for consistency, Ill refer mainly to 
Santander throughout this decision.
background
One of our adjudicators previously looked into the complaint and they said they didnt think 
we should uphold it. Mrs and Mr Es representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
However, they didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint 
points and arguments theyd previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. When considering 
what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve also set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs and Mr Es. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in making a decision 
about Mrs and Mr Es complaint. 
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint.
Mrs and Mr E say they werent given any paperwork confirming what had happened, but Im 
afraid I dont think that can be right. I accept this was all a long time ago, but I think it was 
clear enough at the time of this sale in 2003 that Mrs and Mr E agreed to the policy and they 
would have known they didnt have to take out the PPI if they didnt want to. 
I say this because I note they took out their original mortgage in the 1990s and operated it 
for a few years without any PPI. They then took out PPI in 2003 probably after reviewing 
their financial situation and its at this point, they were sold PPI. 
By definition therefore, I think its reasonable for me to say that they must have known PPI 
was something they didnt need to have. Thats because they had a mortgage for some 
years without any PPI attached. And having agreed to buy a policy, I dont think the insurers 
would have failed to send them any policy details.
In addition to this, I also note that Mrs and Mr E set up their PPI coverage in a way which 
covered only Mr E. Mrs E wasnt originally named on the policy, although I see they 
reviewed certain aspects of the cover later on. I was also sent evidence showing that Mrs 
and Mr E were given or sent a welcome letter about the PPI and also an insurance 
schedule setting out who was covered and for what. They were also informed what the 
price of the monthly premiums would be. I think if they had never agreed to the PPI, they 
would have wanted to know why they were sent these things.
So, given these circumstances, I think all this shows, quite strongly, that Mrs and Mr E knew 
the PPI cover was optional, and they set it up in a way that reflected their needs and 
circumstances of the time. I think there is comprehensive evidence in this case that they 
consented to the PPI and were given related paperwork.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mrs and Mr E as part of an advised sale. It therefore 
had a duty to check that the PPI was right for them. Ive considered this issue with care and 
Im satisfied the evidence about Mrs and Mr Es circumstances of the time, shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For example, Mr E appears to 
have been eligible for the PPI and although he may have had some sick pay with his job, this 
doesnt mean the PPI wasnt suitable. It could have paid out a monthly sum of £276 for up to 
a year if successfully claimed on.  
Also, there was nothing obvious about Mr Es occupation which would have made it difficult 
for him to make a successful claim on the policy in my view. He hasnt told us about any pre-
existing medical conditions that could have affected his ability to claim and there were no 
additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems. Ive considered whats 
been said about him having death in service benefit. No evidence was provided of this job-
related benefit and in any event, it doesnt conflict with having mortgage protection  it 
covers different things. 
So I think the PPI was suitable and it being recommended to them wasnt unreasonable.
Its certainly possible the information Santander gave to Mrs and Mr E about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it should have been. However, this doesnt alter my overall decision Im afraid. I 
think they chose to take the PPI out and it looks like they specifically wanted this type of 
mortgage protection, with Mr E being initially covered rather than Mrs E. The policy wasnt 
too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying from the information they 
were given at the point of sale. It also looks like the PPI was affordable for them  so it 
seems like it would have been useful if something went wrong. As Ive said, they later varied 
the coverage of the policy which to me confirms it was something they wanted to have and 
keep. Because of all these issues I dont think Mrs and Mr E would have been affected by 
some of the things they possibly werent told about. Nor do I think theyd have declined the 
cover, even if Santander could have done more or explained things better.
Mrs and Mr Es representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Santander should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim. But Mrs and Mr Es representative has not said how these 
points apply to the specific facts and circumstances of their individual complaint, just that 
they apply to all PPI complaints.I have, nevertheless, thought very carefully indeed about all these things and how they might 
apply in Mrs and Mr Es case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions 
about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons 
Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs and Mr E, but this means Santander UK Plc doesnt have to do 
anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Es complaint so I 
make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman