DRN-4216590
The complaint
Mr C complains about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled his motor insurance claim.
UKI is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As UKI has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in 
my decision, any reference to UKI includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In early 2023, Mr C made a claim under his motor insurance policy with UKI after his car was 
damaged in an accident. 
UKI deemed Mr Cs vehicle a total loss. It told Mr C the vehicle had been valued at £2,088 
and sent him a cheque for this amount, minus the £100 excess. 
Mr C raised a complaint with UKI. His main concern was the valuation of the vehicle which 
he believed to be too low. He also raised some other concerns about the service hed 
received from UKI. He hadnt been provided with a hire car, despite being told he would 
receive one. UKI hadnt offered him help in sourcing a replacement car. He thought the 
write-off had been categorised incorrectly and he hadnt been given the option to buy it back. 
And the settlement payment hadnt been sent by the method hed requested.
UKI said its settlement offer was based on the market value of the car. It had determined this 
using an average of two trade guides and the valuation had been reviewed by a second 
engineer.
UKI said the terms of the policy didnt entitle Mr C to a hire car or help in sourcing a new car. 
And it was satisfied that the car had correctly been marked as a category B. However, it 
agreed that its service had fallen below standard, and it sent Mr C £150 to compensate him 
for delays and being given incorrect information.
Mr C remained unhappy, so he asked our service to consider his concerns. Our investigator 
didnt think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. He thought UKIs settlement offer was fair. 
He was satisfied that UKI hadnt made an error by not replacing his car. He thought the £150 
UKI had paid Mr C for the issue with the payment and delay was reasonable. 
Mr C disagreed with our investigators outcome. He didnt think the trade guides accurately 
represented vehicles of this age. He said hed tried to source a car for the money offered 
and they do not exist. He asked that we consider the prices these classic vehicles are 
actually selling for. He also disputed that UKI wasnt required to help him find a replacement 
car. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Vehicle valuation
The policys terms and conditions say:
Where damage to your car is covered under your policy, well pay the cost of repairing or 
replacing your car up to its UK market value. This is the current value of your car at the time 
of the claim. It may be different to the amount you paid or any amount you provided when 
you insured your car with us.
Market Value is defined as: The cost of replacing your car with another of the same make 
and model, and of a similar age and condition at the time of the accident or loss.
UKI says it used two industry trade guides to assess the pre-accident market value of Mr Cs 
vehicle. Its provided screenshots of the valuations which are £2,326 and £1,850. UKIs 
settlement offer of £2,088 was based on an average of the two guides.
I think its reasonable for the market value to be assessed as the retail price Mr C was likely 
to have to pay for a comparable vehicle at a reputable dealer. The fairest way of doing this is 
by using the standard industry guides. These are based on extensive national research of 
likely selling prices. They can provide valuations based on the make, model, age, condition 
and specification of a car. 
Mr C says hes been unable to source a vehicle for the amount UKI offered and has provided 
a number of adverts for similar vehicles. Our service doesnt normally use adverts to decide 
whether a valuation is fair. This is because vehicles can end up being sold for lower than 
they were advertised. And differences in mileage or year of registration can have a big effect 
on the value of the same model of vehicle. 
I appreciate Mr C believes we shouldnt rely on the trade guides because his vehicle is 
twenty years old. Hes provided a screenshot of a valuation from a classic car specialist. 
However, we dont consider this information as reliable as the trade guides. So, wed usually 
only consider this in certain circumstances, for example if a car is so rare that the guides 
have a very limited number of adverts or anything else to go on. And Im not persuaded this 
is the case for Mr Cs car.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the settlement offer UKI made Mr C was 
reasonable and in line with the policys terms and conditions.
Write-off classification
Mr C says his car was incorrectly classified as a class B (Break) write-off. He says the 
damage was superficial and could be repaired. 
UKI says there is structural damage to the car and there are safety concerns that it wouldnt 
be repaired correctly using approved methods. I havent seen any independent evidence to 
contradict what UKI has said about this. So, I have no reason to doubt the expertise of UKIs 
engineer who has categorised the vehicle as category B. 
Replacement vehicle
Mr C is unhappy that UKI didnt offer to help him find a replacement car. 
Hes referred to wording on UKIs website which says:"If your car is more than one year old and is written off (Comprehensive cover) or if your car 
is more than two years old and is written off (Comprehensive Plus cover), instead of just 
being offered a bank transfer for the settlement value of your car, less any excess that may 
apply, we'll offer to help find you a replacement car using our trusted nationwide network. 
You can upgrade the new car by adding your own money. Or you can downgrade and take 
the extra value as cash. It's your choice. This service excludes theft claims and the 
minimum price of the replacement car is £3500. It is also subject to availability  we may not 
be able to find an exact match for your car "
UKI says this service wasnt offered to Mr C because the pre-accident value of his car was 
below the £3,500 threshold. Mr C disputes this because the £3,500 refers to the minimum 
price of the replacement car rather than the value. 
I appreciate Mr C is unhappy that UKI didnt help him find a replacement car. But UKI says it 
is its choice to offer this service. The policys terms and conditions say UKI can choose to 
repair or replace a vehicle or settle a claim by sending a payment. So, Im not persuaded 
that UKI was required to find Mr C a replacement vehicle.
Customer service 
Mr C also raised some concerns about the customer service he received from UKI. It didnt 
provide him with a hire car after saying it would. There was a delay in him being contacted 
by an engineer. And UKI didnt pay its settlement offer by Mr Cs preferred method.
Mr Cs policy documents show that he didnt select the optional extra of a guaranteed hire 
car. His policy only entitled him to a courtesy car if his car was being repaired by an 
approved repairer. He wasnt entitled to one in the event of it being written off.
UKI has acknowledged Mr C was given incorrect information about his entitlement to a hire 
car over the phone. I understand he was given the correct information within a couple of 
days. UKI has also apologised for a short delay in Mr C being contacted by an engineer. 
UKI says Mr C was sent the settlement by cheque because it made an error when 
attempting to make the payment by bank transfer. In his complaint form, Mr C said he had 
no way of paying the cheque in, although he hasnt explained why. In his outcome our 
investigator said he would arrange for UKI to make the payment by bank transfer if Mr C 
hadnt cashed the cheque. So, Mr C should let our investigator or UKI know if he is unable to 
bank the cheques UKI has sent him.
I think the £150 UKI has already paid Mr C sufficiently recognises the impact these customer 
service issues had on him. So, I dont require UKI to pay Mr C any additional compensation.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr C, but overall, I think UKI has acted fairly and 
reasonably, in line with the terms of the policy. I think it was fair for it to offer Mr C a cash 
settlement and the amount its paid him is reasonable. Its also acknowledged its errors and 
delay and has paid Mr C an adequate amount for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman