DRN-4220849
The complaint
Ms C complains that Lending Works Limited irresponsibly gave her a fixed sum loan 
agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In August 2017, Ms C applied for a loan with Lending Works. Her application was approved 
and she was given a loan for £4,000. Ms C was required to repay 60 monthly repayments of 
around £80. The total repayable, including the arrangement fee was £4,828.92.
Ms C complained to Lending Works in October 2022 to say that the loan had been 
unaffordable from the outset and it shouldnt have been given to her. Lending Works didnt 
think it had acted unfairly in approving the loan. It said it had completed adequate 
affordability checks which demonstrated Ms C could afford the regular repayments. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Lending Works had 
completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks. She considered that 
Lending Works had made a fair lending decision. 
Ms C didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prior to granting Ms C with credit, Lending Works needed to ensure the borrowing was 
affordable to her. There isnt a set list of checks that Lending Works needed to undertake. 
However, any checks it did needed to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of that 
lending decision. To decide what would be proportionate, Lending Works needed to take into 
consideration things such as (but not limited to): the total repayable, the size of the regular 
repayments, the cost of the credit and Ms Cs circumstances.
The application for this loan went through multiple stages. This is because Lending Works 
required further information and evidence from Ms C prior to approving the loan. Overall, Im 
satisfied that Lending Works completed reasonable and proportionate checks. I say this 
because as part of the application Ms C declared details of her income and expenditure on 
the application, Lending Works then spoke to her on the phone to get further clarity on these 
figures and it then asked her to submit copies of her bank statements as well as her 
mortgage paperwork to verify what she had said. It also completed a credit check to see 
what existing credit commitments she had. I think this gave Lending Works a sufficiently 
detailed picture of Ms Cs financial circumstances at the time of the application. 
The credit check revealed she held two credit cards with a combined credit limit of £4,950. 
Ms C said that the purpose of taking out a loan through Lending Works was to consolidate 
her debts. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Lending Works to assume the majority of 
her debts on her credit cards would be repaid by its loan. 
Using the bank statements and the other information Ms C provided, Lending Works 
calculated Ms Cs income to be around £1,500 per month and her expenditure around 
£1,350 (after paying the Lending Works loan). It therefore concluded she had sufficient 
income to be able to afford the repayments. 
Having reviewed the statements Ms C provided (and the ones shes sent to our service), it 
appears her income was significantly higher than Lending Works had calculated. Ms C was 
in receipt of a regular salary, benefits, child maintenance from her ex-partner and a further 
fortnightly payment of around £450 which weve asked her for clarity on, but she hasnt told 
us what that was for. In total her monthly income appears to have been around £3,000. This 
doesnt take into account regular payments her partner was paying into her account which 
ranged between £240 and £1,000 for the months Ive seen. From what Ms C has provided, it 
appears her income was more than sufficient to cover her essential committed expenditure. 
I think based on what Lending Works could see, Im satisfied it made a fair lending decision. 
Even if I considered that Lending Works affordability checks didnt go far enough, Ive not 
seen anything to demonstrate that the loan was unaffordable for Ms C in any event. I note 
from the copy of the credit file shes provided us that she took out a number of additional 
credit commitments after taking out this loan. Its possible the accumulative effect of that 
additional borrowing caused her financial difficulty, however, Lending Works couldnt have 
reasonably known she would take out further borrowing so soon. And at the time she 
applied, it appears this loan was affordable. 
Im therefore not persuaded that Lending Works made an unfair lending decision when 
granting this loan. However, I remind it of its obligation to treat Ms C fairly now that it is on 
notice that she may be in financial difficulty. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman