DRN-2054009
The complaint
Mr T complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt help him to understand 
the risks he was taking when he took on additional borrowing to help to pay his carers 
mortgage.
Background
Mr T says that in early 2008 his carer, who lived in a neighbouring property, was struggling 
to pay her mortgage. Mr T says that he offered to help his carer repay her arrears to prevent 
her home from being taken into possession. In return Mr T says his carer agreed that he 
would inherit her property.
Sadly, Mr Ts carer died in late 2016. It appears that there was then a dispute between Mr T 
and his late carers family about who would inherit the property.
Mr T says that when he took out his mortgage with NatWest, he explained that he intended 
to use the money to contribute towards his carers mortgage. Mr T says he feels NatWest 
should have advised him to seek independent legal advice. He also says it should have 
explained that even if he paid his carers mortgage he would not automatically have an 
interest in her property.
In order to put matters right Mr T wants NatWest to refund all the money he paid towards his 
late carers mortgage and compensate him for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
NatWest didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. It noted that the mortgage offer it issued clearly set 
out that Mr T should take independent legal advice before accepting the offer. It also said it 
had no record of Mr T telling it that he intended to use the money he was borrowing to 
contribute towards his carers mortgage.
Our investigator then looked into Mr Ts complaint. She said that she didnt think NatWest 
had done anything wrong. She noted that the mortgage offer Mr T accepted in January 
2008, set out:
THIS IS AN IMPORTANT DOCUMENT. YOU SHOULD TAKE INDEPENDENT LEGAL 
ADVICE BEFORE SIGNING AND SIGN ONLY IF YOU WANT TO BE LEGALLY BOUND.
In view of this she said she was satisfied that it had been made clear to Mr T that he should 
take independent legal advice before going ahead with the mortgage.
She noted that Mr T had said he was in dispute with his late carers family about who would 
inherit the property. But she explained this wasnt something this service could look into.
She also noted that since bringing his complaint to our service, Mr T had said that he 
struggles to understand written documents and he would not have been able to read the 
mortgage offer he accepted. 
Our investigator followed up on this with NatWest. It said it didnt have a record of Mr T 
telling it he had a problem reading documents. And it said there werent any vulnerability 
indicators on Mr Ts account. As this was the case, our investigator said she couldnt 
reasonably say NatWest should have provided additional support or made reasonable 
adjustments when it issued the mortgage offer in 2008.
Mr T wasnt satisfied with our investigators view. He said, in summary, that just because 
NatWest didnt have any records showing that he had told it he had difficulty understanding 
written documents didnt mean he hadnt told it. He also said he couldnt recall whether his 
carer had read the mortgage offer to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mr Ts position, but I cant reasonably order NatWest to reimburse Mr T 
for the money he contributed towards his late carers mortgage. Ill explain why.
As our investigator noted, there is nothing to show that Mr T had told NatWest that he was 
using the money he had borrowed to contribute towards his carers mortgage. Had Mr T 
done so I think NatWest would have advised him to take legal advice so that any agreement 
he had made with his carer could be formalised and the interests of both parties could be 
protected.
But I dont think NatWest could reasonably have been expected to know or explain what 
rights, if any, Mr T would have in relation to his carers property if he contributed towards her 
mortgage. This was something Mr T would have needed to get legal advice on.
I havent seen anything that shows NatWest was aware that Mr T would have difficulty 
reading the mortgage offer he accepted in 2008. But even if I accept that Mr T had told 
NatWest that he had difficulty reading documents, I must take into account that Mr T could 
have asked NatWest to explain the mortgage offer to him if he had any concerns about it.
The mortgage offer very clearly set out that Mr T should seek independent legal advice 
before he accepted it. 
Having carefully considered this matter I cant safely find that Mr T did tell NatWest that he 
would be using the money to pay his carers mortgage. As this is the case, I cant reasonably 
say that NatWest should have done more than it did to make Mr T aware that he should 
seek independent legal advice before accepting the mortgage offer.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman