DRN-2916170
The complaint
Ms O has complained that BISL Limited unfairly cancelled her telematics (black box) motor 
policy for speeding when it was not her driving but her named driver, who was her father. 
She said this means she must declare a policy cancellation which makes her premium on 
any other motor policy unaffordable.
What happened
Ms O bought her policy on line on 4 June 2018 which is administered by BISL. 
Theres no dispute that it was the named driver who was driving the car at the time on 2 
August 2018 when the black box recorded the black event of excessive speed. It recorded 
the driver was doing 103.7 mph on a motorway.
The policy conditions detail that if such a black event is triggered the policy may be 
cancelled, which is what happened with Ms O.
BISL notified Ms O of the cancellation on 4 August 2018. Ms O believes as she wasnt the 
driver, her named driver ought to have been removed from the policy instead of her policy 
being cancelled. BISL didnt agree.
So, Ms O brought her complaint to us. The investigator didnt think BISL had done anything 
wrong. Ms O didnt agree so her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint, Ill now explain why.
When assessing complaints like this one this service looks to see if the business did 
anything wrong having regard to the terms and condition of the policy. If it didnt the 
complaint isnt upheld but if it did, we look to see how to put the consumer back in the 
position they would have been in but for the business error.
Theres no dispute that it was Ms Os named driver on the policy who speeded, (namely her 
father) which breached the terms of the policy which meant BISL cancelled it. And so, in 
cancelling the policy, its very clear to me that BISL didnt do anything wrong bearing in mind 
the terms and conditions of the policy.
The policy also clearly explained black events of speeding which may cause the policy to 
be cancelled.  
However, it was Ms O and not BISL who decided to add her father to her policy and 
therefore it is Ms Os responsibility not BISLs to ensure that her father didnt breach the 
terms of her policy and causing it to be cancelled. Had Ms O not added her father to the 
policy none of this would have happened. Therefore, this is solely Ms Os responsibility. It 
would be neither reasonable or fair to BISL for me to require it to ignore the terms of its 
policy in these circumstances. 
Ms O told us in a telephone call in April 2021 that her father regularly drove at an excessive 
speed, so this wasnt unusual for him. Given Ms O knew this but nonetheless decided to 
take out a black box policy which monitors speeding, and adding her father to its cover, there 
is nothing to show me that BISL did anything wrong consequently.
It is for Ms O to acquaint herself with the terms of the policy as there is no allegation the 
policy terms werent clear. Its also for Ms O to acquaint herself with the consequences of 
breaching policy terms which then cause the policy to be cancelled. Ms O chose to add her 
father to the policy, and he broke those policy conditions. So, the consequences of a simply 
matter between Ms O and her father and has nothing whatsoever to do with BISL or its 
action in cancelling her policy given her fathers excessive speeding. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman