DRN-3684863
The complaint
Miss M complains that One Call Insurance Services Limited discriminated against her when 
it didnt renew her motor insurance policy with the same insurer. 
What happened
Miss M had a three year fixed price deal for her motor insurance through One Call in 
partnership with an insurer. This came to an end and the policy renewed automatically for a 
further three years. A year later, Miss M told One Call that she had updated the DVLA about 
a change to a pre-existing medical condition and she had been given a three year medical 
licence. 
One Call passed this information on to the insurer which said that Miss M no longer met the 
requirements for its policy. And so One Call offered Miss M a policy with a different insurer. 
This was more expensive than the previous one. Miss M felt that she had been discriminated 
against because of her medical condition. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Miss M 
had reported the change in her health as required by her policys terms and conditions. The 
insurer had declined to renew Miss Ms policy as she no longer met its eligibility criteria. So 
he thought One Call had reasonably found Miss M a new quote and price. It had provided 
this 20 days before her old policy expired. So he thought this was enough time for Miss M to 
shop around for an alternative. And so he didnt see evidence that One Call had 
discriminated against Miss M. 
Miss M replied that she thought she had been discriminated against because of her medical 
licence. She said One Call hadnt justified the significant increase in the new premium she 
had been quoted. She thought she didnt present a greater risk and so she thought she had 
been discriminated against because of her disability. Miss M asked for her complaint to be 
reviewed by an Ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss M feels frustrated and disappointed that her fixed price deal 
wasnt continued. She has explained that this has caused her inconvenience as she had to 
shop around. Fortunately, she has found cover with another insurer for an affordable price. 
Miss Ms complaint that I am considering here is against One Call, her broker. One Call is 
responsible for providing Miss M with quotes from its panel of insurers and with 
administering her policy. 
But it isnt responsible for setting the premiums charged by insurers or for the risks that they 
wish to undertake. I can see that Miss M has raised a separate complaint against the 
insurer. But I cant consider that here as its a separate business to One Call. 
I can see that Miss Ms three year fixed price deal with an insurer was renewed in 2021. She 
was warned on her renewal invite:
Your insurance rate will not increase during the next three years unless any changes to 
your policy are made.
The policy itself required Miss M to inform her insurer if she developed any health conditions 
that DVLA needed to be made aware of. And I can see that the change in Miss Ms health 
condition required her to notify DVLA. And so I think Miss M correctly informed One Call 
about this change in keeping with her policys terms and conditions.  
One Call then passed this information on to the insurer and it said Miss M no longer met its 
eligibility requirements and the fixed price deal wasnt continued. This wasnt the decision of 
One Call, so I cant hold it responsible for this. 
And Im satisfied that Miss M had been warned by One Call in her renewal invite that 
changes to the policy, such as her medical condition, could lead to changes in her premium. 
And I think the policy booklet further explains that this would be dependent on if the insurer 
provider you are with is able to accept the new details. 
And the policy booklet further explains that when changes are notified:
Your provider has the right not to accept your policy due to your new details not meeting 
their criteria. If this does happen, we will try to find another provider to cover you.
One Call then sought alternative cover for Miss M, and it found a policy with a different 
insurer. I think this was in keeping with the policys terms and conditions. The premium was 
considerably higher than Miss Ms previous deal. But, again, One Call isnt responsible for 
settling the premium. And so I cant hold it responsible for this. 
I can understand that Miss M feels that she has been treated differently because she 
disclosed her medical condition. But I cant reasonably say that One Call has done anything 
wrong. I think it has treated Miss M fairly and reasonably and in keeping with its terms and 
conditions. And I havent seen any evidence that One Call discriminated against Miss M. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman