DRN-1952221
complaint
Mr J complains that esure Insurance Limited unfairly declined his insurance claim for stolen 
items after his home was burgled.
background
Mr J made a claim on his home insurance for items stolen from his home. When making the 
claim he said there wasnt any damage to his doors or windows, but he thought the burglar 
had gained entry by forcing a window. A specialist window company was appointed by 
esure, to inspect the property.
The surveyor didnt find any damage to the windows or doors, so he concluded a window or 
door must have been left unlocked. After the visit, Mr J provided esure with video footage to 
show a window vent was damaged, and he said the surveyor had dismissed this damage 
during his visit. Mr J thought a device had been used to access and operate the window 
handle, through the window vent. 
The policy covers theft of contents from the home. However, it excludes theft when force and 
violence isnt used to enter or exit the property. Because the surveyor didnt find any damage 
and esure wasnt persuaded access had been gained via the window vent, esure didnt 
consider force and violence had been used. Therefore, it declined the claim. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Js complaint, but she thought esures decision was 
reasonable. So, she didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Because Mr J disagreed, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is inconclusive or incomplete, I have reached my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  this means Ive determined what I consider is more likely to have happened, 
based on all the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The policy terms require force and violence for a theft claim to succeed. This service follows 
a similar approach to that taken by the courts. We typically interpret force as some form of 
action or energy being applied to something, so simply turning a handle or opening a door. 
We typically interpret violence as a level of force over and above what would usually be 
necessary, even if physical damage wasnt caused. As such, gaining entry by unnatural 
means, such as through window vents, would usually constitute violence.
The onus is on esure to show, on balance, that the force and violence exclusion applies. If    
I was persuaded the burglar had gained entry by using a device through the window vents, 
given what Ive said above about gaining access by unnatural means, I would be satisfied 
force and violence had been used  so, I wouldnt be satisfied the exclusion applies. 
However, based on everything we have been shown, Im not persuaded access was gained 
via a window vent. I consider it more likely that a door or window was left unlocked. Ill 
explain why.
Having viewed the video footage, I accept theres some damage to the vent. However, in my 
view, it doesnt necessarily follow that the damage was caused by a burglar forcing a device 
through the vent, to access and operate the handle. Given the vent is relatively narrow, and 
various angles and obstacles would need to be overcome to reach and operate the handle, 
Im not persuaded by Mr Js video footage alone that a window could be opened by such 
method. But even if it was possible, given the difficulties involved, I consider it likely that 
more damage would be caused during the process than we have been shown, such as 
marks or scuffs to the window frame or handle.
Therefore, in view of the surveyors findings, and in the absence of expert opinion which 
supports access was gained via the window vent, Im not persuaded the vent was the 
method of entry here.
So, having carefully considered all the arguments and information presented, Im persuaded 
esure has, on balance, shown that force and violence wasnt used. I consider it more likely 
that access was gained via an unlocked door or window than the window vent  and whilst 
this constitutes force, it doesnt constitute violence. So, in conclusion, Im not persuaded 
esure unfairly declined Mr Js claim.
my final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr J. But for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman