DRN-2319396
The complaint
Mrs S complains that First Response Finance Ltd irresponsibly gave her a hire purchase 
agreement. 
What happened
In November 2015, Mrs S acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement from First 
Response. The cash price of the car was £4,000. Mrs S was required to make 36 monthly 
repayments of around £182, with a total repayable of around £6,500.
Mrs S complained to First Response to say that the agreement had been unaffordable to her 
from the outset and that proper affordability checks werent completed. She said that at the 
time of the application her mental health meant that she wasnt in the right state of mind to 
enter into a finance agreement and First Response had failed in their duty of care. Lastly, 
she said the car she had acquired had incurred a number of major faults which shed had to 
pay repairs for. 
First Response didnt think it had acted unfairly. It said that it completed a thorough 
affordability assessment which included reviewing a payslip and evidence of other income 
Mrs S had (such as benefit payments). It said it completed a credit check which did show 
some adverse information, but it discussed these with Mrs S along with finding out about her 
other regular committed expenditure at it found that she had around £1,500 in disposable 
income each month. It said it wasnt made aware of Mrs S mental health difficulties until 
2017 and it had asked her for evidence of the faults with the car, but Mrs S hadnt provided 
anything. On this basis it didnt uphold her complaint. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought the affordability 
checks First Response completed were reasonable and proportionate. She noted that the 
income and expenditure information she had gathered from Mrs S was a little different to 
what First Response had found but that it still showed Mrs S had around £1,200 available 
each month to put towards her existing credit commitments as well as the hire purchase 
agreement. Based on the information that had been provided the investigator was 
persuaded this showed the agreement appeared affordable to Mrs S.
Lastly, the investigator didnt think First Response ought to have been aware of Mrs S 
mental health difficulties at the point of application. And she didnt think Mrs S had provided 
any persuasive evidence to demonstrate that the car she was supplied with was of 
unsatisfactory quality so that First Response were responsible for any faults with it. Overall, 
she didnt think First Response had acted unfairly. 
Mrs S didnt agree. In summary, she said the investigator hadnt taken her mental health into 
consideration. She said the information First Response had about her existing credit 
commitments were wrong and due to the nature of her mental health it meant she wasnt 
able to manage her finances well. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did First Response complete a reasonable and proportionate affordability check?
Prior to approving the hire purchase agreement, First Response were required to complete a 
reasonable assessment of Mrs S ability to sustainably repay the credit. There wasnt a set 
list of checks they needed to complete but any affordability check had to be proportionate. 
What is considered proportionate will vary in each case and will be dependent on (but not 
limited to): the amount of credit and total repayable, the monthly repayments, the term of the 
agreement and Mrs S specific circumstances. 
First Response says it verified Mrs S declared income by reviewing payslips and seeking 
evidence of her benefit payments. This showed she had a total income of £3,400. It appears 
it also had sight of Mrs S bank statements for the two months prior to the application. 
Further, First Response carried out a credit check to understand what her existing credit 
commitments were and how she was managing those. 
The credit check showed that Mrs S had some historic defaults on her credit commitments 
and had some arrears on some of her existing debts, including on some of her utility bills. 
First Response says it discussed the results of the credit check with Mrs S who gave 
explanations for the arrears and that she was paying these off over a reasonable period of 
time. It says it also asked Mrs S what her regular household expenditure was and she 
declared this to be around £1,300 per month. Combined with her credit commitments this 
took her total monthly expenditure to around £1,850.
Overall I think First Response gathered a reasonable and proportionate amount of evidence 
and information to be able to adequately assess whether the agreement was affordable and 
sustainable to Mrs S. However, this doesnt automatically mean it made a fair a lending 
decision. 
Did First Response make a fair lending decision?
I note Mrs S has now told us her regular household expenditure was much higher than she 
told First Response. She says this was around £1,700 per month. The bank statements First 
Response had sight of at the time of the application I dont think would have shown that what 
Mrs S had declared was most likely to have been incorrect. So, I dont think there was 
anything within the application that ought to have caused First Response to question the 
information Mrs S provided. 
I understand Mrs S has also told us her income was around £400 lower than what she 
declared to First Response as some of the benefit payments she received were intended for 
her daughter. But again, this isnt what she appears to have told First Response at the time 
of the application, so Ive not seen any reason to think they ought to have been reasonably 
aware of this. 
Mrs S says that she had a recent default only six months earlier for another car finance 
agreement which still had an outstanding balance of around £7,000. Its not clear whether 
this appeared on First Responses credit check as it hasnt provided a complete picture of all 
the information it gathered. However, having seen it appear on more than one copy of a 
credit file Mrs S has provided, Im persuaded its more likely than not First Response would 
have seen it. While this was a recent default it seems Mrs S still had sufficient disposable income each 
month to make reasonable repayments towards that debt, her other credit commitments and 
the new hire purchase agreement in a sustainable way. Ive not seen anything from the 
information Mrs S has provided to our service or to First Response that would indicate the 
agreement was unaffordable to her. 
Instead, it appears that shes said that due to her mental health she wasnt able to manage 
her finances well. Ill come onto consider her complaint points about her mental health 
shortly, but when thinking about an assessment of the affordability of the agreement, Im not 
persuaded that First Response has acted unfairly or unreasonably. First Response was 
entitled to lend to Mrs S even if she had a poor history of repaying credit, but if it did so it 
needed to ensure it was affordable and sustainable for her. From everything Ive seen, it 
appears it was, so I cant reasonably say First Response acted unfairly. 
Did First Response act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Mrs S says that she wasnt in a good mental state at the time she entered into the 
agreement with First Response. She says First Response have acted unfairly by approving 
the agreement and that it ought to have known about her difficulties. 
Im sorry to hear about Mrs S health, however, I havent seen anything to make me think 
First Response should have been aware of her condition or that they ought to have acted 
differently during the application process. I say this because in her complaint letter to First 
Response, Mrs S says that her mental health condition wasnt something she was able to 
communicate at the time, she said it also wouldnt be visible. Based on this, it wouldnt be 
reasonable for me to say First Response should have known Mrs S wasnt well at the time. 
I therefore dont think they acted unfairly in proceeding with the application. 
Lastly, Mrs S says the car had a number of serious faults and she paid around £1,000 for 
repairs in September 2018 to the head gasket and spark plugs. As the supplier of the car 
under the hire purchase agreement First Response are responsible for complaints about the 
quality of the car they supplied. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) sets out that where 
the car isnt of satisfactory quality, First Response should be responsible for putting things 
right. 
The CRA says satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would consider to be 
satisfactory taking into account all the relevant circumstances, such as their price and 
description. Aspects of the quality of the goods include their fitness for purpose, their 
appearance and finish, safety and durability.
When Mrs S acquired the car, it was around three years old and had travelled around 79,000 
miles. I therefore think it would be reasonable to expect that the car would require more 
regular maintenance and that mechanical components would be more likely to fail than on a 
newer, less road-worn car.
Its not clear what the exact mileage of the car was when Mrs S paid for the repairs to the 
head gasket. But I can see from the MOT history that she had travelled at least a further 
15,000 miles in the car since acquiring it and nearly three years had passed from when it 
was supplied to her. Further, Mrs S hasnt provided any evidence or information about what 
caused the faults with the car. Its therefore not possible for me to determine whether they 
were likely caused by something that First Response should reasonably be responsible for 
putting right. 
In the absence of any evidence of why the repairs were needed, Ive considered that the car 
had travelled close to 100,000 miles at the time the repairs were needed. I dont consider that the nature of the repairs was either unusual or unexpected for a car of that mileage. 
Further, Ive not seen anything to indicate the cause of any faults was likely present or 
developing at the point of supply and Mrs S had travelled a considerable amount of mileage 
in the car before reporting any issues. Therefore, Ive seen no reasonable basis to say First 
Response ought to be responsible for paying the repair costs Mrs S incurred. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman