DRN-4259905
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the service they received when they tried to change the fixed 
interest rate deal on their mortgage with UCB Home Loans Corporation Ltd.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B wanted to change the fixed interest rate deal on their mortgage. They asked 
UCB about this in early August, and after UCB had cleared up a mistake it made over their 
redemption figures, they were told they would be sent forms, which they must sign before 
the end of August. They also said that UCB told them the cost to transfer was over £3,000.
Mr and Mrs B said no forms arrived. They contacted UCB again on 18 August, and were told
someone would contact them and the forms would be sent. They said they were chasing
every few days then, they were abroad, and UCB said it would email them. Despite calling
every other day, nothing happened. They said when they got back to the UK they were on
the phone every day, for at least an hour, which Mr B said severely impacted his earnings.
Mr and Mrs B said that around 12 September they finally got their offer letter. But they said
UCB had charged them over £3,000 for the product, and theyd spent a small fortune on
calls and time off work. Mr and Mrs B said theyd complained to UCB, but it still hadnt 
replied, so they wanted us to look into things. They said they wanted the £3,000 theyd been
charged for the service, and £1,500 to cover calls and time off work.
UCB said Mr and Mrs B had contacted it on 5 August, to set up a switch to a new fixed
interest rate deal before their old one expired. UCB accepted that there was an initial delay
in setting up the offer, but it was produced at the end of August, and when it was signed and
returned, UCB backdated it to the start of September, which is the earliest that the new rate
could have been applied to their mortgage.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said the money Mr and
Mrs B had paid was an Early Repayment Charge (ERC) which UCB had charged to end
their previous mortgage deal. Our investigator said she could see that this was charged in
line with the terms and conditions of their previous mortgage offer, so she wouldnt expect
UCB to give that back. Our investigator also said that UCB had backdated the mortgage
offer for Mr and Mrs B. So she thought UCB had done enough to put things right.
Mr and Mrs B werent happy with that. They said we hadnt commented on the delay in
replying to their complaint, or in dealing with the mortgage product change. Our investigator
said that UCB had explained this was caused by an extraordinary demand for its services at
the time. And she still thought UCB had put that right by backdating the offer.
Mr B disagreed. He said there was no recompense for the delays and cost of calls. Mr B said
they had a terrible time trying to speak to UCB. They couldnt contact anyone, they feared
their mortgage offer would be lost, and the stress of trying to get in touch while they were
away ruined their holiday. Mr B said they accepted the ERC was standard, but the way they
were treated and the stress it caused wasnt acceptable. That was why they complained.
Because no agreement was reached, this case came to me for a final decision. I then 
reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I only proposed to 
uphold it in part. This is what I said then: 
I think there are two issues in this case -whether the ERC of over £3,000 was correctly
charged when Mr and Mrs B redeemed their old mortgage, and whether compensation 
is appropriate for the service they received, trying to take out their new deal. 
On the first point, I agree with our investigator that the ERC was correctly charged in this
case. Mr and Mrs B agreed to that when they took out their previous mortgage deal, and
UCB reminded them of this when they were seeking to remortgage before that deal 
finished. That ERC makes up almost all of the money that Mr and Mrs B were asked to 
pay when they took out this new mortgage deal. I dont think UCB has to pay it back.
On the second point, I wrote to Mr and Mrs B, saying that I had noted their recent 
comments about the service theyd received being the main reason for the complaint. 
Theyd suggested that issues escalated, so eventually they were calling on a daily basis.
I said in my email that we do have UCBs notes of the calls it had with Mr and Mrs B. I 
set out what those notes appeared to me to show.
The notes indicate that Mrs B first called on 5 August, asking about two and five year 
rates. UCB reminded Mrs B then that an ERC would be payable if the existing mortgage 
was redeemed early, so a new offer could be taken up.
It appears Mr B then spoke to UCB on 8 August to confirm it had received their 
remortgage application. On 15 August, Mrs B rang UCB back, having missed a call, and 
it looks as if Mrs B wasnt able to speak to the person who could help her then. The 
same thing seems to have happened again on 17 August. Its not clear whether Mrs B 
rang once or twice on that day.
On 25 August, Mr B spoke to UCB, and the bank explained the offer hadnt yet been
produced, but that if it didnt appear by the end of the month, the offer would be 
backdated.
On 6 September, there was further contact, and the offer still wasnt ready.
The offer was finally emailed on 12 September, but when Mr and Mrs B accepted this, it 
was backdated to 1 September.
What Mr and Mrs B had said, implied that there were many more calls than UCBs 
records showed. So I asked if they could send us evidence of those additional calls with 
their own phone records. And I said if they would like to comment on why they thought it 
was important to contact UCB at each stage of the application, then Id welcome those 
further comments.
The extended deadline for replying to our service passed, with no further contact from 
Mr and Mrs B. I think its now appropriate to reach a conclusion in this case. 
Without evidence of the considerable number of calls Mr B said was made, I havent 
been able to see that there was contact, or attempted contact, from Mr and Mrs B as 
often as they suggested. I also note that some of the calls UCB had were with Mrs B, so Ive not been able to see that Mr B engaged in daily calls which prevented him from 
working. Nor have I been able to see evidence of the considerable cost of calls that Mr 
B said hed incurred.
But it is clear that there have been delays in arranging this mortgage, and I think it is 
likely that these delays have caused Mr and Mrs B some concern. So I think that UCB 
should pay £100 in compensation for that.
Mr and Mrs B also complained theyd received no formal complaint response from UCB. 
But they did get a number of written acknowledgements of their complaint, and 
apologies that it wasnt yet resolved. Then they received the details necessary to refer 
their complaint to our service. Given their strength of feeling on this matter, I think they 
would always have wished to make that reference, and ask our service to look into 
things for them. So I dont think that this has prolonged matters significantly for them, 
and I dont think it would be fair and reasonable in this case, to ask UCB to pay 
additional compensation for this too.
My current view is that the payment of £100 in compensation would provide a fair and
reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UCB accepted my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs B didnt. They said they felt £100 was 
very little, considering the stress that was caused and the time it took to get the new 
mortgage deal in place. They said it wasnt that they werent engaging with UCB, rather they 
couldnt speak to anyone and had to wait for UCB to call back. They said this got in the way 
of their only annual holiday. Mr and Mrs B said theyd tried to get records to show this, but 
unfortunately their mobile supplier hadnt sent records that far back. 
Mr and Mrs B said they thought a fairer figure would be £500, although that was substantially 
less than they had originally claimed. They said £100 was an insult for how UCB conducted 
the whole experience, especially as they had been loyal customers for many years. 
Im sorry Mr and Mrs B have been disappointed by my decision. Thats never my intention. 
But I think its important to remember that UCB isnt only paying £100 in compensation in this 
case. Its also backdated their new mortgage rate, making sure it was applied at the earliest 
point possible. I think thats a key part of what UCB has done to put things right, and Im 
pleased to see it had already done that, before this case came to our service
It's unfortunate that Mr and Mrs B havent been able to evidence the extent of contact that 
they told us theyd had with UCB. Without that evidence, and because the notes of contact 
UCB provided dont seem to me to indicate the levels of contact that Mr and Mrs B told us 
about, I havent been able to conclude that its more likely than not that they did spend a 
significantly greater amount of time chasing the progress of their application than UCBs 
notes describe. Bearing all of this in mind, I do think that a payment of £100, in addition to 
the backdating of the new mortgage deal which UCB has already done, does provide a fair 
and reasonable outcome to this complaint. For those reasons, I havent changed my mind in this case. Ill now make the decision I 
originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that UCB Home Loans Corporation Ltd must pay Mr and Mrs B £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman