DRN-3988655
The complaint
Ms H complains Starling Bank Limited registered a fraud marker at CIFAS, the national fraud 
database and closed her account. She doesnt think its treated her fairly.
What happened
Between the 14 and 16 September 2020, Ms Hs account with Starling received a number of 
payments. These were all from different people, connected to payment for a games console, 
varying from £40 to £100. 
Soon afterwards, the payments into Ms Hs account were identified as fraudulent by the 
banks from where the funds had come from (they reported that their customers had been the 
victim of a purchase scam). Starling placed a block on the account and conducted a review. 
It asked Ms H to explain where the funds had come from. Ms H said a friend had asked her if 
he could use her account to receive money as he didnt have an account. I will refer to this 
friend as M. She said hed also told her that hed sold something and asked if they could 
send the money for it to her account. She didnt think this was a big issue so agreed. She 
wanted the bank to know that this had nothing to do with her. 
Starling told Ms H that it would be closing her account. Sometime later, Ms H discovered 
Starling had also placed a misuse of facility marker against her with CIFAS which was 
stopping her from opening a new bank account. She contacted Starling to complain in 2022. 
However, it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said that the marker had been placed 
correctly and would have to remain. 
Ms H didnt think this was fair, so she referred her complaint to us. In doing so, she told us 
the following:
- M was someone she knew from work. He had split from his partner and was 
therefore staying with her for a couple of weeks. 
- M asked if he could use her account to get money from friends and family as he 
didnt have an account of his own. He mentioned hed sold a games console. 
- She gave M her card and PIN to withdraw the funds that had been intended for him. 
She also allowed him to use her card to make a one-off purchase at a sports shop. 
- She didnt check her statements or her Starling banking APP throughout this period. 
So, she didnt know what was going on.  
- She confronted M but he wouldnt engage with her. 
- On reflection shed been nave.   
One of our adjudicators reviewed what had happened and didnt uphold Ms Hs complaint. 
He said there wasnt any evidence to support Ms Hs version of events. He could also see 
that shed benefitted from some of the fraudulent funds because shed moved these to 
another account that belonged to her. He thought it was odd that she hadnt spotted the 
money coming in from a number of different people and questioned M about it, before 
Starling got in touch. He also noted what he felt were inconsistencies in Ms Hs testimony. 
Considering all of this, he didnt think Starling had acted unfairly in recording information with 
CIFAS. 
Ms H didnt agree. She asked that her complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman. She said, 
she didnt know that the funds were all in relation to the sale of a console as she didnt check 
her statements and her banking APP didnt display payment references. She genuinely 
believed the money was from Ms friends and family (he was getting benefits paid into their 
accounts for them to then send on to him) as thats what hed told her. She had moved some 
of the money out but that was in return for allowing M to stay. She never said M could sell 
the console and use her account to get the funds. Hed only told her about the sale after it 
had happened and after Starling contacted her to ask questions in 2020. 
The case has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms H B but Im not upholding this complaint. 
The marker that Starling has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility 
 relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it 
isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Ms H is guilty of fraud or a financial 
crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
- There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial crime has 
been committed or attempted; [and] 
- The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could confidently 
report the conduct of the subject to the police. 
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered Ms Hs account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. 
Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that Ms H was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate 
payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker should not be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. In order to determine Ms Hs complaint, I need to 
consider whether I think having regard for what we know theres enough evidence to show 
fraudulent funds entered the account and that Ms Hs actions suggest she was complicit in 
this. And having considered everything, I find that Starling is justified in recording the fraud 
marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
Starling received a number of reports from different third-party banks that incoming 
payments were from a payment scam. There doesnt appear to be any dispute about this 
and in any event, I have seen the relevant reports. Ms H says that the person responsible for the payments was M and on reflection shed been 
nave. I asked her for supporting evidence of the arrangement she described. That is, M was 
staying with her, nature of the benefits being paid and any chat history contacting M about 
the consequences for her in relation to her Starling account being closed, but none was 
provided. 
Ms H told us that she had no detailed knowledge that all the payments related to a games 
console. Though she accepted M later told her hed sold one and so one payment would 
have certainly related to it. But I dont find what Ms H has said to be very persuasive. First, 
Ive seen evidence that Ms H used Starlings banking APP for her account. And when a 
credit is received, this prompted a ping or other notification on her phone device. Given the 
number of transactions that were crediting the account between 14 and 16 September (quite 
a number), I find it difficult to believe she wouldnt have been aware that there were multiple 
credits and that these were for a games console. Because Starling has provided evidence 
that if you click on the payment, you can see the payment reference which nearly almost all 
here referenced a console. Weighing this evidence up, I think due to the activity its more 
likely than not that Ms H was aware of the payments into her account and what these 
actually related to. 
Ive also carefully reviewed all the incoming and outgoing payments from Ms Hs account at 
the relevant time. I can see that some of the money from the fraudulently obtained funds was 
withdrawn at cash machines and a large payment was made at a sports retailer. Despite 
what Ms H has said to explain these transactions, I dont find it plausible that Ms H would 
have allowed M to have her card and PIN and not checked on the account at all. And she 
clearly had access to the account at some point over the relevant period because she 
moved some of the funds out to herself. I dont think she could have done this without 
knowing what money had come in and was therefore available to her. 
I appreciate Ms H has an explanation for what she says happened, but as I have said above, 
theres no evidence to support this and the evidence I do have indicates she would have had 
knowledge of the payments. It also strikes me as odd that if what Ms H says happened that 
she didnt disclose all of this to Starling in 2020. Because, once Starling reviewed her 
account and decided to close it in late September, it invited her to contact it if someone else 
had used her account. However, she didnt contact it for nearly two years despite saying 
shed confronted M about what had happened at the time. 
Ive thought carefully about what Ms H has said about being nave at the time. But the 
available evidence referenced above when taken together, suggests its more likely than not 
she was complicit in receiving fraudulent payments in her account and sending these on 
knowing these werent legitimate. So, Im satisfied from looking at the evidence Starling was 
reasonably justified in loading the marker. Indeed, its response to the complaint is that it 
should be maintained. It follows that I dont think its treated Ms H unfairly and so theres no 
basis for asking it to remove the marker. I appreciate Ms H might not have fully understood 
what the consequences would be in terms of potentially getting a marker and how this would 
impact her in getting banking facilities. But that doesnt mean Starling made a mistake or 
acted unfairly in applying it. 
For completeness, Im also satisfied Starling closed Ms Hs account in line with the terms 
and conditions given the account activity and level of awareness. So, I find it made no 
mistake here either. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman