DRN-1727293
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that BUPA Insurance Limited (BUPA) declined his claim and about how it 
handled the claim in general. 
What happened
Mr S was admitted to an NHS hospital on 9 April 2019 following a fall. He unfortunately 
suffered a head injury and fractured his thumb and finger.
He called BUPA requesting a transfer from the NHS hospital to a private hospital. BUPA 
requested a medical report from Mr S so it could decide whether to authorise the transfer. 
This was sent and on 17 April 2019, BUPA declined the transfer. 
Mr S transferred into a private hospital on 18 April 2019 to receive ongoing investigation and 
to receive treatment for injuries from the fall. He stayed there until 27 April 2019 when he 
was discharged.
BUPA didnt authorise the transfer to a private hospital because the medical report indicated 
the transfer was being done to facilitate Mr S rehabilitation  this was a general exclusion 
under the policy terms and conditions and therefore wasnt covered. 
Mr S asked BUPA to revisit the decision not to cover him and sent invoices hed paid. BUPA 
emailed the consultant asking for additional information and called the consultant but 
couldnt reach him so left a voicemail. 
Unhappy with BUPAs decision, Mr S made a formal complaint. BUPA issued its final 
response in July 2019 and said, based on the medical evidence provided, the decision was 
still to decline the claim. In its final response, it asked for further information in order to revisit 
the decision. 
There was some confusion in between about whether Mr S consultant had received the 
request for information from BUPA but eventually the information was sent in. 
Mr S consultant provided the additional information in September 2019 which confirmed that 
initial tests were done when Mr S first arrived at the hospital on 18, 19 and 20 April 2019. 
The consultant also provided notes of Mr S treatment and condition whilst he was at the 
hospital. BUPA considered the information but decided to decline the claim.
Mr S referred the complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it and didnt think 
BUPA had acted unreasonably in declining the claim. Regarding the handling of the claim, 
overall, he didnt think matters were delayed unreasonably or that Mr S received poor 
service. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for the complaint to be referred 
to an ombudsman. The complaint has therefore been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issues I need to decide is whether I think BUPA declined the claim in line with the 
policy terms and conditions and whether it handled the claim in a fair and reasonable 
manner.
I understand from the policy terms and conditions, that its a requirement to have 
authorisation from BUPA prior to transferring hospitals. I cant see that authorisation was 
provided by BUPA and despite this, Mr S transferred to the private hospital. 
Additionally, theres an exclusion in the policy which states:
Exclusion 9 Convalescence, rehabilitation and general nursing care
We do not pay for recognised facility accommodation if it is primarily used for any of 
the following purposes:
convalescence, rehabilitation, supervision or any purpose other than receiving 
eligible treatment.
Ive considered the medical report and the further information provided by the consultant. In 
summary, this says that Mr S was transferred to the private hospital on 18 April 2019, 
following a black-out which resulted in a fractured thumb and finger and a deterioration of his 
mobility. The consultant states the three main objectives of the admission were to:
1. To determine the cause for the blackout;
2. To examine the extent of his hand injury and seek specialist opinion from a hand 
orthopaedic surgeon; and 
3. To receive rehabilitative therapy to improve his mobility, balance and strength, 
restoring his function and independence.
Having also looked at the further information and subsequent communication from the 
consultant, I can see that Mr S was discharged on 27 April 2019. Initial tests were done to 
determine the cause of Mr S fall, but the notes suggest that he received rehabilitation for the 
main part of his stay. It was established that low blood pressure was the cause of the fall but 
there wasnt anything else underlying or anything to suggest further ongoing tests needed to 
be done. Mr S medication was changed but otherwise he spent the remaining part of the 
stay in hospital recovering. Had Mr S stayed in the NHS hospital, Im not persuaded anything 
different wouldve happened albeit, he may have possibly been discharged earlier. While I 
appreciate Mr S feels he had the use of the private hospital under his policy, there is a 
specific exclusion for rehabilitation and convalescence. And while I also acknowledge Mr S 
wasnt fit to return home at the time, this doesnt necessarily mean that BUPA would cover 
his stay at the private hospital. Im satisfied that BUPA hasnt unfairly declined the claim. 
As such, based on all the available evidence and in the circumstances of this case, Im not 
persuaded that BUPA has acted inappropriately in declining the claim or that it was out of 
line with the policy terms and conditions. I appreciate this has been a distressing time for 
Mr S, but he transferred to the private hospital without BUPAs authorisation and once he 
was at this hospital, the medical evidence from the consultant suggests that the main 
purpose of his stay was to facilitate rehabilitation. This isnt something that is covered under 
the policy terms and conditions and is an exclusion. 
Overall, therefore, I dont think BUPA did anything wrong in declining the claim. As such, I 
dont think it needs to do anything further. With regards to how BUPA handled the claim, I can see that the decision to decline the claim 
was communicated to Mr S without delay. There was confusion in the interim about 
requesting additional information from the consultant and whether he ever received the 
request. There was a slight delay here, but I cant put that responsibility on BUPA entirely as 
there some confusion surrounding this issue. It was cleared up and information was sent to 
BUPA to revisit the decision to decline the claim. The information was considered, and 
BUPA confirmed it wouldnt cover the claim. 
Overall, therefore, Im not persuaded the claim was mis-handled by BUPA or that Mr S was 
treated unfairly, and I dont think it needs to do anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr S complaint against BUPA Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman