DRN-4080570
The complaint
This complaint is about a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage Mrs and Mr B hold with Barclays 
Bank UK Plc.  Barclays recorded adverse data on their credit files by mistake, and theyre 
seeking compensation for the impact this has had on them. 
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 29 March 2023, I set out my initial conclusions on this 
complaint. The following is an extract from the provisional decision.
The events leading up to, and arising out of, the complaint are complex and the 
evidence in the case is detailed. Ive read everything, and its apparent that some 
parts of the evidence are less relevant to the underlying case than others. There 
are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of arguments. 
In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail than 
has been presented. No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the 
informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because 
Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of 
me. 
It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and 
not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as material, are, in my 
opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the broader 
outcome. 
Our decisions are published and its important that I dont include any information 
that might result in Mrs and Mr B being identified. Instead Ill give a summary in my 
own words (and rounding the figures where relevant) and then focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. 
The mortgage was approaching its term end (the date when it would fall due for 
repayment) so Mrs and Mr B asked for an extension to continue with the mortgage. 
Barclays turned them down saying they didnt meet its lending criteria, so they 
applied to another lender (a business Ill refer to here as IB) to re-mortgage. IB 
turned them down due to adverse data on their credit file, which on investigation 
was revealed to be a late mortgage payment marker recorded by Barclays in error 
in 2021. 
Barclays removed the incorrect marker, but didnt tell Mrs and Mr B it had done 
this, so they complained. In the meantime, Mr and Mrs B didnt make another 
application to IB (or any other lender) for fear of making things worse. Barclays 
offered them £500 compensation, which they rejected. When the case came to us, 
our investigator thought Barclays needed to do more. She recommended the 
following:
Barclays should assess an application for a new mortgage, matching the interest 
rate that IB would have provided;
if the application doesnt meet its lending criteria, forcing Mrs and Mr B to re-
mortgage elsewhere, Barclays should instead reimburse them the difference in 
interest between the rate IB would have offered and Barclays actual rate until the 
new mortgage completed;
Barclays should reimburse Mrs and Mr B the cost of taking out a subscription with 
a credit reference agency to monitor their credit files;
Barclays should pay Mrs and Mr B £750 compensation.
Barclays has agreed to settle on the above terms; Mrs and Mr B are agreeable in 
principle, but believe the compensation element should be much higher. Theyre 
thinking in terms of a minimum of £5,000 each.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ill start with some general observations. Although Ive read and considered the whole 
file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any 
specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need 
to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider 
context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor 
are we a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an 
informal alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customer to 
resolve their differences. Also BTL mortgages arent subject to the same rules of 
mortgage regulation that govern residential mortgages. BTL borrowers are still 
entitled to fair treatment, but the test of what constitutes fair treatment isnt as 
onerous as it would be for residential borrowers.
In one sense, this case is easier to determine than it might appear on first glance. 
Thats because I dont have to decide fault. Its not in dispute that Barclays reported 
the late payment marker by mistake. What I do have to decide is how Barclays should 
put things right for Mrs and Mr B. Thats not as simple as it might first appear, not 
least because since learning that the adverse marker had been removed, Mrs and 
Mr B havent made another attempt to source another mortgage to repay Barclays.
I can understand Mrs and Mr Bs reluctance; theyre concerned that the rejected 
application to IB is itself now on their credit record, and could result in further 
applications being rejected, and reported. But there are steps they can take to 
mitigate that; credit reference agencies allow consumers to add what is known as a 
notice of correction to a credit file entry to provide context that goes beyond the bald 
factual information. Mrs and Mr B might want to consider doing that in respect of any 
entry IB has placed about the rejected application. If theyre unsure how to do this, 
the credit reference agency theyve signed up to may be able to offer some guidance.
Ive made this latter point because Mrs and Mr B may need to apply for a new 
mortgage in the foreseeable future. Im pleased to see that Barclays is willing to 
consider offering a new mortgage itself, but that doesnt mean it must lend. Fair 
treatment requires that any application Mrs and Mr B make should be assessed 
against Barclays lending criteria in the same way as any other application might be. Its possible their application, if made, will be accepted, but they need to be prepared 
to apply elsewhere, and maximise their chances of an application elsewhere being 
successful, in the event the Barclays application isnt.
I agree with our investigator that if an application to Barclays isnt successful, the 
business should reimburse Mrs and Mr B for the extra interest they incur on the 
Barclays mortgage (compared with the rate IB would have been charging). But there 
have to be some date parameters to that. It cant be open ended, otherwise thered 
be no incentive to Mrs and Mr B to apply elsewhere (unless of course Barclays 
commenced recovery action for the now-expired mortgage). 
In much the same way, and for much the same reason, in the event the Barclays 
application does succeed, there has to be a limit on how long it should charge interest 
on the new mortgage at a rate matched to IB, rather than a rate of its own. To decide 
what those time parameters should be, Ive had to make certain assumptions about 
the interest rate deal IB was offering, when an IB mortgage would have started and 
how long the rate would have run for.
The information we have is that the rate IB was offering was a two-year deal at 
2.86%. The term two-year generally doesnt mean that the fixed rate will run for 
exactly two years from the date the mortgage starts. For the vast majority of interest 
rate products offered by lenders across the industry, its common practice to offer 
deals that have fixed end dates approximately two years away, but the exact duration 
of the deals will depend on the mortgage start dates. 
Here, however, I am having to work with assumptions, so for the purposes of 
assessing fair redress in this case, the assumptions I have made are that if the 
application to IB had been successful, the mortgage would have started on 
1 July 2021 and the 2.86% fixed rate would have run until 30 June 2023. Ill return to 
this when setting out details of the steps Im proposing to order Barclays to take to 
resolve this complaint.
That brings me to the investigators recommendation that Barclays reimburse 
Mrs and Mr B the cost of subscribing to a credit reference agency. The first 
observation Id make is that a paid subscription isnt always necessary. All credit 
reference agencies offer a statutory free service, with paid subscriptions for additional 
features and benefits. Its possible Mrs and Mr B could have obtained everything they 
needed through a free service, but I wont press the point given Barclays has agreed 
to pay in any event.
The investigator did ask for evidence of the costs Mrs and Mr B incurred, a request, 
rather ironically, they told us to direct to Barclays as the payments to the credit 
reference agencies are apparently paid from a Barclays current account. But its up to 
Mrs and Mr B rather than Barclays to provide the evidence that supports their case. 
From the website of the credit reference agency Mrs and Mr B are using, it can be 
seen that a paid-for service can be obtained for £6.99 per month, per individual, with 
the first 30 days being free. For the purposes of resolving the dispute with Barclays, it 
seems reasonable to me that Mrs and Mr B would want to monitor their credit files for 
a period of up to six months from June 2022, when they first found out there was a 
problem. 
That being so, I consider it fair and reasonable to direct Barclays to pay Mrs and Mr B 
a maximum of £69.90 (that is, £6.99 times five times two) to cover their credit file 
subscription costs for up to six months. However, that is subject to them providing 
substantive evidence  preferably as part of their response to this provisional decision  of the actual payments they have made to their credit reference agency. Depending 
on what information they provide, the final award may be lower.
I accept Mrs and Mr B may have opted for a more expensive service, but they havent 
evidenced that (it is up to them to do so) and Im not persuaded that would have been 
necessary in any event.
Lastly, I turn to the question of compensation. This is very much a subjective area; 
everyone reacts to and perceives things differently, especially in the moment. Ive 
considered everything Mrs and Mr B have said about why they consider £5,000 each 
is justified. Ive also given equal consideration, as I must, to the general approach this 
service takes when assessing compensation for peoples time, trouble and upset. Ive 
also thought about what steps Mrs and Mr B might have taken sooner to try and 
mitigate the effect of Barclays mistake once they knew about it. Put all of that 
together, and I have concluded that £750, in total, is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. 
I have, as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a 
material effect on the outcome. I can see from their submissions how strongly Mrs 
and Mr B feel. They see error or wrong-doing in almost everything the bank has done 
(or not done). 
Thats a natural, subjective reaction, and entirely understandable. Its also natural to 
emphasise individual statements or comments that appear to support a particular 
viewpoint, whilst at the same time paying less attention to those that support the 
opposite viewpoint. But look hard enough and its possible to find inconsistencies 
and/or anomalies in what both sides have said and done from time to time. 
Be that as it may, I have to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have to look 
at things objectively, sometimes taking a step back from the minutiae and focussing 
on the broader picture. Thats what Ive done. Having done so, I cant find in Mrs and 
Mr Bs favour to the degree they think I should, however much they would like me to.
Both parties were given a two-week time frame in which to make their further comments; that 
time has now passed, and weve heard from both. Barclays accepted the provisional 
decision; Mrs and Mr B made a number of further points, which Ill summarise below.
Barclays has already told them they dont qualify for a new mortgage;
Barclays sent holding letters between May and September 2002 but didnt tell them it 
had removed the adverse entry.
The existing Barclays mortgage expired in September 2022, so the notional IB mortgage 
would have started in October 2022
The investigator had been provided with evidence of the credit reference agency 
subscriptions.
The compensation I am proposing is tool ow and not in accordance with our own 
guidelines.
They will now have to contact credit reference agencies regarding the application 
rejected by IB as Barclays wont take responsibility. 
They would like a letter of apology from Barclays.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided, I wont be 
departing from my provisional conclusions. However, I will address Mrs and Mr Bs further 
comments.
My provisional decision made it very clear that if a fresh application were made to Barclays, 
there was no obligation on Barclays part to accept it, only an obligation to assess the 
application fairly in accordance with its lending criteria. In any event, my determination of this 
complaint provides for a situation where a follow-up application is successful and where it is 
turned down. The redress Ive set out for each scenario is backdated to take account of the 
time the relevant one will take to implement.
The notional start date Ive used for a mortgage from IB wasnt based on when the Barclays 
mortgage was due to expire; it was based on when Id typically expect a mortgage with IB to 
be ready to begin, taking account of when the application started. Ive not seen anything in 
the available evidence that would cause me to think that Mrs and Mr B would have delayed 
starting the mortgage with IB if, as seems likely, it would have been ready to start before the 
Barclays mortgage expired. Aside from that, any offer IB issued in 2021 would have expired 
within six months and if that had happened, theyd have had to apply all over again.
Ive now seen the evidence of the payments Mrs and Mr B made to a credit reference 
agency. They add up to more than the maximum of £69.90 I was proposing to award. 
However, I remain of the view that any sum over that amount would not have been 
necessary, for all the reasons I explained in the provisional decision, so I wont be awarding 
more than £69.90.
I set out in the provisional decision how I arrived at the award of £750 (in total, not each). 
Amongst the factors I took into account were the initial delay on Barclays part in telling them 
what it had done to resolve the complaint, and that Mrs and Mr B may choose to place a 
notice of correction on their credit files to provide some context to the rejected application to 
IB. Barclays didnt place the credit file entry about the unsuccessful application they made to 
IB, so cant be held responsible for altering it in any way. Ive noted what Mrs and Mr B have 
said about the compensation in their response, but overall, it doesnt persuade me that I 
should increase the award. 
Finally, on the subject of an apology letter, Im always disinclined to order a business to 
apologise as part of my award in a final decision. Thats because, if Mrs and Mr B accepted 
my final decision, Barclays would be bound by the rules of our scheme to comply with the 
decision and implement the award in full. However, an apology given under duress has no 
value. That said, Id like to think that Barclays realises it has much to apologise for, and will 
do so of its own volition, especially in the absence of a formal final response to the 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part by ordering Barclays Bank UK Plc to 
take the following steps:
Assess an application from Mrs and Mr B for a new BTL mortgage to repay the existing 
one, the term of which I understand has now expired. In the event the mortgage is 
granted, Barclays should:ocharge interest on the new mortgage at 2.86% from the start date until 
30 June 2023. The rate chargeable thereafter should be Barclays normal 
follow-on rate for mortgages of this type, unless Mrs and Mr B apply for, and are 
accepted for, a new rate deal from Barclays interest rate product range at the 
relevant time; and
oreimburse Mrs and Mr B all interest charged over and above 2.86% on the 
existing mortgage between 1 July 2021 and the closing date of the existing 
mortgage.
If the application for a new mortgage with Barclays is rejected, reimburse Mrs and Mr B 
all interest charged over and above 2.86% on the existing mortgage between 
1 July 2021 and 30 June 2023, or (if sooner) the closing date of the existing mortgage 
before 30 June 2023, if Mrs and Mr B have successfully re-mortgaged elsewhere.
Reimburse Mrs and Mr B £69.90 to cover credit reference agency subscriptions.
Pay Mrs and Mr B £750 compensation for their time, trouble and upset.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 May 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman