DRN-1823973
The complaint
Mr R complains that Sesame Limited misold him an income protection policy. He says that 
undue pressure was placed on him during the sale, and he wants his premiums refunded 
plus interest and compensation.
Within this decision any reference to Sesame Limited will include its agents and/or 
representatives. 
What happened
Mr R took out an income protection policy in 2014. It was sold during a face to face advised 
sale with Sesame, and was designed to provide Mr R with a regular benefit in the event that 
illness or accidental injury rendered him unable to work. 
In 2019, Mr R complained to Sesame and said it had mis-sold his policy. Mr R said that 
undue pressure had been placed on him to buy the policy, and the advisor had told him he 
could lose his home if he didnt purchase it. 
Sesame looked into Mr Rs complaint. But it said there was no evidence of pressure being 
applied during the sale, and no evidence of the policy being unsuitable for him. 
Unhappy with Sesames position, Mr R approached this service. An investigator looked at 
what had happened, but they didnt think there was evidence to substantiate that pressure 
had been placed on Mr R during the sale of the policy either. And they thought the policy 
appeared suitable for him too. 
Mr R disagreed with those findings and said he had taken the policy out under duress. He 
said he had home insurance in place at the time of the sale, had no known health issues, 
and had been in full time employment. He also said he had some savings and family which 
he could have relied on if hed encountered financial difficulty. So, as no agreement was 
reached the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs policy was sold through an advised sale. That means the advice Sesame gave in 
relation to the policy needed to have been suitable for his individual needs and 
circumstances at the time. 
Looking at the application form from the time of the sale, I can see that Mr R was recorded 
as having no form of income protection in place. He was said to have been eligible for 13 
weeks work of salary from his employer if he were to fall ill. And to have wanted a monthly 
benefit of £939, for which he could afford to pay £20 per month.
A letter of recommendation was provided to Mr R. That advised a deferred period of 13 
weeks had been recommended because Mr R had confirmed this is the amount of time your 
employer will continue to pay you if you are unable to work due to accident or illness.. The 
letter also advised that the policy recommended came with a monthly benefit of £939 per 
month, and would cost Mr R £18.74 a month in premiums. 
A policy illustration was also provided to Mr R. Similarly, that set out Mr R would receive a 
regular benefit of £939 a month after 13 consecutive weeks of incapacity, at a monthly cost 
of £18.74.
So I think the cost and benefit aspects of the policy Sesame recommended and sold to Mr R 
was suitable for his needs and circumstances at the time. 
I acknowledge the comments that Mr R has made in relation to taking the policy out under 
duress and appreciate he feels very strongly about this aspect of his complaint. 
Unfortunately, aside from Mr Rs testimony there is no additional evidence to substantiate his 
claim, and I am not persuaded I can fairly conclude pressure was placed on him during the 
sale. Thats not to say that it wasnt  just that theres not enough evidence to persuade me I 
can fairly reach such a conclusion. 
In relation to the home insurance Mr R has said he had in place at the time of the sale, home 
insurance and income protection are different types of policies. Generally speaking, home 
insurance is designed to cover a range of unforeseen incidents that a property might suffer. 
Income protection however, is generally designed to replace someones income in the event 
that they become incapacitated and unable to work. So Im not persuaded that having home 
insurance in place means that the policy Sesame sold Mr R was unsuitable for him. 
Mr R has also said that he was in full-time employment and would have had access to 
savings and family support if he found himself in financial difficulty. I appreciate Mr Rs 
position on that. But I am mindful that circumstances can change. And in the unfortunate 
event that Mr R had found himself incapacitated and unable to work, his employer would 
have only paid his salary for a period of 13 weeks. 
So, Mr R would have been without an income after a period of 13 weeks. And with no way of 
knowing how long any illness, and therefore any savings, would have lasted, I dont think 
that having savings means the policy was unsuitable for Mr R either. 
Similarly, offers of help from others cant always be relied on  especially in circumstances 
where theres often no way of knowing how long any incapacitation and lack of income might 
last. So again, I dont think that having access to support from others means the policy was 
unsuitable for Mr Rs needs and circumstances at the time. 
I do appreciate that Mr R is very unhappy about the sale of his income protection policy. But 
for the reasons given above I am not persuaded that Sesame mis-sold it, and I will not be 
directing it to do anything. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman