DRN-3166101
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs Ts complaint is about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of a claim made 
under their home insurance policy.
All references to AXA include its appointed agents.
What happened
Mr C and Mrs T had an escape of water claim which was dealt with by AXA. They were 
unhappy with some aspects of the repair work and had previously complained to our service. 
As part of the resolution, AXA agreed to revisit the property and review the repairs to the 
front door area, vinyl, and laminate flooring.
AXA accepted that further repairs were required to the vinyl and laminate flooring and asked 
a specialist (E) to inspect the door to see if the problem was linked to previous repair works.
E provided a report which stated, damage is consistent with wear and tear. The door is 
leaking between the threshold and cill due to age and traffic into the property. Will require 
fixings & debris removed and then resealed. AXA therefore turned down the door repair and 
offered Mr C and Mrs T a cash settlement based on the costs of repairing the vinyl and 
laminate flooring.
Mr C and Mrs T didnt agree with AXAs conclusions and complained. They said the main 
issue was with the work done around the door area, and that the issue wasnt with the door 
itself. And to resolve matters they wanted all three areas of repair work dealt with by AXAs 
contractors, as they were struggling to find anyone to do the work in line with the cash 
settlement figure. Mr C and Mrs T were also unhappy that they hadnt received all the 
information they requested following a data subject access request (DSAR).
AXA responded to Mr C and Mrs T and maintained its position on the claim. It offered £100 
compensation for not previously accepting the damage to the vinyl and flooring, and £400 
compensation for not being able to provide all the information requested in the DSAR, 
making a total of £500 compensation. AXA said that Mr C and Mrs T could either obtain 
quotes for the replacement of the laminate and vinyl, or it could cash settle based upon its 
loss adjusters scope of repairs.
Mr C and Mrs T didnt accept AXAs offer and referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint be upheld. They 
concluded that it was most likely Mr C and Mrs T had a watertight and sufficiently sealed 
front door before they claimed in 2016, but that the problems raised with the repairs since 
2017 suggested they werent effective or lasting. And they werent persuaded that any 
additional wear and tear that had occurred during the delay was sufficient to show that the 
initial repairs were of a good enough standard.
Our investigator therefore recommended AXA appoint contractors to deal with the repairs, in 
line with the original repair contract it entered. And our investigator considered AXAs offer of 
£500 compensation was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr C and Mrs T accepted our investigators findings. AXA disagreed. It said there wasnt any 
evidence to show the door hadnt been repaired properly, so it was reasonable for it to rely 
on the policy exclusion for wear and tear. It said the issues with the floor were unconnected 
to the door, so it was reasonable for it to cash settle the claim as it wouldnt be able to 
achieve an effective and lasting repair until the issues with the door were resolved.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
AXAs liability for the laminate flooring, vinyl, and the compensation it paid arent in dispute 
following its final response. So, the remaining issues I need to consider are AXAs decision 
to turn down the repairs to the door, and its decision to cash settle for the remaining works.
Ive carefully considered AXAs point about the issues with the door being unconnected to 
the floor damage, in line with the findings of Es report. And had the door remained 
watertight for a period of time after the repairs in 2017, I may have been more persuaded by 
the wear and tear argument here. But I cannot ignore the fact that Mr C and Mrs T raised 
concerns about the door soon after the repairs happened. (although I do acknowledge the 
repairs were to a different part of the door and door bar).
Unfortunately, Es report doesnt comment on these previous repairs and is fairly brief. So, 
its difficult to say if the current damage is definitely linked to any previous repair work. AXA 
says that if this was the case then its contractors wouldve commented on it. But I dont 
agree that a lack of comment explicitly rules this out. So, in the absence of firm evidence 
either way, I need to decide this instead on the balance of probabilities.
Ultimately, Mr C and Mrs T had a watertight door prior to the initial claim, and Ive seen 
nothing to refute this. AXA completed the door repair in 2017. Mr C and Mrs T then raised 
concerns with the repairs soon after, and I dont think this length of time was sufficient for 
any additional wear and tear to manifest into being the predominant reason for the door 
failing.
So, on balance, Im more persuaded that the repairs to the door area in 2017 werent 
effective or lasting, and so I will require AXA to deal with all of the damage in order to 
resolve the complaint.
AXA has acknowledged it entered into a contract of repair with Mr C and Mrs T, and good 
industry practice suggests that this is usually followed up until the repairs are completed to 
the required standard. So, because I find the door does fall under AXAs responsibility in the 
circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied it can proceed to carry out repairs to all three 
areas to ensure they are all lasting and effective. 
Given that these repairs are predominantly linked to previous repairs AXA carried out, I dont 
find it reasonable for a cash settlement to be enforced in this case.Its not clear if Mr C and Mrs T have repaid the cash settlement AXA made for the laminate 
floor and vinyl. But it follows that this should be repaid prior to the commencement of the 
repairs.
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr C and Mrs T, AXA Insurance UK Plc must:
- Arrange for a suitable contractor to repair the laminate flooring, vinyl, and front door 
upon return of the cash settlement it paid to Mr C and Mrs T.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. AXA Insurance UK Plc must put things right 
by doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman