DRN-3233565
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as O has complained that Euler Hermes SA/NV unfairly turned down
its claim and then cancelled its trade credit insurance policy.
Mr O, a director of O, has complained on Os behalf.
What happened
O said it was sold trade credit insurance and invoice financing as a package. The policy was 
put in place to cover goods dispatched or services provided after 1 October 2020. 
 
Euler Hermes said the £20,000 premium for the policy was split equally over 10 months. 
However, they agreed to push back the payment dates by one month soon after the policy 
was taken out as O advised it had an issue with cash flow. 
 
O made a claim on its policy in November 2020. This is the subject of a separate complaint, 
so I wont mention it again in this decision. 
 
O made a second claim on its policy in February 2021. O said that it had shipped goods 
worth £201,586 to a company Ill refer to as C but had not received payment. 
 
While Euler Hermes was looking into the claim, O made a request to add an assignee, who 
Ill refer to as M, to the policy. O wanted to use money from M to pay the premium for the 
policy. Euler Hermes said they refused this request as there was an outstanding premium on 
the policy. 
 
In March 2021, Euler Hermes cancelled Os policy as there was an outstanding balance of 
over £8,000 which hadnt been paid. Euler Hermes said this meant they no longer had any 
liability under the policy and so wouldnt pay Os claim. 
 
Euler Hermes said that, even if the policy hadnt been cancelled, the claim wouldnt 
have been paid due to a number of inconsistencies in the information O had provided. Euler 
Hermes said, for example, that the invoices showed that O had dispatched the goods to C 
before there was a Permitted Limit in place; and the invoice submitted to the debtor included 
credit insurance fees which arent something that are insured under Os policy. 
 
O brought its complaint to our service. It was unhappy that the claim had been declined, the 
policy cancelled, and that Euler Hermes hadnt allowed M to be added to the policy. O said 
that the goods had initially been dispatched to a different company but, as they hadnt been 
able to get an agreement to trade with this company, Euler Hermes had agreed to the 
goods being diverted to C instead. O said that, under its invoice financing arrangement, it 
had agreed with Euler Hermes for it to receive 90% of the invoice upon receipt of the Bill of 
Lading. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 7 December 2021. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision I am only commenting on Euler Hermes decisions to turn down Os second
claim, raised in February 2021, and to cancel the policy. O has also made reference to
invoice financing however, that is not part of the insurance policy and therefore I cant
comment on it further in this decision.
Cancelling the policy
The terms and conditions (5.3) of the policy say:
You must pay the Advance Deposit Premiums specified in the Schedule
together with any additional premium payable in accordance with Condition 5.4,
within 14 days of the due dates specified.
Your compliance with Condition 5.3 is a condition precedent to our liability to you
under the Policy for any benefits under the Policy including but not limited to the
issuing by us of Approved Limits and the payment of any claims submitted or to
be submitted as at the date of breach which we have not already paid. In
addition, if you breach Condition 5.3, we may immediately terminate your Policy.
On such termination, whatever the Period of Cover, we will have no liability for
any claim submitted which we have not already paid or any claim to be
submitted. In any event, you must pay us any amount due in accordance with
Condition 23 together with any Statutory Interest and any costs we may incur.
O said it paid Euler Hermes £1 in October 2020 and would have paid the subsequent
premium when it received the money from the first claim or invoice financing. O also said it
paid Euler Hermes for intelligence and monitoring software. I cant comment on the invoice
financing element of this complaint and any payments for software are separate to the cost
of the insurance policy. I have also issued a separate provisional decision where I explained
why I dont think Euler Hermes needed to pay Os first claim.
I understand that O didnt have money to pay the premium after losing money through the
circumstances which led to the first claim. However, as O hadnt paid any of the monthly
premiums, I dont think its complied with the condition precedent above. As condition 5.3
(above) allows Euler Hermes to cancel the policy if O hasnt paid its premium, I think Euler
Hermes acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms of the policy when cancelling it.
Declining the claim
Condition 5.3 set out above, also gives Euler Hermes the right, on terminating the policy, to
decline any claims that O has submitted. As O didnt pay any of the monthly premiums for
the policy, I dont think its complied with the condition and therefore, I dont think I can fairly
require Euler Hermes to pay Os claim.
I dont intend to make a finding on Euler Hermes other reasons for declining the claim as I
dont think they make a difference to the outcome of this complaint, given that in this
particular case Im satisfied that Euler Hermes were entitled to cancel the policy and
therefore, have no liability for claims not already paid.Refusal to add M as an assignee
I understand O wanted to add M to the policy as an assignee. However, as the policy hadnt
been paid for I think it was fair and reasonable for Euler Hermes to say that they wouldnt
allow any changes to be made to the policy.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome O was hoping for, given the significant value of the claim
but, having considered the matter very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Euler 
Hermes to do anything differently.
Euler Hermes didnt respond to my provisional decision by the required date and O didnt 
accept it. O said it had purchased invoice financing as a package with the trade credit 
insurance and if Euler Hermes had paid this as agreed, it would have been able to pay the 
outstanding premium for the policy. O also thought it was unfair that Euler Hermes had 
refused to add M as an assignee. 
As set out above, Im unable to consider any complaint about invoice financing as part of this 
decision.  
 
I asked Euler Hermes for more information about why they wouldnt allow M to be added to 
the policy. They said that, by the time of the request, O had already missed a number of 
payments. They also said they were aware that the second claim would be declined even if 
the policy wasnt cancelled for non-payment. This was because, as well as the 
inconsistencies, they had received information indicating that C had disputed being a 
customer of O, and therefore the lack of payment by C would be considered a dispute  
which isnt covered under the policy.  
 
On 4 February 2022, I let both parties know that, while Euler Hermes had no longer 
persuaded me that it was fair and reasonable not to add M as an assignee because O hadnt 
paid the premium, I wasnt going to interfere with their decision. I said this because, having 
considered the further information, I was satisfied that the second claim would have been 
fairly declined as it would have been considered a dispute under the policy.
  
In response, O said that Euler Hermes were at fault as they had provided a credit limit for C 
without carrying out due diligence. For example, it said Euler Hermes should have asked to 
see the letter of credit before agreeing to a credit limit as this would have enabled them to 
check things such as Cs bank account details to ensure they were genuine.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional findings and 
those set out in my email to O and Euler Hermes dated 4 February 2022. 
 
The terms and conditions of Os policy exclude cover for disputes. Dispute is defined as: 
 
any unresolved, genuine and documented disagreement between you and the 
Insured Buyer relating to any obligations owed by either you or the Insured Buyer 
under the Contract that results in refusal by the Insured Buyer to pay you any 
debt. 
 
I can see from information sent to Euler Hermes that C disputes trading with O and says it 
doesnt owe the debt. I think this would reasonably be considered a dispute and so would be excluded by the policy. This means that, even if Euler Hermes hadnt cancelled Os policy, 
Euler Hermes would have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions 
of the policy by declining Os claim.  
 
I recognise that O thinks Euler Hermes should have carried out greater due diligence to 
ensure that O was trading with a legitimate company. However, Euler Hermes was 
presented with the details of a legitimate company and it underwrote the risk on the basis of 
offering a credit limit for that company. I dont think I can hold Euler Hermes responsible if O 
then provided the goods to a different company. 
 
I appreciate that this isnt the outcome O was hoping for considering the significant amount 
of money involved but, having considered the matter very carefully, I dont uphold this 
complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, in my provisional decision and in my email of 4 February 
2022, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman