DRN-2222483
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund multiple online banking 
transfers and three transactions made from her account, that Mrs B says she didnt 
authorise.  
Mrs B says the disputed transactions happened after someone had fraudulently carried out 
multiple direct debit indemnity claims to several companies which resulted in Mrs Bs 
Barclays account being credited with several thousand pounds. 
What happened
In September 2019, Mrs B received several letters from Barclays about direct debit 
indemnity claims which Mrs B says she didnt make.
Following this, in September 2019 Mrs Bs account was credited with several direct debit 
refunds and Mrs B says there were then transfers out of her account that she didnt make.
Our investigator, in their opinion letter to both parties, set out a timeline of events. And Ive 
done the same here. Ive listed the relevant incoming credits from the direct debit refunds 
and the disputed outgoing transfers. Ive also listed other activities that happened that I 
consider are of importance in determining what happened.
Date Time Device Access 
methodActivity Amount Disputed
06/09/2019 23:02pm Mobile Pass 
codeTransfer to new payee 
(P)£0.10 Yes
06/09/2019 23:24pm Mobile Touch ID Transfer to P £500 Yes
09/09/2019 N/A N/A N/A direct debit refunds 
credited to the account£5,296 Yes
09/09/2019 15:25pm Mobile Touch ID Transfer to P £4,000 Yes
09/09/2019 17:08pm Mobile Touch ID Mrs Bs transfers amount 
to her other account 
(referred to as Bank A)£630 No
09/09/2019 23:50pm Mobile Touch ID Transfer to new payee 
(NB)£0.10 Yes
09/09/2019 23:55pm Mobile Pass 
codeTransfer to new payee 
(ZA)£0.10 Yes
Date Time Device Access 
methodActivity Amount Disputed
10/09/2019 N/A N/A N/A direct debit refunds 
credited to the account£3,077.98 Yes
10/09/2019 14:40pm Mobile Touch ID Transfer to new payee 
(KB)£0.10 Yes
10/09/2019 18:17pm Mobile Touch ID Transfer to ZA £2,200 Yes
10/09/2019 18:36pm Mobile Touch ID Mrs Bs transfers amount 
to her other account 
(Bank A)£230 No
10/09/2019 18:40pm Mobile Touch ID Transfer to ZA £1,100 Yes
10/09/2019 18:44pm Mobile Touch ID Mrs Bs transfers amount 
to her other account 
(Bank A)£130 No
11/09/2019 N/A N/A N/A direct debit refunds 
credited to the account£1,769.05 Yes
11/09/2019 10:52am Mobile Pass 
codeTransfer to ZA £1,000 Yes
11/09/2019 10:52am Mobile Pass 
codeMrs Bs transfers amount 
to her other account 
(Bank A)£180 No
11/09/2019 14:09pm Mobile Touch ID Mrs Bs transfers amount 
to her other account 
(Bank A)£55 No
*Between 12/09/2019 and 16/09/2019 Mrs B makes five low value transfers to her other bank 
account (Bank A)
19/09/2019 N/A N/A N/A direct debit refunds 
credited to the account£30.47 Yes
*On 19/09/2019 Credit checks on Mrs B were performed by two other finance companies 
20/09/2019 N/A Card N/A Payment to V***store 
Switzerland£0.99 Yes
20/09/2019 N/A Card N/A Payment to V**store
Switzerland£1.95 Yes
20/09/2019 N/A Card N/A Payment to V**store
Switzerland£3.95 Yes
*On 23/09/2019 a credit check on Mrs B was performed by another Bank.
 Between 25/09/2019 and 30/09/2019 Mrs B makes several transfers to her other bank account 
(Bank A)
01/10/2019 N/A N/A N/A Direct debit payments re-
debited from Mrs Bs 
account£1,697.07 Yes
01/10/2019 N/A N/A N/A Direct debit payment re-
debited from Mrs Bs 
Everyday saver account£3,310 Yes
02/10/2019 N/A N/A N/A Direct debit payments re-
debited from Mrs Bs 
account£3,811.96 Yes
24/10/2019 N/A N/A N/A Barclays write to Mrs B to 
say her account is closedN/A N/A
11/11/2019 N/A N/A N/A Barclays write to Mrs B 
informing her the 
outstanding balance that 
is owed is £7,172.33N/A N/AMrs B says she didnt authorise any direct debit indemnity requests. And Mrs B says she 
didnt authorise or consent to the transfers made from her account.
Mrs B says her phone and her bank card have remained in her possession. For mobile 
banking, Mrs B says she doesnt use the fingerprint as a security measure and uses either a 
password or Face ID. Mrs B doesnt know or understand how the activity has happened and 
has questioned whether someone from Barclays had carried out the direct debit indemnity 
requests and then the transfers, fraudulently as an inside job; or whether her phone had 
been hacked.
Barclays, after the complaint had been brought to our service, investigated the matter. 
Barclays say the transfers were completed through Barclays Mobile banking and made 
through Mrs Bs registered mobile device associated to the mobile banking. Barclays says 
the mobile banking was accessed on each occasion through either a pass code being 
entered or through Touch ID which Barclays says is either fingerprint recognition or Face 
ID. 
Barclays said as Mrs B had her mobile device within her possession, and the mobile banking 
was accessed through Touch ID or pass code, it shows that Mrs B made the transfers and 
says that it considers this also shows Mrs B was also aware of the direct debit refunds that 
credited her account as the transfers were made shortly after the direct debit refunds 
credited her account. Barclays says there was no other way for anyone other than Mrs B to 
have authorised the activity she is disputing. Because of this Barclays said Mrs B is liable for 
the transfers made.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. Broadly summarised 
they were persuaded that the evidence showed that it was more likely than not that Mrs B 
authorised the disputed activity.
Mrs B responded disagreeing with the investigators opinion. Mrs B also provided additional 
information around phone hacking and strongly remained of the opinion that she hadnt 
carried out the disputed activity. 
As the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Barclays and Mrs B have provided this service with detailed submissions which I have 
carefully considered. And having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the 
same overall conclusions as the investigator reached, and for much the same reasons. Ill 
explain why.
To be clear, this decision relates only to the disputed activity on Mrs Bs Barclays account. 
When considering whats fair and reasonable I am required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations; the regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where 
appropriate what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.The relevant regulations in place at the time are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSR 2017).
PSR 2017 says a payment transaction is regarded as authorised if the payer has given 
consent to the execution of the payment transaction. And if a payment service user 
(customer) denied having authorised an executed payment  the payment service provider 
(in this case Barclays) has to prove the payment transaction was authenticated.  
If it is deemed that a payment transaction hasnt been consented to, it isnt authorised. PSR 
2017 goes on to say a payment service provider is required to refund the amount of an 
unauthorised transaction to the payer.
Mrs B says she didnt carry out the direct debit indemnity requests and didnt consent to or 
authorise the transfers and is seeking a refund of the transfers made from her account.
Barclays say it considers the evidence suggests the disputed transfers were made by Mrs B, 
and Mrs B was also aware of the direct debit refunds that were credited to her account as 
the transfers Mrs B is disputing happened shortly after the refunds were credited to her 
account. Because of this Barclays consider Mrs B is therefore liable for the amounts 
transferred from her account, which has now been closed, with an outstanding balance 
owing. 
So, in this case, I need to think about whether the evidence I have suggests the disputed 
activity was more likely than not carried out by Mrs B or carried out with her knowledge and 
consent. 
The disputed transfers  were they authenticated?
Barclays has provided records to show what mobile device Mrs B had registered in 
July 2019. The same mobile device was used in the period before, during and after the 
disputed transfers. Barclays has also provided records showing the dates and times Mrs B 
logged into her mobile banking and also how access was gained  so either through the 
pass code or through Touch ID (which incorporates Face ID). Barclays also has a record of 
all the transactions and transfers on Mrs Bs account.
Ive looked at the technical evidence provided by Barclays. The disputed transfers were all 
made through mobile banking and each time this was accessed through Mrs Bs registered 
mobile device. The records also show that each time mobile banking was accessed for a 
transfer to be made, Mrs Bs correct security details were entered to gain access to the 
online banking. And this was either through the pass code or Touch ID (so fingerprint or 
Face ID). 
So Im satisfied from Barclays technical evidence that Mrs Bs registered mobile device was 
used when the disputed transfers were made, and that the transfers were authenticated as 
either Mrs Bs correct security details were entered, or the Touch ID method was used to 
access the online mobile banking and make the transfers. 
For the three disputed transactions made on 20 September 2019 (for £0.99, £1.95 and 
£3.95), Mrs B says she didnt recognise them as they showed on her statement as being 
made in Switzerland and she hadnt been abroad. I can see why Mrs B may think this, but 
this is simply the online merchant or retailers billing address location. It doesnt mean that 
her card was used in a store in Switzerland as Mrs B thinks. And as Mrs Bs card details 
were entered for these transactions, Im also satisfied that they were authenticated.This means I now need to determine whether I think its more likely than not that Mrs B or 
someone with her knowledge and consent carried out the disputed activity, or whether I think 
it was carried out without her knowledge and consent. 
In order to do this, Ive looked at whether an unknown or known party to Mrs B could have 
carried out the disputed activity without Mrs Bs consent.
Could an unknown party have carried out the disputed activity without Mrs Bs consent?
In short, Im not persuaded the disputed activity was carried out by an unknown party. Ill 
explain why.
The disputed transfers were all conducted through mobile banking on Mrs Bs registered 
mobile device. 
Mrs Bs mobile device remained in her possession throughout the period in question. And 
Mrs B says no-one knew her banking security details and she hadnt shared them with 
anyone. Given this, it is unlikely that an unknown third party gained access to Mrs Bs mobile 
phone on multiple occasions, made the disputed transfers and then returned the phone each 
time. 
Ive also given consideration that if an unknown party had obtained Mrs Bs mobile device on 
the various times the disputed transfers took place, they would also have to have obtained 
Mrs Bs security details (on those occasions the pass code was used) or used the Touch ID 
method to access the mobile banking. When Touch ID was used to gain access to the 
mobile banking as Mrs B says she didnt use her fingerprint as a security measure  and 
used Face ID instead  then this would mean the unknown party would have to have the 
phone and use Mrs Bs facial recognition for the times the mobile banking was accessed 
through Touch ID. I dont find this plausible as it would mean Mrs B was present at the time 
the unknown party had her mobile and was carrying our transfers while she was unaware. 
Im also mindful that an unknown party would have to have known when the direct debit 
refunds were to be credited into the account as the disputed transfers were all made shortly 
after each credit came into Mrs Bs account. 
Also if an unknown third party had managed to access Mrs Bs phone and knew the amount 
that had been credited to the account, it is safe to assume that they would have maximised 
what they could take out of the account. So for example  when Mrs Bs account was 
credited with £5,296, £4,000 was transferred out shortly after. If an unknown party was 
carrying out the disputed activity it seems to me that they would have attempted to transfer 
out as much as they could, or at the very least the £5,296 that had been credited.
In relation to the three disputed payments made by card, I also find it unlikely that an 
unknown party, if they had access to Mrs Bs card, would only make three payments totalling 
under £10. Typically if an unknown fraudster gained access to the card, they would seek to 
maximise the usage. However I am mindful that Mrs B only flagged these transactions as 
suspicious because she initially thought they had been carried out in Switzerland. 
Overall, I havent seen enough to suggest an unknown party carried out the disputed activity.Could a known party have carried out the disputed activity without Mrs Bs consent?
For much the same reasons Ive set out above, I dont find it likely that a known party 
obtained Mrs Bs mobile device on multiple occasions and made the disputed transfers 
without her consent. Again the mobile device would have to be obtained and returned on 
multiple occasions all without Mrs B realising. And the known party would have had to have 
obtained Mrs B pass code at some point or used the Touch ID on the other occasions - 
again meaning Mrs B was present. But Mrs B has said that her phone remained in her 
possession throughout and no-one knew her security details or she hadnt shared them with 
anyone.
I am also mindful that there were transfers that Mrs B isnt disputing that happened in very 
close proximity to the transfers she is disputing. 
Having looked at the activity on the account, so the times the online banking was accessed 
(through Mrs Bs registered mobile device), the method of entry to gain access to mobile 
banking alongside the disputed transfers that arent being disputed, I think it is more likely 
than not that the disputed activity was carried out by Mrs B or carried out by someone with 
her knowledge and consent. Ill explain why.
With the transfers made to payee P on 6 and 9 September 2019, for £500 and £4,000 
Mrs Bs mobile banking was accessed through Touch ID  meaning either fingerprint or Face 
ID. So Mrs B had to physically be present for her mobile banking to be accessed.
On the 10 September 2019, four transfers are made in a 30-minute timeframe. Again, the 
mobile banking is accessed through Mrs Bs mobile and access was through Touch ID. So 
again Mrs B had to be physically present with her mobile device. There was the disputed 
transfer to ZA for £2,200 at 18:17pm but a transfer at 18:36pm that Mrs B doesnt dispute 
as it was a transfer of £230 to her other bank account (held with Bank A). Then four minutes 
later at 18:40pm another disputed transfer to ZA for £1,100 and then four minutes after that 
at 18:44pm another transfer to her other bank account for £130.
Given Mrs B had to be physically present alongside the mobile device, I fail to see any other 
plausible or reasonable explanation that it was someone other than Mrs B.
Finally on the 11 September 2019 at 10:52am Mrs Bs mobile banking was accessed 
through pass code. There was a transfer to ZA for £1,000 and less than a minute later, 
Mrs B made a transfer to her other bank account for £180. These two transfers happened 
within the same session. There wasnt a separate log in after the first transfer. So this 
suggests Mrs B carried out both transfers.
Taking into consideration the above, I find that I agree with our investigator  the disputed 
activity was likely carried out by Mrs B or was carried out by someone with her knowledge 
and consent given the occasions Mrs B had to be physically present for the transfers to take 
place.
Because of this, and because each of the transfers out of Mrs Bs account occurred shortly 
after a credit of direct debit indemnity refunds had come into the account leads me to 
conclude that Mrs B was aware of and had knowledge of the direct debit indemnity requests 
 despite saying she didnt authorise or carry out the direct debit indemnity requests. 
Mrs B has provided articles around phone hacking and has said in response to the 
investigator that it is likely her phone had been hacked or that a member of Barclays staff 
had carried out the activity as part of an inside job. I disagree.The evidence as set out above leads me to conclude that Mrs Bs registered mobile device 
was used, with the Barclays genuine mobile banking application being accessed, and on the 
majority of occasions through Touch ID  meaning Mrs B had to be physically present on 
each occasion. I havent seen anything to suggest the scenarios Mrs B has referred to is 
more likely what happened.
Mrs B had some concerns over the amounts that were re-debited from her account. This 
arose from the direct debit guarantee indemnity claims. With the direct debit guarantee the 
purpose of the guarantee is to protect those customers who've allowed a third-party 
permission to take payments directly from their account. If a payment error's made - either 
by the bank/building society or by the business collecting payment (the originator), then they 
should be able to get an immediate refund from the bank. In turn, the bank will get repaid by 
the originator, under the direct debit indemnity. 
In Mrs Bs case it appears from the information Mrs Bs provided that the originator(s) 
challenged the indemnity claim and provided Barclays with information that the direct 
debit(s) had been set up correctly and confirmation of the direct debit being set up had been 
sent. This led to Barclays refunding some of the money back to the originators  where the 
challenge(s) had been successful. This in turn led to Mrs Bs account being re-debited for 
those outstanding amounts that Barclays refunded back to the direct debit originators. So 
after the disputed transfers were made out of Mrs Bs account, which I find to have most 
likely been with Mrs Bs consent, alongside the amounts being re-debited it left Mrs Bs 
account with the outstanding balance it did.
Overall, taking everything into consideration, its hard for me to see how somebody other 
than Mrs B or someone with her knowledge and consent, carried out the disputed activity 
Mrs B is now disputing. So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask Barclays to 
reimburse her.
Finally I note there was some confusion around whether Barclays had offered £300 
compensation. Barclays has confirmed it hasnt offered Mrs B any compensation. And as I 
find Barclays has acted fairly, Im also not minded to award any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman