DRN-2539074
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain they were mis-sold a mortgage product as it wasnt made clear they 
wouldnt be able to demolish their house. They say its also unfair that Barclays declined to 
port the mortgage to another property they owned. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D took out a mortgage with Barclays in 2015. In late 2018 they contacted 
Barclays as they wanted to demolish their house and build a new one. Barclays didnt 
consent to this.
Mr and Mrs D say Barclays misled them when they took the mortgage out as it didnt tell 
them about its internal policies. First, that it doesnt allow properties on which it has security 
to be demolished. And second that it doesnt allow porting to properties already owned or to 
a property which is let out. Mr and Mrs D say Barclays refused to negotiate the early 
repayment charge. 
Mr and Mrs D say they had to re-mortgage with another lender and pay the ERC of about 
£13,000 so that they could go ahead with the demolition.
Our investigator said Barclays hadnt given mortgage advice to Mr and Mrs D, as theyd 
applied through an intermediary. She said Barclays reason for declining consent for the 
demolition  the effect on its security  was reasonable. Barclays considered Mr and Mrs Ds 
porting requests but these didnt meet its criteria. Our investigator said Barclays was entitled 
to apply the ERC when the mortgage was repaid.
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree. Mr D asked that we focus on the main issue  that Barclays has 
an undisclosed policy not to allow the demolition of the security property. He said Barclays 
documents were misleading as they didnt set out all of the conditions. He said they wouldnt 
have taken out the mortgage if theyd known.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Approval to demolish the security property
When Mr and Mrs D took out the mortgage with Barclays, they agreed to the terms set out in 
the mortgage offer and Barclays residential mortgage conditions. In particular, Mr and Mrs D 
agreed under the mortgage terms:
Not to carry out any structural alterations to your property or to change its use or to 
apply to any planning, local or other relevant authority unless you have our written 
approval.
The mortgage terms give Barclays the right to consent  or not  to structural alterations. 
This is to protect its security. If Mr and Mrs D dont repay their loan Barclays can, as a last 
resort, take possession and sell the security property to recover its money. It might not be 
able to recover its money if the property is demolished. 
Barclays said it wouldnt give consent to a mortgaged property being demolished as it forms 
part of its security against the lending. Mr D says Barclays terms are misleading as he says 
it has an undisclosed policy not to consent to demolition. I dont think thats a fair 
interpretation of what happened here. Its clear from the mortgage terms that consent is 
needed for any structural alterations, and theres no assurance this would be given. If Mr and 
Mrs D had intended to demolish their property when they took out the mortgage, they could 
have asked about whether this would be approved. 
Mr and Mrs D applied for the mortgage through an intermediary, and Barclays didnt give 
them mortgage advice. I dont think Barclays misled Mr and Mrs D, and I dont think it was 
unfair for Barclays to decline to give approval to them demolishing the security property. 
Early repayment charge
The mortgage offers says an ERC will apply if the mortgage is repaid before 2025. Mr and 
Mrs D repaid the mortgage in 2020. I think Barclays was entitled to apply the ERC. It didnt 
have to negotiate this with Mr and Mrs D: they agreed to the ERC when they took out the 
mortgage. 
The mortgage offer says if you buy another property to move to, you can transfer (port) the 
mortgage interest rate to a new mortgage for the purchased property. The mortgage offer 
says this is subject to meeting lending criteria.
Mr and Mrs D proposed porting the mortgage product to a property they already owned. I 
dont think this amounted to buying another property to move to, which the mortgage offer 
expressly refers to. They already owned the property. I dont think Mr and Mrs Ds proposal 
came within what was envisaged in the mortgage offer. 
Mr and Mrs D also suggested Barclays port the mortgage product to a property they would 
buy, and give them consent to let on completion. 
Barclays doesnt offer residential mortgages for buy to let properties  it has a buy to let 
range of mortgages for that. I dont think Barclays was unreasonable when it declined to port 
Mr and Mrs Ds residential mortgage to a buy to let property. Barclays told Mr and Mrs D that 
consent to let is a concession offered on a temporary basis, for a property theyd been living 
in and intended to return to. This wasnt what was proposed here.
I dont think Barclays made an error or treated Mr and Mrs D unfairly when it declined to port 
their mortgage in these circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs D tried to find a solution that allowed them to demolish their property without 
repaying the Barclays mortgage and paying an ERC. I understand why they wanted to do 
this, and that they were disappointed it wasnt possible. I dont think though that Barclays 
misled them or treated them unfairly. It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
require Barclays to refund the ERC, or any part of it.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman