DRN-4169679
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr T have complained about QIC Europe Ltd. They are not happy about the way 
it dealt with a claim under their home insurance policy.
For ease of reading any reference to QIC includes its agents and as the complaint has been 
advanced by Mrs S Ive referred to her throughout.
What happened
Mrs S made a claim under her home insurance policy after a fire at her house which caused 
a significant amount of damage and a great deal of pain and suffering to Mrs S and her 
family. Mrs S isnt happy about the way QIC has advanced her claim and has ongoing issues 
and concerns about how her claim is being advanced generally. 
QIC looked into her early concerns and issued its Final Response Letter (FRL) on 7 
December 2022 which is the sole focus of this complaint. QIC acknowledged that its service 
could have been better and that it delayed matters for a few weeks. It apologised and offered 
£50 by way of compensation but as Mrs S still wasnt happy she complained to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs S but didnt uphold her complaint. She pointed out 
that she was only able to look at the complaint points Mrs S had raised up until QICs FRL of 
7 December 2022 and raised a separate complaint about Mrs S additional complaints since 
that time. But in focusing just on this complaint our investigator thought QICs apology and 
offer of a small amount of compensation was fair.
As Mrs S didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and despite my natural sympathy for the difficult situation Mrs S has faced 
following the fire at her house and the significant impact the claim has had on her and her 
family, Im not upholding this complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs S, 
but Ill explain why. And I must reiterate that Mrs S main concerns and complaint is being 
dealt with separately.
Mrs S has raised other concerns that dont form part of this complaint so I wont consider 
those issues here as they will be advanced separately. And as Ive acknowledged above Mrs 
S main concerns, and response to this complaint, will be considered under the other 
complaint reference. This complaint has solely focussed on QICs actions up to its FRL of 7 
December 2022.
The whole claim and ongoing delay has clearly been very frustrating and difficult for Mrs S, 
but the focus of this complaint is solely on the early stages of the claim. Unfortunately, during 
any insurance claim there is bound to be a fair degree of inconvenience, especially a 
complicated claim like this. QIC undertook investigations into the cause of the fire and 
looked into how the claim would be advanced which is far from straightforward given the 
extent of the fire. Given this, I agree with our investigator that QIC acted fairly in advancing 
the claim and in the main it didnt unnecessarily delay matters. 
However, I agree that there was a small delay when a site visit had to be re-arranged due to 
an admin error. This clearly caused a few weeks delay. QIC have accepted this, apologised, 
and offered to pay £50 compensation for the poor service provided and delay. And I think 
QICs attempt to put things right here seems fair.
Finally, Mrs S obtained her own surveyors report for QICs consideration which it reviewed, 
but it felt the costs supplied were unsubstantiated and so didnt accept the costs outlined. 
However, QIC agreed to review the scope of works as part of the ongoing claim which 
seems fair at that point in time. 
Given all of this, I think QIC has responded reasonably in responding to the complaints that 
were dealt with in its FRL of 7 December 2022. And, in the main, Mrs S remaining concerns, 
and the points she made in response to our investigator, are in relation to the subsequent 
complaint she has made which is being dealt with separately. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman