DRN-4435896
The complaint
Mr C complains that AXIS Specialty Europe SE declined his travel insurance claim and 
about its service. My references to AXIS include its agents.
What happened
Mr C has annual travel insurance through his employer. AXIS is the insurer. 
Mr Cs return flight from abroad to the UK was scheduled to depart on 13 March 2023 at 
14.45 but the airline cancelled the flight due to adverse weather. Mr C was rebooked to a 
flight on 14 March 2023 at 11.40. He claimed for the cost of his hotel for the night of 
13 March and the taxis between the hotel and airport.
AXIS said the claim wasnt covered under the policy terms because:
There was no cover for flight cancellation due to adverse weather under the 
cancellation section of the policy, and
The travel delay section of the policy didnt apply as the policy required that the flight 
was delayed at the point of departure for more than eight hours. The airlines 
cancellation email to Mr C showed he was given notice of the cancellation on 
13 March at 16:27. So the flight wasnt delayed for eight hours as after 16:27 the 
flight no longer existed.
Mr C complained to us that AXIS decision was unfair as the cancellation of his flight was a 
type of delay. He said hed been stressed and frustrated with the way AXIS had been so 
pedantic in how it assessed his claim.
Our investigator recommended it would be reasonable for AXIS to settle Mr Cs claim under 
the travel delay section of the policy which gave a fixed benefit, plus interest. And AXIS 
should pay Mr C £100 compensation for his distress and inconvenience caused by how it 
dealt with his claim.
AXIS disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. It said airlines have a duty to provide 
passengers with services and compensation if there was a severe disruption to a flight, 
which was supported by EU 261 regulation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
AXIS correctly said the cancellation section of the policy doesnt cover costs due to a flight 
cancellation caused by adverse weather. 
AXIS also said as the flight had been cancelled before having been delayed for eight hours 
the travel delay section didnt apply to Mr Cs circumstances. We generally dont think thats 
a fair and reasonable approach for an insurer to take if the circumstances of the claim are 
otherwise covered under the policy. Thats because the impact on the consumer is the same 
whether the flight was delayed or cancelled.
Section 9 of the policy,  Travel Delay says:
Delay at Point of Departure
If an Insured Person is delayed whilst on a Trip at any Point of Departure on the 
outward or homeward bound journey by at least 8 continuous hours from the time 
shown in the Trips official travel itinerary directly as a result of the delayed departure 
of an aircraftin which the Insured Person has arranged to travel whilst on that Trip 
due toadverse weather conditionsthe Insurer will pay:
GBP50 for the first full 8 continuous hours of delay at a Point of Departure and 
GBP25 for each and every full following period(s) of 5 continuous hours of delay at 
the same Point of Departure, up to the amount shown under Section 9 Sub-Section A 
in the Schedule of Benefits.
In the event of more than one delay at different Points of Departure on the same 
journey, each 8 continuous hours and the full following 5 continuous hourly period(s) 
shall apply at each Point of Departure but the maximum amount payable any one 
Trip under this subsection shall not exceed the amount shown under Section 9 Sub-
Section A in the Schedule of Benefits
THE FOLLOWING SPECIFIC DEFINITION APPLIES TO SECTION 9 (IN ADDITION 
TO GENERAL DEFINITIONS)
Point of Departure
Means an airport...
Section 9 Sub-Section A in the Schedule of Benefits says the maximum benefit for the travel 
delay is £500, with no excess applying.
The travel delay section of the policy doesnt cover the additional hotel costs and taxi fare 
Mr C incurred. Instead the travel delay section gives a fixed benefit for the length of time he 
was delayed from his point of departure for his home bound flight. 
As Mr C was notified of the flight cancellation after the flight was due to depart he was at the 
flight departure point for his homeward bound flight which was scheduled to depart at 14.45. 
That flight was delayed and then cancelled at 16.27 due to adverse weather, which is an 
insured reason under the travel delay section. Mr C was able to fly from the departure point 
the next day at 11.40. So the effect of the cancelled flight was that Mr C was delayed at his 
original point of departure for 20 hours and 55 minutes.
Under the policy terms the travel delay benefit pays £50 for the first full 8 continuous hours 
and £25 for each and every full following period of 5 continuous hours of delay at the same 
point of departure, up to the policy limit of £500.
Mr Cs cancelled flight was a connecting flight. As the travel delay section also says theres 
cover, as set out in the policy terms, for more than one delay at different Points of Departure 
on the same journey any delays that Mr C had in his subsequent connecting flights on the same journey also need to be taken into consideration when AXIS is calculating the total 
delay for the benefit payable.
AXIS says it shouldnt have to pay any benefit under the travel delay section of the policy as 
its the airlines responsibility to compensate Mr C. Airlines do have their own responsibilities 
to passengers where a flight has been delayed or cancelled in certain circumstances. But 
even if a consumer is due compensation from an airline we dont generally think its fair for 
an insurer to reduce any fixed benefit payment for travel delay under the travel insurance 
policy. The fixed benefit isnt intended to indemnify the consumer for their financial loss, it 
just pays out a set amount per time period for the delay. So I dont think AXIS can 
reasonably decline to pay the travel delay benefit to Mr C even if he has received 
compensation from the airline.
Its clear from the evidence Ive seen that Mr C was very frustrated and stressed by how 
AXIS insisted his flight cancellation wasnt a delay. I think the £100 compensation our 
investigator recommended is a reasonable amount to acknowledge Mr Cs distress and 
inconvenience.
Putting things right
AXIS should settle the claim Mr C has under the travel delay section of the policy, in line with 
the policy terms, plus interest as detailed below. AXIS should also pay Mr C 
£100 compensation to acknowledge his distress and inconvenience due to how it dealt with 
his claim.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require AXIS Specialty Europe SE to:
Settle the claim Mr C has under the travel delay section of the policy in line with the 
policy terms and limits, plus interest at 8% simple a year from the date of claim to the 
date of settlement, and
Pay Mr C £100 compensation to acknowledge his distress and inconvenience due to 
how it dealt with his claim.
*If AXIS Specialty Europe SE considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr C a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman