DRN-4305999
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as C, is unhappy that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie
SCA, trading as Zettle by PayPal, restricted its access to funds held in its account.
Cs complaint is brought to this service by its director, whom Ill refer to as Mr M.
What happened
On 6 March 2023, C completed the first transaction on its new Zettle account. C sells cars,
and the transaction was the receipt of £7,485 in relation to the sale of a car.
On 7 March 2023, Zettle messaged Mr M and explained the Cs account had been paused
as a precaution following the transaction. Zettle asked Mr M a series of questions about Cs
business, and Mr M responded to Zettles questions that same day.
The following day, 8 March 2023, Zettle messaged Mr M again and explained that Cs
account had been blocked and that the withheld £7,485 would not be allowed to leave the
account. Zettle also explained that the only the way the money could leave the account
would be for it to be refunded to the person who bought the car. But Mr M didnt feel that he
reasonably should or could refund the person who bought the car  because they had the
car that theyd paid C for. So, he raised a complaint on Cs behalf.
Zettle responded to Mr M but reiterated their position and didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly
in how theyd managed the situation. Mr M wasnt satisfied with Zettles response, so he
referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that Zettle had acted in
accordance with the account terms and didnt feel that Zettle had acted unfairly. Mr M
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 17 July 2023 as follows:
Zettle explained to Mr M that theyd acted in accordance with their terms, and specifically
with the following clause:
We reservice the right to temporarily suspend and or delay payouts to your
designated bank account and or restrict access to any funds credited to your Zettle
account where we need to conduct an investigation or resolve any pending dispute
relating to your Zettle account and or as necessary to comply with the card scheme
rules, applicable law or court order or if otherwise requested by law enforcement or
any government agency.
Ive asked Zettle to clarify exactly why this clause applies in this instance. This is because
there doesnt appear to be any ongoing investigation into C, or any pending dispute, or any
issue of compliance with the card scheme rules, law, or a court order.
Zettle responded and explained that they hadnt been able to verify Cs business activity and
that when this was the case, Zettle withhold funds for 120 days to mitigate against losses
that could occur from chargeback claims  which generally have a 120-time limit.
I can appreciate Zettles position here, to a degree. But Im not convinced that Zettles stated
position is supported by the term quoted above that Zettle sought to use to justify their
position  given that none of statements within that clause appear to apply. And I feel that
Zettle have failed to fairly explain to Mr M why they were withholding Cs funds, or that the
funds would be released to C after 120 days.
Indeed, I feel that Zettle have been unnecessarily and unfairly unclear with Mr M about this
matter, including that they incorrectly told Mr M that the funds would only be released if C
refunded the buyer. But, given that Mr M has confirmed that the buyer has the car  as
would be expected from a car sale  this seems unreasonable to me. As well as being
incorrect.
Notably, the 120 period that Zettle wanted to withhold the £7,485 for ended on 4 July 2023.
And so, I write this letter on the assumption that Zettle released the £7,485 to C on that date
and have informed Mr M that they have done so.
But Im not convinced that Zettle has acted within their terms here as they contend. And I
feel the poor standard of communication and explanation displayed by Zettle has caused C a
degree of trouble and inconvenience in not being able to understand when or how it would
receive the £7,485 from the car sale that C should fairly be compensated for.
Accordingly, my provisional decision here is that Zettle must make a payment of £300 to C
as compensation for the trouble and inconvenience its encountered here.
Additionally, if it is the case that Zettle havent released the £7,485 to C, and sent a message
or other form of communication to Mr M clearly explaining this fact to him, then Zettle must
pay a further £100 compensation to C, release the £7,485 to C immediately, and pay 8%
simple interest on the £7,485 to C from 4 July 2023 to the date that Zettle inform Mr M that
the money has been released.
Zettle responded and said that they accepted my provisional decision and that Cs account 
balance had been released on 4 July 2023. However, Mr M has provided an email sent by 
Zettle at 8:21pm on 10 July 2023 advising that Cs account balance was being released and 
would be with C within two working days. And Mr M also provided a copy of Cs bank 
account showing that the money was only received by C on 12 July 2023.
Additionally, the bank statement provided by Mr M shows that Zettle only returned £7,297.87 
to C, and not the full amount of £7,485. And Mr M has explained that Zettle have said that 
this is because theyve taken a fee for their service.
But I dont feel that Zettle have provided a fair service to C here, given that they appear to 
have withheld Cs money in a manner that isnt justified by their terms  as I explained in my 
provisional decision letter. And so, I dont feel that Zettle should fairly withhold a fee from C.
In my provisional decision letter, I explained that if Zettle hadnt released Cs money when 
they should have, that Id award a further £100 compensation to C as well as interest for any period beyond 4 July 2023 that Zettle held the money. And I feel that Zettles failure to 
release Cs money when it should have means that this clause now applies.
Accordingly, my final decision here is that Zettle must reimburse to C the £187.13 that they 
withheld, so that the full £7,485 is released to C. And Zettle must pay 8% simple interest on 
the £7,485 for 7 days, from 4 July 2023 to 11 July 2023  the effective working day that the 
money was released  and must also pay a further 8% simple interest on the £187.13 that 
they withheld from 12 July 2023 to the date they pay that amount to C.
Additionally, Zettle must also make a payment of £400 to C, comprising the £300 I initially 
stated in my provisional decision letter as well as a further £100 as per the clause in my 
provisional decision letter referred to previously.
Finally, Mr M has reiterated that he feels that he should be personally compensated for 
whats happened here. I can appreciate Mr Ms strength of feeling on this matter. But as 
explained previously, given that this complaint has been brought in the name of C  because 
C is the eligible complainant here  I can only consider how C as a limited company has 
been inconvenienced. And I cant consider any personal compensation for Mr M  because 
Mr M himself isnt a party to this complaint.
Putting things right
Zettle must reimburse to C the £187.13 that they withheld, so that the full £7,485 is released 
to C. 
Zettle must pay 8% simple interest on the £7,485 for 7 days, from 4 July 2023 to 11 July 
2023  the effective working day that the money was released. 
Zettle must also pay a further 8% on the £187.13 that they withheld from C from 12 July 
2023 to the date they pay that amount to C.
Zettle must also make a payment of £400 to C.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA, 
trading as Zettle by PayPal, on the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman