DRN-4210778
The complaint
Mr R complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) led him to think that money was available in his 
account by not accurately recording the method of payment linked to a deposit into his 
account. Mr R thought the funds had been paid in via bank transfer. In fact, a cheque had 
been paid into his account but was later returned unpaid. 
What happened
Mr R advertised an item for sale online. A buyer was found and it was agreed that they 
would pay £1,500 for the item via bank transfer. The buyer, who was in Mr Rs home at the 
time, asked for some privacy to call his bank and make the transfer. The buyer then told Mr 
R to check his mobile banking account.
Mr R says he checked his mobile banking application and saw that his account had been 
credited with the funds. He then gave the item to the buyer. However, unbeknown to Mr R at 
the time, the buyer had actually made the payment with a stolen cheque which bounced the 
next day  leaving Mr R without the item or the funds. 
The deposit into Mr Rs account didnt show as a cheque payment, it simply referenced the 
place of deposit, which appears to be a TSB branch. So, Mr R wasnt alerted to the fact that 
it was actually a cheque payment rather than a bank transfer. Mr R says TSBs mobile 
banking application had also shown that his balance had increased by the relevant amount. 
So, hed been satisfied the funds had been credited to his account. Mr R says if hed known 
this was a cheque payment, hed have waited until it cleared before handing over the item to 
the buyer. 
TSB didnt think it had done anything wrong. Its mobile application had detailed that a 
deposit had been made and the place of the deposit. It said more detailed information about 
the deposit couldve been found had Mr R logged into his online banking account. It also 
said that what had happened to Mr R wasnt covered under its Fraud Guarantee. TSB said 
that as it didnt think it had made a mistake, it wouldnt look to offer Mr R a refund. 
Mr R says he had not been informed that his mobile banking application only contained 
limited payment information or that he should check his online banking for more detail. He 
also stressed that if TSB had accurately reflected the nature of the payment, he would not 
have handed over the item and would not be at a loss now. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint because she didnt feel the bank had done 
anything substantially wrong. She said the information the bank gave Mr R about the credit 
into his account wasnt incorrect  a deposit had been made. 
Mr R disagreed with the investigators view. He said he expected the bank to be much 
clearer in the terms it used. 
As Mr R disagreed with our investigator, his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why in more detail below:
Mr R sold an item to someone who told him they had made the payment requested by him 
via bank transfer. Mr R says that when he checked his account on his mobile banking 
application, this appeared to show the funds had been credited to his available balance. 
Acting on this, Mr R handed the item over to the buyer. Mr R has told us that he did so on 
the basis that the buyer had made a bank transfer as requested. However, Im not 
persuaded that the information presented within the mobile banking application at the time 
was representative of a bank transfer. The payment was showing as a deposit payment 
made in a specific branch. 
We now know the deposit had actually been made via cheque. But Mr R didnt actually 
check the method of payment, it appears he assumed that the buyer had done what he said 
he was going to do, and I understand why. But it was important to check the payment 
method here, the deposit was showing as a branch deposit, and different methods of deposit 
take different amounts of time to become cleared and available to withdraw. 
Having said the above, I do agree that the banks use of the branch name as a deposit 
reference could be considered ambiguous. But, crucially, I dont think its misleading. I think 
it does reflect the activity that had taken place on the account  a deposit had been made in 
a particular branch. And this could mean any type of payment in, whether that was, cash or 
cheque. Having reviewed the information presented at the time, I am not persuaded that the 
information indicated the payment had been made via bank transfer. 
I do also understand why Mr B feels the bank should be more specific, and in this case, I 
agree that it wouldve been helpful. I also agree that it wouldve been helpful for the mobile 
banking application to have clearly set out that the funds had not cleared and become 
available. But I dont think the bank has done anything substantially wrong. Its mobile 
application correctly displayed that a deposit had been made and where. Mr R does accept 
that he knew a cheque would take time to clear. I think it was for him to ask how the deposit 
had been made and whether the money was available to him. 
Finally, Ive also considered whether Mr R shouldve been refunded under TSBs Fraud 
Guarantee, but I dont think he should. TSBs Fraud Guarantee is clear in that its applicable 
to authorised and unauthorised transactions from its customers TSB accounts, and as this 
complaint relates to a bounced cheque and funds which did not actually credit Mr Rs 
account, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to say that the guarantee is 
applicable to Mr Rs circumstances and recommend that Mr R be refunded as such. 
As Ive explained, I dont think TSB did anything substantially wrong, so I dont think it has to 
do anything now to put things right. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman