DRN-3749977
The complaint
Mr K and Ms K have legal expenses insurance with Aviva Insurance Limited. Theyre 
unhappy Aviva assessed and paid a contribution towards their solicitors fees without letting 
them know. They think Aviva should pay the balance the solicitors are claiming. And they 
say Aviva have failed to appoint new solicitors so their legal claim against a third party can 
progress.
Aviva appoint claims handlers to manage claims on their behalf. Where I refer to Aviva in 
this decision, I include the claims handlers Mr K and Ms K dealt with.
What happened
Mr K and Ms K are in dispute with a contractor who carried out works to a property they own. 
In April 2020 they logged a claim with Aviva who sent them a claim form to complete. They 
returned it in mid-May 2020 and on 27 May provided some additional information Aviva 
required to consider the claim under the policy.
Mr K and Ms K had appointed solicitors (who Ill call AS) to advise them in April 2020. Aviva 
agreed they could continue to act on their behalf  instead of panel solicitors. They told Mr K 
and Ms K theyd pay ASs fees from 27 May 2020 if there was a positive opinion from 
counsel that their claim against the contractor had reasonable prospects of success. 
Counsels opinion, which was supportive of their legal claim, was available in around 
October 2020. 
In December 2020 AS stopped acting for Mr K and Ms K. They said AS had resigned 
because Aviva had failed to pay their fees. They were unhappy about delays in progressing 
the legal claim against the contractor, which they felt was Avivas fault. 
The Financial Ombudsman has already considered complaints from Mr K and Ms K in 
connection with their insurance claim. 
In July 2021 an ombudsman decided Mr K and Ms Ks complaint about several issues theyd 
brought to us in September 2020. In summary he found:
There wasnt enough evidence to say Aviva had told Mr K and Ms K their LEI claim 
was covered when they first contacted the helpline for advice 
Avivas actions in trying to appoint panel solicitors who turned out to be unsuitable, 
and then agreeing Mr K and Ms K could continue to instruct their own solicitors, 
hadnt had a detrimental effect on them 
The terms and conditions of Mr K and Ms Ks LEI policy meant Aviva wouldnt be 
liable for any legal costs incurred before cover under the policy had been confirmed 
It was fair for Aviva to say theyd consider the costs AS were seeking once they had 
confirmation of what the costs were for. On the face of it a significant proportion  
over £5,000  of the costs sought wouldnt have been incurred after Aviva agreed to 
ASs appointment as the invoice was dated before Aviva had any contact with the 
solicitors 
Aviva had acted reasonably in getting Counsels opinion on prospects of success 
Aviva hadnt acted unreasonably or unavoidably delayed the claims progression
In March 2021 one of our investigators looked at Mr K and Ms Ks more recent concerns 
about Avivas delay in obtaining Counsels opinion and failure to allow Mr K and Ms K direct 
contact with Counsel. She came to the view that Aviva hadnt acted unreasonably or caused 
unreasonable delay. And she noted, amongst other things, that
Mr K and Ms K had been given Counsels opinions in December 2020 and the 
options for appointing new solicitors were explained to them then; and
Aviva were having Mr K and Ms Ks solicitors costs assessed at the time.
In September 2021 our investigator considered Mr K and Ms Ks complaint that AS had 
stopped acting for them because of delays by Aviva in progressing the complaint and paying 
their fees. She noted the ombudsman had previously decided Aviva hadnt acted 
unreasonably or caused any unavoidable delays. And she didnt think Aviva had caused AS 
to stop acting for them. She noted, as in March, that Aviva had let Mr K and Ms K know in 
December 2020 they had the option of choosing to appoint panel solicitors or new solicitors 
of their own to progress their legal claim and to contact the helpline for suggestions  but 
she wasnt aware theyd acted on that. 
Mr K and Ms Ks current complaint is that Aviva assessed and paid a contribution towards 
ASs fees without letting them know; Aviva should pay ASs fees in full; and Aviva have failed 
to appoint new solicitors so their legal claim against the contractor can progress.
Aviva responded to Mr K and Ms Ks current complaint in January 2022. They said they 
werent liable under the terms of the policy for costs incurred without their prior written 
agreement and authorisation. Theyd had the costs assessed and had paid what they were 
responsible for. And Mr K and Ms K were liable to AS for any further fees they were seeking. 
Theyd told Mr K and Ms K their options for appointing solicitors. As they hadnt heard from 
them, they werent able to progress things. Since Mr K and Ms K were unhappy with Avivas 
response, another of our investigators looked into their concerns.
Our investigator thought Aviva had acted reasonably. She said they were entitled to rely on 
the advice theyd got from a costs draftsman about the fees they were obliged to pay AS. 
And theyd told Mr K and Ms K in December 2020 and again in September 2021 what their 
options were for appointing new solicitors, but there was no evidence theyd let Aviva know 
what they wanted to do.
Mr K and Ms K didnt accept our investigators view. They said Aviva had purposely failed to 
let them know about the costs draftsman they were appointing so theyd been unable to 
dispute the costs Aviva were paying or those AS were asking them to pay. And since Aviva 
hadnt offered any panel solicitors, theyd been unable to appoint any. 
Since it hasnt been resolved, Mr K and Ms Ks complaints been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr K and Ms Ks strength of feeling about whats happened and I am sorry to 
hear of the problems theyve had with their contractor. I dont underestimate the impact 
things have had on them and their family. 
Ive summarised the issues the Financial Ombudsman has considered previously for context. I appreciate Mr K and Ms K may be unhappy with the answers weve given. But I 
cant look at anything the previous ombudsman decided. My consideration is limited to the 
issues that form their current complaint. 
Wed expect Aviva to handle Mr K and Ms Ks claim fairly and promptly in line with Financial 
Conduct Authority rules. Im satisfied Aviva treated them fairly in relation to the assessment 
of their costs liability and setting out their options for appointing solicitors to take the claim 
forward.
Under the LEI policy, Aviva agreed to pay costs and expenses incurred in pursuing Mr K and 
Ms Ks legal claim against the contractors, subject to all the policy terms, conditions and 
exclusions, provided the claim had reasonable prospects of success and was proportionate 
to pursue.
The previous ombudsman confirmed Aviva werent responsible for any costs and expenses 
which were incurred prior to their written agreement and authorisation. And weve said 
previously it was reasonable for Aviva to agree to cover costs from 27 May 2020 onwards.
But the policy doesnt cover all those costs  only those authorised by Aviva that relate to  
Mr K and Ms Ks legal claim against the contractor. And its fair Aviva should only pay those 
costs that are reasonable. 
Whilst the policy doesnt make reference to Aviva seeking an assessment of costs, its 
common for LEI insurers to want to check the costs they are paying are those they are 
responsible for. Thats not unreasonable. 
Aviva appointed suitably qualified costs assessors to carry out that work for them. From what 
Ive seen, Aviva fairly asked their costs assessors to consider costs on an appropriate basis 
- for example, including reasonable contact between their claims handlers and AS. I think it 
was reasonable for Aviva to rely on the costs assessors advice, as professionals in their 
field, about what it was fair for them to pay. Aviva made payment to AS of an agreed amount 
in mid-February 2021.
Aviva let Mr K and Ms K know on 10 December 2020 they would consider contributing 
towards ASs invoices now that they had Counsels advice and that they reserved the right to 
have costs assessed. They sent Mr K and Ms K an email on 16 December 2020, referring 
back to 10 December, in which they made clear theyd let them know as soon as possible 
the outcome of the costs assessment, what their contribution towards the costs would be 
and what costs they could cover retrospectively. Im satisfied Mr K and Ms K were aware of 
the steps Aviva were taking and had the chance to appoint their own advisers at the time. 
Aviva had let Mr K and Ms K know by March 2021, when responding to a previous 
complaint, that theyd paid AS the amount theyd agreed. If Mr K and Ms K remain unhappy 
with the outcome, or they are unhappy with the costs AS are seeking to recover from them, 
they have the option of appointing their own advisers at their own expense to help them with 
that.
Aviva also told Mr K and Ms K in December 2020 that they, Aviva, could appoint a panel firm 
or Mr K and Ms K could appoint their own solicitors to replace AS. Aviva said their helpline 
might be able to suggest some firms to them. And they said Mr K and Ms K would need to let 
them know if theyd be looking to appoint another non-panel firm or whether theyd like a 
panel firm.
I understand Mr K and Ms K contacted the legal helpline in around January 2021, but the 
helpline wasnt able to recommend a solicitor. I can see Aviva provided Mr K and Ms K with information on how to find a solicitor when they responded to a previous complaint in March 
2021. As Ive mentioned, our investigator noted in September 2021 she wasnt aware of     
Mr K and Ms K taking any steps to appoint a solicitor by then. Im not addressing that 
complaint here, as Ive said. But Aviva reminded Mr K and Ms K in September 2021 about 
what theyd said in December 2020. And Im not aware Mr K and Ms K have taken any steps 
to identify suitable solicitors since then.
I appreciate Mr K and Ms K feel Aviva ought to have taken the initiative. But, on balance, I 
think Aviva did enough to assist Mr K and Ms K. Id encourage the parties to discuss things 
now to reach agreement about which firm of solicitors should take the legal claim forward on 
Mr K and Ms Ks behalf. Id note that any appointment will be in line with the terms and 
conditions of the LEI policy and subject to the solicitors agreeing Avivas terms and 
conditions of appointment. 
I appreciate Mr K and Ms K will be disappointed with my decision. But, having considered 
everything carefully, I dont think Aviva have treated them unfairly or acted unreasonably. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold their complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman