DRN-3380777
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the National House-Building Councils (NHBCs) decision to 
decline his claim for damage to the common parts of the building, within which his flat is 
located. 
In particular he has complained that:
There are significant issues with the render and external wall insulation system to the 
main elevations of the building.
The building hasnt been constructed in line with construction drawings and to the 
manufacturers approved details, resulting in inherent defects that require extensive 
works to rectify.
The poor nature of the construction of the external wall insulation has resulted in 
water penetration to several flats within the development over a number of years.
NHBC had previously identified that the cause of water ingress was due to the 
windows, which he says is not correct.
NHBC have acknowledged there are fundamental issues with the construction of the 
external elevations, however, have declined the claim without providing substantive 
reasons, only referencing that cladding is not covered under the policy.
Mr B believes that NHBC should meet the costs of the extensive works required to ensure 
that the building is wind and watertight, estimated at approximately £555,000, under the 
terms of the Buildmark policy.
What happened
On 2 March 2022, I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was not intending to 
uphold this complaint. This is what I said: 
What happened
Mr B is an owner of a flat within one of the two buildings that are the subject of this 
complaint. Mr B is represented in his complaint by a company who I will refer to as 
R. R is also representing 25 other owners and policyholders in the two buildings, 
who have separate, but the same, complaints with our service. The buildings form 
part of a larger development, however, not all of the owners in the development have 
brought this complaint to our service. 
Mr B, and the other 25 owners, are aware that what I say here in respect of Mr Bs 
complaint will apply to the same complaints brought by the other 25 owners who are 
represented by R. 
The development was completed in 2006. In September 2014, the building was 
inspected by a surveyor engaged by the co-owners to identify the causes of damage 
to the common parts, which were allowing water ingress into the building. As the 
damage had appeared in years 3 to 10 of the warranty period, in October 2014, a 
section 3 claim was made to NHBC.
NHBC completed an investigation report in May 2015, which recorded their decision 
on whether to accept the claim regarding water ingress to windows was pending. 
The 2015 investigation report said the claim regarding defective render and cope 
sealant had been rejected as the cost of repairing the damaged patches of render 
wouldnt exceed the minimum claim value. 
Further investigations were carried out by or on behalf of NHBC between 2015 and 
2018. But, while noting a number of potential causes of the damage, they didnt lead 
to a conclusive determination of the cause of water ingress, or damage to the render. 
The owners commissioned two further reports in January and March 2020 which 
identified leakages around windows that was likely due to leaks in the seals between 
the window frames and render. The reports also said the cladding system hadnt 
been installed in accordance with the approved construction drawings. They also 
noted deterioration of the render surface, cracking to the render, and bulging of the 
render. 
After consulting with the manufacturer of the cladding system, NHBC made the 
decision to reject the entire claim, in August 2020. R challenged NHBCs claim 
decision and received their final response letter in April 2021, not upholding the 
complaint. Unhappy with NHBCs response, Mr B brought his complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs concerns and issued her view, partially upholding 
the complaint on 7 December 2021. In summary she said:
A number of the reports mentioned that the sealant around the windows and 
the way the windows had been installed may be causing the water ingress. 
However, the warranty didnt provide cover for that damage.
While the owners wanted the whole cladding system to be replaced, the 
warranty only provides cover for damaged areas of the render. So, NHBC 
should rectify the damaged render in meeting their liability under the warranty.
The warranty didnt provide cover for faulty or incorrect installation of 
components, so, any damage caused by the faulty installation of the cladding 
system wasnt covered.
Our investigator concluded that NHBC needed to settle the claim, in relation to the 
damaged render, by paying Mr B the amount that hes legally liable to contribute 
towards the cost of repair of the damaged render, or, if NHBC deems it to be 
appropriate, to repair the damaged render. 
NHBC accepted our investigators view, with the caveat that theyd need to re-visit 
the property to assess the extent of damaged render they may be liable to repair, and 
to reconsider whether the repairs would meet the common parts minimum claim 
value.
Mr B didnt accept the view. His representatives, R, made the following comments:They asked whether the ombudsman deciding this complaint would have an 
appropriate construction technology background and be suitably qualified to 
understand the intrinsic construction technology aspects that are crucial to 
arrive at a judgment on the issue.
They repeated their view that the render system installed is not fit for purpose 
and has not been since the time of construction, due to faulty installation.
They noted our investigators conclusion that there is external render present 
on the building, which all the reports (including NHBCs) mention is defective 
and is a possible cause for water ingress. R said they believe that conclusion 
differs from the NHBCs decision to decline the claim on the basis that the 
system in place is deemed a cladding system, which is excluded from policy 
cover.
They do feel the whole system is inadequate and installed incorrectly and 
completing an effective repair would require the whole external render to be 
replaced.
They say the most significant aspect of this accepted incorrect installation is 
the flush detailing around windows, which is contributing to the water ingress 
issues.
They think the incorrect installation of the cladding system should be 
considered a Defect.
Ive taken these comments into account in coming to my provisional decision on this 
complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the ombudsman in deciding this complaint
R has asked whether I am suitably qualified to understand the construction 
technology aspects of this complaint. I would like to address that question before I 
proceed to give my provisional decision on this complaint. 
Paragraph 4(1) of Schedule 17 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA) requires FOS Ltd to appoint and maintain a panel of persons appearing to 
have appropriate qualifications and experience to act as ombudsmen for the 
purposes of the scheme. In accordance with that provision in FSMA, I have been 
appointed as an ombudsman, by the Financial Ombudsman Services board of non-
executive directors on the basis that I have the relevant skills and experience to 
decide this complaint.
I think it would also be helpful if I explain my role in deciding this complaint. 
This service is an informal dispute resolution service, established under Part XVI of 
FSMA as a scheme under which certain disputes may be resolved quickly and with 
minimum formality by an independent person. In my role as the independent person 
Im responsible for resolving this dispute in accordance with the Dispute Resolution 
Rules (DISP) detailed in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook of rules and guidance (available online). In accordance with DISP 3.6.1, Im required to decide 
this complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case. And, as required by DISP 3.6.4, in considering what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, I need to take into account 
relevant laws and regulations, regulations, regulators rules guidance and standards, 
codes of practice and where relevant, good industry practice.
I also take account of all of the arguments and information provided by both parties, 
and where that evidence is incomplete, contradictory or inconsistent, Ill make my 
decision based on what I think more likely than not happened, applying the standard 
of proof of the balance of probabilities.
Id finally add that if Mr B doesnt accept my decision on his complaint, his legal rights 
will not be affected and he will be free to seek advice on pursing the resolution of his 
complaint elsewhere, for example in the commercial division of the Court of Session. 
In coming to my provisional decision on this complaint, Ive first considered whether 
the damage claimed for is covered by the Buildmark policy. 
What is the damage to the common parts?
During the period of time that Mr Bs claim has been ongoing, damage and defects 
have been identified in the following common parts:
the curtain wall comprising the cladding system on the eastern elevation of 
the block;
the window seals and surrounds; and
the render on the eastern elevation of the building.
As result of defects in the above areas, damage has also been identified in the 
following areas:
internal walls and ceilings of the building
Mr B has also complained about damage to the internal parts of his flat. Ive 
considered this complaint in a separate provisional decision issued on the same date 
as this provisional decision. So, I wont be addressing his complaint regarding 
damage to his flat in this decision about the common parts damage.
Has a defect caused the damage, and if so, has the defect occurred in an area 
covered by the Buildmark policy?
In deciding this complaint, Im largely reliant on the expert evidence that has been 
provided and the persuasiveness of that evidence. Where the evidence is 
incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, I base my decision on the balance of 
probabilities, that is, what I think more likely than not happened. 
In coming to my provisional decision on this complaint, Ive reviewed the following ten 
reports:
October 2014 - report provided by owners to NHBC in support of claim
May 2015 - NHBC investigation report
December 2015 - NHBC investigation reportMarch 2017 - NHBC investigation report
January 2018  first report from NHBCs external consultant
July 2018 - second report from NHBCs external consultant
October 2018 - leak detection survey report from a different NHBC external 
consultant
January 2020 - report provided by owners to NHBC
March 2020 - report provided by owners to NHBC
June 2020 - report from the manufacturer of the cladding system provided to NHBC
Throughout the reports the causes of the water ingress and damaged render have 
been the subject of extensive debate and a notable lack of consensus. In addition to 
a number of possible causes that were suggested, the following observed issues with 
the buildings were referenced throughout the reports: defective silicone sealant 
around the parapet copes; deterioration of mastic around windows; failing window 
seals, installation of windows faces flush with the render which reduced weather 
protection; missing drain covers; poorly applied sealant; incorrect installation of the 
parapet capping and the curtain wall; failure to install expansion joints in the cladding 
system, which was likely to have caused cracking; parapet roof detailing which 
stopped the water being shed clear of the roof and instead led it to run down the 
render face; incorrect installation of sills and flashing to shed water away from the 
face of the finished render; poor repairs and lack of maintenance. 
So, there are clearly a number of issues with the building that have been identified in 
the various reports and investigations that have been carried out between 2014 and 
2020. However, the building warranty underwritten by NHBC doesnt cover 
everything that might go wrong with the development. The Buildmark policy sets out 
the terms of the agreement between NHBC and Mr B and details what is and is not 
covered by the warranty. The policy separates the cover into sections. 
Because the damage claimed for was notified to NHBC in year eight of the policy, the 
claim falls under section three which provides as follows:
3. What NHBC will pay for
A. The full Cost, if it is more than £1,000 indexed, of putting right any actual 
physical Damage caused by a Defect in any of the following parts of the 
house, bungalow, maisonette or flat and its garage or other permanent 
outbuilding, or its Common Parts:
Foundations
Load-bearing walls
Non load-bearing partition walls
Wet-applied wall plaster
External render and external vertical tile hanging
Load-bearing parts of the roof
Tile and slate coverings to pitched roofs
Ceilings
Load-bearing parts of the floors
Floor decking, screeds and staircases, where these fail to support 
normal loads
Retaining walls necessary for the structural stability of the house, 
bungalow, flat or maisonette, its garage or other permanent outbuilding
Double or triple glazing panes to external windows and doors
Below-ground drainage for which you are responsibleThe list of common parts covered by the Buildmark policy does not include a curtain 
wall or cladding system. The Buildmark policy terms and conditions have been 
amended over time, and I note that some later policies did include curtain walling, 
and/or cladding alongside External render and external vertical tile hanging. 
However, this policy does not. So, it is only those parts listed above, that are 
covered.
The list of common parts covered by the Buildmark policy also does not include 
external windows, their seals, or surrounds. 
So, subject to the common parts minimum claim value being met (approximately 
£80,000) and the claim being notified to NHBC within the ten-year period of the 
warranty, it is only Damage caused by a Defect in one of the above listed parts that 
will be covered by the warranty.  
Having regard to the list of common parts covered by the policy, Im satisfied NHBCs 
decision to decline Mr Bs claim, in respect of damage caused by a defect in the 
curtain wall, cladding, external windows and seals, was made in accordance with the 
policy terms and conditions, and was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Although the reports have largely commented on damage caused to the internal 
walls and ceilings of the flats, there has been some comment about damage being 
caused by water ingress into the common parts of the building. The render has also 
been referred to as defective and damaged. Provided the damage to the walls and 
ceiling in the communal areas, or the damage to the render, was caused by a defect 
in one of the parts listed, (in this case, the render) then the related damage could be 
covered by the policy (subject to the remaining policy terms).
Has the internal Damage, or render damage, been caused by a Defect?
Ive next considered whether the damage to the communal walls and ceilings, and 
the damage to the render, was caused by a Defect.
Mr Bs representatives consider that acceptance by NHBC that the cladding system 
has been installed incorrectly, should be considered to be a Defect. 
But, Defect is defined as A breach of any mandatory NHBC Requirement by the 
Builder or anyone employed by him or acting for him. Failure to follow the guidance 
supporting the NHBC Requirements does not in itself amount to a Defect, as there 
may be other ways that the required performance can be achieved.
So, the Buildmark policy provides that its part of NHBCs remit, to provide insurance 
for damage which is caused by non-compliance with its technical requirements.
It is here that I consider Mr Bs complaint fails. To conclude that NHBC was liable to 
cover the cost of repair to the damaged areas of render and the common parts 
affected by water ingress, Id need to be persuaded that the cause of the damage 
was due to a breach of the relevant NHBC technical requirements, in relation to the 
render, and Im currently not. 
NHBCs requirements applicable at the time of construction of the buildings address 
render in two separate contexts, neither of which are relevant to this complaint. There 
are a number of technical requirements which address the mixing and application of 
render to an external wall (for example, in Chapter 6.1: External Masonry Walls). 
However, in this case, the builder wasnt responsible for applying the render to the building. Rather, the render was applied to panels, before they were attached to the 
building. So, those requirements wouldnt be applicable here. 
There are also a number of technical requirements that refer to render in the context 
of insulated render systems (for example, in Chapter 6.9: Curtain walling and 
cladding). But as Ive already explained, neither cladding systems nor curtain walls 
are included in the list of Common Parts covered by the policy. 
I concluded by saying I was currently of the view that the damage claimed for, to and caused 
by the render, wasnt covered by the policy. So, I was not intending to uphold the complaint.
I asked both parties to let me have any final comments or evidence to consider before I 
issued my final decision on the complaint. NHBC had nothing further to add. However, 
Mr Bs representatives asked that I consider the following comments before making my final 
decision: 
All of the reports and relevant communications have been provided, aside from a 
document showing As Constructed drawings for the development which was 
enclosed with their response. 
Theyve queried where the information has come from which suggests the render 
was applied to panels before they were attached to the building, as that is not their 
understanding of how the render was applied in this instance. 
The system in place is an external wall insulation system. The build-up of the system, 
as noted on the drawings comprises a sheathing board, insulation board, reinforcing 
mesh and Dryvit finish, understood to be a 3mm acrylic render. The system has been 
constructed defectively as it hasnt been formed as an Outsulation Rail System.
The details on the As Constructed drawings arent accurate because they show the 
render finish to be well outwith the plane of the windows, when in reality, they have 
been constructed on a flush plane.
It seems that the external wall insulation system has been completely omitted and 
the render applied directly to the sheathing board on the external face of the steel 
framing system. So, the simple reason the render is failing is due to faulty installation. 
Our investigator previously conceded that cover is provided for external render, 
although its not clear whether that includes rendered panels.
The most significant aspect of the incorrect installation is in the flush detailing around 
windows, which is contributing to the water ingress issues. 
They agree with our investigators comment that the building warranty doesnt cover 
faulty installation unless thats what caused the damage.
The technical detailing around the external wall insulation system is quite specific 
and has not been followed on site. As there is no other way in which performance 
can be achieved, the failure to follow that detailing does amount to a defect.
In conclusion, they say that due to the lack of cover at parapet and to windows, rainwater 
run-off is directly hitting the render service and leading to its deterioration. The external 
render system installed is not fit for purpose and hasnt been since the time of construction. 
In their opinion, the deterioration of the render surface, cracking to the render surface, and bulging of the render can be attributed to the installation issues, due to lack of protection to 
the surface through construction detailing.
Ive taken these comments into account in making my final decision on this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs representatives have referred to comments made by our investigator which they 
believe support their arguments. However, Mr B didnt accept our investigators view. Rather, 
he requested an ombudsmans decision on the complaint. So, I issued a provisional 
decision, explaining why I was taking a different view to our investigator and I explained why 
the installation of the cladding system wasnt covered by the Buildmark policy. Now that a 
final decision has been issued on this complaint, it is my conclusions, detailed in this 
decision, that provide this services final view on the complaint. Those conclusions 
supersede any earlier views expressed by our investigator.
A question has been raised by Mr Bs representatives as to why I referred to rendered 
panels in the provisional decision, as they dont believe render was applied to panels. In her 
view dated 7 December 2021, our investigator quoted a reference to rendered panels that 
was included in the report from NHBCs external consultant, who Ive referred to as A. As 
rendered panels are referred to in technical reports, Im satisfied that they were likely 
included in at least part of the buildings cladding. However, having reviewed the evidence 
again, it appears that some render was likely applied directly to external walls, in addition to 
rendered panels being installed as part of the cladding system. But, that doesnt lead me to 
come to a different conclusion on this complaint. I will explain why.
If some of the render had been applied directly to an external wall, then parts of NHBCs 
technical requirements would be relevant here. However, as I explained in the provisional 
decision, I would still need to be persuaded that the damaged claimed for was caused by a 
breach of those technical requirements, in relation to the common part covered, i.e. the 
render. I would also need to be persuaded that the cost to repair the patches of damaged 
render on the external walls would likely exceed the common parts minimum claim value 
(which, as at 2015 was estimated to be in excess of £80,000). After considering all of the 
available evidence afresh, Im still not persuaded that either the damage claimed for was due 
to a breach of NHBCs technical requirements in relation to the render, or that the cost of 
repair of the damaged render would likely exceed the common parts minimum claim value.  
In their submissions, Mr Bs representatives agree the damage to the building has been 
caused by the incorrect installation of the external cladding system, which has essentially 
failed to provide protection from inclement weather. Specifically, they said: the deterioration 
of the render surface, cracking to the render surface, and bulging of the render can be 
attributed to the installation issues, due to lack of protection to the surface through 
construction detailing. Mr Bs representatives also agree that other factors have contributed 
to the damage, in particular, the flush detailing around the windows leading to water ingress. 
So, that isnt in dispute. What they do challenge, is whether these issues with the building 
are sufficient to engage cover from the Buildmark policy. 
As I explained in the provisional decision, curtain walling, and or external cladding systems 
are not covered by the warranty. Therefore, any faulty installation of such a system is not 
covered by the warranty. While damage caused by a defect in the external render is 
covered, Im not persuaded the damage to the building that Mr B is claiming for, was caused 
by a defect in the render. The evidence as a whole persuades me that the incorrect installation of the external cladding system is likely the main cause of the damage to the 
building. As that isnt covered by the Buildmark policy, I remain of the view that NHBC fairly 
and reasonably declined Mr Bs claim. So, for the reasons detailed in my provisional 
decision, and this final decision, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman