DRN-3223749
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) will not allow her to cash in her annuity 
with it.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint and my provisional findings in a provisional 
decision. This is included below and forms part of this decision:
Mrs S had a personal pension with Abbey Life (now Phoenix). In 2011, she enquired about taking 
her benefits under the policy. Shes told us shed asked if she could take the benefits as a lump 
sum. But it was explained that in essence to take her benefits shed have to take an annuity. 
Phoenix sent her the relevant forms and Mrs S chose to take tax-free cash and an annuity paying 
£168 a year.
More recently, Mrs S asked Phoenix if she could cash in her annuity. Phoenix said legislation 
did allow annuities valued under £10,000 to be cashed in but this was at its discretion. And it 
had made a business decision not to offer this. It said there were risks exchanging a 
guaranteed income for a one-off payment. And it will only offer this if it identifies a solution.
Mrs S was unhappy with this. Shes says she is best placed to decide what is in her best 
interests. Shed be much better off with a lump sum paid in place of the annuity which has little 
use to her.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What is it I have to decide?
I have to decide whether Phoenix is being fair and reasonable in not offering Mrs S a cash value 
for her annuity.
Relevant considerations
DISP 3.6.4 R says that in considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case, I will take into account the relevant law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
What are the regulations about cashing-in or commutation?
Various bits of legislation have helped form the current legislation that allow annuities to be 
cashed in. These include:
The Finance Act 2004 Section 164
The Finance Act 2004 Section 273B
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171
- reg. 11 De minimis rule for pension schemes
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171 
reg. 11A (inserted on 6/4/12)
Finance Act 2014 Section 42 Pension flexibility: taking low-value pension rights as lump 
sum
As a result of the above, the legislation in regard to commutation payments now reads:
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171 .
PART 2 COMMUTATION PAYMENTS
reg. 11A
(1) A payment to a member by a pension scheme which is not a public service pension 
scheme or an occupational pension scheme in respect of an arrangement under that 
scheme if
(a)the member has reached normal minimum pension age or the ill-health condition is 
met (see paragraph 1 of Schedule 28) ;
(b)the payment does not exceed £10,000 ;
(c)the payment extinguishes the member's entitlement to benefits under the 
arrangement;
The Finance Act which allowed providers/schemes to over-ride the rules of the scheme and 
make payments that otherwise previously wouldnt have been allowed (which now includes 
cashing-in of annuities)  was a permissive over-ride. What this means is the schemes are 
allowed to make these payments if they wish to do so  it isnt mandatory legislation.
So in essence what the legislation says is a person in Mrs Ss position doesnt have a right to 
commute their pension pot to a cash lump sum. However, if a provider wants to offer this it can, 
but only up to a limit of £10,000.
What are the relevant regulatory rules and guidance? 
COBS 2.1 Acting honestly, fairly and professionally
 The client's best interests rule
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the 
best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
Principles for Businesses
PRIN 2.1.1R The Principles
6 Customers' interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
Guidance to firms:
FCA Alert to firms: Fair Treatment of Customers 12/05/2015
All firms must be able to show consistently that fair treatment of customers is at the heart of 
their business model.
Taken together, all of this means in essence that firms must take the best interests of their 
customers into account in the actions they take. However, this doesnt mean that it should act 
in the interest of a single (or a small group of) customer(s) which would be at the expense of 
other customers. Nor to act in a particular customers interest without consideration of other 
factors or wider implications.Im aware of no other codes of practice that would apply here, other than the legislation and 
regulatory rules Ive referred to above. However Ive also considered:
-What would have been good industry practice at the relevant time? Im aware some 
providers have allowed commutation of small annuities in the past.
-Contractual and other legal matters. Im aware that in some annuity contracts, there 
may be ownership issues (it may be subject to a separate contractual/legal 
arrangement with another party) or other lives attached to the annuity that could cause 
issues with commutation.
-Practical matters. For example, an annuity is a life-long insurance contract that is not 
designed to be cashed in. For that reason, it is often backed by long-term less liquid 
investments that may be more difficult to value or sell; and doing so might negatively 
affect the pricing of annuities for other customers.
The key questions that I need to consider in deciding what is fair and reasonable in 
this case
1. Does Phoenix have discretion to commute Mrs Ss annuity as requested? For 
example:
-Is the value under £10,000?
-Is Mrs S the legal owner of the annuity?
-Is Phoenix the other contracting party or has it been re-insured?
2. If Phoenix is free to commute the annuity, would it have been in Mrs Ss best 
interests to allow commutation? For example:
-Would it expose her to the risk of financial difficulty in the future?
-Would it affect other income that she relies on - such as state benefits being 
reduced due to the commutation payment?
3. If Phoenix was free to grant Mrs Ss request to commute the annuity and doing so 
would have been in her best interest, was it fair and reasonable for Phoenix to 
refuse? In other words, did it exercise its discretion in a fair and reasonable way?
My findings in light of the above considerations
Phoenix hasnt made any specific arguments in relation to this case as to why it isnt free to allow 
Mrs S to cash-in the annuity. So I am proceeding on the basis that it does have discretion to 
commute her annuity.
Its also not provided any information specific to Mrs S to show that she would be worse off if she 
were to commute the annuity to a cash lump sum. Having considered what Mrs Ss told us and the 
value of her annuity, which is paying her just under £170 a year, Im satisfied the annuity is small 
enough that it doesnt provide any meaningful income on which she relies. I accept her position that 
shed benefit more from a cash lump sum, even if small. I also note this is what Mrs S has said she 
preferred to do at the outset (i.e. take her whole pension as a cash lump sum) had that been 
possible at the time. For these reasons, and subject to the lump sum value (which hasnt been 
determined), Ive proceeded also on the basis that it would be in Mrs Ss personal interest to 
encash the annuity.
Phoenix has told us it is unwilling at this point in time to offer a cash in value to Mrs S, 
essentially because the annuity product wasnt designed to be cashed in, so it would be difficult 
to offer that option now without incurring significant cost and inconvenience  and possibly to 
the detriment of other customers. It made a number of points about this, for example:
-It cannot consider cases (and offer cash in values) in isolation without considering all its 
qualifying customers. It has a duty to be fair to all its customers.-Without appropriate processes and checks, it could result in poor customer outcomes 
and cause more harm than good.
-To choose specific customers to make offers also has complications. Deciding who 
should receive an offer and who shouldnt, isnt possible without significant groundwork 
to determine what is fair (and the wider implications of this need to be considered on its 
customers and its business)
-Any decision made on the above, could cause more inconsistency as its difficult to 
determine who would and who wouldnt benefit from cashing in offers.
-There are significant financial implications on it, in offering this widely to customers.
-Its annuities are backed by other financial arrangements and backed by long-term 
and illiquid assets, so cash values arent easily realised.
Having thought about this very carefully, I think Phoenixs points here are fair ones. I dont think 
Phoenix simply disregarded Mrs Ss interests in this case. Its position is based on its considerations of 
what allowing commutation could mean for its customers and business model more widely.
It seems to me that Phoenix could avoid many of the challenges it has raised if it were to treat Mrs Ss 
case as exceptional. The cost and impact in this one case would be small for a business the size of 
Phoenix. However, I acknowledge Phoenixs difficulty here. Im not persuaded there is reason in Mrs 
Ss case to treat her differently to other customers with small annuities. (Its my understanding that is 
a significant portion of customers.)
Ive kept in mind that Mrs S would probably be better off with a cash lump sum and the annuity isnt 
useful to her. Ive balanced this against the fact that commutation wasnt something Mrs S had a right 
to. And while Phoenix was free to allow her request, Im satisfied it did have other legitimate interests 
to weigh up, including the way the annuity product was designed, the impact on Phoenixs existing 
systems and processes, the interests of its customers more widely and the potential cost.
On balance, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Phoenix to decline Mrs Ss request. It acted 
in line with the contract and the rules and treated Mrs S in line with other customers.
We have seen that some providers are looking into their stance on cashing-in annuities. If in the 
future Phoenix changes its position on cashing in annuities or legislation changes, its possible Mrs 
S may benefit from such a change. But I cannot fairly say Phoenix must change its position at 
present, in the circumstances Ive considered in this decision.
I appreciate Mrs S will be disappointed with this but for the reasons explained I am not 
intending to uphold her complaint.
Mrs S hasnt added anything new or substantive following the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the findings reached in my provisional 
decision. And so my final decision remains the same and as set out above.
In summary, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Phoenix to decline Mrs Ss 
request. It acted in line with the contract and the rules and treated Mrs S in line with other 
customers.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, I do not uphold this 
complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman