DRN-3669603
The complaint
Mr R complains that he couldnt transfer a balance directly from a card account he already 
held to his new account with Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money. Mr R said he had 
to open another card and transfer the money there first, incurring fees.
What happened
Mr R told us he wasnt able to do a balance transfer from a different card account to Virgin. 
He said that nowhere in the terms of his Virgin card did it set out that this wouldnt be 
possible. Mr R had to move the balance elsewhere, and said he had to pay high charges as 
a result. He wanted compensation for that.
When this complaint came to us, Mr R said Virgin still hadnt responded to his complaint. So 
he wanted us to take that into account too.
Virgin said it could only do balance transfers from UK cards, and the details of Mr Rs card 
suggest it isnt registered in the UK. Mr R has said hes always been a UK customer of this 
other card provider, and Virgin hasnt suggested that Mr R ought to have been aware of this 
potential problem with this particular card. 
Virgin has explored with Mr R how hes been impacted by this, and Mr R told it he hadnt 
expected to have to pay any fee to transfer the money. Virgin was offering fee-free balance 
transfers at the time. But when Mr R couldnt transfer directly to Virgin, he opened a third 
card account, and moved the money there. He had to pay a 1% fee to do that. Mr R was 
then able to transfer the funds from this third card, to Virgin. 
Virgin checked that Mr R hadnt paid any additional interest, and he said he hadnt. Although 
Mr R couldnt provide evidence of the fee hed paid (because hed then closed the account 
again) Virgin said it would pay Mr R the £82 he said hed been charged.
Virgin said it was sorry it hadnt managed to speak to Mr R directly about this complaint 
before his case came to us. IT wanted to pay him £100 for that.
Our investigator said what Virgin had already offered was fair. 
Mr R said he would accept the return of the fee hed been charged on the third card, but he 
thought Virgin should pay more for the delay in resolving this matter. Hed made numerous 
calls to chase this (17 in total) but not got any updates, just false promises that things would 
be resolved soon. He said the offer of £100 should be increased as a result. Mr R wanted his 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
I do think its unfortunate that Mr R opened this card account with Virgin intending to make a 
transfer, and having reasonably understood he could do so, then found he couldnt. Im glad 
he has found a way around this. And Im pleased to see Virgin has offered to refund the 
extra costs that Mr R incurred in doing that. I think that provides a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this part of Mr Rs complaint. 
Mr R also wanted us to consider how long it had taken to get any sort of a resolution to this 
complaint. I should set out that our service isnt able to consider complaints which are solely 
about complaint handling by a bank  that doesnt fall within our jurisdiction. So Im 
considering this as part of the overall complaint Mr R has made about Virgin, taking account 
of how long it took for the issues hes raised to be resolved.
I can see from his discussions with Virgin that he just wanted it to sort things out, and was 
frustrated that it wouldnt just do so. But, like our investigator, I do think that a payment of 
£100 provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this part of Mr Rs complaint. 
I know Mr R thought Virgin should pay more, but what Im doing here is reviewing his case, 
and making an award. When I do that, I assess Mr Rs complaint in full, and set that against 
the background of account of awards our service has made in other cases. Its on that basis 
that Ive reached the decision that Virgin should make a compensation payment of £100  
because I think thats whats appropriate in this case.
It doesnt look like Virgin has already made a payment to Mr R. But in case it has, Ill allow it 
to count compensation its already paid for this issue, towards the award Im making now.
My final decision
My final decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money must pay Mr R £82 to 
cover fees hes paid elsewhere, and it must pay him £100 in compensation. Clydesdale 
Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money can count towards that total any payment it has already 
made for this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman