DRN-3952964
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the administration and management of her fixed sum loan agreement 
(agreement) by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (CFS). In particular she complains 
about CFS multiple failures to amend her direct debit instruction from one collecting 
payments from a bank account in her name to one collecting payments from a bank account 
in her daughters name.
What happened
In February 2022 Mrs P entered into an agreement with CFS for a mobile phone costing 
£1,149. Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Mrs P undertook to 
make 23 monthly payments of £47.87 followed by one monthly payment of £47.99  making 
a total sum repayable of £1,149 at an APR of 0%.
Since April 2022 Mrs P says she has been trying to get CFS to amend her direct debit 
instruction from one collecting payments from a bank account in her name to one collecting 
payments from a bank account in her daughters name. And despite numerous calls, emails 
and new direct debit instruction returns CFS has failed to action her request.
Mrs Ps complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that there had 
been a number of failures on the part of CFS and to fairly and reasonably compensate Mrs P 
for these failures it should pay her £100 and arrange for a direct debit instruction amendment 
as soon as possible.
CFS agreed with the investigators view and said that in order for it arrange for the direct 
debit instruction amendment Mrs P was seeking it would be best if she could call it with her 
daughter present.
Mrs P didnt agree with the investigators view. And because of this her complaint has been 
passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can confirm that Ive come to the same overall outcome as the investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to what has 
already been said.
I would also add that its clear that Mrs P has very strong feelings about this complaint. She 
has provided detailed submissions in support of her view which I can confirm Ive read and 
considered in their entirety. However, I trust that Mrs P will not take the fact that my findings 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in 
considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every 
point raised. The purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for 
reaching them.
The facts of this case arent, at least in the main, in dispute. So Im satisfied that what I need 
to decide here is what CFS should have to do to fairly and reasonably compensate Mrs P for 
failing, since April 2022, to amend her direct debit instruction from one collecting payments 
from a bank account in her name to one collecting payments from a bank account in her 
daughters name.
Like the investigator pointed out, although Mrs P has clearly suffered some distress and 
inconvenience by CFS failures, Ive seen nothing that would lead me to conclude that she 
has suffered a financial loss, or financial difficulties, as a result of these failures. Its also the 
case that given the agreement is in Mrs Ps name, and it has been Mrs P that has been 
seeking an amendment to the direct debit instruction (and correctly so), I cant reasonably 
make an award (in favour of Mrs P) for any distress and inconvenience her daughter might 
have suffered.
Ive considered very carefully about what CFS should have to pay Mrs P for the distress and 
inconvenience she has suffered. But having done so I can confirm that I agree with the 
investigator that £100 is appropriate. In coming to this view Ive had regard, amongst other 
things, to the fact that CFS paid Mrs P £75 in late July 2022 for its failures up to that point in 
time, a sum Mrs P accepted.
I would also add that Im satisfied that CFS acted entirely reasonably when, in May 2022, it 
amended Mrs Ps direct debit instruction from one collecting payments from one bank 
account in her name to another bank account in her name.
I will now turn to the fact that CFS still hasnt actioned Mrs Ps direct debit instruction 
amendment request.
Now I accept that Mrs P might not like what CFS has proposed in this respect. But Im 
satisfied that proposing she call it with her daughter present to allow for the direct debit 
instruction amendment to be actioned is both fair and reasonable. But for the sake of 
completeness I would add that if despite Mrs Ps best endeavours CFS still fails to action her 
direct debit instruction amendment request within a reasonable time period she is free to 
raise a new complaint with CFS and then our service.
My final decision
My final decision is that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited must:
pay Mrs P £100 for the distress and inconvenience this whole matter has caused her
do its best, going forward, to make the amendment to Mrs Ps direct debit instruction 
that she is seeking (noting what Ive said about Mrs P  in certain circumstances  
being able to raise a new complaint)Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman