DRN-3466823
The complaint
Miss F complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) unfairly declined 
part of her theft claim under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss F made a claim under her policy when her garage was broken into. The garage door 
was significantly damaged by the break-in and there were some power tools and bikes 
stolen.
Lloyds started progressing the claim and sent a contractor to secure Miss Fs garage by 
temporarily boarding it up. She was contacted by Lloyds preferred supplier to measure up 
her garage for a new door.
Lloyds contacted Miss F and informed her that her bikes were covered by her policy as she 
had purchased additional cover for these. Miss F provided photos of her power tools. A few 
days later Miss F was contacted by a different advisor from Lloyds and asked if her garage 
was attached to her house. Based upon this discussion, Lloyds decided to decline the 
remaining part of the claim as it considered the garage to be an outbuilding. Lloyds said 
Miss F hadnt taken out cover for outbuildings.
Miss F thought this was unfair, she said it has taken three different advisors over ten days, 
following three confirmations of cover to decide that I wasnt covered. Lloyds apologised for 
not setting the right expectation at the start, that Miss Fs claim would be declined. It paid her 
£100 in compensation for the distress and inconveniences this caused. Miss F didnt think it 
was fair her claim was declined  she thought the policy definition was unclear. She didnt 
think it was made clear to her that she required outbuildings cover.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought the words included in the 
policy definition had a clear meaning. She said Miss F didnt select outbuildings cover. She 
thought the £100 compensation was fair for the distress caused by Lloyds not setting the 
right expectations with Miss F at the start of the claim. Miss F disagreed, so the complaint 
has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss F hasnt complained about the level of compensation paid  but I have reviewed this 
and think £100 is fair for the potential distress caused to Miss F for falsely raising her 
expectation that her claim may prove successful.
I have considered Lloyds reasoning for declining part of the theft claim. Lloyds said I 
understand you're unhappy your claim for the theft of tools from your garage has been 
declined. You explained you were never offered the cover when you took out the policy. You 
took out your policy out online. The policy you took out gives customers control so they can
tailor it to their needs. When you took out the policy you would have seen three different 
types of buildings cover, which clearly outlines Buildings Private Residence Cover, 
Outbuildings Cover and Buildings Accidental Damage Cover. I've pasted a copy of an 
example of what you would have seen when you were taking out the policy online for your 
convenience.
In terms of your claim unfortunately we will not be covering the theft off your tools nor any 
damage to the garage. You contacted us on 22 September 2021 and informed us you were 
moving to another property. The colleague on the phone offered to go through the policy with 
you but you declined this and confirmed you were happy with the cover.
I have reviewed the example definitions that Lloyds said Miss F wouldve seen when she 
took out her policy online. I can see these definitions show that the Buildings Private 
Residence Cover includes the structures of integrated/attached garages but excludes the 
structures of detached garages, sheds and other outbuildings. The outbuildings cover is 
clear that it covers the structures of detached garages, sheds and other outbuildings. 
I think the options for cover were reasonably set out when Miss F purchased the policy 
online. Miss F updated her cover when she moved to a new house and a call agent asked 
Miss F is she wished outbuildings cover, but she declined this. Lloyds offered to take Miss F 
through the policy in more detail, but Miss F declined this opportunity. I think Lloyds have 
followed a reasonable process when it allowed Miss F to update her policy.
Lloyds declined the claim as Miss F had chosen the wrong cover for her needs  she didnt 
take out cover for outbuildings. Miss F needed outbuildings cover as her garage wasnt 
attached to her house. As she didnt have this cover, Lloyds declined the aspects of the 
claim that needed the outbuildings cover (the damaged garage door and the stolen tools). It 
did cover Miss F for her stolen bikes under the additional cover she had taken out. I think 
this was fair.
Miss F has argued that the definition of an attached garage is unclear in the policy. Miss F 
said Nowhere in this policy does it outline that attached means [must be connected by brick 
to brick] or [there must be no space between the garage and house]. These are clear 
definitions of the wording or it unfairly leaves it open for confusion and error. To be attached 
like their saying the word means would surely fall under integrated but in their wording they 
have specifically stated [attached OR integrated] which shows they clearly highlight a 
difference in the two meanings.
I have reviewed the photographs provided of Miss Fs garage and I can see the garage is to 
the rear of the property. Miss F has argued its attached to the house by her patio and a 
battened fence. I appreciate Miss Fs perspective, but unfortunately, I dont agree that her 
garage is attached. 
The approach Lloyds has used for attached and detached garages is the same as applied 
across the insurance industry  Miss Fs garage is separate to the house and so I think it is 
clear its not attached to the house. I appreciate Miss F has referred to how her deeds 
describe her garage, but I dont think this is relevant. I think Lloyds has reasonably set out 
the different cover available  it specifically refers to the different types of garages covered. 
Insurers do this as they think there is a higher risk of theft from outbuildings than from the 
main property being insured. I think if Miss F was at all unsure about what cover to select, 
she shouldve asked Lloyds for some further guidance. However, as Miss F hasnt selected 
the right cover, her garage was not insured. Therefore, I think Lloyds has been fair to decline 
part of the claim as it has. So, I dont uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman