DRN-1645146
The complaint
Mr T complains about his buy to let mortgages with Barclays Bank UK PLC. He complains 
he hasnt been treated fairly in financial difficulties, either by Barclays or the receivers it 
appointed.
What happened
Mr T has several buy to let mortgages with Barclays. He also has a residential mortgage, 
jointly held with his wife. Thats been the subject of another complaint on which another 
ombudsman has issued a final decision.
Because of various issues, including health problems, Mr and Mrs T were unable to work 
and fell into arrears on their main mortgage. Mr T says that he began to use the rental 
income from his buy to let properties to repay the residential mortgage rather than the buy to 
let mortgages  and that he was encouraged to do this as the residential mortgage should 
be the priority. He says he was told that once the arrears on the residential mortgage had 
been repaid the buy to lets could be sorted out.
Unfortunately Mr and Mrs T werent able to get the residential mortgage back on track. I 
know how strongly they feel about what they think is unfair treatment by Barclays, but I also 
have to bear in mind that the other ombudsman didnt uphold their complaint about that.
The buy to let mortgages started to go into arrears as well, and the arrears built up over 
time. Barclays appointed receivers to manage the properties. Mr T wasnt happy with the 
appointment of receivers, or with the actions the receivers took. But he said the principal 
reason for his complaint was that Barclays gave him bad advice about using the rental 
income to pay his residential mortgage, and didnt look at his circumstances in the round. 
Hes now in a position where he faces losing the buy to let properties. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, Ive very sorry to hear of the various difficulties both Mr T and Mrs T have had in 
recent years. Im sure its not been an easy time for them and theyve found themselves in a 
very difficult position. 
As a result of various problems with employment and ill-health, from around 2017, Mr and 
Mrs T struggled with maintaining the payments on their mortgage.
In general terms, I agree that when it comes to managing various debts on a limited income, 
a mortgage on the home should be the first priority, and I can understand why Mr T began to 
use the rental income from his buy to let properties to pay that mortgage rather than the buy 
to let properties. I can understand how this was something of a dilemma for Mr and Mrs T. I 
dont think this was something that Barclays specifically advised him to do, though it did look 
at his overall income and expenditure in the round when looking to see whether payment 
arrangements could be agreed on the residential mortgage. And I dont think it agreed not to 
take action should arrears build up on the buy to lets.
In any case, using the rental income in this way eased the situation on the residential 
mortgage  but exacerbated the problems with the buy to let mortgages. The arrears built 
up, and Barclays began to look at what could be done.
I understand why Mr T wanted Barclays to look at his situation in the round, allowing him to 
recover the residential mortgage before moving on to the buy to lets. But they are separate 
loans and taking money from one to repay the other wasnt solving Mr Ts underlying 
problem  merely moving it around. 
Its not unreasonable for Barclays to want each of Mr Ts separate commitments to be up to 
date and to take action when theyre not. And while its right that if he has to choose between 
them, his own home should be the priority  that doesnt mean that its unreasonable for 
Barclays to consider taking action if his other debts fall behind.
In the case of a buy to let mortgage, the usual process once a mortgage falls into arrears is 
for the lender to appoint a receiver. The receiver takes over management of the property 
from the borrower, receives the rent, and uses it to pay the mortgage as far as possible. 
This took away from Mr T the option of using the rent to repay the residential mortgage. But I 
dont think it was unfair for Barclays to appoint receivers. The fact is that his buy to let 
mortgages had fallen into significant arrears, and it wasnt unreasonable for Barclays to want 
that situation to be resolved  and it wasnt sustainable for Mr T to increase the buy to let 
arrears to try to keep the residential arrears down. It wasnt solving the overall problem.
Once receivers were appointed, in law they act as agents for the borrower not the lender  
and that means that they were acting on behalf of Mr T not on behalf of Barclays. That 
means Barclays isnt responsible for the actions or decisions of the receivers, and theyre not 
something I have the power to consider. Any complaint about the receivers actions would 
need to be raised with them direct. 
Im sympathetic to the position Mr T found himself in, and all the difficulties hes faced. Im 
sure he and Mrs T have been under a great deal of pressure. But Ive looked carefully at 
everything thats happened, and I dont think Barclays has treated him unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman