DRN-1439684
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1990. Mr and Mrs M have said Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold 
them the PPI. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
While the mortgage was in joint names, the PPI was taken in Mr Ms name only. So Ive only 
referred to Mr M and his circumstances in my decision. 
Due to the time that has passed and the lack of information I have about this sale, there isnt 
anything to say whether Halifax gave Mr M a choice or not. Businesses arent required to 
keep information indefinitely and so it would be unfair to say that Halifax wouldnt have given 
Mr M a choice, just because it doesnt have the paperwork. While Mr M says he doesnt 
remember being given an option, I cant fairly uphold on this basis.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr M so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and he seems to have 
had a need for the cover.  
The PPI policy couldve covered Mr and Mrs Ms repayments for up to 12 months per claim if 
Mr M became too ill to work, or if he became unemployed. It wouldve paid out in addition to 
any sick pay he had and for longer than his sick pay lasted. And it wouldve paid out on top 
of any redundancy payment he may have got if he lost his job. And as there couldve been 
serious consequences of not keeping up repayments on a debt secured against their home, 
if Mr M couldnt work or lost his job then the PPI meant their monthly mortgage payments 
wouldve been met. I think the PPI policy couldve been helpful to him.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems 
like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said but these points dont change my decision. 
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Sonia Hussain
Ombudsman