DRN-4230182
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Santander UK Plc blocked their account and provided very poor 
service when they were trying to resolve this issue.
What happened
On 2 March 2023 Mr and Mrs M wanted to make a payment of over £11,000 from their 
current account. This payment was to an account with another financial institution in Mr Ms 
name. Santander blocked the payment and sent a message to Mr and Mrs M asking them to 
make contact.
Mr and Mrs M then had to call Santander several times to try to unblock the account, and the 
payment was stopped more than once. Eventually Mr and Mrs M were told that the payment 
would be referred to another team to review, and that this review could take up to 48 hours. 
Mr and Mrs M say they were then told this would be 48 working hours (so up to a week).
Mr and Mrs M made the payment from a different bank account on 3 March 2023, as they 
did not feel they could wait for the issues with their Santander account to be resolved.
Santander looked into Mr and Mrs Ms concerns, and paid them £75 to recognise that they 
had spent a long and frustrating day on the phone to Santander trying to resolve these 
issues. 
Mr and Mrs M do not feel this compensation goes far enough. They say that they continued 
to receive poor service after the compensation was paid, specifically regarding being given 
incorrect information about a final response being sent and that their account remained 
blocked.
As Santander was unable to resolve Mr and Mrs Ms complaint they referred it to us. One of 
our Investigators looked into what had happened. They felt that Santander had provided Mr 
and Mrs M with some poor service, but that it had not been unreasonable for Santander to 
stop the payment given the banks responsibilities under money laundering regulations. Our 
Investigator felt that the £75 Santander had already paid to Mr and Mrs M was appropriate 
compensation for the poor service they had received.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree, they maintain that the £75 Santander had paid to them was 
related only to a specific issue and not to their overall experience. They feel the level of 
service they received merits additional compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our Investigator and for the same 
reasons. 
On balance, given the value of the transaction, and bearing in mind Santanders obligations 
under fraud and anti-money laundering regulations, I dont consider it was unreasonable for 
Santander to block the payment Mr and Mrs M were trying to make or to refer it to their 
internal fraud team for review. Mr and Mrs M have commented that they were able to make 
the payment from their other bank without any issue, but individual banks have their own 
checks and procedures, I dont think this means that Santander was unreasonable to block 
the payment. 
I do though think that Santander handled the issue poorly, it appears that Santander did not 
unblock Mr and Mrs Ms account when it said it would, was not entirely clear about the 
process, and that Mr and Mrs M had to make several lengthy calls to Santander to try and 
resolve this issue.
I acknowledge that the £75 Santander has paid to Mr and Mrs M was offered before these 
issues were fully resolved, and can therefore see why Mr and Mrs M do not feel this 
compensation encompasses their full experience with Santander in trying to resolve their 
concerns.
However, even with that in mind, I still consider that, overall, £75 is reasonable 
compensation for the impact of what has happened here. Mr and Mrs M did have to spend a 
significant amount of time on the phone, but it appears their account was unblocked within a 
reasonable amount of time and that they were nonetheless able to make the payment they 
needed to make using a different account. I dont doubt that this will have caused them 
frustration, but given the limited period this frustration and inconvenience lasted, and bearing 
in mind that I think Santander was reasonable to want to conduct further checks before 
unblocking Mr and Mrs Ms account, I remain satisfied that £75 is appropriate compensation 
here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman