DRN-1472724
The complaint
Mrs S has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds decision to remove a 
named driver from her policy and avoid cover while he was driving and involved in an 
accident. Admiral said Mrs S misrepresented the information about a named drivers 
conviction history when she bought a car insurance policy with it. 
A representative has complained on behalf of Mrs S. For ease, Ill refer to the representative 
as Mrs S in my decision.
What happened
Mrs S bought a car insurance policy with Admiral online in April 2019. She added two named 
drivers to the policy. For ease, Ill refer to the name drivers as Mr A and Mr H. 
In July 2019 Mr A was involved in an incident and damaged his car. While Admiral 
investigated the claim, it discovered that Mr A had a driving conviction within the past five 
years. Admiral had asked Mrs S to disclose any convictions for her and the named drivers 
for this period when she applied for the policy online. Admiral said that if it had known about 
the conviction, it wouldnt have offered cover for the named driver, Mr A. 
Admiral relied on the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA) in reaching its decision. It said because Mrs S didnt answer the key question 
correctly, she had made a qualifying misrepresentation. So it was entitled to remove Mr A 
from the policy from April 2019. Admiral decided that the misrepresentation by Mrs S was in 
the deliberate/reckless category in line with CIDRA. It said it wouldnt meet the costs of Mr 
As claim. But in line with the Road Traffic Act as the last insurer, it was obliged to meet the 
costs of any third party claim. Admiral said it would look to recover its costs from Mr A or Mrs 
S directly. And this meant Admiral wouldnt deal with the repairs to Mrs Ss car. 
As Admiral decided the misrepresentation was deliberate, it kept the premium paid for Mr As 
cover under the policy in line with CIDRA.
Mrs S said she took a proactive approach when buying the policy and checked with the 
DVLA regarding Mr As conviction history. She said as the conviction had expired  being 
just over three years before  she believed it wasnt significant to include. 
Our investigator thought Admirals decision to remove Mr A from the policy was reasonable. 
He found that the online question Admiral asked Mrs S was clear in relation to motoring 
offences for the previous five years. But he thought Mrs S had been careless in answering 
the question, rather than deliberate. So he recommended Admiral pay any difference in 
premium it owed by removing Mr A from Mrs Ss policy. 
Admiral confirmed that it kept the premium difference under Mrs Ss policy for the car in 
question as it deemed the misrepresentation deliberate. It said Mrs S owed a balance 
premium for cover on a different car under the multicar policy, but it waived this amount as a 
goodwill gesture. 
Mrs S didnt agree. She believes Admiral should provide a refund of the premium in full as it 
wasnt insuring the car and it wasnt driveable. 
Mrs S had also spoke to Admiral on the phone before buying the policy. She has obtained a 
recording of the call from Admiral under a Subject Access Request (SAR). She says Admiral 
asked her in the call about her driving history for the previous three years. But Admiral didnt 
ask her about the named drivers driving history. 
Mrs S raised concerns about a SAR she made with Admiral. Our investigator explained that 
this is a new issue which  if unhappy  Mrs S can raise with Admiral. 
Mrs S wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is CIDRA. This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Admiral thinks Mrs S failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she said Mr A had no driving offences in the past five years. Ive looked at the key question 
Mrs S was asked in relation to Mr A and the other named driver when she applied for the 
policy with Admiral online:
Motoring offences  In the last 5 years, has the driver had any motoring offences, 
including fixed penalties, convictions, disqualifications or any pending prosecutions?
Mrs S answered no. But Mr A had a driving conviction in April 2016. This was just over 
three years before the policy started.
I think theres been some confusion. There are two different questions which Admiral asked 
when Mrs S applied for the policy: one in relation to the claims and losses history of the 
drivers: and another in relation to motoring offences. I agree with Mrs S that in the call 
following the online application, Admiral asked Mrs S about the claims history for the drivers 
over the past three years. This is in line with the question online. But the motoring conviction 
question online asks for details of motoring offences over the past five years. 
I dont think Admiral did anything wrong by not asking all of the questions again which Mrs S 
had already answered online in the follow up call. I think it was reasonable to rely on the 
information Mrs S provided as being correct. The reason why Admiral asked the motoring 
offences question for Mrs Ss daughter is because this was for a brand new policy to obtain 
a multi car discount on the premium. So Mrs S hadnt already answered questions online 
about her daughters policy.I think Mrs S didnt take enough care when answering the key question online. I think her 
enquiries with the DVLA beforehand show that she took steps to check the conviction history 
of Mr A. So I dont think the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. But I think 
Admirals question was clear in that it required details of Mr As motoring offences for the 
previous five years. 
Admiral said if it had known about Mr As conviction, it wouldnt have provided cover for him 
on Mrs Ss policy. Admiral has provided its underwriting criteria to us to support its decision. 
We cant share commercially sensitive information such as a businesss underwriting criteria, 
but we can ask a business to share it with us  so that we can be satisfied it has treated a 
customer fairly. 
This means Im satisfied Mrs Ss misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Admiral said the difference was £329.17 under this policy by removing Mr A from cover. But 
Mrs S owed £60.38 under the second policy when Mr A was removed. I dont think Mrs S is 
entitled to a refund of the premium she paid for her policy. But I think Admiral should provide 
a refund of £268.37 as the balance owed to Mrs S by removing Mr A from the policies. This 
is because I think the misrepresentation was careless. 
My understanding is that no third party has made a claim in relation to the incident. So the 
damage that would have been claimed for under the policy was that to Mrs Ss car. So if this 
is the case, in accordance with CIDRA, I think Admiral should provide a refund of the 
difference in premium Mrs S paid for Mr As cover when removed. As Admiral waived the 
difference in premium Mrs S would otherwise have owed under an additional policy for 
another car (when Mr A was removed from cover), I think its fair that Admiral deduct the 
difference from the balance it should refund to Mrs S under this policy. I think Admiral should 
pay interest on the refund from the date of the incident to the date it pays Mrs S.
Mrs S believes that Admiral was in a position to check Mr Ss driving history at inception of 
the policy because it asked for his driving licence details. Admiral asked Mrs S for the driving 
licence numbers for the named drivers when she called on 2 April 2019, but she said she 
only had details of hers and her daughters. So Mr As licence was checked in July 2019 at 
the time of the claim. In any event, the onus is on the customer to provide honest and 
accurate information. So I dont think Admiral is responsible for the fact that Mrs S didnt 
answer the question correctly about Mr As motoring offences. 
I understand that Mrs S will be very disappointed with my decision. And I appreciate that due 
to an unrelated event after the incident, their family have been through significant upset. But 
I have to take an impartial view on the actions of Admiral and whether it treated Mrs S and 
Mr A as it would any other customer in the same circumstances. I think it has. I think Admiral 
has acted in line with CIDRA and the policy in deciding not to meet the claim and avoiding 
Mr As cover from Mrs Ss policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
Pay the difference in the premium to Mrs S following the removal of Mr A from 
this policy and after deducting the balance owed for cover of a different car under 
the multicar policy. This is on the assumption Admiral didnt receive a claim from 
a third party in relation to the incident.Pay interest on the amount at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from the date of 
the incident to the date it pays Mrs S.
Admiral Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mrs S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
If Admiral Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs S how much its taken 
off. It should also give Mrs S a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman