DRN-4520036
The complaint
Ms S has complained about the quality of a car she acquired under a conditional sale 
agreement with Santander Consumer (UK) plc T/A Santander Consumer Finance (SCUK). 
What happened
The events of the complaint are well known to the parties so Im not going to go over 
everything again in detail. But in summary, Ms S acquired a used car under a conditional 
sale agreement with SCUK in January 2022. The agreement was for 49 months. The cash 
price of the car (and extras) was around £57,600, it was around three and a half years old, 
and the mileage was around 35,000. There was an advance payment of £2,000 and Ms S 
was required to make monthly repayments of around £900 for 48 months followed by a final 
payment of around £24,000. 
Ms S said she noticed a problem straight away with a tyre warning light and she said the 
dealer told her it wasnt anything to worry about and to contact it if there were further 
problems. 
Ms S said she experienced several issues over the next few months including the rear 
camera not working; flickering main screen and delay in loading; a strange smell coming 
through the air conditioning; EML light coming on; and the tyre pressure sensor coming on 
intermittently. I understand Ms S tried to reject the car through the dealer around this time. 
The dealer wanted the chance to put things right. 
A report was carried out in June 2022 noting some issues including error messages for the 
camera (requires new camera); EML throttle housing issue (needs new housing); heater 
screen and in control screen flickering (needs new cable overlay harness); brake discs worn; 
roll bar bushes worn (needs new bushes and clamps); rear pads wearing unevenly. And 
works were to be carried out. I understand Ms S continued to want to reject the car and she 
contacted SCUK around August 2022. The dealer said Ms S couldnt reject the car because 
the faults had been fixed. SCUK didnt uphold the complaint. 
Ms S took the car in again in November 2022 because the screen was still flickering, and the 
front forward lower suspension arm bushes were perishing. She also said the Bluetooth kept 
disconnecting and there was a beep coming from the tow bar not fully closing. The tow bar 
issue was resolved, and it looks like there was also another software update. The report 
noted the bushes were perishing. Ms S referred her complaint to our service to consider. 
An independent report was carried out in July 2023 and the mileage was around 49,000. The 
report noted Ms S had complained about several issues since acquisition and that the latest 
issues were bubbling paintwork and problems with the air conditioning. The report concluded 
reported faults had been repaired and that there were fault codes present but the expert 
didnt think the car would have been unfit for purpose at the point of supply. 
Ms S didnt think the first report inspected everything, and another report was carried out in 
August 2023, and it looked at the camera intermittently working; flickering main screen; 
delays in loading; corrosion with the front lower arm bushes perishing and splitting. The 
expert couldnt find all the faults. They said the lower arms should be replaced but it wasnt 
immediately necessary and fault codes should be rescanned. But the expert didnt think the 
car was unfit for purpose at the point of supply. 
Ms S supplied further evidence the screen was still flickering and not working properly. She 
also sent us a diagnostic report that was carried out indicating there were several fault codes 
present. 
Our investigator looked into things and thought the initial repairs hadnt resolved all the 
issues. She said Ms S should be able to reject the car and recommended SCUK:
End the agreement at no further cost to Ms S. 
Collect the car from Ms S when convenient. 
Refund the £2,000 deposit plus 8% simple annual interest from the date the payment 
was made to the date of settlement. 
Remove any adverse information about the agreement from Ms Ss credit file. 
Pay Ms S £300 compensation. 
Ms S was disappointed with the amount SCUK would retain but she broadly accepted things. 
I cant see we received a substantive response from SCUK, so the complaint was passed to 
me to make a decision. Due to the further delays with no response from SCUK Ms S 
requested we consider further compensation. 
I wrote to SCUK to see if it wanted to accept the investigators assessment and I supplied 
some further evidence of the diagnostics Ms S had carried out, along with job cards. But Ive 
not received a substantive response from it. 
I issued a provisional decision that said:
I want to acknowledge Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to decide 
matters quickly and with minimum formality. But I want to assure Ms S and SCUK that Ive 
reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I havent 
considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers 
allow me to do this. 
Ms S acquired the car under a conditional sale agreement. Our service is able to consider 
complaints relating to these sorts of regulated consumer credit agreements. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements like the one Ms S entered into. 
The CRA implies terms into the agreement that the quality of goods is satisfactory. SCUK is 
the supplier of the goods under the agreement and is therefore responsible for dealing with a 
complaint about their quality.
The CRA says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account the description of the 
goods, the price or other consideration for the goods (if relevant) and all other relevant 
circumstances. For this case, I think the other relevant circumstances include the age and 
mileage of the car at the point of delivery.  
In Ms Ss case, the car was used when it was supplied and had already covered around 
35,000 miles. So I think the reasonable person would have different expectations of it 
compared to a new car. But Im conscious it cost around £57,600. So I dont think a 
reasonable person would have expected it to have any significant issues with it when it was 
acquired. It doesnt seem to be in dispute there were faults with the car. In July 2022 the reverse 
camera needed to be replaced at a cost of over £500. The throttle housing needed to be 
replaced at a cost of over £500. An overlay harness needed to be fitted to fix a flickering 
screen at a cost of around £200. And rear bushes and clamps needed to be replaced at a 
cost of around £150. 
In August 2022 when the car had a service work was carried out to sort out the tow bar not 
fully closing. There were further updates because the screen was flickering, and the front 
suspension arm bushes were perishing. 
The faults Ive mentioned above were apparent within the first few months of Ms S being in 
possession of the car. She managed to cover about 5,000 miles in the car within those 
months, but she said she experienced faults with it almost straight away. Based on what Ive 
seen, I think its likely those faults were present or developing at the point of supply. I dont 
think a reasonable person would expect, at that time, to have to replace the rear camera, 
throttle housing and overlay harness given the age and mileage of the car considering it cost 
nearly £60,000. The bushes may have been something that simply needed to be replaced 
due to normal wear and tear, but I think the other faults at least made the car of 
unsatisfactory quality. And so I think there was a breach of contract in relation to the implied 
terms about the quality of the goods. Ms S complained about other faults such as with the air 
conditioning and paintwork, but Ive not seen enough evidence these made the car of 
unsatisfactory quality. 
Ms S wanted to reject the car, but the CRA broadly says the trader was entitled to have a 
repair attempt because Ms Ss request for rejection came outside of the first 30 days. 
Repairs were attempted and this seems to have resolved a lot of the issues. But Ms S said 
she continued to experience problems, and she wanted to reject the car. Even though 
independent reports were carried out that said the car was fit for purpose, I think its likely 
theres an underlying issue with the car that hasnt been resolved  in particular in relation to 
the screen. Ms S has shown us that the screen is still flickering. She says the climate control 
doesnt always work. And shes also more recently had a diagnostic report carried out that 
shows several fault codes. On balance, I dont think the car was brought back to conformity 
after the repairs in 2022. 
The CRA sets out that (outside the first 30 days) if the car isnt of satisfactory quality, theres 
been a repair attempt, and the car still doesnt conform to the contract, Ms S should be able 
to reject it. So I agree with our investigators assessment that Ms S should now be able to do 
that. 
Therefore, I think SCUK should end the agreement with nothing further to pay, and it should 
collect the car at no cost to Ms S. It should also refund her deposit. One of the invoices Ive 
seen indicated Ms S was going to part exchange a car, but I cant see that happened, based 
on what the conditional sale agreement sets out. If thats not right, Ms S should let us know 
in response to this provisional decision. SCUK should also reimburse Ms S for the 
diagnostics she had carried out. 
Ms S had covered around 16,000 miles by August 2023, so shes been able to use the car. 
And its fair she pays for that use. But it looks like her use has been slightly impaired for the 
whole time, particularly during the first few months. It must have been really frustrating to 
have acquired a car at significant cost, and to have so many issues with it. Theres no exact 
science to use to work out the cost of fair use. But I think broadly, the monthly repayments 
Ms S has been making are fair for her to pay for the use of the car. But those payments 
shouldve been reflective of having a car that was of satisfactory quality. For the reasons 
given above, I dont think that happened here. I dont think the nature of the problems (after the first few months at least) caused significant impairment. And Im conscious some of the 
problems were intermittent. But, in the round, I think SCUK should also refund Ms S 10% of 
her monthly repayments up to when the more significant faults were repaired in July 2022. 
And it should refund Ms S 5% of repayments from August 2022 onwards when the problems 
dont seem as significant. I think these refunds fairly recognise the impaired use throughout 
the time she has been in possession of the car. 
Finally, the matter would have no doubt caused some general inconvenience to Ms S. Ive 
already set out what should happen for the impaired use. But Ms S has had to make various 
trips to garages. She tells us it was often a long wait to have the car booked in which caused 
further delays. Shes had to attend independent inspections. Its taken a long time to resolve 
things for Ms S. Shes been very responsive in supplying evidence of issues with the car. I 
think things ought to have been resolved sooner for her. Our investigator recommended 
£300 compensation. Im intending to increase this slightly because I think there have been 
some extra delays caused by SCUK in getting things resolved for Ms S, which I think should 
also be reflected. So Im intending to increase the compensation to £400.  
I cant see we received a response from SCUK. Ms S responded to say she didnt think the 
compensation covers the full impact on her. But shed like to see things resolved so she was 
supportive of the conclusion. Ms S also wanted to clarify a few things. She said the second 
report in August was instigated because SCUK hadnt addressed the concerns raised to it 
previously. These werent new concerns. She also said the agreement incorporated 
additional services for ongoing maintenance. And that shed made over 10 trips to the dealer 
for repairs, which totalled over 500 miles. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Ms S for her response. I appreciate she doesnt think the compensation goes 
far enough. Ive separated compensation to the impaired use. No amount of money can 
change what happened, but I think what Im directing SCUK to do seems broadly a fair way 
to put things right quickly and informally, which is how Im required to resolve complaints. 
I dont think the reason for having the second report carried out changes my decision, but I 
thank Ms S for the clarification. Ms S has highlighted the additional services she was paying 
for. As far as I can see, these were paid off monthly through the agreement and Ms S would 
have had the benefit of those services for that time, so I dont need to change the decision 
for those. And I appreciate she had to make several trips to have the car repaired. Ive taken 
those into account when deciding how SCUK needs to put things right. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im not going to depart from the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision. If Ms S decides to accept it, I hope the resolution helps the parties draw 
a line under things.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Santander Consumer (UK) plc T/A 
Santander Consumer Finance to:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the car at no further cost to Ms S;
refund Ms Ss deposit contribution of £2,000;
refund Ms S £54 for the diagnostics carried out on 26 August 2023; refund Ms S 10% of repayments from inception to July 2022;
refund Ms S 5% of repayments from August 2022 onwards;
pay 8% simple yearly interest* on all refunded amounts from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement;
pay £400 compensation;
remove any adverse information from Ms Ss credit file in relation to the agreement.
If SCUK considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Ms S how much tax its taken off. It should also give Ms S a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024. 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman