DRN-3469709
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First Direct gave them poor 
customer service on multiple occasions.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had opened accounts with a third party financial institution and transferred £1 
to their new accounts in preparation to transfer larger amounts if the transfer was successful. 
On 30 June 2021, Mr C logged onto his account at 5:15am and made two transfers out of 
the joint account. 
Mr C says that the recipient bank had not received the funds by 2:30pm, so he rang First 
Direct to find out why the transfers hadnt been completed. Mr C says that he manged to 
speak to an adviser after 30 minutes on hold. 
Mr C said the call handler kept putting him on hold to check things with another colleague 
before telling him after 55 minutes that the payment should be at the recipient bank by 9pm. 
At around 5:30pm First Direct made an outbound call to Mr C to check that the transfers 
were genuine, which Mr C confirmed they were and the funds were released.
Mr C complained that the transfers took 12 hours in total to reach the intended accounts 
(and would have been 16 hours if they were transferred at 9pm), when there was no need 
for security checks. He said he would be transferring larger amounts later in the week and 
didnt want a repeat. Mr C had also tried to use the First Direct messenger service, but he 
did not receive a reply. He also said that the security process First Direct used when they 
called him was insecure as he wasnt asked security questions.
First Direct did not uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. First Direct said that their security team 
was trialling a new process and thats why it may have appeared differently to what Mr C had 
experienced previously. If the payments werent genuine, then they would go through their 
standard verification process, but in this instance Mr C confirmed the transactions were 
genuine so this wasnt required. 
First Direct also said that all financial institutions have inbuilt background security checks, 
which constantly monitor customer payments. In order to protect their customers' accounts, 
they carry out checks to make sure transactions are genuine. This means some payment 
requests may be delayed or reversed to allow these checks to occur, which may happen 
even if previous payments have been sent to the same beneficiary.
Mr C emailed First Direct back and said that First Direct should email him when there is a 
response in his direct account inbox, the gatekeeper had ignored and misrepresented his 
emails. First Direct responded on 14 July and they said that they had noted his comments 
about the payment issues and call holding times, but they had little to add to their final 
response of 6 July 2021, therefore, they wouldnt enter into further communication with Mr C 
as hed exhausted their complaints process. Mr C sent further emails to First Direct, but he 
did not receive a response.
Mr and Mrs C brought their complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold the 
complaint. He said its not the role of our service to ask a business to alter its procedures or 
processes or impose improvements on the level of service offered to their customers as 
these aspects fall firmly within the remit of the regulator  in this case, the Financial
Conduct Authority (FCA).
Our investigator explained that the payments were subject to First Directs standard checks 
and that First Directs terms and conditions allow them to delay or stop payments if they 
suspect fraud or a scam. In terms of First Direct not responding to Mr Cs emails after 14 
July 2021, our investigator explained that First Direct had told him that they wouldnt be 
entering into further communication with them as they had exhausted their complaints 
process, so he didnt feel First Direct had done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs C asked for an Ombudsman to review their complaint. They made a number of 
points, but in summary they said, during the period of issues, there was much media 
comment about First Directs poor customer service, they often need to move a lot of money 
around but First Direct are slow to do so, he lost a days worth of interest due to the transfer 
taking 12 hours to complete, he does not have the same issues with other financial 
institutions and he detailed some of First Directs promises. He said First Direct will only do 
something about the issues if they are forced to accept responsibility through apology and 
compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset Id like to emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the
enforcer for the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts
as an informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. We look
at the circumstances of individual complaints and, on a case by case basis, taking into 
account relevant industry guidance for example, make findings about whether a financial
business has failed their customer in any way. 
Where we find they have, we make awards designed to make the business put things right 
with the complainant customer. Our awards are not designed to punish a business or to 
make it change the way it acts in order to protect other customers in the future. That is the 
role of the regulator.
Complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity and as such, the issues Mr and 
Mrs C have raised that relate directly to how First Direct have investigated their complaint, 
such as the delays in responding to them, how they communicate their response to them 
and what they include in their final response, dont come under my powers to consider.
Mr and Mrs C have made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read 
everything theyve said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and 
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of their complaint in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable here. 
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs C have said regarding the length of time it took First Direct 
to transfer the money to their accounts elsewhere. I know this is important to them as they 
transfer a lot of money and feel First Direct arent acting on their promises by the time it 
takes the transfers to complete, so I understand why this is important to them.Ive seen that when a payment is made, First Direct show a confirmation which states, Your 
money has been sent and will be credited to the payees account immediately, subject to our 
standard checks. So Im satisfied this message is clear that there may be standard checks 
which First Direct may have to complete, which would prevent the transfer being completed 
immediately.
It is not the role of this service to tell a business how they should manage their security 
procedure. So if First Direct felt they needed to complete further checks to ensure that the 
payment was genuine and not fraudulent or part of a scam, this is for First Direct to decide. 
While I understand Mr and Mrs C had sent test payments to the account previously in 
anticipation of the larger payments, this wouldnt stop First Direct making further checks. 
Ive also considered what Mr and Mrs C have said about the payments they sent werent 
large and they intended to send larger payments shortly thereafter. But First Direct need to 
meet their regulatory duties to safeguard their customers money  regardless of whether Mr 
and Mrs C consider the amount to be large or not. 
Ive looked at First Directs terms and conditions. They do indicate that First Direct will make 
a payment if instructed to  but there may be some reasons where they might not be able to. 
Here they delayed the payment to check it was genuine. As soon as this was confirmed as 
genuine then First Direct released the funds. 
I know that Mr and Mrs C lost a days worth of interest for the payments being outside of the 
third parties cut off time, but I cant hold First Direct responsible for another financial 
institutions cut off time. And especially when First Direct were clear in both their message 
(after the payments had been attempted) and their terms and conditions, that the payments 
would be subject to checks  even if these checks were completed nearly 12 hours later. 
The transfers had been completed on the same day they were attempted.
Ive considered what Mr C has said about the time he spent on hold and the other issues he 
faced in trying to see what happened to the transfers. Ive listened to the initial call he made 
and I can understand why he would be frustrated with being on hold with First Direct. And 
with the call handler putting him on hold while she tried to find out further information. 
This was because the call handler was in a queue herself trying to find out more information. 
But she did explain there could be additional checks being completed and that a member of 
staff would give Mr C a phone call. The call handler then managed to speak to a colleague 
who explained that if it was going to Mr Cs own account then the transfers would be 
completed by 9pm. First Direct apologised for the length of the hold times. 
I can see that Mr C also tried to use the messenger service with First Direct. He messaged 
them at 3:43pm but it was at 5:17pm that a chat agent connected with him. As this isnt a live 
chat service, this is why it was likely it took around 90 minutes for somebody to connect with 
him. Mr C didnt respond to the agent as Im persuaded this was around the time the fraud 
call handler rang Mr C and released the payment, so there was no need for Mr C to 
message back.
Ive then thought about the security concerns Mr C had with the call handler who released 
the transfers for him, 12 hours after Mr C had processed them. Here, Mr C confirms the 
transfer amounts and the time he transferred the money before the call handler asked for 
this information. Mr C confirmed the recipient bank before the call handler also. 
The call handler confirms there had been a lot of scams recently where even a smaller 
payment has debited an account followed by a larger payment. As First Direct explained that 
they were trialling a new security system, Im satisfied that Mr C had given the call handler a lot of the details about the transactions before the call handler asked for further information, 
so Im not persuaded that there was any security risk posed here.
Mr C asked the call handler about the larger payment he intended to make and the fraud call 
handler explains that this could still be subject to fraud checks. Mr C then asks whats the 
maximum he can transfer online, which the call handler informs him. The call lasted roughly 
six minutes and was very cordial  the call handler explained the purpose of the call and 
tried to explain the procedures he had to follow and answered Mr Cs questions in a 
professional manner. 
While Ive read what Mr C has said about other financial institutions making their transfer 
process more seamless, and the media comments about poor customer service from First 
Direct, Im only able to look into the merits of the individual complaint thats been brought to 
this service about First Direct. 
Finally, Ive considered what Mr and Mrs C has said about First Direct not responding to 
some of Mr Cs emails. First Direct issued their final response within six days of Mr Cs email 
on 30 June 2021. They also explained to him on 14 July that because their complaints 
process had been exhausted, they would not enter into any further communication with him 
about the issues raised. So I cant say First Direct were unreasonable for not responding to 
his emails when they were investigating his complaint and then later, they had told him they 
wouldnt enter into further communication with him. So it follows I wont be requiring First 
Direct to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman