DRN-4215273
The complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund the full amount of money he lost 
after he fell victim to an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as 
follows.
Mr D complains that starting in April 2018 he made several CHAPS payments from his 
account held with Barclays to what he thought was a legitimate investment with a third-party 
company. Mr D says these payments were made in a Barclays branch.
In 2018, Mr D says he was introduced to an individual of a company that could give him 
access to purchasing luxury watches at a discounted price. Mr D arranged to meet the 
director of the company at his office in London and he was given a brochure of the available 
watches for sale.
Mr D went on to meet the individual on ten separate occasions to discuss his plans for watch 
purchases. Following the initial meeting, Mr D was persuaded to consider an alternative 
arrangement to direct purchase, buying through an internet platform the company owned. Mr 
D says he was told he would get discounts on the purchases and his money would be worth 
more when converted to digital currency on the platform. Mr D says he was persuaded to 
make an initial deposit to gain access to the platform and this was made in a Barclays 
branch.
Once Mr D made his initial deposit, he was able to view his balance and top up when he was 
able to free some capital with the intention of achieving higher returns. The platform showed 
his funds were earning interest.
The retail part of the platform was due to launch on 23 July 2018. But this was delayed, 
initially until August 2018. Mr D was then told that due to high demand he wasnt able to 
make his purchases. He started to become suspicious and concluded hed likely been the 
victim of a scam in September 2018.
Mr D says he attempted to report the suspected fraud twice in a Barclays branch but was 
told no one was available to help him. Mr D unfortunately then became very ill and was 
unable to chase up his complaint until 2019.
When Mr Ds health improved, he got legal advice and returned to Barclays to make 
enquiries about getting his money back. At this point Barclays logged a formal complaint and 
Mr D was given a Final Response Letter (FRL).
Following the FRL, Barclays contacted Mr D again and refunded him half of the money he 
lost  £287,500.00. Barclays went on to say that Mr D only got a refund of half of the money 
lost as he shouldve taken reasonable steps to ensure the payment was genuine. This 
included completing checks on the person he was sending the money to. So, Barclays said 
the payment was subject to a 50% reduction due to what they consider to be contributory 
negligence on his behalf.
Mr D remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In summary, our 
investigator found the scam to be sophisticated and thought Mr D should get the full amount 
of his money back.
Barclays responded to the investigators view and didnt agree to fully reimburse Mr D. In 
summary, it said Mr D didnt receive any paperwork or signed documentation for the watches 
or agreement; Mr D had no knowledge of this type of investment in particular, but he had 
experience within the investment industry as a whole and therefore ought to have known the 
importance of contracts and written agreements when investing this level of money. And he 
shouldve done more due diligence into the person and company he was sending money to. 
Barclays says, if he had done so, he ought likely to have had some concerns, and so it 
thinks he should be held partially responsible for his loss.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision on the 
matter. I issued my provisional findings, upholding the complaint. Ive copied below the part 
of that decision which detailed my rationale:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator for materially the same
reasons and I intend to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
For me to uphold this complaint, I need to be satisfied Barclays ought to have prevented the
payments to the scam, and/or it unreasonably hindered recovery of the funds.
Prevention
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have
taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to thecourts.
Im satisfied that although Mr D didnt intend his money to go to a fraudster, he did authorise
the payments. I understand he wouldnt have authorised the payments if hed known the
investment was a scam, but Barclays are expected to process payments that a customer
authorises or instructs it to make, and that is what it did. The Payment Services Regulations
(PSRs), state that payments are authorised if the payer consented to them and, in this case,
Im satisfied Mr D consented to the payments as at the time he believed he was making
payments for the purposes of a legitimate investment.
However, where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and
reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though they authorised the payments.
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and
what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider Barclays should
fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism,
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Our service has referenced the relevant rules, codes of practice and good industry practice
at the time in many previous decisions published on our website.
Bearing this in mind, I need to decide whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its
dealings with Mr D when it processed the relevant payments.
Mr D made all the payments by CHAPS in a Barclays branch. Mr D says he was told by
Barclays this was the safest way to make the payments. Ive thought about whether the
initial and subsequent transfers Mr D made were out of character and unusual.
The initial payment of £100,000 was unusual and extremely large compared to other
payments Mr D had made from his account in the previous six months. While Mr D had
made other payments for relatively large amounts these were still for considerably less value
than the payment made to the fraudulent company, and they were to known payees or his
own accounts. Mr D had also not made a payment to the company before. So, Im
persuaded that it wasnt typical of how the account was usually run and so, I think it ought to
have caused the Barclays advisor in branch to be concerned that Mr D might have been at
risk of financial harm.
With all of the above in mind I think Barclays ought to fairly and reasonably have asked
additional questions in branch to satisfy itself that Mr D wasnt likely to be at risk of financial
harm. I should be clear from the outset; I cant know for certain how events wouldve
transpired if the Barclays advisor had handled things differently and intervened
appropriately. So, I must reach a conclusion based on the balance of probabilities and thatconclusion must be informed by the available evidence.
In these particular circumstances, in order to meet its obligations summarised above, I would
reasonably expect Barclays to have asked Mr D who the payment was for, what it was for,
and for the basic surrounding context, and to then have proceeded appropriately from there,
with the intention to disturb or unearth a potential fraud or scam. Mr D hadnt been coached
by the scammer(s) on how to answer any questions from his bank about the payment (which
is sometimes the case with scams), so I think it more likely than not he would have
answered Barclays questions freely. Bearing this in mind, I think it would have been
appropriate for Barclays to also question Mr D around how he had heard about the
investment, what rate of return was expected or guaranteed, and what he knew about the
company/people he was dealing with. I think it would have come to light from this that Mr D
was intending to invest in digital currency and later on in luxury watches. At the time,
Barclays should have been well aware of the possibility of digital currency scams and Mr Ds
mention of investing in such a product ought to have prompted further questions.
It would or ought to have been straightforward for Barclays to talk to Mr D about the detail of
these types of scams and how they typically happen. And I think it fairly and reasonably
ought to have informed him of the steps he needed to take to protect himself. And to have
given him advice in line with the actions it was suggesting its customers could take to protect
themselves on its website.
Ive then gone on to think about what difference the intervention wouldve likely made had
appropriate questions been posed to Mr D.
Both Mr D and Barclays have confirmed that Mr Ds usual investments were in property. He
has no experience in buying luxury watches or digital currency. Had Barclays established
this (which I dont think would be unreasonable as part of an appropriate conversation), Im
persuaded Mr D wouldve likely been convinced to hold off sending any payments until more
research had been done or he had seen some of the watches he was interested in
purchasing. As we now know there were no watches, its likely Mr D wouldve held off
sending any money all together. Seeing the goods, youre intending to purchase is one of
the bits of advice Barclays gives on its website, so I dont think its unreasonable to say this
is what it should have advised Mr D here also, along with general warnings about fraud and
scams of this nature, and how best to protect himself.
Although no contact has been made to the retailer of the watches in connection to this
complaint, information is readily available on the internet and through news articles
regarding this fraudster. In those articles the company affiliated to the sale of the watches
has confirmed it had no relationship or agreement with the company involved in the fraud.
So, Im satisfied it wouldve been difficult for the fraudster to produce examples of what Mr D
thought he was purchasing, even more so given they were very high-end watches.
So even though the scam was persuasive to Mr D at the time, Im satisfied that if Barclays
had done what it reasonably ought to have done at the time (to meet its obligations
summarised above), it really ought to have been able to cause sufficient concern in Mr Ds
mind so as to, at least, make him think twice, and ultimately conclude that the risk of
proceeding was too high to accept.
It follows that Im satisfied that it is more likely than not that if Barclays had acted as it
reasonably ought to have done, Mr D wouldnt have made the first payment to the scam nor,
it follows, any of the subsequent payments.
RecoveryGiven what Ive explained above, theres no need for me to consider whether Barclays ought
to have done more to help Mr D recover the payments (since I think if Barclays had done
what it ought to have done at the time of the first payment, none of the payments would likely
have been made). For the sake of completeness, however, although there is no record of Mr
D visiting a Barclays branch in 2018, its clear he stopped making payments to the fraudulent
company around the same time. And Im satisfied that it would have been clear to Mr D at
this point that he had most likely been the victim of a scam. I think its more likely than not
that at this point that Mr D, especially given the amount of money he had lost, wouldve
attempted to recover it through his bank (as hes said he did). So, I have no reason to
disbelieve Mr D when he said he visited the branch at this point. And I cant see that
Barclays at this point logged the potential fraud or made any attempt to recover any of the
funds. This may or may not have made a difference to whether the funds were recoverable
from the beneficiary bank. But for the reasons Ive explained, theres no need for me to
consider this further.
Should Mr D bear some responsibility for his loss?
Ive thought carefully about whether it would be fair and reasonable to hold Mr D partially
responsible for the loss he has suffered. And on balance, in the individual circumstances of
this case, Im minded to say it wouldnt.
Barclays have raised a number of things it thinks Mr D couldve done himself to prevent his
loss. But Im not satisfied a reduction in compensation is appropriate here. In my view, it was
the failure of Barclays to have an appropriate conversation with Mr D at the time of the first
payment instruction that really caused the loss. This was a sophisticated scam whereby
given the presentation of the scammer and the meetings and locations involved, its
understandable how Mr D was drawn into things. This was a very large amount of money for
Mr D to invest, and I dont think he would have done so if hed foreseen the possibility of it
being a scam. And Im not persuaded that the measures Barclays has said it thinks Mr D
could or should have taken himself at the time would have most likely led Mr D to
establishing the type of scam, he ended up being a victim of without intervention advice from
Barclays at the time of payments. I say this as an address change or a company carrying a
loss in my eyes wouldnt alert someone to the possibility of a scam when he had already
been convinced of the legitimacy of the company by other more elaborate means.
Companies often have different registered addresses to those that they use day to day. And
a company losing money also doesnt mean the company is necessarily involved in a scam.
Ive also gone on to think about the point at which I think Mr D ought to have realised he had
fallen victim to a scam and whether he shouldve stopped making payments before he did.
Mr D had been the victim of a sophisticated scam over a very short space of time. Although
it was a short amount of time, a lot had happened in that period including ten meetings with
the director of the company. Mr D had been supplied with brochures, a legitimate platform to
hold his money, as well as invites to parties at a luxury car dealership of which he attended
one. Without some sort of intervention by the bank, Im not persuaded Mr D had any reason
to stop sending payments until the company itself started arousing suspicion by delaying Mr
Ds first purchase.
In assessing what would be fair compensation, an ombudsman should look to put a
consumer as close to the position they would be in now, had a firm/business acted
accordingly, and prevented a loss from happening.
In this case Im satisfied this means that appropriate compensation would be for Barclays to
refund Mr D the rest of the payments he lost, so that he has then received a full refund of the
£575,000 he lost to the scam  because, as Ive explained, I dont think Mr D would have lostthis money if Barclays had done what it reasonably ought to have done. It would also be
appropriate for Barclays to pay Mr D interest on each payment it hasnt yet refunded from
the date of the payment to the date of settlement, to compensate Mr D for being deprived of
these funds since he lost them. Ive thought carefully about how that interest should be
calculated. To fund the payments to the scam Mr D liquidated money from a number of
different investments, and in this case its difficult to know exactly what would have
happened with the money if Mr D had not fallen victim to the scam. In a situation like this I
dont think its unreasonable for interest to be calculated at 8% simple per year. This has
long been our approach to suitable interest where the consumer has been deprived of the
use of funds (which Mr D has, given he lost it to the scam).
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/interest on costs that I consider
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation is £575,000. My
decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr D £160,000 plus 8% simple interest.
Recommendation: I think fair compensation is more than £160,000, so I recommend that
Barclays Bank UK PLC pays Mr D the balance plus 8% simple interest.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Barclays Bank UK PLC
doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr D can accept my decision and go
to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to get independent legal advice before
deciding whether to accept this decision.
Both Mr D and Barclays responded to say they accepted my provisional findings and had 
nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given the responses to my provisional decision, and there being no further information for 
me to consider, I see no reason to depart from the outcome I reached. So, for the reasons 
set out above, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Putting things right
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation is £575,000. My
decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr D £160,000 plus 8% simple interest.
Recommendation: I think fair compensation is more than £160,000, so I recommend that
Barclays Bank UK PLC pays Mr D the balance plus 8% simple interest in line with how Ive 
described it above.
If Barclays considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should also give Mr D a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint against Barclays Bank UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman