DRN-3698693
The Complaint
Mr G says that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner Finance) 
(BPF) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with claims under Sections 75 and 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to the purchase of two holiday products in 
March 2009 and 2011.
Background to the Complaint
Mr G purchased membership of a holiday club in March 2009 and 2011 from a third party 
(the Supplier) using finance from BPF to help make those purchases (the Credit 
Agreements)  which BPF says were settled in March 2011 and December 2012 
respectively.
Unhappy with what happened, Mr G  using a professional representative (PR)  made 
claims for misrepresentation, a breach of contract and an unfair relationship under Sections 
75 and 140A of the CCA in February and March 2021 (the Letters of Claim). The reasons 
for those claims are familiar to both sides. So, I wont repeat them here. But its helpful to 
mention that both Letters alleged that the right affordability checks hadnt been carried out.
BPF treated those claims as complaints and issued Mr G with its final response in March 
2021. And, in summary, BPF thought that all of the CCA claims were out of time under the 
Limitation Act 1980 (the LA).
A complaint was then referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service. It was looked at by an 
investigator. And she concluded, in summary, that:
1. The claims for misrepresentation and an unfair relationship were made out of time under 
the LA.
2. There wasnt any evidence that the contracts between Mr G and the Supplier had been 
breached.
PR disagreed. So, the investigator referred the complaint for an ombudsmans decision and 
passed it to me.
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) in August 2022. In summary, I found that the claims for 
misrepresentation and an unfair relationship were likely to have been made out of time under 
the LA. And I wasnt persuaded that the allegations of breach of contract and unaffordable 
lending should succeed.
BPF had nothing further to add in response to my PD. Mr G withdrew his complaint insofar 
as it relates to the purchase in 2009. But PR responded at length on his behalf in relation to 
the purchase in March 2011 (the Time of Sale). And its response can be summarised as 
follows:
The Supplier went into liquidation in January 2020 and was unable to provide the product 
sold to Mr G as a result. The fact that the resorts named on the purchase agreement are 
open and run by a different management company after the Suppliers liquidation is 
flawed in law. Mr Gs contract is with the Supplier and its liquidation means that it can no 
longer be party to an ongoing contract. This very fact means that Mr Gs rights under the 
contract were taken away as he cant sue the management company for enforcement, 
specific performance or damages. The physical availability of holiday accommodation in 
no way cures the breach of contract or restores Mr Gs contractual rights.
Mr G attempted to sell his membership but wasnt able to. So, theres clearly a breach of 
contract because there exists no facility to sell his membership if required.
PR said: The contract terms alleged to have been breached included express or implied 
terms of the timeshare purchase and loan agreements that [the Supplier] or its 
associated entities: a. would comply with applicable UK and European legislation 
affecting timeshare products sales and marketing. Properly construed, this was the effect 
of the timeshare agreements and loan agreements read together; b. would provide key 
information about the product in good time before entering into the contract to comply 
with article 12 of the 2010 Regulations or the European Directive provision of similar 
effect; c. would comply with applicable English and European consumer credit 
legislation. [] These breaches relate to the conduct of the initial sales and loan 
application process. They will be found to have occurred at the time and date of each 
sale and loan transaction. It is very clear that the [] breach of contract and the damage 
occurred at the date that the transaction is entered into for the purpose of the 1980 Act. 
[]
The contractual terms relative to maintenance charges were contained in lots of 
documentation and were neither plain nor intelligible  nor did they accurately describe 
Mr Gs liabilities. The contract in question tied Mr G into increasing liabilities until 2054 or 
death through the use of unfair contract terms  which werent disclosed. Yet Mr G didnt 
have access to professional advice or the ability to access that advice at the Time of 
Sale1. This means that the limitation period is postponed until he could exercise 
reasonable diligence and make himself aware of the facts as per Sections 32(1)(b) and 
32(2) of the LA. Mr G became aware that he had cause for complaint in October 2020 
when he sought advice on this matter for the first time. This is the date of knowledge for 
the purpose of the six-year limitation period.
Mr G is not a sophisticated buyer and only discovered the actual characteristics of the 
holiday product he bought many years later. The fact that Mr Gs holiday product was a 
long-term (nearly perpetual) contract with unlimited liability for management charges was 
concealed at the Time of Sale.
The Supplier marketed and sold Mr Gs membership as an investment in breach of 
Regulation 14(3) of the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts 
Regulations 2010 (the Timeshare Regulations). This was deliberately concealed from 
Mr G. So, Section 32 of the LA gave him more time to make his Section 140A claim.
The Supplier failed to provide clear, comprehensive, accurate and sufficient information 
to allow Mr G to make an informed decision. And that was deliberately concealed by the 
Supplier in circumstances such that the facts were unlikely to be discovered for some 
time (if at all).
Each and every annual management charge creates a fresh right of action by Mr G in 
relation to his claims for misrepresentation, breach of contract and an unfair relationship 
between him and BPF.
The existence and amount of commission paid by BPF to the Supplier (or the credit 
broker if different) were concealed at the Time of Sale. And the amount and calculation 
of commission continues to be the subject of non-disclosure  which means that the 
limitation period was suspended under Sections 32(1)(b) and 32(2) of the LA until Mr G 
could be made aware of those facts. He could only become aware of the Suppliers non-
disclosure when he sought professional advice in October 2020.
1 This is a point that I recognise PR makes more generally throughout its response to my PD.The Credit Agreement entered into by BPF and Mr G has all the hallmarks of an 
unaffordable loan when the APR was 9.1% and mortgage interest rates were around 
3.5%. No affordability checks were carried out. BPF hasnt disclosed the checks it 
carried out in relation to the loan in question. Those checks will contain facts that are 
relevant to whether there was an unfair debtor-creditor relationship. But as Mr G hasnt 
been able to discover the terms or nature of the affordability assessment, the limitation 
period is postponed under Sections 32(1)(b) and 32(2) of the LA.
The unfair debtor-creditor relationship between Mr G and BPF was based on its 
concealment of the Suppliers unlawful sales practices (including the introduction of a 
loan based on false statements) and amounted to a breach of duty under Section 32 of 
the LA.
There are exceptional circumstances that mean Mr G could not reasonably have 
discovered a claim to recover money from BPF.
It can be argued that, when the Supplier acted as a credit intermediary on behalf of BPF, 
it can be held liable for the Suppliers acts and/or omissions under Section 56 of the 
CCA. 
The terms of the contract allegedly breached include express or implied terms relating to 
various provisions of the Timeshare Regulations  which the Supplier breached.
To conclude that there had been deliberate concealment under Section 32(1)(b) of the 
LA, there doesnt have to have been a free-standing contractual, tortious or fiduciary duty 
to disclose a fact. It is sufficient if the non-disclosure was part of an unfair credit-debtor 
relationship as this was a breach of a relevant duty: see Canada Square Operations Ltd 
v Potter [2021]. A purchaser doesnt have to show that the Supplier knew that 
concealment gave rise to a cause of action. Its enough that the concealment was 
unconscionable  which means that the Supplier concealed something and was reckless 
as to whether it had committed an actionable wrong.
Affordability of Borrowing
The complaint about a defective creditworthiness assessment is part of a claim for 
relief in light of an unfair debtor-creditor relationship. And it isnt time barred because of 
the effect of Sections 32(1)(b) and 32(2) of the LA.
BPF were under a duty to carry out a satisfactory affordability assessment. Its failure to 
do so was a deliberate breach of its duty in circumstances in which it was unlikely to be 
discovered for some time  such that this is a key element of Mr Gs complaint under the 
unfair relationship provisions of the CCA. 
As the deadline for responses to my PD has been and gone, the complaint was passed back 
to me to consider for a Final Decision. As Mr G has withdrawn his complaint about the 
purchase in 2009, all Im now concerned with are the claims and complaint in relation to the 
purchase at the Time of Sale.My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, I still dont think this complaint should be upheld.
Before I explain why, I want to set out my role as an ombudsman. It isnt to address every 
single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and reasonable given 
the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to what I 
think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and my reasons for reaching 
them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, I will continue to keep in 
mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to this complaint, when 
doing that.
And when evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Section 75: Breach of Contract
The contractual documentation Ive still only seen from the Time of Sale is Mr Gs purchase 
agreement (the Purchase Agreement)  which provided access to the Beverley Hills Club 
resort. 
The Letters of Claim both said that the Supplier was in liquidation and couldnt provide the 
service it sold to Mr G. So, as far as he and PR were and are concerned, there had been a 
breach of contract.
BPF told an investigator on 16 November 2021 that the Beverly Hills Club resort remained 
open and Mr G was still able to use it. So, it didnt think the Suppliers liquidation had led to a 
breach of contract.
In response to my PD, PR says that the fact that the resort named on the Purchase 
Agreement is open and run by a new management company after the Suppliers liquidation 
is flawed in law. Instead, PR says that, because Mr Gs contract is with the Supplier, its 
liquidation means that it can no longer be party to an ongoing contract. And, in PRs view, 
that means Mr G lost his rights under the contract as he cant sue the management company 
for enforcement, specific performance or damages  which is a breach of contract that the 
actual availability of holiday accommodation in no way cures or restores.
I note that PR still hasnt pointed to anything under the Purchase Agreement that Mr G was 
entitled to before the Suppliers liquidation and stopped being entitled to after it  nor has PR 
pointed to any other term of the Agreement it says was breached. Furthermore, if the rights 
and obligations under the Agreement were assigned to the new management company, 
which I understand to be the case, I cant see why Mr G wouldnt be able to take action for 
any breach of contract against that company and ask for enforcement, specific performance, 
damages or any other remedy that would be appropriate and/or legally available.However, even if PR is right about Mr G not being able to sue the new management 
company (which it hasnt shown is the case), I find PRs argument difficult to square with the 
claim being made. After all, suing for enforcement, specific performance or contractual 
damages are remedies that follow from, and are separate to, the rights and obligations that 
the parties to a contract might have. And as PRs argument also overlooks the fact that Mr G 
has the right to make a like claim against BPF for breach of contract under Section 75 of the 
CCA, I cant say that the alleged problems identified by PR amount to a breach of contract.
Whats more, even if Im wrong about PRs argument (and I dont think I am), Im not 
persuaded that would make a difference to the outcome here anyway. In English law, the 
purpose of an award of damages for breach of contract is to compensate the injured party 
for loss, rather than to punish the wrongdoer. And the general rule is that damages should 
(so far as a monetary award can do it) place the claimant in the same position as if the 
contract had been performed. As a result, damages are compensatory and should be 
commensurate with the loss caused by the breach  such that they put the claimant in the 
position they expected to be in. And if, after comparing the position the claimant is in 
following the breach, and the position the claimant would have been in but for the breach, 
they arent worse off, theres unlikely to be any loss.
So, even if the contract between Mr G and the Supplier could be said to have been breached 
for the reasons above, I cant see why that could be said to lead to Mr Gs financial loss 
when PRs argument is based on an event that hasnt happened.2
PR says that Mr G attempted to sell his holiday product but found that he was unable to do 
so  which PR asserts is clearly a breach of contract because there exists no facility to sell 
the [holiday product] if required. PR also says that the weight of evidence discovered by us 
[demonstrates] that clients were advised that the sales departments were either closed or 
would be closed in the near future. But PR hasnt provided that evidence in response to my 
PD. Neither it nor Mr G have said anything specific about the timing of his attempt to sell his 
holiday product or how he went about making that attempt. And as Ive already said, the only 
contractual documentation Ive seen is Mr Gs purchase agreement from March 2011  
which is only a page long and doesnt include the terms and conditions that he and the 
Supplier agreed to. So, I havent been pointed to the specific term(s) that PR says was/were 
breached. And for these reasons, Im not persuaded that Mr Gs claim should succeed on 
this basis.
As for what PR says about the Suppliers breach of implied contractual terms as a result of 
its regulatory breaches, it acknowledges that those would have occurred in March 2011. And 
with that being the case, as the limitation period for a breach of contract claim is also six 
years from the date the cause of action accrued (see Section 5 of the LA), such a claim for 
this reason would probably be out of time under the LA anyway.
Overall, therefore, having considered everything that has been said and/or provided in 
relation to Mr Gs claim for a breach of contract, Im still not persuaded that theres anything 
BPF needs to do to put things right.
2 Im not aware of any attempt by Mr G to sue the company, that took over the management of the resort hes still entitled to 
holiday at, for enforcement, specific performance or damages.Section 75: Misrepresentation
A claim for misrepresentation against the Supplier would ordinarily be made under Section 
2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967 (the MA). And it was held in Green v Eadie & Ors 
[2011] that a claim under Section 2(1) of the MA is an action founded in tort for the
purposes of the LA. So, the limitation period expires six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued (see Section 2 of the LA).
Mr G made a like claim against BPF under Section 75 of the CCA and the limitation period
for that claim is the same as the underlying misrepresentation claim. So, this means that he 
had six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to make the claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point at which Mr G entered into the 
Purchase and Credit Agreements at the Time of Sale. I say this because he entered into the 
Purchase Agreement based on the alleged misrepresentations of the Supplier  which he 
relied on. And as finance from BPF was used to help pay for the purchase, it was when he 
entered into the Credit Agreement that he suffered a loss.
It follows, therefore, that the cause of action accrued at the Time of Sale  which means he 
had six years from then to make this claim. But as he didnt do that until 2021, his claim is 
likely to have been late. And for that reason, I still think BPF had and has a defence to it 
under the LA.
Section 140A: Unfair Relationship
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationship between Mr G and BPF was
unfair for the purpose of Section 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it if it
applies to the Credit Agreement  which it does.
However, as I said in my PD, the LA also applies to claims under Section 140A. It was held 
in Patel v Patel [2009] that the time for limitation purposes ran from the date the credit 
agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the time the claim was made. As the limitation period 
is six years, and as the claim in question was only made in 2021, I think BPF is entitled to 
rely on the LA as a defence to this claim too as I still think the Credit Agreement ended more 
than six years before the claim was made.
Grounds to Extend Time
As I suggested in my PD, on my reading of the LA, it provides for time to be extended in 
certain circumstances. But given the nature of Mr Gs claims, it doesnt do that simply 
because he didnt know that he could make his claims against BPF. The same can also be 
said about PRs argument that there were exceptional circumstances that mean Mr G 
couldnt reasonably have discovered a claim to recover money from BPF. After all, the 
finding that his CCA claims are out of time under the LA is not to be confused with the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (the FCA) six and three-year rule  which is one of the rules 
that determines the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction and permits the Service to 
consider exceptional circumstances when deciding whether or not it can consider a 
complaint. PR says that the Supplier received undisclosed commission from BPF. But had such a 
payment been made at the Time of Sale, I still havent seen anything to suggest that BPF 
would have breached a duty by making the payment  nor have I seen anything to suggest 
BPF was under a regulatory duty to disclose the amount of commission paid in these 
circumstances. The Supplier wasnt acting as agent of Mr G but as the supplier of 
contractual rights he obtained under the Purchase Agreement. And, in relation to the 
finance, based on what Ive seen, I dont think it was the Suppliers role to make an impartial 
or disinterested recommendation or to give Mr G advice or information on that basis. Whats 
more, the key question when determining whether Section 32 of the LA applies is whether 
any concealment was deliberate on the part of the defendant. And as I havent been 
provided with anything to persuade me that, on this occasion, the existence and amount of 
commission paid by BPF was likely to have put it on notice that not disclosing the payment 
to Mr G risked making their debtor-creditor relationship unfair under Section 140A, Im not 
persuaded that Section 32 of the LA is likely to be engaged as a result.
PR also says that the relevant limitation periods are postponed under Section 32 of the LA 
because various acts and/or omissions were deliberately concealed by the Supplier and/or 
BPF. For example:
The contractual terms relative to maintenance charges were contained in lots of 
documentation and were neither plain nor intelligible  nor did they accurately describe 
Mr Gs liabilities. The contract in question tied Mr G into increasing liabilities until 2054 or 
death through the use of unfair contract terms  which werent disclosed.
BPF didnt and hasnt disclosed the checks it carried out before lending to Mr G  such 
that he hasnt been able to discover the terms or nature of the affordability assessment.
The Supplier failed to provide clear, comprehensive, accurate and sufficient information 
to allow Mr G to make an informed decision [- which was] deliberately concealed by the 
Supplier in circumstances such that the facts were unlikely to be discovered for some 
time (if at all).
The fact that the Supplier marketed and sold Mr Gs membership as an investment in 
breach of Regulation 14(3) of the Timeshare Regulations was deliberately concealed 
from him.
Its possible that the contractual paperwork accompanying Mr Gs purchase agreement was 
lengthy and difficult to understand in places. Its also possible that the Suppliers disclosure 
at the Time of Sale wasnt entirely compliant with the relevant rules and requirements at that 
time. But that isnt the same as saying the Supplier deliberately withheld information from 
Mr G in a way that engages Section 32(1)(b) of the LA. And while PR has made a number of 
allegations in that regard, none of them are reliably corroborated by any supporting 
evidence. So, based on the limited information Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Section 
32(1)(b) is likely to be engaged for the relevant reasons PR gives.
PR says that, every time the Supplier invoiced Mr G for his annual management charge, 
those charges gave rise to a fresh right of action  which I take to mean that Mr G could 
make a separate claim for an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under Section 140A every 
time he had to pay his annual management charge. But, as Ive explained above, its the 
fairness of the relationship between Mr G and BPF that is in issue here. And as the limitation 
period runs from the end of that relationship, I dont think the fact that the annual 
management charges might have been paid by Mr G after the relevant relationship ended 
means that the limitation period could/can be postponed or extended. As for what PR says about BPFs creditworthiness assessment, I would also refer to Arcadia 
Group Brands Ltd and others v Visa Inc and others [2014]. In that case, the High Court 
rejected the claimants argument that Section 32(1)(b) of the LA extended the limitation 
period when a concealed fact had not been discovered prior to the commencement of the 
proceedings and was still concealed. The Court held that, if a claimant is in possession of 
facts which are sufficient to enable a cause of action to be pleaded, then the limitation period 
isnt postponed. Facts which are still unknown and arent essential to complete the cause of 
action cant amount to relevant facts for the purpose of Section 32(1)(b). And although the 
claimants may not have discovered everything relevant to the claim, the trigger to start time 
for limitation purposes is not the discovery of every potentially relevant fact.
PR is arguing that the relationship between Mr G and BPF was unfair simply because it 
hadnt carried out the requisite creditworthiness assessment. But that ignores what the 
Supreme Court had to say in Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance [2014] about the unfair 
relationship provisions not being a right afforded to a debtor simply because of a breach of a 
legal or equitable duty: 
Section 140A [] does not impose any obligation and is not concerned with the question 
whether the creditor or anyone else is in breach of a duty. It is concerned with [] whether 
the creditors relationship with the debtor was unfair.
As I said in my PD, knowing what checks BPF had carried out is only part of the answer 
when assessing the impact of its lending decision on Mr G. And the same can also be said 
of its impact on the fairness of their debtor-creditor relationship. After all, even if BPF had 
failed to do everything it should have done when it agreed to lend (and I make no such 
finding), unless the lending is found to have been objectively unaffordable for Mr G, such 
that it caused him a financial loss, I cant see how the relevant relationship can be said to 
have been unfair as a result of that lending decision. And as it would have been apparent to 
Mr G that the finance in question was unaffordable for him as soon as he found it difficult to 
repay, Im not persuaded that BPFs checks were essential to Mr Gs cause of action here. 
And with that being the case, Im not persuaded that Section 32 is likely to have been 
engaged.
Overall, therefore, having considered everything that has been said and/or provided in 
relation to the relevant CCA claims made by Mr G, I cant see a reason why hes likely to 
have had more time to make those claims in keeping with the relevant provisions of the LA.
The Lending Decision
The suggestion that BPF didnt carry out the right checks when it lent to Mr G was and is 
framed as giving rise to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under Section 140A. And Ive 
already explained why I still think the claim under that provision was likely to have been 
made out of time under the LA.
But as I said in my PD, lending money under a regulated credit agreement of the kind in 
question was an activity covered by the Financial Ombudsman Services Compulsory 
Jurisdiction at the Time of Sale. However, as Ive also said before, even if I were to find that 
BPF failed to do everything it should have when it agreed to lend (and I make no such 
finding), Id have to be satisfied that the lending was unaffordable for Mr G before also 
concluding that he lost out as a result. As I still havent seen anything to persuade me that 
was the case at the Time of Sale, I dont think this is a reason to uphold this complaint given 
its circumstances.Conclusion
Ultimately, its for the courts to decide whether or not the relevant CCA claims against the 
Supplier or BPF have expired under the LA. But, as far as I can see from the information 
available, claims for misrepresentation and an unfair relationship that might exist against 
BPF are likely to have been made outside the time limits set out in the LA. And given what 
Ive said about the breach of contract claim and the suggestion that Mr G was lent to 
irresponsibly, Im still not persuaded that BPF needs to do anything to put things right in this 
complaint.3
My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman
3 I note that PR says, in response to my PD, that when the Supplier acted as a credit intermediary on behalf of BPF, it can be 
held liable for the Suppliers acts and/or omissions under Section 56 of the CCA. But as Ive found (for the reasons set out 
above) that Mr Gs claims under Sections 75 and 140A are likely to have been made out of time under the LA, that particular 
point doesnt change the outcome to this complaint.