DRN-1488625
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc lost a cheque he attempted to pay into his account 
and then failed to assist him when he had a cashflow problem.
What happened
HSBC have an arrangement with a third party business which allows their customers to pay 
cheques into their account at the other business's premises.
Mr C used that facility to deposit a cheque of over £3,000, which was then lost. The money 
didn't appear in Mr C's account.
Mr C contacted HSBC to ask them for help to cover the temporary loss of the £3,000+. They 
told him he could extend his overdraft, extend a personal loan he'd already taken out, or take 
out a new personal loan - and in each case, that would be subject to the usual checks being 
carried out beforehand.
Mr C extended his existing personal loan (of just over £12,000) - by more than £9,000. He 
says he felt under pressure to do this. And he thinks HSBC should have been more flexible 
in the ways they offered to cover his cashflow problem.
Mr C complained to HSBC about the loss of the cheque and the way things were handled 
when he reported the problem - and about the fact he'd had to increase his existing loan.
HSBC apologised for losing the cheque. And admitted they could have handled Mr C's 
complaint about that better. They said they'd mistakenly closed down Mr C's complaint at 
one point, which led to delays and poor customer service.
They offered Mr C £450 for his trouble and upset. They added £30 to cover petrol expenses 
Mr C had incurred when he was raising the issue. And they said they'd pay back the 
interest on the part of his increased loan which covered the £3,000+ which had gone 
temporarily missing. This amounted to just over £330, which HSBC rounded up to £350.     
Mr C wasn't happy with this and complained to us. He wants HSBC to offer him the full 
extended loan at a lower rate of interest which normally applies to smaller loans. Our 
investigator looked into it and thought HSBC had already done enough to put things right.
Mr C disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Losing Mr C's cheque amounts to poor customer service - and HSBC have admitted this 
was entirely their responsibility.This was exacerbated by the particular circumstances. Mr C had to ask a recently-bereaved 
client to cancel the cheque and issue a new one.
And HSBC have admitted they made errors in the way Mr C's enquiries and complaint were 
handled. 
So, I can understand Mr C's frustration and annoyance. I also understand the inconvenience 
and stress he suffered as a result of not having the £3,000+ available to him for a period of 
time.
I don't think £450 is an unreasonable amount of compensation for that level of trouble and 
upset. And I think HSBC reasonably agreed to cover Mr C's petrol expenses. 
Mr C wanted HSBC to temporarily extend his overdraft to cover the £3,000+. They explained 
that they couldn't extend it temporarily and they'd have to do the necessary checks that the 
lending was appropriate. This is not only fair and reasonable, but not to carry out the usual 
checks would amount to irresponsible lending.
They also fully explained Mr C's alternatives. Having taken the time to consider these, he 
decided to extend his existing loan. He actually extended it by around £9,000, rather than 
just the amount to cover the missing cheque (£3,000+). And he's told us he used the extra 
money to pay off a loan with a third party at a higher rate of interest.
HSBC have provided the call recordings of their conversations with Mr C. There's no 
evidence that HSBC pressured Mr C into extending the loan. And it was clearly in Mr C's 
interests to extend it as far as he did so that he benefited from a lower rate of interest than 
he had on his borrowing with the other lender.
If having to borrow the £3,000+ to cover the lost cheque had caused Mr C financial loss, 
then I'd be asking HSBC to cover that. What they've already done though amounts to giving 
Mr C an interest free loan to cover the amount of the lost cheque.
As for the implications of Mr C further extending his existing loan by the additional £6,000, 
I'm satisfied that's not HSBC's responsibility. And in any case it appears to me Mr C made a 
logical and sensible decision to extend the loan and pay off his debt with the other lender, 
given the lower rate of interest.
HSBC's interest rates go up when a loan is over £15,000. Mr C extended his loan from over 
£12,000 to around £22,000. He wants HSBC to give him the whole extended loan at the 
rates offered for loans under £15,000, because covering the missing £3,000+ tipped his 
lending over £15,000.
I'm afraid I don't agree with that logic. If he had additionally borrowed only the amount of the 
cheque - and that took him above the £15,000 limit, I would agree with Mr C. In fact, he 
chose to take another £6,000 - which was to his clear advantage - and that alone would 
have taken his lending over £15,000.
So, in summary, I'm satisfied HSBC have acted fairly and reasonably in effectively charging 
no interest on the amount borrowed to cover the missing cheque. And I'm satisfied their offer 
of compensation for Mr C's trouble and upset is fair and reasonable.
 
 My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold Mr C's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2020.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman