DRN-2934765
The complaint
Mr B complains on behalf of a charity, H, that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) closed Hs 
account after unfairly requesting information H couldnt provide. He says Barclays actions 
amount to discrimination.
What happened
In November 2019, Barclays wrote to the trustees of H, asking them to make contact in order 
to provide certain information about H and its trustees. It said the address it had on file didnt 
match Hs registered address at the Charities Commission and that it didnt hold records for 
four of Hs trustees.
Barclays asked the trustees to provide various documents and answer a series of questions 
in order to allow Barclays to update its records and comply with its regulatory obligations. Mr 
B replied saying two of the trustees in question would find it difficult to get to a Barclays 
branch as they worked full-time. And that the other two lived oversees, one of whom was 
based in Africa and would therefore find it particularly difficult. He said none of the four 
trustees had access to the account, so questioned why Barclays needed the information.
Barclays explained it needed the information to complete its Know Your Customer (KYC) 
checks and gave details of lawyers both of the oversees trustees could contact in order to 
certify their identity. It said the trustees identity had to be confirmed either by them visiting a 
branch, or having their identification documents certified. Mr B asked Barclays to meet the 
trustees costs associated with complying with the request, but Barclays declined. 
After a few months, and because Hs trustees hadnt supplied the information Barclays had 
asked for, it decided to close Hs account and issue a letter giving 60 days notice. It said it 
would remove the notice if H supplied the information it had requested. H didnt provide any 
further details, and said Barclays was discriminating against one of its trustees on the 
grounds of race. Barclays maintained its position, so Mr B brought the complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She felt Barclays had taken reasonable steps to 
accommodate H, and that ultimately Barclays was entitled to raise the questions it did, and 
said H hadnt replied so Barclays had acted fairly in closing the account. She didnt find 
anything out of the ordinary in Barclays requests, and thought it had acted fairly.
Mr B didnt agree. He said Barclays had insisted on one of the oversees trustees travelling 
and said the charity couldnt pay for that as all of its donation went to charitable purposes, 
with the trustees covering any overheads or expenses. He also said it was illegal for the 
oversees trustee to travel due to Coronavirus restrictions, and that one of the oversees 
trustees didnt have a postal address, so it was futile in completing the rest of the 
information.
Because our investigator couldnt resolve the matter, Mr B asked for an ombudsman to 
review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr B is frustrated with Barclays actions. The charity is a worthwhile cause 
and its admirable that it chooses not to cover the trustees overheads with donations, 
preferring instead for the entirety of the money to go to charitable causes. And I appreciate 
Barclays requests caused H some difficulty.
With that being said, I cant reasonably uphold this complaint. The banking industry is 
heavily regulated, and Barclays is expected to take various steps in order to comply with the 
various regulations. This includes completing KYC checks, as it sought to do in this case. I 
can see that it gave Mr B a detailed explanation for the reasons it had to carry out the 
checks, and I can see it tried to help H by offering flexibility where it could.
Barclays agreed to deal with certain issues by post or email, and agreed the two oversees 
trustees could have their identification documents certified by a lawyer, instead of visiting a 
branch of Barclays. It gave Mr B a list of approved lawyers and invited him to suggest 
alternatives when Mr B explained that one of the oversees trustees couldnt travel to those 
Barclays had suggested.
Barclays also afforded H a number of months to comply with its requests, and confirmed it 
would withdraw the notice to close Hs account if it could provide the information Barclays 
had requested before the deadline for closure, which was 60 days after the date of the 
notice.
While Mr B continued to communicate with Barclays, he didnt ever provide the information 
Barclays was seeking. Its important to note that identification documents were just one part 
of what Barclays sought, and that it also required various documents relating to the trust, 
and information about the trusts purpose, none of which was provided.
Mr B says he didnt provide any of the information because, even if he had, he wouldnt have 
been able to satisfy Barclays requirements relating to one of the oversees trustees. He said 
that trustee couldnt meet Barclays identification requirements, and that she didnt have a 
postal address. He suggested Barclays actions were discriminatory in that they prevented H 
from retaining its account with Barclays because of Hs connection with a trustee based in 
Africa.
In terms of discrimination, its not our role to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or 
not  thats a matter for the Courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. In order to decide that, however, we have to take a number of things into 
account including relevant law and what we consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time.
So although its for the Courts to say whether or not Barclays has breached the Equality Act 
2010, were required to take the Equality Act 2010 into account, if its relevant, amongst 
other things when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint.
With that in mind, Ive thought about whether or not Barclays has acted in a fair and 
reasonable way in all the circumstances of this complaint. I consider that Barclays has, for 
the following reasons. Businesses like Barclays are entitled to review accounts in line with 
their legal and regulatory obligations when administering their accounts.This helps Barclays fulfil its obligations and ensure it safeguards both itself and the 
customer. The type of questions asked is dependent upon many factors including the 
product/service that is being provided, various laws and regulations.
Having reviewed what Barclays and Mr B have said, Im satisfied Barclays was acting in 
accordance with its legal and regulatory obligations when it reviewed Hs account, and 
raised the questions it did. And that it was entitled to do so under the account terms and 
conditions. Further, because H didnt provide any of the information Barclays had asked for, I 
cant say what Barclays would have done, had H provided everything, but for the one 
trustees postal address and identification documents. So, taking everything into account, I 
cant say it acted unfairly. 
Mr B has also said that travel was illegal where one of the trustees was based, because of 
Coronavirus restrictions. But, having considered everything Mr B has said, Im not 
persuaded that was a determining factor. Mr B had declined Barclays suggestions in relation 
to the trustee providing identification, and didnt seek to suggest any alternatives himself, 
save for not answering Barclays questions. So, it seems more likely than not that H wouldnt 
have complied with Barclays requests, even if there were no travel restrictions.
Finally, Im also satisfied that Barclays was entitled to close the account, and that it gave H 
sufficient notice. The terms and conditions of the account allow Barclays to close the 
account by giving two months notice. And theres no obligation on Barclays to disclose the 
reason for its decision, or extend the notice period. 
I note that Barclays had told H it would issue a notice to close, before the letter was sent. 
Which in effect gave H more notice than Barclays was obliged to give. So, I cant reasonably 
say it treated H unfairly by giving the notice it was required to give.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Sherry Hindocha
Ombudsman