DRN-1623766
 
complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them two 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policies. 
background
This complaint is about a single premium PPI policy taken out with an unsecured personal 
loan in 2002 and 2003. The latter loan paid off the balance of the preceding loan. The PPI 
covered only Mr T.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs T didnt agree with 
our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ts case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. I explain why below.
I have seen the loan agreements for the sales. The credit agreements describe the PPI as, 
Optional Credit Insurance. The agreements explain the cost of the PPI and show how that 
adds to the total monthly payment. So, I think its more likely that PPI was presented as 
optional and Mr and Mrs T chose to take it on each occasion and thats how it came to be 
applied to their loan accounts, even if they do not remember that now. 
Nationwide says the policies were sold without a formal recommendation. Ive been shown 
no documentary evidence that suggests that the policies were sold on an advised basis. So, 
Nationwide had to give Mr and Mrs T clear enough information about the policy so they 
could decide if they wanted to buy them. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But I dont think better information would have stopped Mr and Mrs T from 
buying the policies. I explain why I say that below. 
Mr T was eligible for the policies. And there are things that sometimes arent covered by 
policies like these, or for which the benefit might be more difficult to get than may have been 
expected, but it seems that Mr T wouldnt have been affected by those things. In saying this 
Ive thought that there has been no evidence provided to support the idea that Mr T may 
have been out of work for a significant period before the second sale. So I think he was most 
likely eligible for both policies at the times of the sales. And whilst Mr T may have been 
classed as self employed for the second sale, Ive looked at the terms that applied for the 
self employed under that policy and I do not think the terms were more onerous for Mr T than for an employed person. So, I do not think that better information about this would have 
led Mr and Mrs T to avoid the policy, most likely.
And I think that Mr and Mrs T had, most likely, a need for the cover the policies could 
provide. I say that as Mr and Mrs T told us Mr T had little or no sick pay he could have relied 
on and no other means they could have relied on if anything went wrong. But these policies 
could have paid out for up to a year if Mr T lost his job, and for the duration of the loan if he 
was too ill to work through sickness or accident. So, having considered this, I think that Mr 
and Mrs T could have found the policies useful.
The policies appear to have been flexible in that Mr and Mrs T may have got back a pro rata 
refund of the PPI premium if they cancelled a policy early. So I dont think better information 
would have affected their decision to take the policies.
And whilst I could understand it if Mr and Mrs T thought now that the policies were 
expensive, I think the costs were set out clearly on the agreements and I havent seen 
anything to make me think the policies were unaffordable to Mr and Mrs T or that they had a 
need to keep costs down. And given how long the policies could have paid out for, most 
likely, if Mr T made a successful claim, they could have got back quite a bit more than they 
paid for them. So, I dont think that better information would have affected their decision to 
take the policies because of this.
So, for the reasons given above, I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put Mr and Mrs T off taking out the cover. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint about Nationwide Building 
Society.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman