DRN-1433793
The complaint
Mr K complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) lent to him irresponsibly when 
increasing the credit limit on his credit card.
 
What happened
Mr K has a credit card with Halifax. At the beginning of 2015 the card had a credit limit of 
£700. Over the next several years the limit was increased on six different occasions. Halifax 
increased the credit limit in February and August 2015, bringing it up to £1,700. Mr K 
requested credit limit increases in March 2016 and July, September and December 2017. 
These requests were approved by Halifax and the credit limit after the final request stood at 
£10,800.
Mr K complained to Halifax in early 2019. He said Halifax had acted irresponsibly by 
increasing his credit limit and had not taken into account his circumstances or ability to 
repay. He said he had significant borrowing with a number of different lenders. He also said 
hed frequently made use of short-term lending. And he said hed used the credit limit on this 
card in full. So, Mr K felt this shouldve indicated to Halifax he would be unable to manage or 
repay the increased borrowing.
Halifax didnt think it had done anything wrong when it increased Mr Ks credit limit. It said it 
had carried out appropriate checks on each occasion. And it felt it had lent responsibly. 
Halifax did acknowledge that there had been a delay in dealing with Mr Ks complaint when 
he first got in touch with it. To recognise the inconvenience caused by this it paid Mr K £200.
Mr K asked our service to look into his concerns about the lending. An investigator 
considered the complaint but didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong. She felt it had 
assessed the limit increases correctly and thought Halifax had acted responsibly. She also 
felt it had acted reasonably in 2019, when Mr K indicated he was experiencing financial 
difficulty.
Mr K asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman and, as a result, it has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Businesses need to make sure they lend in a responsible manner. Mr K doesnt think Halifax 
was responsible, when increasing the credit limit on his account. Im conscious Mr K 
requested a lot of the limit increases, rather than them just being put in place by Halifax. 
That doesnt mean Halifax wasnt required to act responsibly when considering those 
requests though.
Before increasing or agreeing to a request from Mr K to increase his credit limit, Halifax was 
required to carry out appropriate checks. These include looking at how the increases might 
impact Mr Ks financial situation and reasonable checks to satisfy itself that hed be able to 
make sustainable repayments.
Halifax has said that it carried out checks using internal credit scoring, details of how the 
credit card was previously maintained, information from credit reference agencies and 
details of income provided by Mr K. Ive seen a summary of the information it says it used. 
Ive also seen a copy of Mr Ks credit file, which he provided, that Ive compared to the 
information Halifax used. Having done so Im satisfied that Halifax has taken into account all 
of the information that it has referred to when deciding whether to make, or approve, the limit 
increase. And I think the checks it carried out were appropriate in light of the credit limit 
increases being considered.
Ive gone on to think about whether Halifax acted responsibly in increasing the credit limit on 
Mr Ks card.
Mr K has said that part of the reason he thinks the increases in credit limit were irresponsible 
was because he was only making the minimum repayments to his account. 
Ive seen account statements for Mr Ks credit card from 2013 onwards. The statements 
show that the account has been managed well and there were no missed payments at any 
stage. 
I can see there were periods where minimum repayments were being made. But when these 
payments were being made, the account was still operating in line with the terms of the 
agreement between Mr K and Halifax. The agreement allowed minimum repayments to be 
made. So, I dont think this alone meant Halifax shouldnt have considered providing further 
lending. 
There were also periods the full statements balance was being repaid each month  
throughout most of 2015 when Halifax increased the credit limit twice. And I can see there 
were periods where the repayments, while not the full balance, exceeded the minimum and 
the balance was regularly reducing  particularly from August 2016 to June 2017. There 
were also several occasions where the balance was repaid in full or large lump sum 
payments were made  including in June 2016 and July 2017. So, based on what Ive seen I 
dont think the running of the account would lead me to conclude that the credit limit 
increases were irresponsible.
Mr K has said he also feels the lending was irresponsible because Halifax didnt take 
account of his personal circumstances, including that hed used short term payday loans 
frequently in the past and had outstanding borrowing with other lenders.
Ive seen Mr Ks credit file. And having done so I think Halifax did consider his 
circumstances. In the information it has shared which formed part of its assessment I can 
see that the figures used broadly reflect the information included in his credit file about the 
borrowing he had elsewhere and how this has changed.
Mr Ks credit file indicates he used a payday lender in November 2013 and February 2014. 
But there wasnt any further use of short-term lenders before the increases to his Halifax 
credit card credit limit began. And his credit file indicates that the payments to these short-
term lenders were made on time. 
I can see he used a payday lender again in March 2016 and that agreement was also paid 
on time. This was the only other instance I can see of using this type of borrowing during the 
period in which the credit limit on his Halifax card was increased. And the use of short-term lending doesnt preclude other lenders from agreeing to applications or necessarily mean 
that a customer has difficulty managing payments.
Mr Ks credit file shows he had unsecured lending with other businesses and that he took out 
more lending over the years, including some new credit cards between 2015 and 2017. But 
again, this alone doesnt mean Halifax acted irresponsibly by increasing the limit on his 
existing credit card. It would be expected to take account of this and think about Mr Ks 
ability to repay this and any new borrowing. And the information it has provided around what 
it considered indicates that it did. In addition, Mr Ks credit file also indicates that repayments 
to these other accounts were maintained. So, I dont think the information available to Halifax 
wouldve given rise to any concerns about how he was managing his finances. 
Mr K has said that he is now in a cycle of debt with a significant amount of borrowing 
outstanding and that he is experiencing financial difficulties. However, looking at the 
information available to Halifax when it increased his credit limit, particularly when he 
requested that it do so, I dont think there was anything that wouldve indicated to it that Mr K 
was in financial difficulties. The first note it has of being made aware of this was in 2019, 
after the limit increases had taken place. And while his overall borrowing had increased, 
again his credit file indicated he was maintaining repayments. 
So overall, based on the information Ive seen, I dont think Halifax acted irresponsibly when 
increasing the credit limit on Mr Ks credit card.
I can see that, once Mr K made Halifax aware of his financial difficulties, it provided him 
details of its specialist internal department that provides assistance to customers 
experiencing difficulties. And I can also see it provided details of external bodies that may be 
able to help. I think this is fair and I dont think it was required to do any more at that stage. 
Moving forward, if Mr K engages with Halifax further on this issue, Id expect it to try to assist 
and act positively and sympathetically to any ongoing issues he is having.
Turning to the customer service provided when Mr K first complained, I can see, and Halifax 
has acknowledged, that there were delays by it in dealing with his complaint. I can see it 
paid Mr K £200 in respect of the inconvenience caused by this. And based on what Ive seen 
I think that offer seems fair.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman