DRN-2669567
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold their home insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs T had a home insurance policy with Nationwide. A number of rings went missing 
in their home and they raised a claim for the lost jewellery. They said they were initially told 
the claim would be covered. 
But after chasing Nationwide a number of times they were told not all of the jewellery was 
covered. Nationwide told Mr and Mrs T theyd only declared the wedding ring on their policy - 
the other two lost rings werent specified. 
Other aspects of this claim have been dealt with separately by our service. But Mr and Mrs T 
say they were mis-sold the policy. When they took out the policy in a branch they were told 
they didnt need to declare the other rings or an expensive watch. They were told the items 
were valued at less than £2000 each and would be covered under the contents section. 
Nationwide said accidental loss wasnt covered by the home insurance policy. But Mr and 
Mrs T had taken out the optional out and about cover. Where an item of jewellery was 
specified because its value was over £2000 it was automatically covered. And that included 
for accidental loss at home or away.
Nationwide said insurance was sold without advice. And it was down to the customer to 
ensure the policy was suitable for their requirements. Mr and Mrs T were also sent an annual 
renewal notice with instructions to check the policy still met their needs. After speaking to the 
mortgage consultant whod dealt with Mr and Mrs T, Nationwide didnt feel the policy had 
been mis-sold or that theyd been given incorrect information. 
Mr and Mrs T werent satisfied with Nationwides response. So they contacted our service 
and our investigator looked into the matter. She looked at the policy documents and the 
application process Mr and Mrs T went through in branch. And she didnt think it was Mrs Ts 
fault the other rings hadnt been added to accidental loss cover at the time of sale. 
But she felt the policy renewal documents wouldve made it clear to Mrs T before the rings 
were lost. It was stated on the renewal documents that anything unspecified wouldnt be 
covered. 
Our investigator didnt think the policy had been mis-sold. But she felt Nationwide should 
compensate Mr and Mrs T for the trouble and upset theyd suffered because they hadnt 
been given correct information during the policy sale. And she recommended Nationwide 
pay £100 compensation in addition to the £50 itd already paid for the delay in responding.
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree. So theyve asked for an ombudsmans final decision. Theyd 
been specifically told in branch they only needed to specify jewellery over the value of 
£2000. So not seeing the two items on the renewal documentation didnt ring any alarms.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see our investigator has provided a comprehensive breakdown of the application 
process, so I wont repeat all of that here. But I will concentrate on the issues that are 
important to this decision. 
Mr and Mrs T applied for home insurance at a branch of Nationwide so unfortunately I cant 
be sure exactly what was discussed. But Ill take into account everything Mr and Mrs T and 
Nationwide have said about the application to see if Nationwide has done anything wrong.
Nationwide says it didnt offer advice about whether Mr and Mrs T should take out the policy. 
It was Mr and Mrs Ts responsibility to decide if the policy was suitable for their needs. But it 
did have a responsibility to make sure the information it gave was clear and understandable 
so they could make an informed choice. 
To do that Nationwide wouldve gone through a series of questions to help the applicant 
decide what level of cover was appropriate for their needs. And various questions wouldve 
been asked to help Mr and Mrs T decide about the level and type of buildings and contents 
cover they wanted.
The contents insurance policy provides cover for loss or damage due to specific causes 
including fire, storm, flood, escape of water, theft and subsidence. But accidental damage 
cover isnt included. And thats normally the case in most home insurance policies. It has to 
be selected (and paid for) separately. And I can see Mr and Mrs T didnt include accidental 
damage with their policy.
After Mr and Mrs T had decided on the contents cover they felt was suitable, a specific 
question wouldve discussed valuables such as jewellery and watches. Nationwide needed 
to find out if they had any valuables worth over £2000. And if they did they would need to be 
individually specified. 
But its important to realise this wouldve still been part of the contents cover. The jewellery 
and watches wouldve only been covered against loss or damage due to the specific causes 
listed in the policy. And that didnt include accidental loss.
Because Mrs T specified a ring valued at over £2000, Nationwide then asked if cover was 
required away from their property. This was known as out and about cover. It provided 
cover for accidental loss or damage anywhere within the British Isles, including at home, for 
specified items. So by selecting out and about cover Mrs T had added accidental loss for 
the ring worth more than £2000.
Mrs T says she asked about her other rings. Mr and Mrs T say Nationwide told them any 
items below £2000 would be automatically covered under the contents insurance. Although I 
cant be sure exactly what was said during the conversation I think its likely thats what 
Mr and Mrs T were told. I say that because in general the statement was true. The valuables 
(including jewellery and watches) section of their contents insurance provides cover for a 
total limit of £15000 and a single item limit of £2000. 
So Mr and Mrs T had specified the larger value ring under out and about cover and it added 
accidental loss protection to that ring at home and away. The remaining rings and watches 
were covered under the contents insurance for loss or damage caused by the specified 
causes such as theft, fire  but not accidental loss. And I think thats where the misunderstanding has arisen. 
Mr and Mrs T said they wouldnt have deliberately chosen to insure one ring but not the 
others  especially when they formed a set and were worn together. And I can understand 
why Mr and Mrs T felt Nationwides policy provided cover for all three rings. But it provided 
different levels of cover. 
If, for example, the rings had been stolen or damaged by fire then all three rings wouldve 
been covered  the more valuable ring under the out and about policy and the other two 
under the contents insurance. But only the specified ring was covered for accidental loss.
I do think Nationwide couldve made this clearer. Nationwide said Mr and Mrs T wouldve 
also been asked if they had any other items they wanted to insure away from their home  
for example phones or handbags. And Mr and Mrs T couldve added the other rings to the 
out and about cover at this stage. 
But Mr and Mrs T said theyd already been told the other rings and watch were covered 
under the contents policy. And if Mr and Mrs T had been aware that accidental loss would 
only apply to specified items I think its likely theyd have considered adding the other rings 
and increasing the premium they paid.
When Mr and Mrs T received their welcome letter and policy information I can understand 
why they felt the cover listed met their expectations from the meeting with Nationwide. But 
its the responsibility of the policyholder to check the details of the cover offered. 
The welcome letter said there were four documents in the pack the policyholder would need 
to review, including the statement of facts which showed the information Nationwide had 
used to issue the policy and the policy schedule which gave detailed information on the 
insurance cover Mr and Mrs T had chosen. 
The letter says it's really important that you're happy that the details about you and your 
home, and the cover you've chosen are correct. This could affect your policy and any claims 
if they aren't right. Give us a call on the number shown within 14 days of the date of this 
letter if there's anything not right or if youd like to change anything.
Our service expects insurers to send out relevant and clear information when a policy is due 
for renewal. And the renewal document does makes it clear that unspecified personal 
possessions arent included in the out and about cover. So I think if Mr and Mrs B had 
queried the wording of the documentation to confirm what cover was being provided the 
misunderstanding wouldve come to light and they couldve corrected it.
Based on what Ive seen I cant say Nationwide mis-sold the home insurance policy to 
Mr and Mrs T. But I do agree with our investigator that Nationwide couldve been clearer 
when providing information to Mr and Mrs T. And thats added to the distress Mrs T has 
been through when she discovered the loss of two of her rings wouldnt be covered.
Mr and Mrs T are also unhappy their fixed rate mortgage with Nationwide came to an end 
while they were waiting for this complaint to be resolved. I appreciate theyre unhappy the 
payment has increased by nearly £200 each month. 
But I think Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs T sufficient notice that the fixed rate was coming to 
an end. It was their decision to wait for the complaint process to be completed. And it 
wouldnt be fair to ask Nationwide to refund any of the additional cost.
Putting things rightI do understand why Mrs T would be so upset the home insurance policy didnt provide all of 
the cover she expected. I cant say Nationwide mis-sold the home insurance policy. But I do 
think it couldve been clearer when explaining the difference between the contents cover and 
the out and about cover. 
I can see our investigator has recommended Nationwide pay Mr and Mrs T an additional 
£100 for the trouble and upset theyve experienced. And I think thats the right outcome.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr and Mrs T £100 
compensation for their trouble and upset, in addition to the £50 already paid for the delays in 
responding to the complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman