DRN-3505077
The complaint
Mr J complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) declined to refund money which he says 
he lost as the result of an investment scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont go into every detail of 
what happened here. But in summary, between 2018 and 2019, Mr J made a series of 
payments to what he believed to be a genuine investment in cryptocurrency, totalling roughly 
£16,000. He now believes that he sent these payments as the result of a scam  but 
Santander do not agree and instead think it was more likely a failed investment. 
Early in 2018 Mr J decided he wanted to invest in cryptocurrency. He looked online and 
found a website offering brokerage services. He set up an account with them and called 
them, speaking to a broker about investing in cryptocurrency. He said the broker appeared 
to be very knowledgeable about their product. Believing things to be genuine, over the next 
seven months he sent a series of payments via bank transfer. He spoke to the broker over 
this period to get more information about the types of cryptocurrency on offer. He didnt have 
access to the cryptocurrency himself  he sent the money to the investment company and 
they said they invested it on his behalf but that he could have it transferred to his own 
cryptocurrency wallet at his request. He had a login so he was able to login and see his 
portfolio.
Mr J said the company reported having issues opening its exchange, but said they would 
transfer his cryptocurrency to their new exchange when it opened. Mr J said he later decided 
to move his cryptocurrency to his own cryptocurrency wallet, but when he emailed the broker 
they told him that the company were going into liquidation so they were unable to transfer 
the cryptocurrency to a wallet of Mr Js choice. 
He later attempted to withdraw funds from his account, and when he was unable to, thought 
he had fallen victim to a scam. He found contact details of a linked company, and after 
speaking with them funds totalling approximately £4,500 were refunded to his account. He 
continued to try and get his remaining funds back, but was unable to. The company he paid 
into is now in voluntary liquidation. Mr J reported the matter to Action Fraud but they have 
not been able to assist in retrieving his funds. 
Mr J complained to Santander. They declined to refund his losses because they did not 
agree that Mr J had fallen victim to a scam. They said that other customers had sent money 
to the same account and had not reported the payments as fraudulent. 
Remaining dissatisfied, Mr J brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
looked into what happened. Initially they were of the opinion that Mr J had been the victim of 
a cryptocurrency scam. They recommended that his complaint be upheld and all bar one of 
the payments should be refunded. This was on the basis they thought that all of the other 
payments were sufficiently unusual and out of character that Santander should have been 
alert to the fact that Mr J was at risk of fraud or financial harm, and should have intervened 
before processing the payments. In doing so, the investigator thought, Santander could have 
prevented the losses for all but that first payment. 
Santander disagreed as they maintained that Mr J had not fallen victim to a scam, rather a 
failed investment. In support of their position they said: 
The company was registered with Companies House; 
The company have gone into voluntary liquidation suggesting the funds he invested 
were going to a legitimate company and not a scammer; 
Mr J received a substantial partial refund over 18 months after his last investment 
payment was made  which would seem highly unusual if this was part of a scam. It 
also meant that the account was still open at this point, implying that the receiving 
bank did not think it was an account being operated by a scammer; 
The case was passed to another investigator, who reviewed the existing evidence and 
further evidence provided by both parties. They recommended that the complaint was not 
upheld as they agreed with Santander that it was most likely a failed investment rather than 
a scam. Mr J did not agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this and this simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. 
So, having thought very carefully about Santanders actions, Im not intending to uphold Mr 
Js complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for him, but I dont think I can 
fairly say Santander should reimburse him. Ill explain why. 
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr J, and I can understand entirely why he feels so 
strongly that his money should be returned to him - its understandable for such a significant 
sum. I also understand why Mr J feels he has been the victim of a scam. But not all cases 
where individuals have lost significant sums are in fact fraudulent and/or a scam. Its clear 
the agreement Mr J entered into did not go as planned and Mr J did not receive the 
cryptocurrency or the desired return of his funds or return on his investment. However, in 
order to be satisfied that Mr J had been the victim of a scam, Id have to be satisfied that the 
directors of the company were intent on defrauding him and Im not satisfied that I can say 
that is most likely what happened here. I say this because there appears to be a number of 
factors that dont carry the typical hallmarks of these particular types of scam or of fraudsters 
with an intention to defraud:The company does appear to have been a genuine company  it was registered with 
Companies House and appointed legitimate liquidators to dissolve the company. This 
is not what we usually would expect to see if the company had been set up with 
fraudulent purposes in mind. 
Cryptocurrency investments, and related services including brokerage, are 
unregulated  but unregulated does not mean it is always a scam. 
Mr J received approximately £4,500 back over a year after he made his initial 
investment, again this would not be usual in the case of a scam. Scammers tend to 
be out to maximise the amount of money they manage to get out of people  so 
whilst we do sometimes see scammers sending money to victims, it would normally 
be as a return on their initial investment in order to incentivise them to send more 
money to the scammer. I cannot see what the purpose would be in returning the sum 
after the payments towards the investment had already been made, and they did not 
appear to be asking him to further invest. 
It seems highly unlikely that a scammer would send additional funds so many months 
after receiving the scam payments in  in similar scams we would often expect to see 
a scammer refusing to return contact at this point in the scam, or trying to illicit further 
scam funds when their victim tries to withdraw their investment by telling them to 
cash it in they need to pay fees or taxes. 
Mr J reported that he was told the company was going into liquidation as soon as he 
contacted them to try and remove his funds on 9 April 2020  and that they had 
money in their accounts when they did this. He said this was evidence that they were 
a scam company with no intention of paying him. But it seems from the available 
evidence on Companies House that the company went into voluntary liquidation on 1 
May 2020, and was signed off by the liquidator on 20 April 2020. So I am not clear 
that there is evidence the timing was linked to his request. More importantly, whether 
they had funds in their account at this point would be a matter that would have been 
considered by the liquidators  and would not mean it was a scam such that 
Santander might be on the hook to refund the losses. 
Having reviewed the evidence sent by the receiving bank, I am not convinced that 
there is evidence the receiving account was being operated by a scammer. I am 
unable to divulge much detail about the beneficiary here, including how their account 
was run, for data protection reasons. But I have reviewed the information from the 
receiving bank carefully and it does not persuade me that the account was set up 
fraudulently, nor that there was any misuse of facility by the account holder. 
I am aware that the matter has been reported to Action Fraud, but at the time of 
writing I am not aware of any active ongoing investigations, by it, or any other 
authority, which adds to my difficulty in finding that there was an intention to defraud 
here. 
So, after taking everything into careful consideration, on balance, I cant safely say this 
meets the high legal threshold and burden of proof for fraud. Rather, this appears to be a 
case of a bad investment in a company that was ultimately liquidated resulting in none of the 
expected returns. This being the case, I dont think Santander have treated Mr J unfairly in 
not pursing this as a scam. 
And so I am not asking Santander to refund the money Mr J has lost, as I dont think 
Santander have done anything wrong in treating his circumstances as a civil dispute. I 
realise that my decision will be disappointing for Mr J and I dont underestimate the impact this matter has had on him. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think I can fairly or 
reasonably ask Santander to refund his money now.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman