DRN-1734486
The complaint
Mr C complains that N26 Bank GmbH loaded a Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance System 
(CIFAS) marker against him. And hed like the marker removed.  
What happened
In February 2019 N26 received contact from two banks informing them that Mr C had 
received fraudulent credits into his account  both for £140. 
Within a few days of the funds arriving online transfers and ATM withdrawals had been 
carried out. And no funds remained in Mr Cs account.
 
N26 carried out an investigation and on the 20 February 2019 closed Mr Cs account with 
immediate effect. 
N26 also loaded a marker for Category 6 Misuse of Facility with CIFAS. 
 
In July 2019 Mr C attempted to open another N26 account and an account with a third party 
bank. But after initially being successful these accounts were both immediately withdrawn 
and Mr C explained he was advised to contact CIFAS. 
Mr C complained to N26.
N26 didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint, said theyd acted fairly and followed their regulatory 
requirements. So he brought his complaint to our service.
 
One of our investigators looked in Mr Cs complaint. They asked him more details about the 
account activity. Mr C explained that a few days prior to being notified by N26 his account 
had been closed, hed been on a night out. And he thought it was likely hed lost his N26 
card at this point  along with his wallet. He initially explained to our investigator he wasnt 
sure what other information he had in his wallet, but he thought he had written down his N26 
password  for online banking  and his email address.  And it also contained his driving 
licence. During a later conversation he also explained his card PIN was written down too. 
Mr C explained he didnt notice his wallet was missing until N26 contacted him to let him 
know his account was being closed. And he confirmed having no knowledge of the account 
activity.
 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. They said they found it surprising Mr C had 
all of his N26 details on him in the wallet, considering he had no money in the account and 
had advised wanting the card to use on international holidays. Theyd also asked Mr C to 
provide evidence hed requested a new driving licence but he hadnt been able to provide 
this.
 
Mr C didnt agree. In summary he said:
-Its not fair to say its a surprise that he kept all of his N26 details in his wallet,
-That he thought hed kept his wallet with him, and only needed his driving licence as 
ID which is why he didnt notice it was missing until contacted by the bank.
-He did apply for a driving licence, but cant provide evidence of this.
-Just because the IP addresses are the same as ones hes used before doesnt mean 
he was involved. Instead its likely if someone from his home area stole his wallet 
then the IP addresses would be a match. And its also possible for a fraudster to 
amend IP addresses  and make it look like its coming from a different area. 
Our investigator responded to Mr C to ask if he could provide any evidence that its possible 
for IP addresses to be amended, but Mr C wasnt able to do this. 
As Mr C didnt accept our investigators outcome its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And in doing so Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why below. 
The marker that N26 have filed with CIFAS is intended to record that theres been a misuse 
of facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, theyre not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr C is guilty of a fraud 
of financial crime, but they must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion 
or concern. CIFAS says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, 
an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker should not be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
 
Ive seen evidence that fraudulent funds were received into Mr Cs account in February 2019 
and moved on to other locations. But, for me to be satisfied the marker was loaded fairly I 
need to be satisfied theres evidence that Mr C knew his account would be receiving the 
payments and knew or suspected they were illegitimate. Im satisfied this is the case, and I 
say this because:
-Once the fraudulent funds were received into Mr Cs account they were moved on via 
online transfer and ATM withdrawal. Mr C says he has no knowledge of the 
fraudulent funds, and didnt carry out the online transfers or ATM withdrawals. For a 
fraudster rather than Mr C to have carried out the withdrawals and online transfers 
theyd have needed access to Mr Cs debit card, his PIN and online banking details. 
Mr Cs explained that he thinks he lost his wallet just prior to the fraudulent funds 
entering his account. And his wallet contained his debit card, along with his online 
password, email and PIN which hed written down. Mr C says he took out his bank 
account with N26 so that he could complete international transactions without 
charges and never funded the account. I find it strange that when Mr C lost his wallet he had such a large amount of personal data relating to his N26 account on him. And 
I cant see a plausible explanation for this.
-Mr C said at the time he lost his wallet his driving licence was inside. Our investigator 
asked Mr C to provide evidence that he requested a new driving licence, but Mr Cs 
been unable to provide this. 
-I find it surprising that Mr C didnt notice hed lost his wallet for seven days until N26 
notified him that his bank account was being closed. I understand that Mr Cs 
explained he used his mobile phone to make payments, his main account debit card 
wasnt in his wallet at the time and he didnt need his driving licence during that 
period  but I still find it unusual he failed to notice.
-Mr Cs account was accessed via online banking on a significant number of 
occasions before and after the fraudulent credits entered his account. A number of 
different IP addresses are recorded by N26s online banking records, but all of them 
match previous IP addresses used to log in. Mr C argues that this would make sense 
if someone local to him had taken his wallet and card. Or someone could have 
altered where the log ins seem to be coming from. I accept both of these scenarios 
are possible  albeit Ive not seen any evidence to support this - but on balance Im 
satisfied this evidence indicates Mr C was likely involved.
I realise this will be frustrating and disappointing to Mr C, but for the reasons Ive outlined 
above Im satisfied that N26 have enough evidence to record a CIFAS marker against Mr C. 
And it follows I wont be asking them to do anything further here.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2020.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman