DRN-3690542
The complaint
Miss S complains that Vanquis Bank Limited irresponsibly gave her a credit card she 
couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In July 2019, Miss S applied for a credit card with Vanquis. She was given a credit limit of 
£500. Miss S says she struggled to repay the credit card and found it to be unaffordable. 
Miss S complained to Vanquis in March 2022 to say that the credit card shouldnt have been 
given to her due to her financial circumstances at the time of the application. She said that 
had Vanquis completed appropriate affordability checks it would have seen the credit was 
unsuitable for her. 
Vanquis didnt think it had acted unfairly. It said that it had completed reasonable affordability 
checks before giving her the credit card. It said that Miss S had declared an annual income 
of around £19,500 and the credit check it completed showed she only had £400 of existing 
credit. It said after estimating reasonable living expenses, it concluded that Miss S had 
enough disposable income to afford a limit of £500. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Vanquis had 
completed reasonable checks before lending and those checks didnt show any affordability 
concerns. On this basis he didnt think Vanquis acted unfairly in giving her the credit card. 
Miss S didnt agree. She said the credit wasnt affordable and she had to take out further 
borrowing to repay it. She said that Vanquis had written to her 18 months after taking out the 
card to tell her shed not been paying off enough of the credit. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before providing credit to Miss S, Vanquis were required to complete affordability checks. 
There isnt a set list of checks that needed to be completed, instead, Vanquis had to ensure 
that any checks it did complete were proportionate in these specific circumstances. In 
deciding what was proportionate, Vanquis had to take into consideration things such as (but 
not limited to): the type and amount of credit, the cost and Miss S circumstances. 
Vanquis asked Miss S questions about her circumstances. She declared she was a council 
tenant with benefit income of around £19,500 per year. She also said she had two 
dependents. Vanquis also completed a credit check which it says showed Miss S had 
around £400 in existing credit commitments. It also showed that Miss S did previously have 
a CCJ against her and a default. However, the CCJ was around six years prior to the 
application and the default was around five years prior to the application. 
Although Miss S had clearly had repayment difficulty in the past, a significant amount of time 
had passed since that adverse information had been recorded. As there wasnt any recent 
instances of payment difficulty with credit and she had very little in outstanding credit 
commitments elsewhere, I dont think what Vanquis saw on its credit check ought to have 
caused it to be particularly concerned about Miss S ability to repay a relatively low credit 
limit of £500. This is because her income of £19,500 appeared to be sufficient to sustainably 
afford reasonable living costs, her existing credit repayments and the new proposed credit 
limit of £500. Im therefore satisfied that Vanquis completed proportionate checks and Im 
satisfied that based on what it saw, it didnt act unfairly in lending to Miss S. 
I accept its possible that Miss S couldnt actually afford the credit and her circumstances 
may have been different to what these checks showed. But my role is to decide whether 
Vanquis acted unfairly in lending to her, based on what it knew or ought reasonably to have 
known. Given what Ive said above, I dont think Vanquis knew or could reasonably have 
known that Miss S wouldnt be able to afford the repayments. For this reason, I dont uphold 
this complaint. 
I note Miss S has now told Vanquis she is struggling and Vanquis itself appears to have 
noted concerns that Miss S might be in persistent debt. I therefore remind Vanquis of its 
obligation to treat Miss S fairly in relation to her financial difficulty. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman