DRN-3094163
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) has removed a 
temporary refund that it made, when he told it that hed used his card in an ATM, been 
charged, but not been given any cash. 
What happened
Mr C told us he tried to withdraw £360 from his Halifax account, using an ATM operated by a 
different bank, on 27 May 2021. Mr C said the ATM didnt give him any money, it just 
immediately gave him back his card. But when he tried again, the machine said he had 
insufficient funds in his account. Mr C said the money had been taken out of his account, but 
it hadnt been dispensed to him by the machine. 
Mr C told Halifax this, and it put a temporary credit on his account. But it took the money 
back after the owner of the ATM confirmed that the money had been dispensed. 
Halifax said that it had checked with the bank that owned the ATM, and that bank had done 
an investigation. The other bank said that the machine balanced. So Halifax said it wouldnt 
give Mr C the money back.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said there was no shortfall 
or surplus on this ATM. And she said shed also seen that the journal of the ATM showed no 
errors on the transactions prior to and following Mr Cs transaction.
Our investigator didnt think Halifax had been unfair or unreasonable.
Mr C didnt agree. He said he didnt get any money from the ATM despite the machine 
saying he did. He wanted an ombudsman to consider his complaint, so it was passed to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Before I reached this decision, I requested some further information from Halifax. And 
Halifax, in turn, requested more information from the bank whose ATM Mr C used. 
The information Ive received confirms what our investigator said. Halifax had checked with 
the bank whose ATM Mr C used, and its now checked again. That bank has confirmed that 
theres nothing to suggest this machine had failed or been tampered with in some way. And 
there wasnt any money left over at the end of the day which could be attributed to Mr Cs 
transaction. 
I think that Halifax has done what I would expect it to do in this situation. It has checked for 
any sort of mistake that could explain why Mr C wouldnt have been given money by the 
ATM. And it hasnt been able to identify something thats gone wrong. So I dont think that it 
was unfair or unreasonable for Halifax to then take back the temporary credit it had given to 
Mr C, to cover the disputed amount. 
I know Mr C will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman