DRN-3540215
The complaint
B, a business partnership, complains about the service provided by TSB Bank plc when it 
was attempting to access its account online.
What happened
TSB opened an account for B in October 2021. There had been a number of service issues. 
This included B not being able to log in online and operate its account. TSB settled the other 
issues and in a final response dated 16 November 2021 said that this issue with access had 
also been resolved. But this wasnt the position and B has been having ongoing issues with 
not being able to access its account online and wants that specific part of its complaint to be 
considered.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld, and B paid £250 in 
compensation. On 23 November 2021 TSB had said that a new internet banking number 
was needed. There was no record that this was actioned. B has had to call to get its 
transaction history which was impacting the business. It continued to have inconvenience 
and he said that TSB should contact B to sort this out. Although TSB had been in contact 
with B in February 2022 to try and do so, B said that the person involved hadnt had the 
background information. TSB wasnt able to provide a recording of that call.
TSB didnt agree. It said that one of its Digital Managers had called B and that the 
assistance was refused. It hadnt been given the opportunity to rectify the issues. The person 
calling didnt have any new login details for B as she wanted to find out if this information 
was the actual problem. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call B had with our investigator about what happened. And one of the 
partners explained that she had sent screen shots and screen recordings in the past of what 
happened when she logged in. And that she had discussed this with members of staff and 
that every time new log in details had been sent these hadnt worked. 
As our investigator says above following the final response it was identified that a new 
customer number was required. An email was sent to B about this and a note was to be left 
on the account for when B called. And TSB said that once your access is restored, I will 
consider this separate to the response given to you on 16 November and write out to you 
with my findings.
I asked our investigator to contact TSB and let it know that B told this service on 23 June 
2022 that it did now have access to the account. And inviting it to consider the position now. 
It didnt want to change that as it maintained it hadnt been given the opportunity to address 
things and was disappointed by this. 
From what I can see B had made multiple attempts already to resolve this problem. And had 
been wrongly told that this was resolved. As I say I dont see that it had a new number sent 
out following the final response and TSB specifically said that this didnt happen before B 
was called in February 2022.
There is no recording of the call as the member of staff used a personal mobile due to 
technical issues. But B said that it was unhappy that the person didnt have all of the 
background and said that she seemed rushed. 
Im satisfied that B was prepared to take reasonable steps before to resolve things. But I 
dont think those would extend to having to go through the same process multiple times with 
no success. And on balance I find it most likely that TSB still hadnt done enough to look into 
things before the call in February 2022. B also says it contacted the complaints team again 
following this call. I dont agree that it hadnt been proactive. I have no information from TSB 
about what the actual issue was with access and that has now been resolved. 
I need to think about appropriate compensation. B is a business. It has explained how it has 
been inconvenienced by what happened. We dont make punitive awards I have taken into 
account our published guidance about compensation. I have formed my own judgement and 
I consider that the recommended amount of compensation is reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require TSB Bank Plc to pay B a further 
£250 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman