DRN-3300053
The complaint
Mr S brings a complaint in his capacity as director of a limited company, S, about the 
decision made by ERGO Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft (ERGO) to decline a claim for 
damage under a Property Owners Policy.
What happened
In February 2020, a claim was made under Ss Property Owners Policy with ERGO when 
impact during refurbishment work caused an oil pipe fracture. This resulted in equipment 
continuing to work while dry, causing damage to the plant.
ERGO declined the claim, saying the equipment that was damaged wasnt covered, as it fell 
outside the definition of buildings. Mr S disagreed. He said the pipework and plant were all 
permanent fixtures  and that ERGO shouldve noted the plant and plant rooms during its 
inspection of the premises. 
Mr S complained to ERGO on behalf of S, but ERGO maintained its position. It said that 
based on its underwriting criteria, it wouldnt have offered plant and machinery cover under 
this policy and that a separate policy was available which did cover that risk.
As Mr S remained unhappy with ERGOs decision to decline the claim, he referred the 
complaint to this service. Our investigator considered the complaint, but didnt think ERGO 
had declined the claim unfairly. He said although S had made a fair presentation of risk to its 
insurer, and despite the cost of the machinery being included in the sum insured, and the 
fact that other insurers may have accepted the claim, this did not mean ERGO had to accept 
the same risk.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators assessment, so the complaint has now come to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
When claims are made in these types of policies, its for the policyholder to show that an 
insured peril has occurred based on the policy terms. My role is to determine whether or not 
the policy terms were applied fairly in this case, and whether the claim was therefore 
declined fairly.
Looking at the policy terms, I can see these cover damage to the following:
The building(s) situated at the address(es) specified in the Schedule which include;
a) landlords fixtures and fittings
b) annexes, gangways, outbuildings and extensions tenants improvements for which 
the landlord is responsible under the terms of the lease or other agreement under 
which the property is let
c) outbuildings, extensions, annexes, canopies, fixed signs, gangways, conveniences, 
lamp posts and street furniture
d) walls, gates and fences
e) drains, sewers, piping, ducting, cables, wires and associated control gear and 
accessories on the Premises and extending to the public mains, but only to the 
extent of Your responsibility
f) yards, carparks, roads and pavements, forecourts, all constructed of solid materials 
g) landscaping, excluding external ponds and lakes 
all belonging to You or for which You are legally responsible.
As the incident which gave rise to the claim involved damage to pipes  and the policy refers 
to piping on the Premises and extending to public mains  the key issue for me to 
determine is whether the pipework involved in the cold storage system should be treated as 
a part of the building under the above definition. 
Mr S says it should, in the same way that a standard heating system would be considered 
part of a building. And Ive considered carefully what hes said. But Im afraid I dont agree. 
The pipework damaged in this incident was associated with the refrigeration plant, and was 
not pipework associated with usual services to the building, which I consider to be a 
reasonable interpretation of Premises and extending to public mains. So I dont consider 
the plant pipework would need to be treated as part of the building insured.
Mr S says he doesnt agree with this interpretation, and that a clear exclusion or description 
should be used in the policy terms, if all pipes on the premises arent covered. Ive 
considered the photographic evidence provided  and its clear to me from the photos of the 
equipment that it must be considered plant and machinery, rather than a part of the building 
to which it is affixed. I say this because, although necessary for the cold store to function, I 
consider the compressors, motors and pipes to be far in excess of what a standard heating 
system would look like. And that a policy which covers plant and machinery would be 
required to insure such equipment. So I dont think a more detailed description or an 
exclusion would be necessary  as there is separate cover available for plant and 
machinery, which couldve been taken out.
Ive considered all the information Mr S has provided, which includes the opinion of the 
broker and the opinion of a cold store manufacturer. But these dont persuade me that the 
policy that was taken out provided cover for all the refrigeration equipment  because its 
clear to me that the equipment constitutes plant and machinery, and  as our investigator 
pointed out  it wouldnt be reasonable to separate pipes which are an integral part of the 
machinery, from the plant and machinery itself.
I appreciate what Mr S has said about obtaining what he thought would be the widest 
possible cover, and entering into an insurance contract which he believed would cover the 
structure as well as all permanent fixtures and fittings, including plant and equipment. But Im 
afraid that these are issues hed need to take up with the broker of the policy as these relate 
to the sale of the policy itself and not the claim. And so I cant consider those issues here, as 
part of a complaint about the insurers decision to decline the claim.
And although ERGO may have pointed out that a property owners policy for an owner 
occupied property was unsuitable for S, the policy was taken out through an advised sale by 
the broker, so it wouldnt fall under the responsibility of ERGO to check whether the policy 
sold was suitable. The inspection carried out by ERGO was a routine inspection to ensure levels of cover were appropriate for the building  not to determine the suitability of the policy 
as a whole.
While I do sympathise with Mr S, as I accept that a suitable description of the premises was 
provided to the broker, its not for me to hold ERGO responsible for issues regarding the sale 
of a suitable policy. I know it will come as a disappointment to Mr S, but for the reasons Ive 
given above, Im satisfied that ERGO didnt decline the claim unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman