DRN-2303733
The complaint
Miss C and Mr M are unhappy with the compensation National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) has offered to settle their complaint about a mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy taken out at alongside their mortgage. 
What happened
Miss C and Mr M applied for their joint mortgage in October 2001 and at the same time took 
out a PPI policy that was to provide cover to them both. Miss C and Mr M complained in 
2019 that the PPI was mis-sold. 
NatWest wrote to Mr M in January 2020 saying the policy was not suitable for all the parties 
to the mortgage and it offered to repay to him 50% of the PPI costs plus some compensatory 
interest. In total this came to £791.67. Miss C was not sent any letter or information about 
her part of the PPI compensation as a joint policy holder.
Miss C and Mr M were confused about the offer and outcome of their complaint so brought it 
to this service, just a few days after Mr M had received his final response letter.
NatWest acknowledged it had made an error and only set it up in Mr Ms name. NatWest 
notified this service that Miss C had been added to the complaint and initially said it was not 
upholding the PPI was mis-sold to her. 
During the course of this services investigation of the mis-sale, additional evidence and 
information was requested from Miss C and this was shared with the business. Having 
received this evidence, the business said it would uphold that the PPI was mis-sold to Miss 
C and it would offer her the other 50% of the PPI costs plus some compensatory interest.
Our adjudicator said what had now been offered in compensation to Miss and Mr M was fair. 
But Miss C and Mr M then indicated they wanted additional compensation for the errors and 
poor service NatWest had provided. NatWest has offered £50 for the error it made in not 
adding Miss C to the complaint at the start. 
But Miss C and Mr M remain unhappy with the compensation and have asked for an 
ombudsman to consider their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C and Mr M complained to NatWest about a number of financial products. The 
information provided, indicates initially the complaint about the mortgage was made in July 
2019 by Mr M alone. In August 2019 a further complaint about the joint mortgage was 
received by NatWest in joint names. NatWest made an error as it seems to have assumed 
the second complaint was a duplicate of the first and it wasnt noticed that Miss C had been 
included in the second complaint, so she was never added to the complaint.
When considering if the PPI was mis-sold NatWest only looked at Mr Ms situation relating to 
the joint mortgage and PPI and then offered to pay him compensation of a refund of 50% of 
the premiums paid for the policy, this being for the costs of the cover for him, plus some 
compensatory interest. 
As Miss C hadnt been added correctly as a complainant, NatWest did not consider her 
circumstances and whether the cover she had under the policy had been mis-sold. Once it 
was pointed out by this service that this was a joint mortgage, joint policy and joint complaint 
NatWest acknowledged it had made an error and the complaint should have been set up in 
joint names.
NatWest then amended its complaint record and added Miss C and looked at the complaint 
to decide if her cover under the PPI policy was mis-sold. Initially NatWest told this service it 
was defending the complaint as it didnt think Miss C had been mis-sold the PPI. This 
service then started to look at the mis-sale complaint from Miss C and more information and 
evidence was requested from her.
Although the investigation of the mis-sale to Miss C started later than that of Mr M, the 
information and evidence required from Miss C about her circumstances would have been 
needed, even if NatWest had not made the mistake at the start by not including her on the 
complaint. The only effect of the error made by NatWest was a slight delay in looking at 
Miss Cs circumstances. The error was not the reason additional information was requested 
or needed.
When all the information obtained was submitted to NatWest it agreed to uphold the 
complaint that the PPI was mis-sold to Miss C also. It offered her compensation worked out 
in the same way that NatWest had calculated Mr Ms compensation. 
When looking at calculating compensation for mis-sold PPI I expect a business to work out 
what was paid for the PPI. Where PPI is taken out with a mortgage it is generally paid by a 
monthly premium, so no interest is paid on the cost of the premium as it is paid direct by the 
consumer and not added to any borrowing. The business also has to compensate a 
consumer for times they were out of pocket for the PPI cost, so it has to work out some 
compensatory interest. That is what NatWest has done in this case.
The compensation offered to both Miss C and Mr M was made up of 50% for each of them of 
the total premiums paid by them for the PPI. Thus, refunding the total costs paid and splitting 
it equally between Miss C and Mr M. In addition, NatWest offered them both compensatory 
interest for the time they had been out of pocket. This is calculated at 8% simple interest per 
year from the date any premiums were paid until final payment is made. Her Majestys 
Revenue and Customs requires basic rate tax to be deducted from any compensator interest 
and this was done before payment.
The two offer amounts to Miss C and Mr M differ slightly as they were calculated at different 
times, so the compensatory interest amount changes. They have both been offered the 
same amount of premium refund, which is £376.32. this amount is made up of 21 monthly 
payments each of £17.92. The compensatory interest is then calculated for each of them on 
this amount to the date when the final settlement payment is made. 
Mr M has not accepted the offer made by NatWest and hasnt cashed the cheque he was 
sent. Miss C did accept her offer and cashed the cheque she was sent for £810.15. This was 
the total of the premiums she paid plus compensatory interest to the date of payment less 
basic rate tax.I would reassure Miss C that by cashing the cheque sent for the amount of compensation 
calculated has not in any way jeopardised the complaint and consideration of the amount of 
compensation due, as she has suggested. If I considered the wrong amount of 
compensation had been calculated and paid, then I would still direct NatWest to correct this.
I am satisfied that the approach taken by NatWest to calculate the compensation due to both 
Miss C and Mr M is in line with what I would expect. As Mr M did not cash his cheque as he 
wanted to await the outcome of this complaint, he is still technically out of pocket for the 
costs of the PPI. NatWest has indicated it will update the compensatory interest calculation 
before it makes the settlement payment to him on final determination of this complaint. I 
think that is fair.
With regards to the arguments put forward by Miss C and Mr M for additional compensation 
for the time spent in collating information and bringing the complaint to the ombudsman 
service, Im not satisfied any further compensation is due in this case, other than what 
NatWest has offered. 
NatWest did may an error in not adding Miss C onto the complaint when it received the 
second complaint form but when this was pointed out to NatWest by this service it did 
correct the complaint. This was an administration error and sometimes these do occur. But I 
cannot see this error has caused Miss C and Mr M any additional costs. 
 
It was only three days after Mr M received his offer letter that Miss C and Mr M submitted 
their complaint to this service and it seems they didnt point out directly to NatWest their 
concerns about this error, which could then have been rectified. A delay may have been 
caused before this complaint was set up correctly but because they were out of pocket for 
longer, additional compensatory interest has been paid. Therefore, the delay hasnt actually 
resulted in any cost or financial loss to them. 
NatWest has now offered £50 compensation to Miss C for any distress or inconvenience 
caused by its error in not correctly including her on the complaint when it received the 
second complaint notification, and I think that is a fair amount.
.
I note Miss Cs comments about all the time it has taken to collate information for her 
complaint once she was added to the complaint. But that information was required in any 
event, it would just have been requested earlier if she had been on the complaint from the 
start.
Whenever anyone brings a complaint against a business there is always some time and cost 
involved and I dont think Miss C and Mr M have incurred any more inconvenience or cost in 
bringing their complaint than the average complainant. 
So, I am not satisfied any additional compensation should be paid by NatWest, other than 
the £50 that has been offered, in the particular circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I am satisfied that the compensation for the mis-sold 
PPI that National Westminster Bank Plc has offered to settle Miss C and Mr Ms mis-sale 
complaint is fair, subject to the updating of the compensatory interest for Mr M to the date of 
final payment to him. 
And I am satisfied that the £50.00 offered to Miss C by National Westminster Bank PLC for 
its error in not including her jointly on the mortgage complaint is fair. So I am not directing 
any additional compensation for trouble and upset should be paid to Miss C and Mr M.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman