DRN-4078949
The complaint
Miss K complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay) irresponsibly granted her a credit card 
account she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Miss K entered into agreements with NewDay to have access to credit with two separate 
credit card accounts. The first was an Aqua account that was opened for her in July 2018 
with a credit limit of £600. The credit limit was increased on five occasions with the last 
increase being on April 2020, increasing the credit limit to £34,000. 
The second account was a Fluid account that was opened for Miss K in July 2020 with an 
opening credit limit of £250. There were no credit limit increases on that. 
Miss K started getting into difficulty with these accounts in early 2021. 
Miss K says that NewDay didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened 
each of the accounts. She says if it had, it would have seen that each one wasnt affordable 
for her as she didnt have enough income to make repayments.
NewDay offered to refund all interest, fees and charges that were added to the Fluid account 
from the date of opening. My understanding is that this has been credited to Miss Ks 
account with NewDay removing the small balance that was left as a gesture of goodwill. I 
also understand that NewDay will be amending her credit file to reflect this. 
But NewDay didnt agree that the Aqua account was unaffordable for Miss K. It said that it 
carried out a reasonable and proportionate assessment to check her financial circumstances 
before granting her the credit accounts for each card. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint about the Aqua account should upheld. He 
thought NewDay didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the account. 
As Miss K doesnt agree her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NewDay will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
I will only be considering the Aqua account in this decision, given that NewDay has offered 
to refund all interest, fees and charges added to the account from the outset. This is in 
accordance with our recommended approach to redress in these cases. From what Ive 
seen, it appears that Miss K has accepted this offer, that the redress has been paid and the 
account is now closed. All adverse information on Miss Ks file relating to his account is also 
to be removed, if that hasnt already happened. 
Before opening the account, I think NewDay gathered a reasonable amount of evidence and 
information about Miss Ks ability to meet the monthly repayments. This included completing 
a credit check and relying on the information shed included in her application. From its 
checks, NewDay found there were no defaults against any of her borrowing and nor were 
there court judgments registered against her. Ive seen shed had a default worth £400 
around three years earlier  which I wouldnt have expected to have an impact on her 
application for this account being accepted. However, just because NewDay carried out 
proportionate checks, it doesnt automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive 
thought about what the evidence and information showed. 
Im satisfied that the checks that were completed showed that the agreement was likely to be 
affordable to Miss K. I say this because Miss Ks card application details showed her as 
having an annual income of around £36,000, and as being a tenant with no credit owing 
elsewhere. So given her satisfactory financial history, the income shed declared and the 
relatively low opening credit limit shed been given of £250, I dont think NewDay acted 
unfairly when approving Miss Ks application for this card. 
Ive next looked at the credit limit increases Miss K was given. 
Looking at the first credit limit increase, from £250 to £600 in November 2018, Miss K seems 
at this point to have been managing her account well and was consistently monthly making 
payments that were substantially above the minimum that was required. 
Ive next looked at the next three limit increases, granted in November 2018, April 2019 and 
August 2019. I again see that Miss K was making monthly payments that were well above 
the minimum required each month. But I agree with our adjudicator that, given that the 
available credit was being increased significantly  up to £1,500, then £2,500 and then 
£3,250  NewDay ought to at least taken steps to find out more about Miss Ks monthly 
living costs and committed expenditure. 
Turning lastly to the limit increase that Miss K was given in April 2020  from £3,250 up to 
£4,000  I again think that NewDay ought to have found out more about Miss Ks financial 
situation. It would have been proportionate to look not only at her regular expenses and 
living costs, but also to find out more about other credit commitments she had. I say this 
given that her level of monthly payments remained broadly the same but she was now 
responsible for a relatively high credit limit, especially in comparison with her opening 
balance and initial credit limit increase. 
However, I think that had NewDay carried out further checks before granting the credit limit 
increases after the first one, it would likely have found that Miss K had enough disposable 
income available to meet her existing financial commitments whilst maintaining her account. 
I say this because the bank statements Ive seen from show its likely that Miss K had 
enough disposable income available each month to be able to at least meet her monthly 
minimum payment requirements, and probably more. I agree with our adjudicator that she 
had a monthly committed expenditure of around £800. I recognise that Miss Ks income was 
entirely from state benefits. But I can see that, broadly speaking, in 2019 and 2020 Miss K 
was receiving an average monthly income of around £3,500. Ive also noted that the account 
appeared to be managed well with no use of any available overdraft that I could see. It 
therefore seems that, taking into account her overall household income and shared payment of household and other committed costs, the credit limit increases appear to have been 
affordable. 
It follows that, if NewDay had completed proportionate checks before granting each of the 
credit limit increases after the first one, I think its likely it would have found this to be the 
case. That means I dont consider NewDay acted unfairly in granting Miss K her Aqua 
account. 
In conclusion, having looked carefully at all the available evidence and information, I dont 
think Miss K has been able to demonstrate that her Aqua card agreement with NewDay was 
likely to have been unaffordable. I am very sorry to learn that Miss K is in poor health and 
had suffered some very traumatic personal circumstances. But I havent seen enough to 
reasonably conclude that NewDay ought to have known she would struggle to make the 
repayments on this card.  
Im therefore not persuaded that NewDay acted unfairly in approving the Aqua account. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman