DRN-4183238
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the service QIC Europe Ltd provided when he made a storm damage 
claim under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
whats happened.
Mr R has a buildings insurance policy which is underwritten by QIC. 
Mr R made a claim under his policy for damage to his propertys roof which he says 
was caused by a storm. 
QIC sent a surveyor to assess the damage and determine the cause of it. The 
surveyor said the damage to the roof had occurred due to wear and tear and gradual 
deterioration over time. 
Following the surveyors report, QIC declined the claim for the external roof stating 
the policy excludes damage which occurs gradually. 
Mr R disagreed with QICs decision and brought a complaint to this Service saying 
his claim had been unfairly declined. The complaint was made too late, and I issued 
a decision explaining this Service couldnt, therefore, consider it. 
Mr R subsequently complained to QIC about the surveyors conduct and use of a 
camera pole to take photographs and assess the claim. 
In its final response, QIC said whilst it couldnt verify Mr Rs comments about the 
surveyors conduct, it had referred his concerns to the managing surveyor. It added 
the surveyors use of the camera pole was in line with standard industry practice. It 
also explained Mr R had been correctly advised his home emergency policy didnt 
cover roof damage.
Unhappy, Mr R brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it but 
didnt uphold it. 
Because Mr R disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. But before I explain why, I must make it 
clear that I am not  as part of this decision  considering whether QICs decision to decline 
Mr Rs claim was fair. A decision has already been issued about that complaint to say it was 
brought to this Service too late. And whilst I appreciate Mr Rs frustrations with QICs 
decision, this complaint is not a means for having the declinature of his claim revisited. 
In response to the Investigators view, Mr R said he isnt complaining about the surveyors 
use of the camera pole, and so, I dont consider it necessary to comment beyond this. 
What remains for me to decide is whether QICs surveyor treated Mr R fairly in how he 
communicated with Mr R when visiting his property to assess the claim, and whether Mr R 
was given correct information with regards to his home emergency policy. 
The surveyors conduct
Mr R has raised concerns about the surveyor who attended his property to assess the 
damage, saying his conduct was rude and aggressive and that his purpose was to prevent 
the claim from succeeding. And hes said this is supported by testimony from tradespeople 
hed hired whod had similar interactions. Our Investigator explained that when considering 
this point whats key is the impact on Mr R  not the tradespeople. And so, whilst I 
understand why Mr R had wanted the Investigator to speak to the tradespeople to verify his 
account, Im not persuaded it was necessary for her to do so to reach a fair outcome. 
But, even if there was recorded evidence to support Mr Rs allegation, QIC has already 
referred the matter to the relevant surveying manager and investigated the issue when 
responding to Mr Rs complaint. And I consider that to be a proportionate and reasonable 
response in the circumstances. So, taking into account the impact of the allegations, even if I 
agreed with them, I wouldnt direct QIC to do anything else or make a monetary award for 
this behaviour in these circumstances.
Home emergency policy
Mr R has said he expected the external damage to his roof to be covered under his home 
emergency policy. QIC has advised Mr Rs Home Emergency Select policy doesnt include 
cover for roofs and so he doesnt have recourse under it for the external damage to his roof.  
Ive reviewed the relevant policy document and note that roofs is not listed as one of the 
heads of cover, so Im not persuaded QIC has given Mr R incorrect advice in respect of this. 
Compensation
I dont doubt having to deal with the claim  and the subsequent complaints connected to it  
for over a year has been stressful for Mr R. Any claim which involves damage to a property 
is by its very nature likely to cause some inconvenience and/or stress on the policyholders 
behalf. Understandably thats compounded when a policyholder is disappointed with the 
outcome of a claim - and where, like in Mr Rs circumstances - theyre experiencing poor 
health at the same time. 
But, from what Ive read, much of Mr Rs frustrations and upset stems from QICs decision to 
decline his claim, which he considers to be unfair. But, simply put, thats not the subject 
matter of this complaint, and so I cant take this into account. 
Having considered what is within the scope of this complaint  namely, the surveyors 
conduct and QICs advice about Mr Rs home emergency policy  Im not satisfied 
compensation is warranted here. And so, I wont be directing QIC to do anything else. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman