DRN-3402771
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as G, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC removed funds 
obtained through a Bounce Back Loan from its bank account. 
One of Gs directors, Mr B, brings the complaint on the companys behalf. 
What happened
G banked with Barclays. The company successfully applied to the bank for a Bounce Back 
Loan in July 2020, drawing down a loan of £41,000.
On 31 October 2020, Barclays initiated a review of Gs accounts and its Bounce Back Loan 
application. The bank restricted access to the accounts while it did so, meaning that the 
company couldnt utilise the funds held therein. Barclays lifted the account restrictions on 
15 December 2020. These actions are the subject of a separate complaint. 
On 20 January 2021, Barclays removed £36,155.88. When Mr B complained, the bank 
initially explained on 27 January that the funds had been removed pending a further review 
of Gs accounts. It subsequently explained on 20 February that its records showed that G 
had incorrected attested for the Bounce Back Loan during the application process  so it had 
decided to recall the loan and use the funds towards the repayment of the outstanding 
balance.
Mr B referred the matter to us. He wanted Barclays to return the loan funds and to 
compensate G for the impact it had suffered as a result of their removal. He said the 
company had been left in financial difficulty and unable to meet its commitments.
One of our investigators reviewed Gs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Barclays had reviewed Gs eligibility for the Bounce Back Loan and reasonably 
concluded that it wasnt eligible. This was because the company had incorrectly 
declared an annual turnover of £330,000 when applying. While Mr B said that hed 
based the figure on expected income, estimates could only be used for companies 
established after 1 January 2019  which G was not.
Barclays hadnt made an error in approving the loan initially, having done so on the 
basis of the declarations that G had provided and confirmed as accurate.
As the loan had been provided on the basis of incorrect information that G had given, 
Barclays was entitled to recall it. This was provided for in the terms of the Bounce 
Back Loan agreement.
Mr B didnt accept our investigators view. He said that hed used an estimated turnover 
figure as hed believed this was acceptable, particularly as the company hadnt filed any 
accounts prior to its application. He also thought that Barclays shouldve notified him after 
completing its first review in December 2020 that G wasnt eligible for the loan  as if it had 
done so, he couldve returned more of the funds at that point. Hed gone on to utilise some of 
the funds after the account restriction was lifted, thereby incurring more debt.
With no resolution, the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, an applicant could borrow up to a 
maximum of 25% of their annual turnover. On Gs behalf, Mr B applied to Barclays for a loan 
of £41,000, so the company needed to have a turnover of at least £164,000. In the loan 
application he submitted, he declared a turnover of £330,000. So Barclays approved the 
application on this basis  with applicants required to self-declare that they met the eligibility 
criteria.
Although the loan was initially approved and drawn down, with some of the funds having 
been utilised, Barclays was entitled  and expected  to continue to keep matters under 
review. This is in line with its anti-fraud obligations both under the Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme and its wider legal and regulatory requirements. So I dont think the bank did 
anything wrong in reviewing things in the matter it did.
Barclays ultimately concluded that G wasnt eligible for the loan. And I think this decision 
was reasonable. The bank identified very little turnover going through Gs accounts with 
Barclays, and what income there was amounted to far less than the £330,000 figure 
declared in the loan application. It also identified that G had filed dormant accounts with 
Companies House in each year since its incorporation  including that prior to the loan 
application.
I understand Mr B used an estimated figure, based on projections of earnings from 
upcoming business. But only companies established during 2019 could use any projected 
figures. G had been established several years prior to its application and was required, 
under the rules of the Scheme, to provide its annual turnover for the calendar year 2019. 
This was clearly explained in the application form that Mr B completed.
Having decided that G was ineligible for the loan, I think it was reasonable for Barclays to 
take steps to recover it. Under the terms and conditions of the Bounce Back Loan, Barclays 
was entitled to terminate the loan and demand its immediate repayment in certain 
circumstances. This included where any representations made by the borrower proved to be 
materially incorrect or misleading  as was the case here.
On the basis that it was recalling the loan, Barclays removed the funds held in Gs accounts 
before later applying these to the amount it owed under the Bounce Back Loan facility. 
Under the terms and conditions of Gs accounts and the loan agreement, Barclays had the 
right of set off  in short, it was entitled to use any funds held in Gs accounts to reduce or 
repay any amounts G owed to the bank. So I dont think it did anything wrong in removing 
the funds from Gs account and using them in this way.
I understand Mr B thinks Barclays shouldve removed the funds earlier than it did. He says 
Barclays shouldve notified him that G wasnt eligible for the loan after it removed the 
restriction from the companys accounts in December 2020. But the bank hadnt yet decided 
what action it wished to take in light of its findings and wasnt obliged to notify the company 
of its deliberations. The companys indebtedness did not, therefore, increase as a result of 
an error on the banks part.Taking all of the above into account, I dont think Barclays did anything wrong in recalling the 
Bounce Back Loan from G. So Im not requiring it to take any action in response to this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman