DRN-4119393
The complaint
Mr A complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has given him incorrect 
information about his proof of No Claims Bonus (NCB) for his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A took out a new policy with another insurer and he provided a letter from Admiral stating 
that he had six years NCB. But the new insurer said the letter didnt state an expiry date. So 
Mr A then asked Admiral for further proof and it then gave him proof of two years NCB. Mr A 
was unhappy that this led to an increase in premium with his new insurer. But Admiral 
explained that the six years NCB included five years discount as an introductory offer, and 
this wasnt transferable. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the letter 
Admiral sent Mr A wasnt proof of his NCB entitlement, but it said that he was then receiving 
the benefit of six years NCB from Admiral. This was composed of one years earned NCB 
and five years offered as an introductory offer. This wasnt transferable to another insurer. 
And so the correct NCB when the policy later expired was two years. And Admiral provided 
Mr A with proof of this to show his new insurer. 
Mr A replied that he wanted an Ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr A feels frustrated that he thought he was entitled to six years NCB 
for his car, but Admiral hasnt provided him with proof of this. I can also see that theres been 
come confusion during his complaint due to Mr A having two cars on cover with Admiral. I 
can assure his that I have considered the correct car. 
I can see that Admiral sent Mr A a letter following an incident that confirmed that the NCB for 
his car was six years. And it didnt go into any explanation of how this had been achieved. 
So I think Admirals letter could have been clearer. I think this must have been confusing for 
Mr A and I can understand that he was disappointed when the final NCB proof was just for 
two years. 
When a business makes a mistake, as I think Admiral has done here, we expect it to restore 
the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the 
error had on the consumer. 
Admiral later explained why the six years NCB had been stated in the letter:
With introductory NCB this is specific to this policy  it is not earned NCB that can be taken 
elsewhere when the policy finishes. The policy holder will continue to have the benefit of a 
higher discount as one of the perks of the policy, however when they choose to leave they 
will only leave with the actual number of years they have earnt. In this case Mr A earned two 
years NCB, and due to not continuing his policy with us  when it was cancelled we sent 
NCB confirming the two years that were earned.
The letter from our claims department confirms the total number of years discount Mr A 
was receiving... Which was broken down as 1 years earned and 5 years introductory 
discount.
So Admiral provided an explanation of why Mr A had received a letter stating that he had six 
years NCB and it issued him with proof of his two years entitlement. Mr A was disappointed 
that the NCB proof came via us rather than directly from Admiral. Admiral said it had posted 
it to him, and I dont know why he didnt receive it. But I dont think this changes anything as 
Mr A now has his correct proof. So I think this reasonably restores Mr As position.
I can understand that Mr A felt frustrated. But I dont think Admiral did anything wrong that 
warrants any apology or compensation. And I think this is in keeping with our published 
guidance for the level of impact caused.
This is because I can see that at the time Mr A received the letter he was in his second 
policy year with Admiral and so had earned just one years NCB. And his renewal 
documents after two years state that he had earned two years NCB for his car. Therefore I 
think Mr A should have reasonably understood what his entitlement was. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman