DRN-1057150
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 2005 in connection with a credit card. Ms W says Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax (BOS) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Ms W complained to this Service. Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be 
upheld. Ms W disagreed with our adjudicator's view and she asked for the matter to be 
looked at again. She added she didn't need PPI because she had good sick pay terms from 
her employer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BOS made it clear during a telephone call that Ms W didnt have to take out 
the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she may not 
remember this.
BOS recommended the PPI to Ms W so it had to check that the PPI was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information BOS gave Ms W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means BOS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms W.
 
But BOS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms W because: 
BOS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms W about that. Because BOS didnt tell Ms W, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, BOS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
Ive thought about everything Ms W has said - including what she said about not needing 
PPI and about her sick pay from her employer. But these points dont change my decision. I say this because - even though Ms W would get sick pay as one of her employment terms - 
a successful claim on the PPI could have lasted for 12 months which means it could have 
lasted longer than her sick pay. So I think she did have a need for PPI.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms W.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Ms W any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman