DRN-3616677
The complaint
Miss P complains about the two credit limit increases made on her credit card account by 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank. She said neither of these increases 
was affordable for her, and she wanted Tesco to repay the interest she had been charged.
What happened
Miss P told us Tesco had increased her credit limit by £5,000 over the past few years,
although it was also sending her letters saying she was in persistent debt. She said shed
told Tesco the monthly repayments were causing her persistent debt. She thought Tesco
had been irresponsible when it offered these increases, and didnt think her limit should be
raised unless she asked for this.
Miss P said she had the option to borrow some money from family to clear her debts, but
Tesco wouldnt accept a lower amount to settle the debt. She wanted us to make Tesco
change its policies, so it only put through limit increases when a customer asked for them.
And she wanted Tesco to pay her back the interest shed paid since June 2018, when she
was given the first unsolicited increase.
Tesco said it had increased Miss Ps credit limit twice. It was raised from £6,800 to £8,800 in
June 2018, then in August 2019 the limit was increased again to £11,800.
Tesco said when it increased the available lending to Miss P, it had evidence to confirm that
she wasnt over-indebted, or in arrears, or over her limit. And she didnt have any country
court judgments or bankruptcies. It thought she was in excellent financial standing, and the
limit increases were perfectly affordable. And although Tesco has written to her since about
persistent debt, it said these letters only started in July 2020, which was well after the date of
the credit limit increases.
Tesco didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. She said our service isnt able to
make the overarching changes that Miss P would like. So we cant require credit card
companies to only increase a consumers credit limit at their request. But we could look
about the lending made to Miss P. And she didnt think Tesco had lent responsibly.
Our investigator said Tesco had to assess whether Miss P could afford to meet her card
repayments in a sustainable way over the relevant term, looking at the risk to Miss P of this
borrowing. She said when Tesco lent to Miss P in 2018, it knew that she had a significant
amount of borrowing already, including revolving credit. She was using a sizeable proportion
of the credit available to her, and her overall position suggested she was paying the
minimum amount on these credit cards. She owed more than £13,806 to existing creditors
excluding her mortgage. Her outstanding debts relative to her income were high, so any
additional credit would be expected to have a significant impact. And she was already
spending a lot of her income on servicing debt.
Our investigator said all this meant that Tesco should have done more detailed checks to
find out more about Miss Ps financial position. She couldnt be sure what those checks
would have shown, but she said Tesco could have asked Miss P for details of her income
and expenditure, or asked to see bank statements.
Our investigator said we did have bank statements for the relevant time, so she looked at
those. And she said they suggested that any reasonable and proportionate checks made at
the time Tesco approved this lending would be likely to have demonstrated that Miss P
would not have been able to make her repayments sustainably over a reasonable period of
time. Our investigator didnt think Tesco wouldve lent if it had carried out these extra checks.
Our investigator said her conclusions on the first credit limit increase meant she would also
uphold the complaint Miss P made about the second increase. There was no evidence to
suggest there had been any significant and sustained improvement in Miss Ps financial
circumstances between the credit limit increase in June 2018 and the one in August 2019.
Our investigator said Tesco should refund all the interest Miss P had been charged to date.
Tesco didnt agree. It didnt feel it was fair for our investigator to carry out checks three years
after the credit limit increases occurred, and retrospectively apply those findings. It also said
looking at bank statements wasnt the level of checks which would have been appropriate or
reasonable at the time of these increases. And it didnt accept that Miss P using her
overdraft facility was necessarily an indicator of financial difficulty. Tesco said the increases
themselves werent huge, and the account was being maintained well. And the credit checks
it did indicated no concerns.
Tesco also said Miss P hadnt complained about the first £6,800 of lending. So it didnt think
it should be asked to repay interest on that part of her debt.
Our investigator didnt change her mind. She said the further checks she had done were
intended to see what Tesco would have uncovered, if it had looked more closely at Miss Ps
financial situation at the time. She didnt think this approach was unfair. She summarised for
Tesco the debt showing on Miss Ps credit file at the time. And she didnt think Miss P was
just maintaining her overdraft. She thought Miss P was reliant on it to support daily living
expenses and repayments to creditors. So our investigator still thought that reasonable and
proportionate checks were likely to have demonstrated that Miss P would not have been
able to make her repayments sustainably over a reasonable period of time, given the credit
limits Tesco offered.
Our investigator said she would be asking Tesco to refund interest and charges on Miss Ps
balance once it exceeded £8,800.
Tesco noted that our investigator had understood Miss Ps credit check to have generated a
much higher indebtedness score than it did. And it said our investigators view of Miss Ps
overdraft contradicted what a previous ombudsman had said elsewhere.
Because no agreement was reached, this complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Id like to start by confirming a point that our investigator has also explained, which is 
that our service isnt a regulator. We cant tell banks not to proactively offer credit limit 
increases on a credit card. But we can look at whether Miss P should have been given 
the increases she complained about here. So thats what Ive done.When Miss P applied for this card in October 2017, she told Tesco that she was earning 
£26,000 per year. Her credit file showed she had a mortgage, and over £14,000 of 
unsecured debt. Tesco was aware that the lending it was offering her would increase 
this unsecured debt by 34%.
I make no comment on the affordability of the initial lending made when Miss Ps card 
account was opened, because I cant see that Miss P has complained about this, and 
because I dont want to delay a resolution of this complaint now. She can complain 
about this to Tesco if she wishes.
Tesco has argued that the increases it then made to Miss Ps credit limit werent 
significant. I disagree. The first increase was £2,000, well over 25% more than her 
existing lending with Tesco. And the second increase meant that Miss Ps available 
credit had almost doubled. Taking account of this and of Miss Ps relatively low income, 
I do think these were significant increases, which ought to trigger an assessment of 
creditworthiness.
When Tesco reached a decision on whether to increase Miss P credit limit, in June 
2018, it knew that her debt position was essentially the same as it was when shed 
taken out this card. She hadnt reduced her overall debt in the last nine months. More of 
that debt was on the Tesco card, as Miss P had taken advantage of a balance transfer 
offer. And the account she had transferred from remained open, so Miss P already had 
a considerable amount of credit available to her.
I realise that Miss P had been meeting the minimum required payment to her Tesco 
card in most months (although she appears to have missed her payment for January 
2018). But Tesco is obliged to consider whether Miss P could repay the new limit 
sustainably, and past repayments are no guarantee of this.
Tesco knew in June 2018 that Miss Ps income was low, her existing unsecured debt 
was already over half her gross annual income, and her overall debt position had 
essentially remained static since October 2017. So I think it should have realised that 
Miss P was not currently repaying her existing debts in a sustainable fashion, and 
indeed, may not have been able to do so. And because of that, I think that Tesco ought 
to have carried out further checks to ensure that Miss P could repay any increased 
lending.
Like our investigator, I do not think its unfair for our service to consider now information 
which wasnt considered by Tesco at the time. 
Looking now at Miss Ps bank statements and credit file from the time, I think that Miss 
P did appear to rely heavily on her overdraft. I understand that regular usage of an 
overdraft isnt always evidence of financial difficulties, but I think Miss Ps overdraft 
usage does indicate that she was struggling with her existing debts. I note that Miss P 
went over her overdraft limit in May 2018, at around the same time that Tesco must 
have been deciding whether to offer this increase. I also note that Miss Ps expenditure 
on things like utilities at this time appears to me to be exceptionally high, which suggests 
to me that Tesco may have greatly underestimated her monthly living expenses.
I also agree with our investigator that if Tesco had carried out additional checks, then it 
would have been unlikely to offer Miss P additional lending in June 2018. And having 
considered Miss Ps overall position in August 2019, I can see that the balance on her 
Tesco card remained around the same. So this debt hadnt reduced. But Miss P had 
once more used the card that shed previously cleared with a balance transfer to Tesco. It was near its limit. Miss P does appear to me to still be relying on her overdraft at this 
point. And she was also still paying exceptionally high utility bills. So I have reached the 
same overall conclusion on the lending made then.
Because I dont think Tesco should have increased Miss Ps credit limit to £8,800 and 
again to £11,800, I dont think its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any 
balance which exceeded the original limit. However, Miss P has had the benefit of all the 
money she spent on the account so I think she should pay this back. Therefore Tesco 
should:
- Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied to 
balances above £6,800.
- If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss P along 
with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment 
to the date of settlement. Tesco should also remove all adverse information 
recorded after June 2018 regarding this account from Miss Ps credit file.
- Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £6,800, Tesco should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Miss P for the remaining amount. 
Once Miss P has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information 
recorded after June 2018 in relation to the account should be removed from her 
credit file.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P said she agreed with my provisional decision, and hoped Tesco would accept it. 
Tesco replied to say it would like to see the documentation Id relied on, in making my 
provisional decision. Our investigator explained to Mrs P that we would usually share 
evidence weve relied on in a case. Mrs P said she understood and was content for the 
information to be shared. After Tesco received this, it said it had no further comment.
Neither party has offered any additional argument or evidence in this case, and I havent 
changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco 
hereafter) must 
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied to 
balances above £6,800.
If the rework results in a credit balance, refund this to Miss P along with 8% simple 
interest per year calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement. Tesco must also remove all adverse information recorded after June 
2018 regarding this account from Miss Ps credit file. (HM Revenue and Customs 
may require Tesco to take off tax from this interest. Tesco must give Miss P a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.)
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £6,800, Tesco must seek 
to arrange an affordable repayment plan with Miss P for the remaining amount. Once 
Miss P has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after 
June 2018 in relation to the account must be removed from her credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman