DRN-3830419
The complaint
Mr E and Ms E complain that, although Mr E hasnt changed how he makes the payments to 
this mortgage with Bank of Scotland trading as Birmingham Midshires (BM), they are now 
getting late payment markers put onto their credit files.
What happened
Whilst this complaint is brought by both Mr E and Ms E, as the mortgage is in both their
names, our dealings have mostly been with Mr E. So Ill mainly refer to him in this decision.
Mr E said hed had a mortgage with BM for some years, and had always paid on either the
last day of the month, or the first day of the following month. Mr E said BM hadnt objected to
this, until in September 2021 it made changes to his mortgage account, including
consolidating his previous separate accounts into one. Mr E said all sorts of things started to
go wrong then.
Mr E said that after this, the first payment made onto his consolidated account was made on
the first of the month, and this resulted in a missed payment entry on his credit file. He said
he complained, and this was changed to one month late. Mr E said this happened on the
next two monthly payments, and he complained again each time.
Mr E said that each time he complained, BM paid him compensation, and changed the credit
file entry to say one month late. Mr E said hed then paid on 31 December 2021, 31January
2022 and 1 March 2022 as per usual. Mr E said BM wrote to him again after the 1 March
payment, and his credit rating had gone down, but there was no entry on his credit file.
Mr E said BM seemed to have the worst accounting system, resulting in many mistakes, but
also there was no consistency with how it deals with his payments. Mr E said for the last
year, hed made payments in the same way, either the last of the month or the first of the
next month, and he now had three entries on his credit file saying that hed paid one month
late which just wasnt how he was paying. Mr E said his mortgage with BM ends soon, and
until these markers were removed, he couldnt get a new mortgage.
BM has sent Mr E a number of complaint response letters since it consolidated Mr Es
mortgage and updated its payment systems. I think its worth setting out here what each of
those letters dealt with.
On 28 September, BM confirmed his new mortgage number (ending 900) which it had
notified him of in July. It was sorry it had credited a payment to the wrong sub-account, and it
would sort that out. It paid him £100 to say sorry.
On 31 December, BM said it had checked Mr Es mortgage again, and it had incorrectly
allocated a payment, so it was putting that right. In this letter, BM also said it used to apply
Mr Es payments to the month that had passed. Mr E completed his mortgage on the 2nd of
the month, so his first payment was collected on the 2nd of the following month. But now BM
was applying payments a month in advance. This change meant there was a small amount
(less than £25) of unpaid interest, for the changeover day. Mr E could either pay that over
the lifetime of the mortgage or in a one-off payment. BM also said it had changed some of
Mr Es mortgage from interest only to interest and repayment when it moved to the new
system. It had fixed that too. BM paid Mr E £150 to say sorry.
On 19 January, BM wrote the first letter which refers to Mr Es complaint about his credit file.
BM said it would pay back the £15 Mr E had paid to check his credit file, but it wouldnt
uphold his complaint about late payments being reported to credit reference agencies
(CRAs). BM said Mr E was paying late. Since the account system update, if Mr E didnt
make his monthly payment in the same calendar month that it was due, BM would report this
to the CRAs as a late payment.
Confusingly, having said it wouldnt uphold his complaint, BM did then offer to amend Mr Es
credit file for September, October and November 2021, given the confusion around his
payments when his account migrated to the new system. This letter says BM has submitted
a request for his credit file to be amended. It then asks him to send proof that his payments
left his bank account on time in those months. So BM may have been waiting for this proof,
before it updated his credit file.
BM also said in this letter that in future, Mr E could change the payment due date for his
mortgage to the beginning of the month. That would make sure he paid his mortgage in the
same calendar month.
BM sent a letter chasing arrears on 1 March, and then a letter thanking Mr E for payment on
8 March.
On 14 March, BM sent a further complaint response letter, dealing with Mr Es complaint
about the 1 March arrears letter it had sent him. BM said it was sorry that hed had a few
problems since it migrated his account to the new system, but it didnt think the 1 March
letter was caused by that. BM said Mr E was regularly making a manual payment on the last
day of the month. Sometimes BM wasnt getting that until the start of the next month. It didnt
receive the payment due on 28 February until 1 March 2022 and because of this it wrote to
Mr E to let him know the payment had been missed. BM also explained why Mr E was being
asked for a different amount.
In this letter, BM said that as Mr E makes manual payments, he might want to think about
making the payment the day before this is due, to ensure the funds are credited to his
mortgage in time.
On 5 April, BM sent yet another letter, saying it hadnt changed its mind. It explained how Mr
E had ended up with a small credit balance, and said that it couldnt confirm when Mr E had
made his November payment, just that it was only received by BM on 2 November.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Mr Es complaint was
primarily about how BM had changed its approach to the payments Mr E made, and was
now recording some payments as late, although how Mr E made his payments hadnt
changed.
Our investigator said that BM had changed the system it uses for processing payments in
September 2021. She said wed expect it to have warned Mr E about this change, and it did
so in June 2021. BM sent a follow up letter in September 2021. So our investigator thought
BM had been fair, in warning Mr E of upcoming changes.
Our investigator said that BM had to provide accurate reporting to CRAs, like all lenders. Our
investigator said she could see that Mr Es payments for September, November and
December 2021 didnt clear before the end of the month. So they were late payments, andBM had reported that to the CRAs. Our investigator said BM had made three compensation
payments to Mr E, but none of those were linked to mortgage payments being made late.
Our investigator understood Mr Es frustration, because he hadnt changed what he was
doing, but she said BM had changed, and it had told Mr E about the changes. She said BM
had offered to amend his credit file if he could show the payments for September, October
and November 2021 left his account in the right months. And BM had suggested Mr E might
want to pay his mortgage by direct debit in future. She didnt think it had to do any more.
BM agreed, but Mr E and Ms E both replied to say they didnt.
Ms E said compensation should also be paid to her. She hadnt received any money from
BM, but her credit file had also been affected. She wanted to know when she would be paid.
Mr E said that although BM might be telling him now that he could pay by direct debit, it had
previously told him he couldnt do that. And he set out a number of dates between 2018 and
2021 when he had previously paid after the calendar month when payment was due, without
any impact on his credit file.
Our investigator didnt change her mind. She said BM was saying now that Mr E could pay
by direct debit, and the payments hed shown us where his credit file werent impacted were
made before the September 2021 change BM had told him about.
Mr E wanted us to show when BM had told him he could pay by direct debit. And he said
that hed also made a payment on 1 March 2022, which wasnt recorded as a late payment.
Mr E said that poor and inconsistent record keeping by BM was the problem. He wanted an
ombudsman to review his complaint.
Our investigator sent Mr E the letter that BM issued in September 2021, and noted this
suggested he might want to pay by direct debit.
Mr E had already requested that an ombudsman consider this complaint, so this case was
passed to me for a final decision. I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
I note that Mr E told us BM had made amendments to his credit file, and that it had paid
compensation for the impact that the late markers on his credit file had caused. But I 
dont think thats whats happened here. Its not clear that any amendments to Mr Es 
credit file have been made, and I dont think the payments of compensation BM made 
were in respect of the late payment markers on his credit file.
I do think its unfortunate that the change to BMs systems has caused some 
complications with the amount of payment expected for Mr Es mortgage. But, unlike Mr 
E, I think this is a separate issue to the question of whether his payments should be 
recorded late.
In June, BM wrote to Mr E to tell him its payment systems were going to change. I dont 
think that letter was as clear as it could have been about the impact that this change 
would have. It didnt set out that BM was changing the way it reported to CRAs, and that 
Mr E would have to be particularly careful to make sure his payments were made on 
time, as it would report late payments much more quickly to CRAs in future.BM says Mr E has been paying late for a considerable time, and it has never suggested 
he do this, or said this is ok. But before September 2021, BM hasnt been reporting 
these to CRAs as late payments either.
I think if BM was going to change its accounting system, so that any payment not 
received in the same calendar month as payment is due would count as late, then it did 
need to give Mr E reasonable warning of this. And I dont think its June 2021 letter did 
that.
So I dont think that Mr E could reasonably have anticipated that his September 
payment, made in the same way as hed been making payments for some years, would 
be recorded as late with CRAs.
I do think the letter BM issued in September 2021 did explain to Mr E that how BM 
received and processed payments had changed. And I note that this letter also made a 
number of suggestions about how Mr E could avoid having late payments recorded on 
his credit file.
Making a change to his payments, so that he always paid in the same month as 
payment was due, is something that I would expect Mr E to take a little while to adjust 
to. I note that BM sent out its letter about system changes in June, for changes to take 
effect in September. And its terms set out that if BM is changing Mr Es payment date, it 
will give him at least three months prior notice.
I know BM says it wasnt changing Mr Es payment date, just enforcing the existing date. 
But I think a change from tolerating late payments with no penalty, for some years, with 
no consequences, to reporting payments only a day or two late, is comparable, and 
similar notice should be given.
Additionally, I think the picture was, as Ive said, further complicated by a number of
mistakes that BM made when it first migrated Mr Es mortgage to its new system. He 
was receiving letters saying his payments were late, but BM appears to have explained 
this by reference to its mistakes, in the first of its complaint response letters that Ive set 
out above. It wasnt until January 2022 that BM told Mr E the late payments it was 
recording were because he wasnt paying in the right month.
So I think BM should remove any late payment markers on the credit files of Mr E and 
Ms E, from September 2021 up to and including January 2022. Thats because BM 
didnt tell Mr E before September 2021 that it was changing how it would treat Mr Es 
payments, and it then muddied the waters with a number of other minor errors on his 
account, which appeared to Mr E to be the cause of its late payment notifications.
But I dont think BM has to continue to excuse Mr Es late payments forever, just 
because it has done so in the past. And by January 2022, I do think Mr E had been 
given enough notice that BM wasnt going to ignore payments made in the wrong 
month, in the way it previously had done. So I dont think BM has to amend Mr E or Ms 
Es credit file for payments made after January 2022, if it has recorded late payments 
since then.
I also think both Ms E and Mr E have experienced some inconvenience from the impact 
this issue has had on their credit files. I note that BM has not previously paid any 
compensation in respect of the credit file impact on either party to the mortgage. So I 
think BM should also pay £200 in compensation to Mr E and Ms E, to be divided equally 
between them.I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Only BM replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E and Ms E didnt respond to my provisional decision. BM simply said it had nothing to 
add, and would agree with my suggested resolution.
Neither side has offered any further evidence or argument, and I havent changed my mind. 
Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires must ensure, 
so far as it is able, that any arrears markers in respect of mortgage payments made between 
September 2021 and January 2022 are removed from the credit files of Mr E and Ms E. And 
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires must pay Mr E and Ms E £200 in 
compensation, divided equally between them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman