DRN-1791043
The complaint
Miss K complains that a sofa she purchased with credit provided by Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc 
isnt of satisfactory quality and her tiles were damaged when the sofa was delivered.
What happened
Miss K ordered a sofa in February 2019. She paid for the sofa using credit provided by 
Hitachi. Miss K says that when the sofa was delivered it was damaged and when delivering 
the sofa her tiles were also damaged. She approached the retailer who repaired the 
damage, but Miss K says the sofa is still of poor quality. Miss K said that the insurers of the 
delivery company have refused to pay for the damage to the tiles. So, Miss K complained to 
Hitachi as the provider of credit under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act.
Hitachi initially asked the retailer to assist with resolving Miss Ks complaint, but it said it had 
closed the complaint and wasnt prepared to deal with Miss K any further. Hitachi tried to 
arrange an independent inspection of the sofa and the tiles, but the technician was unable to 
park at Miss Ks property and arrangements couldnt be made for him to return. Hitachi 
offered to reimburse Miss K if she arranged her own inspection but she said that Hitachi 
were delaying and being uncooperative and so she referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into Miss K complaint and they thought that because there hadnt 
been any independent inspection of the damage to the tiles or the condition of the sofa it 
wasnt reasonable to expect Hitachi to do anything further.
Miss K didnt agree and replied to say that she wanted an ombudsman to review her 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to disappoint Miss K but after reviewing her complaint I agree with the investigator 
for the same reasons.
As the provider of credit Hitachi is jointly responsible with the retailer for the quality of goods 
and for any damage that has occurred on delivery and installation. I dont doubt Miss K when 
she says that the sofa was damaged on delivery and I can see from the paperwork that the 
retailer undertook a repair. I can appreciate that Miss K is unhappy with the quality of the 
repair and with the quality of the sofa generally. I agree with the investigator that it would be 
reasonable for Hitachi to have details of the issues with the sofa before it arranges a refund 
or replacement. Hitachi did take steps to arrange an independent inspection by sending a 
technician to Miss Ks property. The technician was unable to park and Miss K said she 
couldnt apply for a parking permit. Miss K suggested arriving after 5.30 or leaving the van or 
alternatively allowing her husband to remain in the van. For practical and legal reasons, the 
technician was unable to accommodate these options.
Hitachi then suggested that Miss K arrange her own inspection and it would reimburse the 
costs of this, but Miss K hasnt wanted to do this.
It seems that the tiles have now been replaced and Miss K has provided an estimate of the 
cost. Hitachi hasnt been able to see whether the damage to the tiles has been caused by 
the delivery of the sofa, again, because no inspection has been carried out.
I can fully understand why Miss K is frustrated and feels that she has been unable to make 
progress. I can only comment on what it would be reasonable to expect Hitachi to do when 
dealing with a Section 75 complaint as the provider of the finance. Like the investigator I 
cant say that it is reasonable to expect Hitachi to do anything further without independent 
evidence of the faults with the sofa or evidence that the damage to the tiles was caused by 
the delivery of the sofa.
I am sorry to disappoint Miss K, but I cant ask Hitachi to do anything further.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept or reject my decision before 
7 January 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman