Complaint 
Mr B complains that MYJAR Limited (MYJAR) lent irresponsibly to him. 
Background 
Between January 2016 and March 2016, Mr B applied to MYJAR for four loans. 
The borrowing history is set out below: 
Loan
 
numberDate taken Date repa
idInstalmentsAmount 
borrow
ed High
est 
monthly 
repayment
1 14/01/2016 28/01/2016 1 £100.00 £114.40
2 01/02/2016 19/02/2016 6 £1,500.00 £444.26
3 09/03/2016 10/03/2016 6 £575.00 £165.81
4 30/03/2016balance
outstanding12 £2,225.00 £339.13
As set out above, I understand there is an outstanding balance in respect of loan 4. After Mr 
B complained to this service, MYJAR offered to uphold the complaint in respect of loan 4. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld in respect of loans 2, 3 and 4. 
MYJAR did not agree with our adjudicators view. It said that the loans appeared affordable 
when it took account of Mr Bs income and expenditure. It reiterated that the borrowing had 
been repaid early, which also indicated it was affordable. 
As the parties are not in agreement with what our adjudicator said, the matter has been 
passed to me to make a final decision. 
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
DRN-1515233MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
 
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Neither party disagreed with what our adjudicator said in respect of loans 1 and 4, so I 
havent considered further whether MYJAR was irresponsible to agree to this loan. However, 
I have kept the circumstances in mind when considering loans 2 and 3. 
As set out in the table above, Mr B applied for loan 2 a matter of days after he had repaid 
loan 1. He applied for £1,500 and the repayments were almost £450 for six months, 
which represented over 30% of his monthly income. Whilst I appreciate MYJAR argues that 
the loan repayments appeared affordable, as I said above, it had to take account whether 
those repayments were sustainably affordable. I repeat what I said above in that it should 
not have taken a narrow pounds and pence calculation in assessing that affordability. 
MYJAR had to take account of the fact that Mr B would have to pay what was a significant portion of his monthly income towards his loan repayments for six months. I cant reasonably 
say loan 2 was sustainably affordable. 
Turning now to loan 3, I can see that Mr B applied for this loan shortly after hed repaid loan 
2. And I think MYJAR should have reasonably been on notice that Mr B was not borrowing to 
meet a short-term need, but to cover the hole repaying his previous loan had left in his 
finances. 
Putting everything together, I agree with our adjudicators conclusions and MYJAR will have 
to take action to put things right for Mr B. 
Putting things right 
If MYJAR has sold any outstanding debt it must buy it back before doing what I have 
outlined below. If MYJAR isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the following: 
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr B towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it has 
already refunded. 
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr B which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr B originally made the payments, to the 
date the complaint is settled. 
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding loans 
and treat any repayments made by Mr B as though they had been repayments of the 
principal. If this results in Mr B having made overpayments then these should be refunded 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. MYJAR should then refund the 
amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and move to step "E".
 D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" should 
be used to repay any outstanding balance remaining. If this results in a surplus then the 
surplus should be paid to Mr B. However if there is still an outstanding balance then MYJAR 
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr B. 
E. Remove all adverse entries from Mr Bs credit file for loans 2, 3 and 4. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
As there is an outstanding balance, if Mr B and MYJAR do agree a repayment plan, I remind 
MYJAR of its duty to treat Mr B fairly. 
My final decision 
I have upheld this complaint in respect of loans 2, 3 and 4. MYJAR Limited must take action 
to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2020.Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman