DRN-3925628
The complaint
Mr K complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined his claim made on his motor 
insurance policy. He wants it to pay his claim for the loss of his van and compensate him for 
the trouble and stress caused. 
What happened
Mr K said his van was damaged after being hit by an unknown vehicle. UKI took the van for 
inspection, and it said the cause of the damage was a previous poor repair that had caused 
a water leak. UKI declined the claim as damage caused by mechanical breakdown wasnt 
covered by the policy. But it did pay Mr K £100 compensation for the upset caused by its 
garage. Mr K said UKI had made its decision after reviewing a photograph. He wanted UKI 
to pay his claim. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought UKI 
had sent the car to an engine specialist where a physical inspection had been carried out. 
UKIs engineer had reviewed this evidence and she thought it had declined the claim fairly 
as mechanical damage wasnt covered. She thought the compensation payment was fair for 
how the garage had spoken to Mr K. 
Mr K replied that he thought UKI had changed the evidence in its favour to decline the claim. 
He said his car had passed its MOT the week before the incident. Mr K asked for his 
complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr K feels frustrated by UKIs decision to not pay his claim. I can see 
that this has affected him financially. And I can also see that the matter has caused him 
much stress. Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Mr K said his van had been hit by another vehicle whilst parked and unattended. He said this 
had damaged a wheel arch which had then come off and split an oil pipe, causing the engine 
to seize. He said there was oil all around the car.
UKI offered to repair the wheel arch, but it declined the claim for damage to the engine as it 
said this was caused by mechanical breakdown. I can see that on page 12 of the policy 
booklet under What is not covered it states:
We will not cover;
any mechanical, electrical or computer failure, breakdown or breakage;
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision about a claim. 
The evidence that UKI had to consider was:
Mr Ks testimony and his notification of the claim. Mr K had the oil pipe replaced and 
no images were taken so UKI couldnt inspect this. Mr K provided a text from the 
engineer who had made the replacement. He concluded that the damage could only 
have been caused by impact. But UKIs engineer thought it couldnt have been 
damaged by the wheel arch due to the pipes location. 
The MOT report provided by Mr K didnt report any water leaks. But I dont think this 
is conclusive that there may not have been one, as later identified. 
The evidence of the breakdown service that attended Mr K. But this didnt provide a 
report, just the reason for the call-out. 
The report from the engine specialist that inspected the engine and looked for the 
cause of the problem. I can see that the report includes images of the vans engine. 
The inspection included a pressure test of the cooling system. This identified a poor 
repair on a water pipe that had led to water leakage over a long time. The engine 
specialist concluded that this was the cause of the damage to the engine. It didnt 
find any damage under the wheel arch to coolant pipes.  
I can see that UKIs engineer considered this evidence and concluded that the damage to 
the engine was due to the water leak. And, as this was a mechanical breakdown, then this 
wasnt covered by the policy. I think UKI reasonably considered all the evidence available 
and has justified its decision about the claim. 
Mr K was unhappy with how the manager of the repairers had spoken to him. He said the 
manager cast doubt on his version of events and made him feel like a liar. 
UKI apologised for this. It said it was for its engineer to decide whether or not a claim was 
covered. It also paid Mr K £100 compensation. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in 
keeping with our published guidance. 
Mr K also thought that the manager had interfered in his claim. But I havent seen evidence 
to show this. I can see that UKI relied on the engine specialists report and images to decide 
the claim, not the image provided by the manager. 
So I think UKI declined Mr Ks claim for the damage to his cars engine in keeping with the 
policys terms and conditions and fairly and reasonably. I dont require it to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman