DRN-3467839
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold them a number of 
fee-paying packaged bank accounts.
Mr and Mrs W say the packaged accounts were mis-sold as they assumed they had to pay a 
fee to have the accounts. They also say they rarely used the benefits.
Account history 
a fee-paying Gold account since at least December 1999*
upgraded to a fee-paying Platinum account in February 2004
upgraded to the fee-paying Premier account in January 2007
migrated** to a fee-paying Premier Plus Private Banking account in November 2012
migrated** to a fee-paying Premier Club Lloyds Private Banking in February 2018
account closed in 22 May 2019
* This date is based on a Gold loan (which was only obtainable by having the Gold account) 
being issued in December 1999.
** A migration is a generally a change to an existing packaged account, rather than the sale 
of a new packaged account.
What happened
Lloyds said that our service is unable to look into the sale of the Premier account, as Mr and 
Mrs W had complained too late. Our adjudicator assessed this point and concluded that our 
service is unable to consider this part of the complaint as it was raised outside of the time 
limits that apply to our service  and Mr and Mrs W accepted this. 
Another adjudicator then assessed the complaint about the sale of the Gold and Platinum 
accounts, and she didnt think that those packaged accounts had been mis-sold. Mr and Mrs 
W disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and asked for their complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything 
provided, I dont think the Gold and Platinum packaged accounts were mis-sold. I will explain 
why.
One of the reasons why Mr and Mrs W say that the accounts were mis-sold is because they 
rarely used the benefits. However, just because an account holder has rarely (or even not at 
all) used benefits that are included with a packaged account does not mean it was mis-sold. 
So Im not able to say that the packaged accounts were mis-sold, just because Mr and Mr W 
may now feel, with the benefit of hindsight, that they were poor value for money.
Instead, to conclude that the accounts were mis-sold, I would need to be satisfied that 
Lloyds did something wrong, or acted unfairly or unreasonably when it sold the two accounts 
to Mr and Mrs W. However, Ive not seen enough evidence to say that is the case either.
Mr and Mrs W say that they assumed they had to pay a fee to have the account. And 
indeed, they are correct, if they wanted to have the packaged bank accounts and the 
associated benefits, then they would need to pay the monthly fee for the account. 
I have also considered the likelihood of whether Mr and Mrs W were led to assume that fee-
free accounts werent available to them (and so a fee-paying account was their only option). 
But again, Im not persuaded that was the case. I say this because they were able to open a 
separate fee-free account in December 2005  yet went on to keep the Platinum account 
running for a couple of years, before going on to upgrade to yet another even more 
expensive packaged account. But if it was the case that Mr and Mrs W were led to believe 
they had to have a fee-paying account (but didnt want one), then I wouldve expected them 
to have stayed on the cheaper Gold account, rather than agree to even more expensive 
accounts. As such, their actions make me think its likely they were aware fee-free accounts 
were generally available to them.
Having reviewed everything, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs W agreed to the accounts 
knowing they were optional and that they agreed to them as they were attracted to the 
benefits they provided. I say this because, I can see that Mr and Mrs W took out a number of 
Gold loans, which were only available to Gold account holders. The main feature of a Gold 
loan was that it included a lower rate of interest than was available on standard loans. Mr 
and Mrs W wouldve also been able to obtain a lower rate of interest on their overdraft by 
having the Gold account. 
In terms of the Platinum account, I can see that Mr and Mrs W registered two mobile phones 
and made a claim on breakdown cover. And there is evidence that Mr and Mrs W 
occasionally travelled  so were able to make use of the travel cover provided by both 
accounts too. I also think that Mr and Mrs W were able to make use of the overdraft features 
that were included with the two accounts as well.
Therefore, taking everything into account, if the accounts were recommended to Mr and Mrs 
W by Lloyds, on the whole, the recommendations look to have been reasonable ones based 
on their circumstances at the time.
I note that Mr and Mrs W have said that they had alternative cover elsewhere. However, it 
wouldve been up to them to cancel the existing cover to avoid duplication of cover. And they 
seem to have been aware of the benefits that were included with the accounts. So I cant 
hold Lloyds responsible if they didnt get round to cancelling their existing cover after 
agreeing to the packaged accounts.
As well as making sure that any recommendation was reasonable, Lloyds also had to 
provide important information about the accounts so that Mr and Mrs W were aware of the 
key terms and exclusions. 
Because of the time scales involved, Im not able to say with any certainty that Lloyds did 
give Mr and Mrs W all of the important information about the accounts. But having said that, I 
do think they were likely to have been given at least some information about the account 
features and what they covered. After all, Lloyds wouldve wanted to make the accounts 
seem attractive so that Mr and Mrs W would agree to them. And Mr and Mrs W mustve been given some information about the benefits, as they knew how to register phones under 
the mobile phone insurance and claim on the breakdown cover too. Furthermore, Ive not 
seen anything about Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances at the time that makes me think they 
wouldve been put off from agreeing to the Gold and Platinum accounts, had they been given 
more information about them.
As such, having considered everything, I dont think that the Gold or Platinum packaged 
accounts were mis-sold.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman