DRN-3309302
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint concerns an investment he made into property bonds. Mr B is represented 
by a solicitor  who complains on his behalf that Craig Mitchell provided unsuitable 
investment advice. It says the recommendation made by Craig Mitchell exposed Mr B to 
significant risk, didnt follow regulatory requirements and therefore the investment was mis-
sold. 
What happened
In January 2017, Mr B says he was advised to make an investment into property bonds. He 
says he was told he would get a good return on the investment, so invested £20,000. Mr B 
expected to receive a return after 12 months.   
In March 2019, Mr B raised a complaint through a solicitor to Craig Mitchell. The basis of the 
complaint was that Craig Mitchell was responsible for advice Mr B received to invest in the 
bonds  and that advice was unsuitable. Craig Mitchell didnt reply to the complaint. As no 
response was received, Mr B referred his complaint to our service. 
After contact from our service, Craig Mitchells principle responded to say he had never had 
any form of communication with Mr B or given any form of advice to him.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He accepted there was limited evidence 
from the time but found that it was likely Craig Mitchell provided Mr B with advice. In terms of 
suitability, the investigator considered the bonds unsuitable for Mr B. He said, given the 
information Mr Bs provided about his circumstances, a product that was a particularly high-
risk investment and suitable for a sophisticated investor wasnt right for him. Craig Mitchells 
principal disagreed with this outcome and maintained he didnt advise Mr B to invest, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to reach a decision.
In December 2020, I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. In summary, I said that 
the evidence provided wasnt sufficient for me to say the complaint involves a regulated 
activity which our service can consider. I also said that I wasnt currently persuaded Mr B 
has shown he had a customer relationship with Craig Mitchell.  So, based on what had been 
provided so far, I thought the complaint fell outside of our remit. But I did invite Mr B to 
provide any other evidence he had of receiving advice in response to my provisional 
findings.
Mr B responded to the provisional decision and provided further evidence. He provided a 
copy of the full application form completed when he made his investment. This document 
confirms Mr Bs personal details, signature, the amount of investment (£20,000), bank 
payment information and the date 16 January 2017. It also has a section for his advisers 
details which consists of Craig Mitchells principals name, Craig Mitchells details (including 
FCA number) as the Authorised Adviser, its principals signature and the same date of 16 
January 2017.
This information was sent to Craig Mitchell and we explained having considered this, the 
ombudsman now finds the complaint is within our jurisdiction. This was because there is 
evidence of regulated advice and of a customer relationship between Mr B and Craig 
Mitchell  making him an eligible complainant  for the same reasons as given by the 
investigators earlier assessment. We informed the parties, as the ombudsman now accepts 
the complaint is within our jurisdiction, he will now consider the merits of the complaint  
specifically the suitability of the advice.
Craig Mitchell was asked to provide any further comments or evidence it had in response to 
the new evidence and anything it would like the ombudsman to consider about the 
jurisdiction merits of the case before a final decision is issued. 
Craig Michell didnt respond, so the complaint has been passed back to me to reach a final 
decision on the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Ill address the issue of whether Craig Mitchell provided advice. Craig Mitchell says it 
never met with Mr B and didnt advise him in respect of this investment. It says it was asked 
to confirm Mr Bs identity and address by a third party and doesnt hold any records relating 
to advice being given to Mr B. 
Ive looked at the available evidence to decide whether there is evidence of advice. The 
submissions from both Mr B and Craig Mitchell indicate they never met. The testimony from 
both parties also suggests that a third-party intermediary could have played an introducing 
role between them  albeit without Mr B actually meeting Craig Mitchell. When reviewing the 
application, it is apparent there are sections that have been signed and dated by both Mr B 
and Craig Mitchells principal. So this leads me to conclude that the application must have 
passed between Mr B and Craig Mitchell. Based on what Ive seen, it is reasonable to 
conclude that a third-party intermediary facilitated this.
The section in the application form signed by Craig Mitchell says:
I/we can confirm that I/we have complied with the suitability rules in COBS 9 of the Financial
Conduct Authority's Handbook of Rules and Guidance and have assessed this investment
as suitable for the above named client.
Having considered this statement, I dont think its possible to support Craig Mitchells claim 
that it was unaware of the purpose of the statement, and it thought it was only verifying Mr 
Bs identity. The above declaration makes it clear that the investment had been assessed as 
suitable for Mr B (who was the above named client in the application) by Craig Mitchell.
I accept that overall, there is limited documentation around this investment sale, so it is 
difficult to be sure of the exact process. But Im aware from other cases involving the same 
investment that confirmation of independent financial advice was a pre-requisite to investing 
in the bonds, hence the need for the authorised adviser undertaking within the application 
document. So, based on what is available on this complaint  Craig Mitchell gave that 
undertaking and therefore made Mr Bs investment possible.
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I am satisfied that Craig Mitchell 
undertook responsibility for advising Mr B that his investment in the bond was suitable for 
him. Even if I accept Craig Mitchells ascertain that it didnt assess Mr Bs circumstances, 
that would mean the undertaking it signed about assessing suitability was false. But if it was 
a false undertaking, then I still think it was likely to be relied upon by Mr B. Im persuaded that Mr B attached weight to Craig Mitchells undertaking in terms of making his investment 
decision for the bond. In which case, I find Craig Mitchell responsible for misleading Mr B in 
this respect. 
I will now go on to decide whether I find the investment suitable for Mr B. 
From other comparable cases this service has reviewed, my understanding is that the bonds 
were used by the issuer to raise capital which would then be issued as loans to third-party 
firms for the business of property acquisition, development and sale. It appears that the 
proceeds of the property sales were to be used to service the loans, which then provided 
funds to be used in paying the coupons on the bonds (and to redeem the bonds). So there 
does seem to be a number of layers of risk involved where things could go wrong.  
Investments in property carry inherent risks  including the difficulty determining a reliable 
value of the underlying assets and in terms of liquidity of the underlying assets. There is no 
evidence of Mr B previously having experience in this type of investment. Indeed, Mr B says 
he had limited funds available and not much experience of risk-based investment. He says 
the £20,000 he invested came from an encashed endowment policy he held at the time. He 
also explained he had only recently become self-employed and was building his new
business. From what Ive seen, Mr B didnt have much in the way of capacity for loss. The 
idea of placing the majority of his savings in a high-risk unregulated investment doesnt fit his 
apparent capacity for loss. 
Ive not seen evidence that Mr B was a high-risk investor with investment experience that 
made it possible for him to understand the risks involved with this investment. In the absence 
of evidence to the contrary, I accept what he has told us about his circumstances. Overall 
and at the time of the investment, Mr Bs profile did not fit that of an investor seeking a high-
risk and sophisticated investment. Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I 
dont think the bonds were suitable for Mr B.
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr B 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable 
advice.
I take the view that Mr B would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr B's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Craig Mitchell do?
To compensate Mr B fairly, Craig Mitchell must:
Compare the performance of Mr B's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Craig Mitchell should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio Status Benchmark From ("start To ("end Additional name date") date") interest
Property Bond Still exists but 
illiquidFor half the 
investment: FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate from 
fixed rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date any asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr B agrees to Craig Mitchell taking 
ownership of the illiquid assets, if it wishes to. If it is not possible to take ownership, then it 
may request an undertaking from Mr B that he repays to Craig Mitchell any amount he may 
receive from the portfolio in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Craig Mitchell 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal from the Craig Mitchell should be deducted from the fair value calculation at 
the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if Craig Mitchell totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to 
determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr Bs precise objectives in 2017 are not clear but based on the limited information 
available Im satisfied he wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.I consider that Mr B's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr B into that position. It does not mean that Mr 
B would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind 
of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mr B could have obtained from investments suited to his 
objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Craig Mitchell should pay the amount calculated 
as set out above.
Craig Mitchell should provide details of its calculation to Mr B in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman