DRN-3866609
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Nationwide Vehicle Contracts Limited (NVC) failed to advise him that a 
car hed provisionally ordered could be sold after a credit check had been carried out.
What happened
In July 2022, Mr D contacted NVC, a credit broker, to order him a new car and arrange 
finance for this. NVC processed Mr Ds application for credit, which included carrying out a 
credit check. However, when theyd completed this process, they discovered that the dealer 
had sold the car Mr D wanted.
NVC told Mr D that he could proceed with another car, but this would mean another finance 
application. And another credit check. Mr D wasnt happy with this, as he said that another 
credit check would cause him problems when applying for a new mortgage. So, he bought a 
car outright, which he says cost him £2,000 more than would usually be expected, because 
of the shortage of used cars and the higher price they therefore sold for. He also said that 
he'd suffered a loss of interest on his savings by having to buy a car outright. And he was 
planning to invest this money. So, he complained to NVC about this.
NVC said that they cant ensure that a car is reserved until a credit check has been carried 
out. And that their terms made this clear. So, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong. 
However, they did offer to speak to the mortgage company dealing with Mr Ds application 
and explain to them the situation and whatd happened, to assist with Mr Ds application. Mr 
D wasnt happy with NVCs response. And he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that NVC had made an error by not reserving the car while they 
processed Mr Ds application. And this wouldve caused Mr D some distress and 
inconvenience. So, she thought that NVC should pay Mr D £200 to compensate him for this. 
However, she said she hadnt seen anything to show that a second credit search wouldve 
adversely affected Mr Ds mortgage application. Nor had she seen anything to show that Mr 
D paid £2,000 more for the car than he would otherwise have reasonably done so, or that 
hed specifically lost out on any investment by using his savings to buy a car instead. So, 
she didnt think NVC needed to pay Mr D anything more.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigator. He said that had I agreed to a second credit check 
this WOULD have impacted my credit file. Thats objectively demonstrable. And he went on 
to explain why he felt he needed the most squeaky-clean credit file possible.
Mr D also said that, as he couldnt get the car he initially wanted through NVC, he had no 
other option but to purchase a nine-year old car for £10,000, and he had to take money out 
of his business to do this. And the extra tax alone is over £2,000. He also said that the car 
he purchased had now depreciated to £7,000 and, because of the age and type of the car is 
not what someone in my role would expect to be driving that this has also caused him 
reputational damage.
Because Mr D didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. NVC ordered the car for Mr D as an ancillary action to their 
credit broking activity  the car was only ordered by NVC as they were also arranging the 
finance for Mr D, so the two are intrinsically linked. So, as credit broking is a regulated 
activity, this is something were able to look at.
Ive seen a copy of the quote supplied to Mr D on 13 July 2022, which confirmed that the car 
he was looking to finance had limited availability. And, in accepting the quote, Mr D also 
confirmed that he had read and accepted NVCs terms and conditions. And these confirm 
that vehicle supply is subject to availability, In the unlikely event that the vehicle you have 
ordered is not available  [NVC] will contact you by email or telephone to confirm with you 
whether you wish to proceed with your order or to provide you with possible alternatives.
Ive also noted that the quotation provided to Mr D didnt confirm any expected delivery date 
for the car. And I havent seen anything else that shows me that Mr D was provided with any 
expected delivery date for the car he wanted to finance.
NVC emailed Mr D the following day to explain that the car he wanted was no longer 
available  itd been sold by the dealer. And they offered him the option of a replacement car 
(which was a different colour and was a manual transmission instead of a semi-automatic) 
which would be available for delivery in around six weeks.
Ive seen that, in a follow up email dated 20 July 2022, NVC told Mr D that the dealer is not 
permitted to secure a car until they have credit approval. And its not disputed that Mr D was 
told he would need to go through a further credit approval process for the replacement car 
he'd been offered.
However, this email is at odds with the 14 July 2022 email offering Mr D the replacement 
car. Which says very sorry  the retailers seem to be fighting us and winning for cars  the 
[replacement car option] is held for me as sold for 24 hours. Based on this, Im satisfied 
that NVC had a process whereby cars could be held as sold for a short period while the 
finance application was being processed. And, knowing both the limited availability of the car 
Mr D was looking for and that they were in a fight with retailers to secure cars; Id have 
expected NVC to follow this process when Mr D first placed his order.
As such, Im satisfied that NVC not doing this caused Mr D some inconvenience.
Mr D has supplied details of the car he bought instead, and the publically available 
information on this car shows the V5C was registered on 19 July 2022. Based on this date 
its reasonable to conclude that Mr D obtained the car on or just before 19 July 2022. So, I 
dont doubt that Mr D was in need of transportation at this time.However, I also need to consider that no delivery date on the first car was ever confirmed. 
And the second car NVC offered Mr D was available for delivery within a reasonable period 
of time  around six weeks. Mr D has also explained why the car he obtained in July 2022 
wasnt really suitable for his needs, and that he feels he paid £2,000 more than it was worth 
at the time.
Whats more, its not disputed that a second credit check wouldve shown on Mr Ds credit 
file. And this wouldve been visible to any potential lenders. However, Ive not seen anything 
to show that this wouldve had an adverse impact on Mr D i.e. his mortgage lender wouldve 
either refused a mortgage, or wouldve charged a higher interest rate than they otherwise 
wouldve done, solely as a result of the additional credit search.
In addition to this, it's also my understanding that it was Mr Ds intention to apply for a new 
mortgage. But this wasnt something hed actually done, or was immediately about to do, 
when he applied for finance with NVC. And, in an email dated 8 February 2023, Mr D 
confirmed that hed just secured my new mortgage.
Taking all of the above into consideration, Im not satisfied that NVCs actions on 13 July 
2022, by not making any attempt to hold the car Mr D wanted before they processed his 
finance application, gave Mr D no other option but to purchase this particular used car, one 
which he considered to be overpriced and a bad bargain, 
Ive also noted that Mr D has been inconsistent with his explanation as to how he funded the 
car purchase in July 2022. In the complaint form Mr D submitted on 13 August 2022, he 
explained that Ive had to take money out of my savings and buy a car for cash [and] Ive 
suffered a loss of interest on my savings  just as I was about to invest them into the 
market at a low point. 
However, in an email of 15 December 2022, Mr D said that to buy a car I had to take money 
out of my business which made me a higher rate taxpayer. This, again, I can prove. The 
extra tax alone is over £2,000. Then, in an email the following day, Mr D said this money 
was taken as a dividend payment from his company and to get £10,000 net, I need to take 
out £15094 and pay £5094 tax.
Given this inconsistency, and because Mr D hasnt provided any evidence of where the 
money actually came from, I cant be satisfied whether it came from savings or dividends 
from his company, or how much potential interest was lost or what tax was actually paid on 
the dividends (which would depend on a number of other different factors relating to Mr Ds 
personal tax circumstances, and not just the amount of any dividend). But, for the reasons 
already given, as Im not satisfied that Mr D had no other option but to purchase that 
particular car, for that particular price; I wont be asking NVC to compensate Mr D for the 
results of the choice he made  either relating to the purchase price itself, or for any interest 
lost / tax paid.
In his email of 8 February 2023, Mr D also confirmed that he had now applied for finance for 
a new car and was in a position to sell the car he purchased in July 2022. And he expected 
this would be for around £3,000 less than he paid for it. But Mr D had use of the car for at 
least seven months, during which time he increased its mileage. So, Id expect an older car 
with more mileage to sell for less than a younger car with less mileage. And I dont think its 
unreasonable that this would happen.Ive also noted that, had Mr D been able to secure the car he wanted through NVC, he 
wouldve paid NVC around £2,500 in finance payments during this time  an amount he 
hasnt needed to pay given his choice to purchase an alternative car. So, I dont think its 
reasonable to ask NVC to pay Mr D the £3,000 he expects will be the difference between the 
purchase and sale price of the car.
Putting things right
As Ive already said, this doesnt mean that NVCs actions didnt cause Mr D some 
inconvenience. The investigator has recommended a payment of £200 to recognise this. I 
think a payment of £200 is a fair one and in line with what I would direct in similar 
circumstances. So, I direct NVC to pay Mr D £200 in recognition of the impact hes 
experienced.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ds complaint. And Nationwide Vehicle Contracts 
Limited should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman