DRN-3287030
The complaint
Ms S complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited gave her inaccurate information 
about a pension switch and in doing so caused her a financial loss. 
What happened
In early January 2020, Ms S wished to do a partial fund transfer from her pension with 
another provider and into a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with Interactive Investor. 
She had contacted the other party to enquire about how she would be able to do this  and it 
had (incorrectly) told her she could select the funds and proportions of money to liquidate 
from each. There was a particular fund Ms S was concerned about and she wished to switch 
all of her holdings out of it.
Ms S then contacted Interactive Investor to setup the SIPP, she checked that nothing would 
happen until she gave it specific instructions of the transfer and which funds she wished to 
sell and in what proportion. Interactive Investor confirmed nothing would happen until it 
received further instruction.
Unfortunately less than a week after this, Interactive Investor submitted the transfer request 
via Origo options and the money was sent over to it. Ms S noticed that the money had been 
split evenly across the four funds she held with the other provider, which is not what shed 
wanted.
On 31 January 2020, Ms S complained and Interactive Investor realised it had given 
incorrect information to her. It asked her to provide it with an estimation of her loss and it 
would look into putting things right.
Ms S didnt get back to Interactive Investor and so it issued a final response in March 2020 
and re-iterated its offer to look at any potential financial loss. It also offered £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Ms S told us she didnt do anything at the time as shed been very stressed and then it was 
the start of the pandemic. Ms S also told us she hadnt sold down the underperforming fund 
which appears to have been the main reason for the switch. Ms S said she hadnt done so 
as she thought shed be crystallising the loss. And shed found all this difficult to deal with 
and thats why she hadnt done anything to mitigate her situation.
Our investigator looked into matters, he concluded that it wasnt now practical for Interactive 
Investor to look into any kind of loss calculation. He explained that as so much time has 
passed and Ms S hadnt mitigated her position it would now be unfair and unreasonable to 
carry out a loss calculation. In the circumstances he felt that additional money should be 
awarded to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms S, he recommended £200 
which Interactive Investor accepted was fair.
Ms S didnt think that the additional £200 was sufficient. She compared the award to what 
was offered by the other provider (which is also subject to a complaint which we are looking 
at under a separate reference) and thought it was too low. She explained that we ourselves 
had said Interactive Investor was more at fault  but the amount awarded was less than had 
been offered by the other party. Ms S said the situation had caused her significant stress 
and upset.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators findings and for broadly the same reasons.
There is no doubt that Interactive Investor made a mistake and it gave Ms S incorrect 
information. The result of which was that the switch occurred before Ms S had expected. In 
situations such as these, where the business has made an error wed expect it to try and put 
matters right. Interactive Investor did do so, as soon as it was made aware of the mistake it 
accepted it and offered to look into whether Ms S had suffered a financial loss. However, Ms 
S didnt take this forward. And by the time she complained to our service it was over six 
months later. And she hadnt switched out of the fund she felt was underperforming either. 
It is impractical and would be unreasonable to say that Interactive Investor should carry out a 
loss calculation now. Furthermore, I understand what Ms S actually wished to do, sell down 
a particular fund and switch it across to the SIPP with Interactive Investor wasnt possible in 
any event. So putting things right in terms of what shouldve happened isnt available as a 
fair or exact solution.
The investigator recommended that Interactive Investor pay an additional £200 on top of the 
£100 it had already paid in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused. Ms S says 
this isnt sufficient and points to the fact the other provider offered more despite more of the 
fault sitting with Interactive Investor. 
Ive considered Interactive Investors role in the situation to consider whats fair and 
reasonable in terms of recognising the distress and inconvenience caused. As Ive said 
above, Ms S couldnt do the switch as she wanted in any event. But Interactive Investor in 
requesting the money, set in stone the mistake the other party had made. The other party 
offered to undo the switch  and Interactive Investor offered to look into any financial loss 
that occurred. Unfortunately, I understand Ms S was struggling at the time and so didnt take 
any action here. But the option was there and offered to Ms S to have things put right, and I 
cant reasonably hold Interactive Investor responsible for Ms S not mitigating the situation. I 
have to take into account it was prepared to put things right early on in the process and this 
couldve been achieved with Ms S co-operation. Therefore, I think the award the investigator 
recommended is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I think this error will have caused 
Ms S stress, upset and inconvenience but I think for the reasons explained £300 in total is a 
fair and reasonable award. This may be less than offered by the other party but that was a 
compensation offer made by the other party prior before our involvement.
Putting things right
Interactive Investor should pay Ms £300 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience its 
error caused her. I understand £100 has already been paid, if this is the case then it only 
needs to pay £200 to settle the matter.
My final decision
Interactive Investor Services Limited on receipt of Ms Ss acceptance of this decision, should 
put matters right as stated above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman