DRN-2844194
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank plc didnt do enough to support him when he spent large  
amounts of money to fund a gambling habit. 
What happened
Mr A opened a basic cash account with Lloyds in 2012. Around July 2019, he started using 
the account for gambling. His salary wasnt paid in, so he regularly transferred funds in from 
another account and deposited any winnings he received. Mr A says that in the space of 
about a year, he spent over £40,000 on gambling.
Mr A first complained to Lloyds around April 2020 (using an online complaint form). When 
logging his complaint, Lloyds noted that Mr A said he had a gambling addiction. He also 
mentioned that hed been able to put a gambling block on another of his accounts with a 
different bank, so to avoid this, I transferred funds into this account. He said that despite 
the significant amount hed spent, and the fact that his salary wasnt paid into the account, 
there had been no intervention from Lloyds. For instance, Mr A thought Lloyds should have 
asked him where the funds he was transferring in were coming from. Mr A told Lloyds that 
he was suffering from depression and mental health issues as a result of his addiction and 
felt it had acted irresponsibly. He said he wanted to be compensated appropriately and for 
Lloyds to close his account.  
Over the following few months, Mr A was in fairly regular contact with Lloyds through a 
series of web chats. Amongst the things discussed were: 
Mr A asking if his complaint had been received. He said hed been able to spend 
several 10s thousand pounds in gambling and was considering taking legal action if 
he wasnt refunded a large percentage of the amount hed spent;  
Mr A said that even though hed asked Lloyds to close his account, hed still been 
allowed to funnel thousands of pounds through it for gambling. Mr A said why am I 
not being taken seriously; 
Mr A said he found it shocking that his account remained open despite his request 
for it to be closed; 
Mr A asked what the options were if his complaint wasnt resolved soon. He added I 
need help here.
Lloyds got in touch with Mr A in early June 2020 and said it couldnt offer solutions to 
resolving his complaint at that point (as it was still considering it). But it told him about 
the various tools it had available to support customers such as freezing gambling 
payments, which could easily be switched on by the customer using the app. Lloyds 
gave Mr A instructions on how to set it up and said, once activated, it then took 48 
hours to unfreeze the card. In addition to that, it said he was entitled to three months 
free use of Gamban  an effective tool blocking access to thousands of gambling 
sites. 
Lloyds responded to Mr As complaint shortly after (around which time it froze Mr As 
card for gambling transactions). It didnt uphold his complaint. It said Mr A hadnt told 
it about his gambling addiction before April 2020 and it felt there was a partial 
responsibility on the customer to manage their finances and bring any concerns to 
the banks attention, so it could consider how to help. Lloyds said that since it had 
become aware, it had placed a gambling freeze on Mr As account card (although it 
later noted that Mr A had removed it). And it told him that if he wanted to close the 
account, he could go into a branch or phone to arrange that. It suggested Mr A might 
want to contact its customer support unit if he needed help managing his finances 
and also gave him the details of various charities and advisory services some of 
which specialised in debt support.
In response to further contact from Mr A, Lloyds again said he could set up card controls via 
the mobile app and ask the branch to apply a strict flag (which would kick in if he applied for 
credit). 
Mr A again contacted Lloyds via its chat service during September 2020. He asked why he 
was able to remove the gambling freeze when hed asked Lloyds for a hard block on his 
account. He said Lloyds had to take ownership of the situation. Lloyds responded that it 
couldnt put an irremovable block on the card and any freeze that Mr A put on his account 
could be removed at a later date. It again referred to some of the other support that was 
available, including through external organisations. 
In an online chat shortly after, Mr A said what about the hard block, not the 48 hour 
onethe card freeze doesnt work If I can just take it offI want to get a block on this for 
good or close the account. I was told the block had been applied. 
Lloyds responded that it didnt have the facility to stop all gambling transactions entirely 
apart from the card freeze (which it accepted wasnt ideal). However, it added that through 
the online tool with Gamban, Mr A would be able to block access to gambling sites. And if he 
were to add this as well as the card freeze, it would be an extra layer to stop the card being 
used for gambling. 
Mr A wasnt happy with Lloyds response, so he complained to us around the same time 
raising similar issues. He said he felt Lloyds had a total disregard for his health and financial 
situation. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He said he didnt think Lloyds could be 
expected to control how Mr A spent the money he had access to, or monitor his account in 
the way he expected, particularly before it was alerted to a problem. And whilst the 
investigator thought there had been a delay in dealing with Mr As complaint due to the 
global pandemic (and Mr A had continued to spend further amounts on gambling in the 
meantime) he was satisfied that once it looked into things, Lloyds placed a gambling freeze 
on the account and told Mr A how to apply such a freeze himself. The investigator also noted 
that Lloyds had referred Mr A to several external organisations for help. So, he felt that 
Lloyds had acted reasonably and in line with the tools it had available. However, the 
investigator also noted that Mr A had apparently added and removed the gambling freeze on 
several occasions. Overall, he felt Lloyds had acted reasonably and he didnt think it could 
do much more. Mr A wasnt happy with the investigators assessment, so he asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint afresh. Its now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im really sorry to hear about the incredibly difficult position Mr As in. And I can appreciate 
why he says its had a considerable impact on his health and wellbeing. 
It might help to say at the outset that theres a general expectation on financial businesses to 
support customers who may be experiencing financial difficulty. But thats largely dependent 
on what the business knows about the customers circumstances. Theres no evidence of Mr A telling Lloyds about his gambling addiction before about April 
2020. And, whilst I appreciate why Mr A was perhaps expecting immediate action from 
Lloyds once hed highlighted the problem, I think Lloyds was entitled to look into things once 
it became aware of it and Mr As complaint. But that said, before giving him its formal 
complaint response, I can see Lloyds told Mr A about its online app, which enabled him to 
put a gambling freeze on his account in the meantime. And it told him about an additional 
safeguard, which was using the Gamban online tool to block access to gambling websites. 
That response seemed reasonable to me.
In any event, Mr A seems to think Lloyds should have been monitoring his account to the 
extent that it should already have been aware of his gambling problems and stepped in 
sooner. Given the number of customers it has, I dont think it would be feasible for Lloyds to 
manually monitor Mr As account in the way he perhaps expected. And even if it had been 
and noticed that Mr A was gambling heavily, I wouldnt automatically expect Lloyds to have 
contacted Mr A about it if he hadnt himself identified it as a concern. And from what Mr As 
said and what his bank statements show, he was using his own money to fund his gambling 
by transferring in funds from another account. Whilst I appreciate Mr As comments about 
the extreme financial difficulties his gambling has caused, I can see that his Lloyds account 
was mostly in credit, or with a nil balance at certain points until further sums were deposited. 
Ive seen nothing in the information Lloyds had to suggest that Mr A was relying on credit to 
support his gambling either. And, as Mr A wasnt paying in a salary, he was only able to 
spend if he actively transferred in money from elsewhere.
Thats not to say that Lloyds shouldnt have been generally monitoring Mr As account. And 
just like many other banks, it uses technology to spot signs of potentially unusual or 
fraudulent activity. So, I thought about whether the frequency and amount of deposits that Mr 
A was making to his Lloyds account should have triggered some form of alert. Mr A goes as 
far as suggesting that Lloyds was in breach of his account terms by not asking him where 
the amounts deposited were coming from. Lloyds said that as the payments were coming in 
from a recognised source - another of Mr As bank accounts - that wouldnt necessarily have 
triggered an alert. Having thought about it, I didnt find Lloyds response unreasonable in 
these particular circumstances. 
There are other account terms such as those saying Lloyds might take action if it suspects 
fraudulent or unusual activity. But, for the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think Lloyds 
had any reason to think that was the case here. The account terms also say that Lloyds  
might decide to close an account if, for instance, it thinks its being run in a way that breaks a 
legal requirement. From the evidence Ive seen, I dont think there was any reason for Lloyds 
to think that was the case either. Given all of this, Im not persuaded that Lloyds should have 
stepped in sooner simply because Mr A was using his account funds to pay for gambling 
transactions. 
It seems to me that Mr As expectations of Lloyds, to some extent, stemmed from his 
experiences of the systems and procedures used by other banks in similar situations. Its not 
for me to tell Lloyds which systems it should use. Nor would it be fair of me to say that 
Lloyds acted unfairly or unreasonably simply because it didnt do what another bank might 
have done in similar circumstances. But I can say whether Lloyds actions seemed 
reasonable in light of what it knew and the tools it had available. 
Having already told Mr A about its gambling freeze and Gambans online tool, Lloyds set up 
a gambling freeze on Mr As account around the time that it responded to his complaint. It 
also told Mr A about other card controls, which again, could be managed by the customer 
using the app. I fully appreciate Mr As later point that a gambling freeze such as the one 
Lloyds used wasnt suitable for him  as he could simply choose to switch it on and off when 
he wanted to. Lloyds recognised that too. And the evidence suggests thats what Mr A did. 
But the fact that Lloyds may not have been able to put in place the kind of restriction Mr A 
was expecting doesnt mean it acted unfairly or unreasonably. Mr A seems to think that Lloyds agreed to put a hard block on his account and then delayed 
in doing so until about November 2020. From the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded 
thats what happened. Ive seen nothing to suggest Lloyds could put in place a hard block of 
the kind Mr A might have been used to from other banks. From what I can tell, most of the 
tools available to Lloyds appear to be customer led. That is tools that customers could opt to 
switch on and off in order to restrict certain transactions, (such as when overseas) and one 
of those tools was the dedicated gambling freeze. And whilst I can appreciate why Mr A 
wanted something more restrictive, it seems unlikely Lloyds would promise to put a hard 
block on when that doesnt appear to be an available option. It may be that Mr A is referring 
to the strict flag that Lloyds told him about. But thats a tool used when the customer applies 
for credit and, as I understand it, is intended to delay any subsequent lending decisions. Mr 
A didnt apply for credit, so I dont think that was a suitable tool in his particular case. But, 
given the name, it might explain why Mr A was expecting Lloyds to do more than it did. I can 
see that Mr A appears to have experienced some difficulty when trying to use his card 
around November 2020. So, I can see why he might have thought Lloyds finally did what 
was needed (in terms of blocking the card fully to prevent him from gambling). But that 
doesnt appear to have been the reason. I can see Lloyds initially told him there was a 
problem because hed tried to use an old card and it then said transactions had been 
blocked due to a card freeze. I appreciate though that Mr A says his app wasnt showing that 
a freeze was in place at that point. But, given everything Ive said, I think its the more likely  
explanation for why certain transactions were restricted as opposed to Lloyds having 
eventually put a hard block on the account when that wasnt something it could do. And Mr 
As more recent bank statements show further signs of gambling. That doesnt seem 
possible if there was a hard block on his account.
Given the serious problems hes described, I can fully understand why Mr A expected Lloyds 
to do more to restrict his account. But I also need to keep in mind that, as early as June 
2020, Lloyds told him he could phone or call into a branch to ask for his account to be 
closed. This seemed to me to be the kind of restriction that probably would have helped Mr 
A. And, as he wasnt using the account to pay in a salary or pay bills (and was using it solely 
for gambling) there wasnt anything preventing the account from being closed. But theres no 
evidence of Mr A having phoned or called into a branch to ask for his account to be closed. 
And the account terms make clear that the customer would need to make that kind of 
request, or could also do so in writing. I realise Mr A seems to think this is something that 
should have happened automatically as soon as Lloyds was aware of his gambling 
problems. But Im not inclined to agree. Earlier on, I set out some of the circumstances in 
which Lloyds might close an account, but those dont apply here. So, in these particular 
circumstances, I didnt find Lloyds request unreasonable, particularly given what the account 
terms say. And as Mr A didnt write; phone; or visit a branch, it follows that I dont think it 
would be fair to say Lloyds is responsible for Mr As continued spending on gambling whilst 
his account remains open.  
Having thought very carefully about Mr As case, and whilst no doubt disappointing news for 
him, I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong. And whilst I dont under-estimate how difficult 
things are for Mr A, I cant fairly say that Lloyds was responsible for the amount of money he 
spent on gambling and the additional financial difficulties that caused. Mr A may wish to seek 
support from one of the external organisations Lloyds mentioned, or (if he hasnt since done 
so) contact Lloyds in one of the ways suggested to ask it to close his account.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 Amanda Scott
Ombudsman