DRN-3378395
The complaint
Mrs K had a secured loan with Firstplus Financial Group Plc (Firstplus).  She complained 
about the interest charged on the loan and Firstplus made an offer to resolve things.  As the 
loan was a joint loan with Mrs Ks now ex-husband Firstplus will only pay half of the sum 
offered to Mrs K.  Mrs K does not think this is fair in the circumstances of her case.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs K took out a secured loan from Firstplus around twenty years ago.  They 
borrowed around £60,000 with a variable rate of interest.  
In late 2019 Mrs K complained to Firstplus about the amount of interest that had been 
charged on the loan, and the fairness of the interest variation term within the loan 
agreement.  Mrs K is helped by a close family member who I will call S.  The complaint is 
made by Mrs K only.  
After Mr K referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman, Firstplus made an offer of 
just over £36,000 plus £150 for distress and inconvenience.  Initially Firstplus said both Mr 
and Mrs K would have to sign an acceptance before the matter could be treated as resolved 
and the payment made.
In principle the amount offered is acceptable to Mrs K but she thinks the compensation 
should be paid to her based on her sole acceptance of the offer made in response to her 
complaint.   S told us that Mr and Mrs Ks relationship was abusive, that Mr K had 
contributed very little towards the loan and Mrs K had paid by herself since at least 2011. 
S also explained that the loan was originally taken out to consolidate credit card debts built 
up by Mr K.  And that Mr K was made bankrupt a few years after the loan was taken out.
S says that the fair option that protected Mrs K from any retributions from Mr K was for the 
total offer to be paid to Mrs K without involving Mr K. 
Firstplus have offered to pay 50% of the offer amount to Mrs K together with £150 for 
distress and inconvenience.  It says it will hold the remaining 50% of the offer amount for 
Mr K to confirm where it should be paid, or until further appropriate and acceptable evidence 
is provided to establish entitlement to this part of the offer amount. 
The investigator has explained that she thinks the way Firstplus have split the offer is fair, 
however Mrs K has disagreed. S has explained that Mrs K used an inheritance, a non-
matrimonial asset, to pay arrears on the loan so she could continue to live in her house. It 
was sold in 2020  which is few years after Mr K moved out.  S says if Mrs K had not 
maintained the house and rescued it with non-matrimonial assets, the house would have 
been in negative equity. Because of Mrs Ks actions £50,000 was received from the sale, 
and Mrs K paid Mr K £25,000 because she was afraid that he would not otherwise have 
permitted the sale. They divorced following this, with no financial order.  
S says its likely a court would have awarded Mrs K the full £50,000 if she had asked the 
court to decide the point but this would have put her safety at risk.
Mrs K asked for the complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, as shes entitled to do, 
so the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision on whether the offer is fair and 
reasonable.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For broadly the same reasons as the investigator, I dont consider there to be sufficient 
grounds to uphold Mrs Ks remaining complaint that the offer is not fair and Id like to explain 
why.
The circumstances surrounding this complaint are difficult, and Mrs K does not want to 
contact her ex-husband or involve him in the complaint. 
The difficulty is that neither the Ombudsman Service or Firstplus can formally determine any 
dispute between Mr and Mrs K about how their assets should be distributed between them.  
And the loan was in joint names so it is reasonable for Firstplus to regard its offers as a joint 
asset.  It is therefore understandable that Firstplus is reluctant to offer to pay 100% to one of 
the joint borrowers.  I can try to help in these difficult circumstances but my powers are 
limited.  Mr K is not involved in the complaint and Mrs K does not want him to be.  I do not 
know how Mr and Mrs K split all their finances, and to fairly decide if the offer should be split 
a different way I would need to hear from both parties. 
Mrs K has explained that she split the proceeds of sale of the of the former matrimonial 
home equally with Mr K.  I note that she felt compelled to agree to do this to get Mr Ks 
agreement to the sale not because she thought he was entitled to 50%.  But this does tend 
to show that Mr K did not just waive any rights he thought he had to that joint asset.  I do not 
say Mr K does have any rights in relation to joint assets only that the conduct of both parties 
at that time tends to indicate the Mr K is likely to think that he does despite what Mrs K has 
told us about his conduct and her greater financial contribution.
Firstplus has offered to pay Mrs K half of the compensation it has offered plus £150 to her 
personally.  A 50/50 split seems a reasonable starting position for the division of the offer.  It 
is probably a reasonable starting point generally.  And the 50/50 based offer fits in with the 
recent financial settlement which gave no clear pointer to any other division being more 
appropriate.  Also a 50/50 split is preferrable in the circumstances to saying no payment at 
all should be made unless both joint account holders agree to the settlement which, it should 
be acknowledged, is one of the alternatives.  
I think it is fair and reasonable in the circumstances that an offer has been made to make a 
payment to Mrs K even though Mr K was a joint account holder.  However I do not think I 
can fairly require Firstplus to do more than it has offered to do which is to pay 50% to Mrs K. 
By offering Mrs K 50% now she has access to part of the compensation being offered in the 
same proportion she received the proceeds of sale of the house. Holding the remaining 50% 
for Mr K to confirm where it should be paid, or agreeing to accept further appropriate and 
acceptable evidence to determine the entitlement of this part of the offer, means the door 
remains open for Mrs K to explore other avenues regarding how this amount should be split. Firstplus offer remains open.  In the difficult circumstances in this complain I think this is a 
fair and reasonable way to resolve matters and so I do not order Firstplus to take any further 
action.  If Mrs K wishes to accept the offer she should let the investigator know or she can 
contact Firstplus direct whichever she prefers. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ks complaint against Firstplus Financial Group 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Philip Roberts
Ombudsman