DRN-4066129
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited caused delays to the transfer of her 
ISA and SIPP accounts to a new third-party provider. And that it didnt communicate with her 
during the transfer process.
The complaint is brought on her behalf by a third party. For ease, Ill refer to everything as if 
its been said by Mrs M.
What happened
Mrs M gave instructions to transfer her accounts to a new provider in or around April 2021, 
but the transfers werent completed until around three to four months later.
Aviva provided timelines to show what happened during the transfer process and said it had 
acted in a timely manner.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Aviva 
had acted in line with its terms and conditions and there wasnt evidence to show it had 
caused any delay. She didnt think any lack of communication from Aviva led to a delay.
Mrs M didnt agree. She said, in summary, that:
She never received or agreed to Avivas terms and conditions.
She expected to be kept informed by Aviva. Its communications were non-existent.
Aviva froze her investments during the transfer process and the delays meant she 
couldnt sell investments or invest the uninvested money. Aviva should have given her 
options, such as encashing all her investments to speed up the transfer process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and in 
my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here but Im not going to 
respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Secondly, Mrs M has previously brought a complaint to us about the service she received 
from Aviva after she didnt have a financial advisor. As part of this complaint, she said she 
should have been told that, once a transfer had been instructed, further trading wasnt 
possible. This service made a final decision about that complaint, including the trading 
restriction and whether it resulted in a financial loss. As a final decision has already been 
issued, I cant provide any further comment on this part of Mrs Ms complaint.
Our investigator set out the timeline of the transfer in some detail and I wont repeat that 
here. Im satisfied that, whilst there were delays in the transfer process, these were not 
caused by something Aviva did or didnt do. Overall I find it acted within a reasonable time, 
and in line with its terms and conditions, at all stages of the transfer process.
Mrs M says she didnt see or accept Avivas terms and conditions. To be clear, there werent 
separate terms covering the transfer; these were included in its general terms which Mrs M 
would have seen when her account was transferred to Aviva.
Its normal business practice when investments are being transferred for the receiving 
business to initiate each stage of the transfer process and to communicate with the 
consumer about the transfer. Whilst it may have been helpful for Aviva to keep in touch with 
Mrs M about the progress of her transfer, particularly when it didnt hear from the third-party 
provider for some time, I think its unlikely this would have made a difference to the overall 
outcome. Aviva acted in a timely manner in response to the third partys requests and 
instructions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman