DRN-3495838
The complaint
Mr H has complained about Bank of Scotland plcs cheque processing system. He was 
unhappy that when Bank of Scotland rejected a digital cheque image, he was unable to use 
the paper cheque.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Our investigator didnt find that bank of Scotland had done anything wrong. Mr H 
appealed. The facts are not in dispute so Ill focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to respond to every point made by the parties involved. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find is the key issue here. Our rules allow 
me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I recognise Mr H will be disappointed with my decision but I dont uphold his complaint for 
these reasons:
Bank of Scotlands system relies on digital technology. In this instance as the date on 
the cheque image wasnt clear enough the bank wasnt able to process the digital 
cheque. But because the image had been submitted the paper version was no longer 
valid. This meant Mr H would have been obliged to ask the issuer/payor to issue the 
cheque again. He said this would be embarrassing to do. I do understand Mr Hs 
frustration. However Bank of Scotland has in place a process which it is entitled to 
follow. This service cannot tell a bank how to run its business.
Mr H suggests that a default system should be in place  to accept the paper copy in 
circumstances such as this. But as Bank of Scotland have explained submitting the 
digital image makes the paper copy invalid. Mr Hs suggestion doesnt seem 
unreasonable  but as noted above this service is not able to dictate to financial 
businesses what processes they should put in place. 
Mr H says that that a failure such as this is a customer service failing, but I dont 
agree that is so. Bank of Scotland explained to Mr H in its final response letter why 
the process had changed over recent years and the advantages it brings to its 
customers. These included faster clearing, faster access to money and avoids the 
necessity to visit a branch to deposit a cheque. Im pleased to note that Mr H has 
deposited cheques using this method successfully in the past.
Mr H believes that he has incurred a loss because of the system that the bank has in 
place. Im not persuaded this is so. It was open to him to request the cheque be re-
issued. 
I dont find on the evidence before me that Bank of Scotland has breached any 
regulation or law or treated Mr H unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman