The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
alongside his mortgage, which he applied for in April 2001.
What happened
In April 2001 Mr C applied for a mortgage. At the same time, Santander sold him a 
PPI policy. Mr C says the PPI was mis-sold. 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint but didn't think the complaint about the sale of the 
PPI should be upheld. Mr C didn't agree with the adjudicator. The complaint has been 
referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr C's case. 
I've decided the PPI wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I've first looked at whether Mr C agreed to buy the policy. Mr C says he remembers being 
asked if he had wanted PPI and saying "no". He says discovering he had PPI was a total 
shock. So I've thought about what Mr C has said alongside the other information I've seen 
about the sale.
Santander has sent me copies of the documents Mr C completed at the time he bought the 
policy. I see the mortgage application form, which Mr C completed on 14 April 2001, had a 
separate section Mr C needed to complete to say whether he wanted PPI. This had three 
options. It looks as though Mr C didn't apply for PPI at this time. But there's a box ticked next 
to the label "I would like to consider Mortgage PaymentCover. Please send me an 
explanatory leaflet and quotation." Mr C has signed immediately beneath this. Santander 
has also sent me a "mortgage interview record", completed on 20 April 2001. This records 
that Mr C wanted to buy PPI.
When there's disagreement about what happened, I have to decide what's most likely based 
on what I've seen.
I appreciate that Mr C says he remembers saying "no". But I'm also mindful that this sale 
took place in 2001, over 18 years ago. The documents completed at that time suggest that 
Mr C wanted information about PPI and that he went on to buy it. It also looks as though 
Mr C paid for the policy by a separate direct debit from his account until the policy was 
DRN-1071636cancelled in 2006. And so though Mr C now says he declined the policy and didn't know he 
had it, I think it's more likely that he agreed to buy it.
Santander says it advised Mr C to buy the policy - so it had to check if it was right for him. 
Based on what I've seen of Mr C's circumstances, I think it was. Although Mr C got some 
sick pay from his employer, this policy would have paid out in addition to what Mr C got from 
work. It also paid out for longer, and would have covered him if he lost his job. The policy 
protected a mortgage - so Mr C's home was at risk if he didn't make the repayments. And it 
doesn't look as though Mr C was affected by any of the main things the policy didn't cover.
It's possible that Santander didn't explain the policy as clearly as it could have done. But 
Mr C applied for the policy - so it looks like he wanted this cover. He wasn't affected by any 
of the main things the policy didn't cover. So I don't think better information would have put 
Mr C off buying the policy.
But Santander has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because:
 Santander got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about this. Because Santander didn't tell Mr C,
that was unfair.
 To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
I've considered Mr C's other comments. I note he says there were two times when he was 
off work sick but didn't claim on the PPI. I've already explained why I think Mr C knew he 
was buying a PPI policy. So these points don't change my conclusion.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasn't mis-sold, so Santander UK Plc doesn't have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr C.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I don't 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2020.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman