DRN-4285619
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) processed a withdrawal from 
her pension as soon as she made her withdrawal request. But shed wanted to make the 
withdrawal on her Selected Retirement Date (SRD). Mrs C said this has led to a financial 
loss.
What happened
Mrs C had a pension plan with Aviva. 
In December 2022 Aviva wrote to Mrs C as she was around six months away from her SRD. 
The letter showed that the current value of Mrs Cs pension as of 5 December 2022 was 
£3,173.02. The letter said that Mrs C didnt have to take money from her plan at her SRD. It 
said she could take her money any time after age 55. She was already over age 55 at the 
time of this letter. The letter also stated:
Any money you take from your pension can affect any means tested benefits, could be 
subject to claim by creditors and can form part of your estate for inheritance tax purposes.
On 12 April 2023 Aviva sent Mrs C a further letter about her pension. The value as of 11 
April 2023 was quoted as £3,187.01. The letter stated that she didnt have to use her money 
now, but that she needed to think about all of her options before deciding what to do. It also 
said that if she wasnt ready to decide yet that was fine. 
Aviva wrote to Mrs C again on 21 April 2023 to acknowledge that shed looked at her 
retirement options online. The letter stated:
You told us you want to start taking money from this plan on [SRD]. You dont have to take 
the money from your plan on this date, you can change it and take your money any time 
after age 55.
It also stated: 
Any money you take from your pension can affect any means tested benefits, could be 
subject to claim by creditors and can form part of your estate for inheritance tax purposes.
Aviva also provided Mrs C with information about all of her options and about getting help 
with choosing her options. In the Options in more detail section it stated, under the 
Withdraw all your money in one go option:
Taking your pension in this way may affect your eligibility for any means tested benefits and 
could mean that those benefits are reduced or no longer payable.
Aviva also sent Mrs C a full withdrawal quote on 24 April 2023 and on 5 May 2023. These 
stated:
If you decide youd like to withdraw all your pension money in one go, you can do this online 
by selecting Review quote and apply in the Accessing your pension money section.
Both quotes recorded Mrs Cs response to the following risk warning as Yes:
Do you know any means-tested government benefits could be affected by choosing this 
retirement option?
Mrs C unsuccessfully tried to call Aviva on 5 May 2023. She then decided to take all of her 
pension funds as taxed cash, selecting the full withdrawal option online. 
Aviva said it started the online payment process on 11 May 2023. And authorised and made 
the payment to Mrs C on 13 May 2023. 
Mrs C said she emailed Aviva after submitting her withdrawal request online as she wanted 
to delay or cancel it. She said Aviva responded with a request for her policy number. Neither 
Aviva nor Mrs C has a copy of these emails. I understand that as Mrs C didnt have her 
policy number she didnt reply.
Mrs C expected her withdrawal request to be actioned on her SRD. But Aviva processed it 
as soon as she made her withdrawal request. Mrs C said this led to the loss of some of her 
means-tested benefits, which she wouldnt have lost if Aviva had processed her withdrawal 
request on her SRD as shed expected.
Mrs C emailed Aviva on 31 May 2023 to complain. Aviva called her the same day to discuss 
her complaint. Mrs C felt that Aviva had bombarded her with letters as she approached her 
SRD. She said that although the information shed been provided with had said that a 
withdrawal would affect any benefits she was on, she didnt know what, if any, benefits shed 
get once she started to receive her state pension on her SRD. And shed felt that when she 
went through the process online, the effective date would be her SRD, not before. She was 
also concerned that what had happened to her could happen to someone else.
Mrs C also said that shed needed the pension money to pay vets bills for a beloved pet, but 
was now having to use it to cover normal monthly outgoings. She said she was very upset 
by what had happened, and noted that she suffered with extreme anxiety.
On a later call, Mrs C also told Aviva that after shed gone through the online application, 
which hadnt specified a payment date, shed been concerned, so had emailed Aviva to ask 
it if the payment could be on her SRD. She felt Aviva needed to look at its systems so that its 
customers understood exactly when withdrawal payments would be made. 
Aviva issued its final response to the complaint on 7 June 2023. It didnt think there was 
anything wrong with its withdrawal process. But it felt that Mrs C shouldve been able to get 
through to it on the phone more quickly. It offered £50 compensation for this. 
Aviva acknowledged why Mrs C felt frustrated with the process. It said that when its 
customers were approaching their nominated SRD, it would send communications to let 
them know. It said it also provided further detailed information about customers pension 
options and what theyd need to think about before deciding what to do with their pensions.
Aviva said that although Mrs Cs quote packs had stated her SRD, theyd also stated that 
she didnt have to take the money from her plan on that date. But that she could withdraw 
money any time after the age of 55. 
Aviva acknowledged that Mrs C wouldve heard a recorded message about the online 
process when she called it to discuss her pension. It said it provided that message to all its 
customers. It also said that for Mrs C, the online process was her preferred option.Aviva said that the online process didnt allow requests to be future dated. And that while it 
understood that Mrs C had thought that her request would be processed on her SRD, the 
process had explained that payment would take up to 10 working days from the date of the 
request for the money to credit into a customers account. It said that an automatic email had 
been sent to Mrs C to tell her this. And that Mrs C had confirmed that she had received this 
email, which had prompted her to contact Aviva as she was concerned that the withdrawal 
payment would be processed before her SRD. 
Unhappy, Mrs C brought her complaint to this service. She said shed tried to call Aviva in 
May 2023. And that while waiting to be connected, shed heard a recorded message telling 
her she could complete her request online. She felt this was better for her given her anxiety. 
So she applied online. This led to her withdrawal request being processed earlier than shed 
wanted, losing her means-tested benefits. She wanted Aviva to apologise and to alter its 
systems so that no one else suffered like she had. 
Our investigator didnt think that Aviva had done anything wrong. He understood why Mrs C 
had felt that her request would be processed on her SRD. But didnt think the evidence 
showed that Aviva had ever indicated that this was the case, or provided Mrs C with any 
misleading documentation. He also felt that Aviva had acted fairly when it had offered Mrs C 
£50 compensation for not being able to get through to it on the phone.
Our investigator noted that Mrs C didnt include her policy number when she emailed Aviva 
after making her online withdrawal request as she could no longer access that number 
online. But he felt it had been reasonable for Aviva to ask Mrs C for the policy number before 
it took any further action. He also felt that Aviva couldve asked for different information to 
help it locate the policy if Mrs C had replied to it to tell it she didnt have her policy number. 
But that as Mrs C hadnt replied to Aviva, it hadnt had the opportunity to request different 
information. 
Mrs C didnt agree with our investigator. She didnt think she shouldve known that her 
withdrawal payment would be made before her SRD. She said she wouldnt have ticked a 
box stating shed understood that such a payment could affect her benefits if shed thought 
the withdrawal payment would be made before her SRD. And that shed effectively been 
answering that question on the basis that her withdrawal would be carried out on her SRD. 
Mrs C accepted that she shouldve kept a record of her policy number, but didnt think shed 
need it anymore. She said she still felt that Aviva shouldve more clearly explained that a 
withdrawal request would be processed immediately rather than on a customers SRD. She 
said if it had been clear she wouldve made her request on her SRD, not before it. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that Aviva didnt do anything wrong. And that 
its communications with Mrs C werent misleading. I know this will be extremely 
disappointing to Mrs C. Ill explain the reasons for my decision.
I first considered if Aviva acted fairly and reasonably when it wrote to Mrs C, starting in 
December 2022, about her pension.
Mrs C feels like Aviva bombarded her with paperwork as she approached her SRD. However, Im satisfied it did nothing wrong when it sent these letters. Ill explain why. 
Was it fair for Aviva to write to Mrs C about her pension plans?
As our investigator noted, pension providers like Aviva are required by their regulator to send 
wake up letters to customers as they approach their SRDs. This is so that they can get all 
of the information they need to make an informed decision. 
Although I can see that Mrs C clearly felt some pressure to make a decision about her 
pension when she received these letters from Aviva, Im not persuaded that she shouldve 
felt this way. I say this because the letters stated that she didnt have to do anything at the 
time if she didnt want to.
I next considered whether Aviva followed its usual process for the withdrawal request. And if 
the process was clearly signposted. 
Was Avivas correct process followed?
I can see that Mrs C interpreted the information Aviva provided her with as meaning the 
effective date of her withdrawal would be her SRD, not before. So Ive gone on to consider 
not only whether Aviva followed the correct process, but whether it did anything to mislead 
Mrs C into thinking her withdrawal request would be processed on her SRD.
Ive covered some of the detail included in the wake-up letters in the background section of 
my decision. Im satisfied that although these show that Mrs C had an established SRD on 
her plan, she could also take her benefits at a date of her choosing before, on, or after her 
SRD, given she was already aged over 55.
Im also satisfied that the wake-up letters made it clear that means-tested benefits could be 
affected by any pension withdrawals. But Mrs C has explained that she wasnt concerned 
about any impact on her means-tested benefits, as she didnt think shed be entitled to any 
after shed reached her SRD. So I can see why, when she was completing the online 
withdrawal process which she felt would only be actioned on her SRD, she was happy to 
answer Yes to the risk warning:
Do you know any means-tested government benefits could be affected by choosing this 
retirement option?.
However, at the end of the online withdrawal process, it stated under: What happens now? 
that: Once we have everything we need including any additional documents, well pay your 
money within 10 working days.
Mrs C completed her application on 5 May 2023, so this wouldve meant that the payment 
wouldve been made on or before 19 May 2023, which is before Mrs Cs SRD. So I consider 
that Mrs C wouldve understood that the payment date wasnt linked to her SRD at this point. 
Im also satisfied that Mrs C received the automated email Aviva said it sends to customers 
to explain that the withdrawal process would take up to 10 working days. I say this because 
she told Aviva that she had, and this had prompted her to email it to see if she could delay 
the withdrawal. 
I acknowledge that Mrs C hadnt appreciated that her request would be actioned within 10-
working days until the end of the online withdrawal request. But I can see that when she 
discovered this, she emailed Aviva to ask it to delay or cancel the request. Unfortunately she 
no longer had a record of her policy number, so she didnt reply to Avivas request for it. I agree with our investigator that it was reasonable for Aviva to ask for Mrs Cs policy number 
before it actioned her request to delay or cancel the withdrawal. And as she didnt respond to 
tell Aviva she didnt have it, Aviva didnt have the opportunity to request other policy 
verification information. So I cant fairly hold it responsible for failing to action Mrs Cs 
request to delay or cancel her withdrawal request.
Having received copies of all the letters Aviva has sent Mrs C, Im also of the view that 
theres no evidence that Aviva ever stated that a withdrawal request would be processed on 
a customers SRD. 
Therefore I dont consider that Aviva has provided Mrs C with any misleading information. 
And Im satisfied that it followed its correct process when actioning her withdrawal request.
I next considered Mrs Cs complaint that shed been unable to get through to Aviva on the 
phone in early May 2023. And that while she was waiting, shed been encouraged to 
complete her request online as a recorded message had been played. She felt this had led 
to her withdrawal request being processed earlier than shed wanted, losing her means-
tested benefits. 
Aviva has acknowledged that it shouldve been easier for Mrs C to get hold of and has 
offered £50 compensation. But I need to consider if this is fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances. 
Is Avivas offer of £50 compensation fair?
Aviva has acknowledged that Mrs C had to waited too long to speak to them on the phone. 
And offered Mrs C £50 compensation. 
Ive not been provided with any other evidence of difficulty in getting through to Aviva, so I 
consider Avivas offer is reasonable. But Ive gone on to consider whether the recorded 
message Aviva played while Mrs C was on hold led her to take an action she wouldnt have 
otherwise wanted to take. 
Mrs C has told this service that, given the anxiety she suffers from, her preferred method for 
actioning her withdrawal request was doing it online. As such, I cant fairly say that the 
recorded message led to Mrs C following a path that wasnt suitable for her. 
Im very sorry that Mrs C has lost out here. I can see that she genuinely believed that her 
withdrawal request would be actioned on her SRD. But I cant fairly say that Aviva ever told 
her that would be the case. Therefore I cant reasonably uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman