DRN-2765149
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC provided him with poor service when he wanted 
to make an international transfer. This meant he transferred one of his payments twice and 
also lost out on the exchange rate. And hed like compensation for this loss. 
What happened
On the 30 May 2019 Mr B contacted Barclays to try to make an international transfer to his 
sons account in Thailand for £76,000. Barclays informed Mr B that he would need to make 
the transfer in two payments  due to there being a limit of £50,000 per transfer. However, 
Barclays incorrectly informed Mr B that hed need an IBAN to carry out the transfer  and for 
this reason didnt process the transactions. Mr B made attempts using online and telephone 
banking on the 30 May and the 31 May 2019. And was provided with further incorrect 
information by Barclays about the need for an IBAN. Mr B was eventually successful in 
sending both the £50,000 and £26,000 payments. However, Mr B was initially offered a rate 
of 39.47 baht by Barclays and by the time the payments were successfully authorised, on 
the 31 May 2019, the rate dropped to 39.15 and 38.97 baht respectively for the two 
payments.
 
The £50,000 was successfully delivered to Mr Bs sons account in Thailand. On the 
3 June 2019 the bank advised Mr B that the £26,000 payment had been held for checks and  
been cancelled. Because Mr B was advised Barclays had cancelled the transaction he made 
separate arrangements to transfer the £26,000 to his son. However, the payment hadnt 
been cancelled, and on the 4 June 2019 Barclays released the £26,000 to Mr Bs son 
account. 
Mr B was unhappy that Barclays had given him incorrect information, the lower exchange 
rate he received and the delay in the release of his £26,000 transfer. He asked the bank to 
compensate him £3,000.
 
Barclays looked into Mr Bs complaint. They explained that Mr B had accepted the rate he 
was offered on the 31 May 2019 and theyd acted fairly in reviewing the £26,000 payment 
due to fraud concerns. However the bank accepted theyd made an error in informing him 
the payment was cancelled on the 3 June, and paid Mr B £200 compensation. 
Mr B wasnt happy with Barclays response so brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked in Mr Bs complaint and they thought that Barclays needed 
to do more to put things right. Our investigator recommended that in addition to the £200 
compensation Barclays should pay Mr B the difference in the exchange rate Mr B was 
offered on the 30 May 2019, plus 8% interest.
Barclays accepted our investigators conclusions, but Mr B didnt. In summary he said:
Barclays had behaved dishonestly.
He was transferring very large sums of money and the compensation should match 
this.
He missed out on the opportunity for a better rate with a third party due to the 
incorrect information provided to him by Barclays. 
Our investigator considered Mr Bs new points and issued a second view but didnt change 
her overall conclusions. 
As Mr B didnt accept our investigators conclusions its been referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs £26,000 payment was successfully made on the 31 May 2019, however it wasnt 
released until the 4 June 2021. Barclays have explained that Mr Bs payment was held for a 
fraud check which is why it was delayed. Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Bs 
account. And they state that for a limited number of reasons Barclays are entitled to not 
follow an instruction from their customer. These include:
-It would mean we might break a law, regulation, code or other duty that applies to us
-We reasonably think that a payment into or out of an account is connected to a fraud, 
scam or any other criminal activity. This includes where we reasonably think the 
funds are being obtained through deception.
Im satisfied that Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in reviewing the genuine nature of 
Mr Bs payment. Ive considered the amount of time the review took  and considering the 
payment was released in just over 5 days I dont find this unduly long. 
Incorrect information given:
Ive listened to the phone calls Mr B had with Barclays on the 30 and 31 May 2019. Its clear 
that Mr B is advised on more than one occasion that he needs an IBAN number before 
processing an international transfer. However, when making both transfers on the 
31 May 2019 Mr B didnt need the IBAN. 
Ive considered the impact of this on Mr B  and Im in agreement with our investigator here. 
I think that initially Barclays did provide Mr B with good customer service  they tried to save 
him the £40 telephone banking transfer fee by assisting Mr B to set up online banking and 
process the payments in this way. Unfortunately Mr B was unable to complete the payment 
via online banking in the required time frame, and therefore the payments were 
unsuccessful. However, Mr B thought this was due to him not having the IBAN. 
Im satisfied that if Barclays had advised Mr B correctly during the second call, both the 
£50,000 and £26,000 transfers would have been successful at this point. Mr B was offered a 
better rate during this call than he achieved on the 31 May 2019. And Im satisfied that 
Barclays should compensate Mr B for the difference in rate between the two dates. Mr Bs 
argued that Barclays should provide him with the better rate he would have obtained by 
using a third party  however, I agree with Barclays here. The bank made it clear to Mr B the 
rate he was being offered  and he accepted to this at the time. I dont think it would be fair 
or reasonable to ask the bank to honour a better rate Mr B explains was offered by a third 
party. 
Barclays accepted that they provided Mr B with incorrect information about the status of the 
transfer, specifically advising Mr B on the 3 June 2019 that the £26,000 payment had been 
cancelled when in fact the payment was being reviewed and was released on the 4 June 2019. As Barclays have accepted they made an error here its my role to consider the 
impact of the error on Mr B. 
Mr Bs argued that he should be compensated for sending the £26,000 payment twice. Ive 
thought about Mr Bs argument here, and I accept the only reason Mr B sent the second 
payment of £26,000 to Thailand was the result of the incorrect advice. However Mr Bs 
explained he hasnt returned the additional £26,000, and therefore I cant see hes suffered 
any direct financial loss from the transfer. Our service doesnt award compensation for 
potential losses  so I dont think Mr B should be awarded compensation for financial loss 
here. However, I do agree that Mr B was inconvenienced by sending the payment on two 
occasions. 
Ive thought about the £200 compensation that Barclays have already paid Mr B  and 
whether this is fair. I appreciate that Mr B was caused inconvenience and anxiety by firstly 
the incorrect information given to him by Barclays, about the IBAN, and secondly that his 
£26,000 payment had been cancelled  when this wasnt the case. As I detailed above this 
led to him sending an additional £26,000 payment. I understand that Mr B thinks the level of 
compensation should be commensurate with the amount of money he was sending  
however this isnt how our service awards payments for distress or inconvenience. I need to 
reach my judgement on the impact on Mr B of Barclays errors  and Im satisfied that £200 
is fair compensation looking at the individual circumstances of Mr Bs case. 
Putting things right
- Refund Mr B the difference in rate he received to what he should have received for 
the payment of £26,000. This is a rate difference of 39.47 to 38.97 Baht 
- Refund Mr B the difference in rate he received to what he should have received for 
the payment of £50,000. This is a rate difference of 39.47 to 39.15 Baht.  
- Pay interest of 8% on the above redress from the date of transfer to the date of 
settlement. 
Any tax lawfully due on the interest may be deducted if needs be, with the bank providing a  
tax deduction certificate to Mr B so he can claim it back from HMRC if appropriate. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to settle his 
complaint as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman