DRN-3570651
The complaint
Miss B complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined her claim under her motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
Miss Bs car lost power while she was driving it and went on fire. AXA declined her claim 
under her policy. They said it was likely to have been because of engine failure which was a 
mechanical failure and so wasnt covered under her policy. Miss B said she had to scrap her 
car because it was unusable.
The investigator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld as AXA had acted 
fairly on the expert evidence they had. Miss B didnt agree and so her case has been passed 
to me to decide. 
Miss B was unhappy with other aspects of AXAs service. We have dealt with those in a 
separate complaint and so I dont comment on those here. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont assess whether or how damage to a car would be caused as this is a matter for 
the experts in these situations, the insurance companies, and engineers. Our role in these 
complaints is to determine whether an insurer has considered all the available evidence 
and whether they can justify their decision not to pay for a claim.
Miss B said that she was fully comprehensive and thought she was covered for everything 
to do with her car. But insurance policies do not provide cover against every scenario. They 
only cover specified insured events under the policy. A policyholder has to show that what 
happened to their car was an insured event. 
Ive looked at Miss Bs policy and it says that she is insured for loss of or damage to her car 
as a result of accidental damage, theft, attempted theft, fire, lightning or explosion 
But she is not insured for loss or damage  caused by any mechanical , electrical , 
computer breakdown, failure or breakage 
So I think its clear what she was and was not insured for. 
AXA decided that the cause of her cars breakdown was mechanical failure, so it wasnt 
covered. They based their decision on two different engineers reports. The first report was 
by AXAs agents, who said that the car had been presented to them as a fire claim but the 
cause and point of fire starting was unknown. There was no obvious sign of fire damage and 
so they recommended further investigation to find out the cause . AXA then instructed 
independent engineers whose report also said there was no fire or smoke or impact damage 
and so the damage may have been due to mechanical failure. 
 
Miss B is adamant that her car went on fire and its not enough for AXA to say only that they 
think the problem was mechanical failure, they should have to prove that 100%. I can see 
that Miss B thinks that AXA dont believe her that the car went on fire. But I think they do.
However the correct question isnt was there any fire ? The question is what caused the 
car to go on fire? And its the cause of the fire which has to be covered under the policy for 
AXA to pay out on a claim. 
AXA obtained expert reports, as we would expect them to do. And even though the reports 
were not conclusive as to the cause, they are still expert opinions and AXA are entitled to 
rely on them.  As they suggest that the cause of Miss Bs cars problems was not something 
insured under the policy, then AXA are entitled to decline the claim. 
So on the evidence AXA had, I dont think their decision to decline her claim was 
unreasonable. I can see that it must have been upsetting for this to have happened to Miss 
Bs car, particularly as she said that she was having difficult family and health 
circumstances at that time and being without her car was inconvenient. But I dont think that 
AXA have done anything wrong under the policy and so I dont ask them to do anything 
else. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
