DRN-2193396
The complaint
Mr G complains that Newline Insurance Company Limited (Newline) declined his claim for 
his dogs treatment under his pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G has a pet insurance policy for his dog, who I will refer to as M through this decision. 
Mr G claimed on his policy for Ms treatment which related to Ms endocrine system. Newline 
declined the claim. 
Mr G complained to Newline as he thought the claim should be covered. He made the 
following points.
- The policy wording is grossly misleading as it refers to the endocrine system. 
- The policy schedule is unclear whether there are any illnesses not covered. And the 
endocrine system should specifically be listed as an exclusion.
Newline explained Mr Gs policy says they won't pay for any treatment for an illness or 
accident which isnt named on his policy schedule. The policy schedule lists what conditions 
are covered and that list doesn't include the endocrine system. So, Newline didnt uphold Mr 
Gs complaint. 
Mr G came to our service. Our investigator looked into matters. He said the endocrine 
system wasnt listed on the policy schedule, so he was satisfied the policy didnt cover the 
claim for Ms treatment. As such, he thought the decision to decline the claim was fair and 
reasonable. He explained it is standard practice across the industry for a policy booklet to 
cover several possible eventualities. This is because it wouldnt be practical to produce an 
individual document for each policy as often the level of cover can differ slightly. So, he 
didnt agree that Newline were wrong to mention the endocrine system in the policy terms 
even though it wasnt covered on Mr Gs specific policy. However, he acknowledged it was 
important for Newline to make this clear and, based on what hed seen, he thought they had. 
So, he didnt uphold this complaint. 
Mr G disagrees so the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although several matters and points have been raised, this decision focuses on what I think 
are the main issues. However, Ive carefully considered all of the submissions made before 
arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr G that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here and I think he explained matters clearly and thoroughly. So, I dont uphold his complaint 
in this matter. Ill explain why.
Mr Gs policy covers specific categories of illnesses and accidents which are set out in the 
policy schedule. The policy terms say, 
if your pet requires treatment for a condition or injury that is not named on 
your policy schedule, no claim will be paid.
As the endocrine system isnt named in the schedule, illnesses connected with it  as in this 
case - arent covered. 
I note Mr G says it should be mentioned under the exclusions that the endocrine system isnt 
covered. But I dont see things in quite the same way. Because the policy sets out what is 
covered, I dont think its necessary for the policy to also set out those which arent. This is 
because anything not specifically named in the schedule isnt covered. And I think this is 
sufficiently clear.
I acknowledge the policy terms mention the endocrine system. But the policy terms also 
refer the consumer to the policy schedule to see exactly which illnesses are covered. The 
policy terms cant be used to say what level or type of cover a consumer has without the 
schedule. I appreciate Mr G feels this is misleading but this isnt an unusual practice in the 
insurance industry and so I dont find it surprising or concerning. As our investigator has 
explained, its likely these policy terms will be used for many consumers who might have 
differing levels of benefits and illnesses covered which is why the consumer is directed to the 
policy schedule for their own level of cover. 
Taking everything into account, I agree that Newline declined the claim in accordance with 
the policy terms and conditions. And I havent seen anything to suggest this was unfair or 
unreasonable. It follows that dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
I know Mr G will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to resolve his dispute with Newline  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman