DRN-1617594
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account. AXA France IARD (AXA) didnt actually sell the PPI, 
but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep 
things simple.
Mr F says AXA mis-sold him the PPI.
 
What happened
Mr F opened a store card account in a shop in 1996. At the same time, he took out a PPI 
policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance on Mr Fs store card 
each month if hed been unable to work because of injury or sickness, or if he lost his job. It 
also included some purchase protection cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators view, 
so the complaints been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Fs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr F says he didnt realise he was taking out PPI, and wouldnt have taken out the 
card if this had been made clear.
 
Ive seen a copy of Mr Fs application for the store card. It includes a section headed 
PAYMENT PROTECTION. Theres a box to tick if the applicant wants to take the 
cover. And theres a tick in the box, to indicate that Mr F wished to take PPI.
 
Mr F has told us that he doesnt think he ticked the box. I realise that its possible that 
the box was ticked by AXAs representative. But I think its more likely than not that 
Mr F was asked whether he wanted to take PPI, and the box was ticked because he 
said he did. 
Ive also borne in mind that premiums for the PPI would have shown on Mr Fs 
monthly store card statements. I think it was clear from the store card application 
form that PPI was optional. And if Mr F hadnt chosen to take the cover, I think its 
likely that hed have contacted AXA to query the payments. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that he did so. So taking everything into account, I think Mr F decided to take 
the PPI knowing that he had a choice.
 
AXA didnt advise Mr F to take out the policy. So it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for him. But it still needed to make sure it gave Mr F enough information to 
enable him to decide for himself if he wanted PPI, knowing what alternative means 
hed have had of making his monthly repayments if he was unable to work.
 
Mr Fs told us hed have been entitled to between at least six months, but less than 
12 months pay from his employer at the time if hed been off sick. But if hed made a 
successful claim on the PPI, it would have paid a monthly benefit of 15% of what he 
owed on his store card. And it would have done this each month until his credit 
agreement ended, or he returned to work, or the outstanding balance had been 
repaid- whichever was the earliest. So it would potentially have covered him for 
longer than hed have been entitled to sick pay for. And it would have paid the same 
level of benefit if hed lost his job. Whats more, it would have paid out in addition to 
any payments Mr F received from his employer. So he could have used those to 
meet other day-to-day expenses.
 
I acknowledge that Mr F says his parents could have helped with his monthly 
repayments if necessary. But circumstances can change, and I cant be sure that Mr 
Fs parents would have been in a position to help if the need had arisen. Taking 
everything into account, I think the PPI policy could have been useful to Mr F.
 
Its possible the information AXA gave Mr F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Ive explained that I think he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks as 
if he wanted this type of cover, even if hes understandably forgotten that now. He 
was eligible for the policy, and doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
main things it didnt cover (for example provisions about unusual working 
arrangements or existing medical conditions). 
 
I acknowledge that Mr F has told us that if hed been told hed have PPI added to the 
payments, he wouldnt have taken the card. But next to the box that was ticked for 
PPI on the store card application form, it says Please debit my Account with the 
relevant premium until further notice. So I think it would have been clear that thered 
be premiums to pay for the cover. And as Mr F was paying for the policy monthly, he 
could have cancelled it at any time if his circumstances changed, or if he decided he 
no longer wanted the cover.
 
Taking everything into account, Im not convinced that better information about the 
PPI would have put Mr F off taking it out. So I dont think hes lost out as a result of 
anything AXA may have done wrong.
 Ive taken account of all Mr Fs comments, including what hes said about never adding any 
extra insurance to anything. But in this case Im satisfied, on balance, that he agreed to the 
cover. So this doesnt change my conclusion that the PPI wasnt mis-sold.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman