DRN-3235573
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined a claim they made on their 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L had travel insurance cover attached to their packaged bank account. This 
policy was underwritten by UKI. 
On 14 March 2020 Mr and Mrs L travelled abroad and were scheduled to return on 4 April 
2020. Three days after their departure, due to Covid -19, the Foreign, Commonwealth and 
Development Office (FCDO) introduced guidance advising against all but essential travel 
abroad. This then escalated on 17 March 2020 to advising all UK citizens against travel 
abroad. On 23 March 2020 the FCDO advised all UK citizens to return home if they were 
travelling abroad.
Mr and Mrs L cut short their holiday by 12 days. They managed to arrange an earlier flight 
home, at no additional cost, through their airline and returned to the UK.
Mr and Mrs L had costs for unused accommodation and car services theyd booked directly 
through the providers. So, they contacted the suppliers and were able to recover the majority 
of their losses. However, due to the fluctuation in exchange rates between the time of 
booking and the refund, Mr and Mrs L incurred a loss of £568. So, they submitted a claim to 
UKI for their insurance to cover this shortfall. 
UKI declined the claim because it said any loss caused by changes in currency exchange
rates is excluded under the policy. 
Mr and Mrs L thought it was unfair for UKI to apply this exclusion because if the FCDO 
announcement about all but essential travel had taken place 3 days earlier, then they 
wouldnt have left the UK and would be making a claim for the cancellation costs of the 
whole trip. Mr and Mrs L said as the exchange rate loss is much smaller in comparison, in 
the circumstances, they think Aviva should use their discretion and cover their claim.  
Mr and Mrs L also said UKI told them they would have considered any additional cost of a 
new flight to get home if Mr and Mrs L had needed to book one. Mr and Mrs L say this also 
would have cost much more than the exchange rate loss they are asking for, so its 
reasonable for Aviva to accept the claim.  
UKI maintained its position and said the claim wasnt covered. So Mr and Mrs L referred the 
matter to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and he though UKI had acted fairly 
and in line with their policy terms. Mr and Mrs L didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the case. In summary they said theyd done all the hard work to mitigate their losses 
and retrieve refunds from the providers to prevent UKI having to cover those cost. So they 
said it feels unfair UKI wont pay the difference theyve lost from the exchange rate.  
So now the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that UKI has a responsibility to handle
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs L were in a difficult situation - being abroad when local and UK 
restrictions started to come into place mustve been worrying. Im pleased to hear they were 
able to get back to the UK promptly by helpful staff at their airline. And then once back in the 
UK they worked hard to mitigate their own losses and were successful in obtaining refunds 
from the providers for their unused car services and accommodation. 
However, it doesnt automatically follow that the insurer is responsible for any shortfall that 
remains. I would expect UK to assess a claim against the policy terms and apply any 
exclusions that are relevant. 
Under the section about cutting short a trip, the relevant terms say:
You are covered for
 Unused commercially operated accommodation and travel costs.
 Unused car hire.
 Unused excursions and activities.
 Unused kennel, cattery or professional pet sitter costs.
 Unused car parking costs.
 If you have to return home early and you cant use your return tickets we will
pay reasonable costs for additional accommodation and travel.
 The value of used points or miles if you booked your flight or accommodation
using Avios or a similar promotional scheme.
The reasons for cutting short a trip include:
5. FCO travel advice: Foreign & Commonwealth Office advice against All travel
or All but essential travel to your destination, provided that advice came into
force after your departure on your trip.
Mr and Mrs L decided to cut their trip short due to a change in FCDO advice relating to their 
destination, which came into force after their departure. So, based on the above terms they 
would have been able to claim for their unused car and accommodation costs, in addition to 
the costs of any new flights to get them back to the UK. 
But, like most travel insurance policies, Mr and Mrs Ls policy excludes any costs that can be 
recovered from elsewhere. So theyd have always needed to try and recover their losses 
directly from the providers before UKI would deem that loss irrecoverable. I can see Mr and 
Mrs L put significant work into recovering refunds directly from the providers, so they didnt 
need to form part of their claim. But this is something that they would likely have been 
required to do in any case, to make a successful claim.
Mr and Mrs L said it was unfair for UKI to apply the exclusion that says they will not pay for 
any loss caused by changes in currency exchange rates. But I think UKI were fair to apply this relevant exclusion to the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ls claim. Insurers are entitled to 
decide what risks they will, and wont, cover. And I think Mr and Mrs Ls losses fall clearly 
within the relevant exclusion. 
Mr and Mrs L argue if the FCDO announcement on all but essential travel had taken place 
before theyd left the UK 3 days earlier, theyd be making a cancellation claim for the cost of 
their whole trip. This wouldve been much more the exchange rate loss, so they think its 
reasonable for UKI to use their discretion and cover their smaller claim.  But it would be 
unfair for me to ask UKI not to apply the exclusion on the basis that they could have ended 
up paying a claim for a higher value. 
Although exchange rate losses arent covered, Mr and Mrs L did still have the other benefits 
of their insurance policy before they left the UK and whilst they were abroad. UKI told Mr and 
Mrs L they wouldve considered covering the cost of a separately booked flight home under 
the curtailment section of the policy - if Mr and Mrs L hadnt been fortunate enough to have 
obtained last minute seats from their airline. This shows one of the benefits of the cover they 
had in place, had Mr and Mrs L found themselves in a position to need it. 
And as explained above, it would be unreasonable for me to ask UKI to pay this claim just 
because circumstances meant they potentially avoided a claim for a higher amount. I would 
expect UKI to decide this claim on the basis on what did happen, not something that 
couldve happened. 
I also need to decide the outcome of this complaint based on what did happen, as opposed 
to what might have happened. Unfortunately, theres just no cover under this policy for the 
situation in which Mr and Mrs L have found themselves in. I understand this is disappointing 
as I can see Mr and Mrs L feel strongly about their claim. But Im satisfied UKI were fair to 
apply the relevant exclusion to Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances. And I dont think there are 
reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask UKI to accept this claim. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman