DRN-3789565
The complaint
Mr R, on behalf of company, A, complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company 
Limited (DAS) unfairly declined a claim for rent protection under his commercial property 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Fs commercial property insurance policy includes cover for rent protection which is 
underwritten by DAS.
The policy started on 30 July 2021. In May 2022, Mr R contacted DAS to log a claim 
for Fs tenants rent arrears. 
DAS said the claim wasnt covered because the arrears first occurred in September 
2019, which was before the policy was taken out. It referred A to the policy document 
which says:
We agree to provide the insurance described in this Section for You [] in respect 
of any insured incident arising in connection with the Business, in return for payment 
of the premium and subject to the terms, conditions exclusions and limitations set out 
in Your policy, provided that [] 1. the Date of Occurrence of the insured incident is 
during the Period of insurance. 
A disagreed saying the dispute in September 2019 was a separate matter and that 
the arrears currently being claimed for, fell within the policy timeframe. 
DAS considered further information provided by A but didnt change its position. It 
said the rent statement showed the tenant was in arrears on 28 July 2021, which was 
before the policy started.   
Unhappy, A brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it and 
said DAS had declined the claim fairly. 
Because A disagreed the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our Investigator reached and wont be upholding 
this complaint. 
The starting point is the policy document which  having read the above condition - 
makes it clear the date of the insured event must occur within the policy period. 
In respect of civil cases, the policy defines date of occurrence as the date of the 
event that leads to a claim. If there is more than one event arising at different times 
from the same originating cause, the date of occurrence is the date of the first of 
these events.
Ive looked at the information provided and note A says the tenant hadnt paid rent 
between September 2019 to May 2020 and then only made sporadic payments after 
this  and did not cover the full arrears. Its therefore apparent that there was an 
ongoing issue with the tenant paying rent in full and on time. As such, Im satisfied 
the arrears A is seeking to recover now are connected to the arrears which started in 
September 2019, and so I consider DAS position - that the insured event happened 
before the policy was taken out  to be fair. 
Even if I were persuaded by As argument that the arrears from September 2019 
arent related  which Im not  the rent statement provided by A in relation to the 
most recent arrears shows the tenant was in arrears on 28 July 2021, a few days 
before the policy started - meaning these arrears also pre-dated the policy inception 
date. So, for the same reasons as above, Im satisfied DAS has fairly declined the 
claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman