DRN-1865290
The complaint
Mr R complains that Arrow Global Limited (Arrow) failed to send him statements in relation to 
a debt it acquired. 
What happened
In January 2013 Arrow purchased a credit card debt in Mr Rs name from another business. 
The credit card account had defaulted due to arrears. Mr R made monthly payments of £5 
via a third party towards the outstanding balance. Mr R has explained that he never received 
a statement or contact from Arrow. 
Mr R has told us that in 2017 he remortgaged his property and used equity to repay his 
outstanding debts. Hes explained that he wanted to make one single payment a month. As 
part of the remortgage process, Mr R has told us he reviewed his account statements. But 
because Arrow had failed to ever send any statements, Mr R has told us he didnt factor the 
debt into his remortgage application. 
Once the remortgage had completed Mr R cancelled his standing order. Mr R has told us he 
was making payments to a third party debt collector that was acting on Arrows behalf. Mr R 
says the payment he made included contributions towards other debts the third party debt 
collector was handling. 
Arrow contacted Mr R about the outstanding balance a short time later. It also sent Mr R 
statements covering the period 2013 to 2018 and confirmed it had failed to send them to 
him. After Mr R complained, Arrow apologised and offered him £100. Mr R didnt accept and 
returned the cheque to Arrow. The complaint was referred to our service and passed to an 
investigator. They said the outstanding balance was due to Arrow but upheld the complaint, 
increasing the award to £200. Mr R agreed to accept but Arrow asked to appeal. As Arrow 
asked to appeal, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to our investigator, Arrow pointed out that Mr R hadnt contacted it to ask 
whether the debt he owed had been repaid. I take Arrows point, but I dont agree the 
situation is that simple. And, I think the key issue here is that Arrow failed to forward Mr R 
the account statements its obliged to send. The regulations require lenders to send regular 
statements, in part, so that borrowers can have a reasonable understanding of where they 
stand with a debt. I think its unfair to put the responsibility for checking the outstanding 
balance on Mr R after Arrow failed to send him the information about his account balance for 
a five year period. 
In addition, Mr R has explained that he was repaying multiple debts via arrangements. As a 
result, in my view, he quite reasonably thought he had covered off all the debts he wanted to 
include with his remortgage by checking his statements. On balance, if Arrow had sent Mr R 
the statements it should have, I think he wouldve been aware of the debt. 
Our investigator asked Arrow to increase the award from £100 to £200 to take into account 
the impact of Arrows failure to send out statements. Whilst I understand Mr R wanted the 
outstanding balance to be written off, thats not something I can tell Arrow to do. And, as 
Mr R accepts he borrowed the money I think its reasonable for Arrow to ask him to repay it. 
Mr R has confirmed he will accept £200 to resolve his complaint. 
Im satisfied that the £200 our investigator recommended fairly reflects the impact of the 
issues Mr R has raised and the long standing nature of Arrows failure to send statements. 
Whilst I note Arrows comments in response to our investigator, Im satisfied that £200 is fair 
in all the circumstances. As a result, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint and directing Arrow to 
pay him £200 compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Arrow Global Limited to pay Mr R £200. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman