DRN-2282009
The complaint
Mr A has complained about Watford Insurance Company Europe Limiteds decision to 
cancel his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr A bought a car insurance policy with the insurer, Watford in August 2019. He said he was 
a full time student. 
In February 2020 Mr A was involved in an incident with another vehicle while driving as a 
fast food delivery driver. In April 2020 he called Watford to register a claim. He said hed 
been doing the job for a couple of months. 
Watford asked Mr A to provide evidence of his change in occupation and for his driving 
licence. As he didnt reply, it cancelled his policy for not co-operating with it and for not telling 
it hed changed occupation. 
Mr A then provided proof of his occupation. But Watford said its decision to cancel the policy 
stood. It said if it had known about Mr As change of occupation, it would have cancelled his 
policy anyway as it didnt offer cover for delivery drivers. As Mr As policy said he must tell it 
about a change of occupation immediately, Watford said its decision to avoid his policy was 
correct. It didnt refund any of the premium Mr A had paid as there was an open claim under 
the policy. 
Mr A asked us to look at his complaint. He didnt think it was fair that Watford had effectively 
blacklisted him. 
Our investigator thought Watford had acted correctly. She explained that Watford was 
entitled to add information about Mr A to the Motor Insurance Database (MID) in line with the 
policy.
Mr A didnt agree. He said he didnt deliberately fail to tell Watford about his change in 
occupation. He said he intended to do the job for a short period of time. He didnt think it was 
fair that Watford hadnt provided a refund of premiums as he said no claim was made 
against the policy. 
The investigator asked Watford about the claim. It has closed the claim and the broker has 
arranged for a balance refund to be paid to Mr A. 
Mr A says he made a mistake, but feels he has been treated as a criminal and a liar. So he 
wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr A bought his policy, he said he was a full time student. There isnt any evidence to 
suggest this information wasnt correct when Mr A applied for the policy in August 2019. 
Mr As Certificate of Insurance sets out the limitations of use as follows:
Use only for Social, domestic and pleasure purposes.
Exclusions: Hiring, racing formally or informally against another motorist, pace-
making, competitions, track days, rallies, trials or tests, speed trials or test, either on 
a road, track or at an off road 4x4 event. Travelling to and from a place of 
employment or study, commercial travelling, business use, use for tuition, use for hire 
or reward for fast food delivery or as a courier, carrying passengers for hire or
reward or employment related purposes, or for any purpose in connection with the 
motor trade.
I think it was clear from his Certificate of Insurance that Mr A wasnt insured to use his car as 
a food delivery driver. 
Within the documents Watford sent to Mr A when he bought his policy, it provided an 
Insurance Product Information Document which summarised key parts of the policy. The 
following section read:
What are my obligations?
You must let your Broker know if there are any changes to your personal details or 
changes to your car, even if you dont think they will need to know.
And under the General Conditions in the policy, Watford said:
Section 18  Changes which may affect your cover states, You must tell us 
immediately if: you or anyone covered by this policy ceasing or changing jobs, or 
starting a new job, including any part-time work.
So I think overall Watford made Mr A aware that he wasnt insured to use his car as a fast 
food delivery driver and that he should tell it if he started a new job, including any part time 
work. 
We asked Watford to provide evidence that it wouldnt have provided insurance if it had 
known about Mr As job. This is commercially sensitive information and so we cant share it 
with Mr A. But we can ask an insurer to share it with us, so we can check its treated a 
customer fairly. In this case Im satisfied that Watfords decision to cancel Mr As policy is 
correct based on the underwriting evidence provided. And so it follows that I think Watfords 
decision not to meet any claim for Mr As losses was fair. If a claim has been made, an 
insurer it entitled to keep the full years premium as it has met its obligations under the 
policy. However, as no third party made a claim, I understand Watford has since closed the 
claim and a pro rata refund has been given to Mr A. 
I understand Mr A is very disappointed with Watfords decision. But taking everything into 
account, I dont think Watford has done anything wrong. I think it treated Mr A fairly and in 
line with the policy. So this means Im not asking Watford to change anything as the 
cancellation correctly stands. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman