DRN-3350883
The complaint
Miss N complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund her for payments she says 
she didnt make.
What happened
Miss N had four transactions leave her account, three in December 2020 and one in 
January 2021. Miss N contacted Barclays and it temporarily refunded the money and began 
an investigation into the fraud.
Barclays decided Miss N had likely carried out the transactions herself, and it took back the 
money it had refunded her. Miss N was unhappy with this and brought her complaint to this 
service.
Miss N said she thought her phone had been hacked. Miss N explained shed had her phone 
repaired overseas and it had been acting strangely after the repair. Miss N then took her 
phone to a shop in the UK and they confirmed her phone had malware on it.
An investigator looked into things and didnt think Miss Ns complaint should be upheld. The 
investigator thought it was more likely Miss N had authorised the payments.
Miss N didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a general rule Barclays can hold Miss N liable for the disputed transactions if the 
evidence suggests she authorised them. The disputed transactions were all carried out 
online using Miss Ns card details.
Ive listened to calls Miss N has had with this service. Miss N says she went overseas in 
September 2020. Miss N had her phone repaired there as it had water damage, and shes 
suspicious of the people she gave her phone to.
When Miss N was back in the UK she began getting spam messages and pop ups asking 
her to click on links. Miss N says she didnt click any of these links.
Miss N then took her phone to a repair shop in the UK and they cleared viruses and malware 
off the phone. Miss N then noticed payments leaving her account she didnt authorise.
Miss N had other transactions leave other accounts she holds at other banks, but she was 
refunded these payments.
Miss N has sent in copies of the spam messages shes receiving, and says shes sent in 
enough evidence to show she didnt authorise the payments. I dont agree. Lots of people 
receive spam messages but dont become victims of fraud.
Miss N has sent in a receipt to show her phone repair in the UK. This receipt pre-dates her 
trip overseas. Ive considered what Miss N says about her phone repair overseas, but I dont 
believe its relevant to the payments leaving her account.
Miss N has told our investigator they cant ask the other bank about the refund they gave her 
or the investigation it carried out. 
Again, Ive considered what Miss N has said about refunds on her other accounts, including 
the statement she sent in showing the refund. But, again, I dont think its relevant to this 
complaint, I dont know what type of payments were refunded or why. This is because 
Miss N has told this service we cant approach the other bank she sent the statement in for.
Since I cant verify any of the details surrounding Miss Ns other refunds, I cant conclude a 
refund made by another bank means Barclays has to refund Miss N.
Ive looked at how the transactions were carried out using Miss Ns card. Im satisfied the 
correct details were entered.
Barclays has sent in information to show the payments were made online. Barclays has sent 
in the Internet Protocol (IP) address for the payments Miss N is disputing and this is the 
same as one Miss N has used before.
Miss N logs into her mobile application regularly. Through December 2020 there was only 
one day out of the whole month she didnt log in, and most days its more than once. But it 
took over a month for Miss N to notice the first disputed payment.
And the disputed payments reduced Miss Ns balance dramatically each time. Ill focus on 
one payment, made on 23 December 2020. This payment was for £251.99.
Miss N had a balance of £275.03 before this payment was made. Following the payment, 
she had £23.04 available to spend.
Miss N logged into her mobile application at 1.19pm on 23 December 2020. The payment for 
£251.99 was made at 1.38pm. Miss N logged into her mobile application again at 1.43pm 
and again at 2pm. A further seven log ins were made later the same day.
But Miss N didnt report this payment as unauthorised until the middle of January 2021. Im 
satisfied Miss N would have seen she had over £250 available at 1.19pm. But less than half 
an hour later, when she logged in again, she had less than £25 available.
Miss N has told this service shes vulnerable and taking medication which affects her 
memory. Ive considered this very carefully. But I still think Miss N would have noticed this 
payment on 23 December 2020, if she hadnt made it.
Miss N was able to report the disputed transactions to Barclays in January 2021, theres 
nothing to suggest she couldnt have reported unknown transactions in December 2020.
Im satisfied Miss N would have noticed the payment on 23 December 2020, and didnt 
report it to Barclays. And, on balance, Im satisfied the evidence suggests Miss N authorised 
this payment. The other three payments were made the same way, from IP addresses Miss N had used 
before and with similar reductions in the balance of her Barclays account. On balance, Im 
satisfied the evidence suggests Miss N authorised the other three payments too.
Im satisfied the evidence suggests Miss N authorised all the transactions shes disputed. 
Because of this I think its reasonable for Barclays to hold Miss N liable for the payments.
This means I dont think it would be fair for Barclays to refund Miss N, so I wont be asking 
Barclays to do anything else to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Miss Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 August 2022. 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman