DRN-3258036
The complaint
Ms G complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) has recorded markers about her with 
fraud prevention agencies.
What happened
In October 2018, Ms G applied to BOI through a broker for a buy-to-let remortgage. BOI 
turned down her application. 
In 2019, Ms G checked her records with Cifas, a fraud prevention agency. She saw that BOI 
had recorded a marker against her name for application fraud on the basis of one or more 
material falsehoods. 
Ms G also contacted National Hunter, another fraud prevention agency. She found BOI had 
recorded there that it had declined her mortgage application for non disclosure of a previous 
decline (confirmed).
Ms G says she thinks the markers relate to a joint application she made with her ex-partner 
for a mortgage with a different lender in 2014. But, until she saw the National Hunter marker, 
she didnt know that this earlier application had been declined. She says she hadnt intended 
to give wrong information to BOI and hadnt acted dishonestly. 
BOI reviewed her case but said it wouldnt remove the markers, so Ms G got in touch with 
the Financial Ombudsman. Our Investigator concluded that BOI hadnt been unreasonable in 
recording the markers, and he didnt recommend that it remove them. 
Ms G didnt accept that conclusion and asked for a review. Through her solicitors, she 
reiterated that she didnt know the 2014 application had been declined, only that it hadnt 
gone ahead  and she couldnt have disclosed what she didnt know.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Ms G had been declined for a mortgage in the past and she didnt 
declare this in her 2018 application to BOI. Im satisfied that BOI asked a clear question 
about that on the application. It said: Has the applicant ever had a mortgage application for 
this or any other property turned down? Through her broker, Ms G answered No  and 
BOIs independent checks showed that to be untrue.
Ms G says she didnt know that her 2014 joint mortgage application had been declined. She 
says her ex-partner dealt with it, and all she knew was that the mortgage didnt go ahead. 
She also told the broker in 2018 that her then partner had some credit issues, and I can see 
that the broker noted that on the BOI application in order to cover off any queries that might 
have arisen from BOIs credit checks. Ms G says this shows that she didnt set out to 
deceive or act dishonestly.  
BOI has since considered Ms Gs explanation but decided not to remove the markers. Ive 
carefully considered both parties representations and, while I realise Ms G will be 
disappointed, I dont think BOIs decision was unreasonable.
BOIs records satisfy me that it carried out various checks before declining Ms Gs 
application and recording the markers. Those checks included reviewing information 
recorded by other financial businesses on credit and fraud prevention databases, and they 
led BOI to conclude that Ms G had provided false information on her application. The 
information BOI reviewed included previous applications Ms G had made for credit, including 
the 2014 one which Ms G has mentioned. BOI didnt have to give Ms G details of why it 
reached the conclusion it did, and when she made her application Ms G had agreed that it 
could share information about the application with credit reference and fraud prevention 
agencies.
BOI did, however, have to keep in mind the principles and requirements of the fraud 
prevention databases before recording information on them about Ms G. Cifas, for example, 
says its members should only record a marker about an individual where theres clear 
relevant and rigorous evidence of fraud, such that they could confidently report the matter to 
the police. It doesnt require such a report to be made, but thats the standard of proof it 
requires.
This is the standard Ive kept in mind in considering whether BOI acted fairly here. I would 
expect BOI also to have taken it into account in considering whether to remove the markers 
in the light of Ms Gs further explanations  and I think it did so. 
In all the circumstances, I think BOI had reasonable grounds to record the markers it did 
about Ms G with fraud prevention agencies. And on the evidence Ive seen, I dont consider 
its decision not to remove the markers was unreasonable, so I dont require it to do so now. I 
think there were, and are, reasonable grounds for BOI to consider that Ms G didnt give 
accurate information in her mortgage application, and that she didnt do so inadvertently. It 
was therefore fair for it to conclude that the standard for recording the markers was met.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022. 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman