DRN-1891350
 
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc declined their application for a further 
advance of £50,000. To settle the complaint they want HSBC to agree to the lending.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C have a mortgage with HSBC. In June 2019 they applied to HSBC for a 
Homeowner Loan. At the time Mr and Mrs C had an interest-only mortgage with HSBC on 
which about £350,000 was outstanding. In February 2018 Mr and Mrs C had already 
borrowed £50,000 on an interest-only basis. 
In June 2019 Mr and Mrs C asked to extend the term to five years and to borrow an 
additional £50,000 on an interest-only basis to gift to their daughter to help her to buy a 
property. 
HSBC initially declined the application, but also referred it to its team of specialist 
underwriters for further consideration. HSBC completed a full assessment but was unable to 
agree to lend, as the application didnt meet its lending criteria. It was explained to Mr and 
Mrs C that HSBC could not include savings and investments in calculating affordability of the 
mortgage, as these were not guaranteed. Mr and Mrs C were unhappy about this and said 
that this was discriminatory due to their age.
Mr and Mrs C complained to HSBC. They said that nothing in life is guaranteed and that 
HSBCs position was extraordinary, incoherent, contrary to common sense and normal 
banking notions. HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs C brought their complaint to us. An investigator looked at the complaint but was 
satisfied HSBC hadnt done anything wrong. He explained to Mr and Mrs C that HSBC was 
entitled to set its own lending criteria and that, because Mr and Mrs C didnt meet this, HSBC 
was entitled to decline the application.
Mr C, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, disagreed with the investigators findings 
and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Hes made some further points, which 
I summarise below.
HSBCs lending criteria are at the heart of the matter. Those criteria, knowingly or 
unknowingly to HSBC, disregard the capital assets of the applicant and only look to 
income. This has the effect of discriminating against older retired people.
With assets of some £450,000 deposited with HSBC and security of over £2m in a 
HSBC mortgage and with total assets of about £5m, it is laughable that HSBC claims 
a lack of security. Mr C is surprised the Financial Ombudsman Service has accepted 
this excuse so willingly.
Its accepted that the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a court and they are not 
asking us to determine legal issues. But they see no reason why we cant look at whether decisions are fair and reasonable without handicapping ourselves by saying 
we will not take lending criteria into account.
They have had a long customer relationship with HSBC and so the ombudsman 
should be able to prompt HSBC into taking a more accommodating response with a 
long-term customer. But if the ombudsman maintains this extremely disappointing 
attitude, it is likely Mr and Mrs C will disengage from HSBC altogether.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ill begin by explaining what the role of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is and my remit as an ombudsman. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service  is impartial between, and independent from, consumers 
and businesses. What this means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act 
under eithers instructions or take directions on how a complaint will be considered. . 
Im aware Mr C thinks our case handler has shown bias towards HSBC. Were required to 
assess all of the evidence from all the parties. Insofar as the investigator didnt agree with 
Mr Cs view of the complaint, that wasnt of itself indicative of bias, however unwelcome 
Mr C found his conclusions.
I appreciate Mr C believes HSBC has treated him and Mrs C unfairly. His detailed 
submissions highlight all the issues hes unhappy about. But this complaint is simpler than 
its been presented: the issue is about the exercise by HSBC of its commercial judgment 
when deciding whether or not to offer a Homeowner Loan to Mr and Mrs C. 
Where a complaint is about the exercise by a lender of its commercial judgment my role is to 
decide whether that judgement has been exercised fairly and reasonably; it isnt to assess 
the application myself and substitute my own judgement for that of HSBC. In other words, I 
have to decide if HSBC took into account all relevant factors and gave proper consideration 
to them before reaching its decision. 
HSBC is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that HSBC makes in respect of 
what those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular lending assessment, and 
whether it should lend and if so, on what terms are clearly discretionary matters for HSBCs 
own commercial judgement that I would not interfere with. Additionally in deciding whether to 
lend to Mr and Mrs C, HSBC is entitled to take account of its own interests when making 
such decisions. It is not obliged to take account only of the interests of the borrower.
Having looked at the way in which HSBC considered the application, Im satisfied that it took 
into account all relevant factors before declining the application. HSBC was required to 
consider whether the mortgage was affordable, taking into account the stress tests which the 
regulator obliges HSBC to apply and looking at Mr and Mrs Cs income and expenditure. 
Having done so, HSBC wasnt satisfied the loan was affordable. I dont think that this meant 
HSBC has treated Mr and Mrs C unfairly, or failed to follow its regulatory obligations.
Nor do I think that HSBC discriminated against Mr and Mrs C based on their age. What 
amounts to discrimination is set out in the Equality Act 2010, and Ive taken that into 
account. The Act says that a service provider (that is, HSBC)  shouldnt discriminate by not 
providing a service, or providing it on different terms. Discrimination arises where someone 
is treated differently because of a protected characteristic (in this case, age) or applies a 
practice which has a discriminatory effect. 
I dont think HSBC did act in a discriminatory way; its decision wasnt that it wouldnt lend the 
additional £50,000 Mr and Mrs C wanted because of their ages; it was because HSBC didnt think the borrowing was affordable based on its application of its lending criteria and the 
regulatory stress tests. 
Of course, its ultimately up to a court to decide if HSBC has breached the Equality Act 2010, 
not the Financial Ombudsman Service. But on the basis of what Ive seen, Im not persuaded 
the application was declined due to Mr and Mrs Cs age.
HSBC has provided documentation about its underwriting of the application and about its 
consideration of the application by the underwriters. Im entitled to treat this as confidential, 
because it is commercially sensitive. But after considering this information, Im satisfied that 
HSBC reached its decision fairly, after taking into account all relevant factors, including (but 
not limited to) affordability, exposure to risk, and Mr and Mrs Cs specific circumstances.
Given this, Im satisfied that HSBC gave fair consideration to this application and so 
legitimately exercised its commercial judgement when deciding the terms upon which it 
would lend to Mr and Mrs C. This means that there is no basis upon which I can find that 
HSBC has treated Mr and Mrs C unfairly or unreasonably.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs C wanted, and I am sorry if Mr C is 
disappointed. Ive noted Mr Cs suggestion that, if Im unwilling to prompt HSBC to be more 
accommodating (by which I assume he means offer the £50,000 loan), he and Mrs C are 
likely to move their money away from HSBC. Thats unfortunate, but as an independent 
ombudsman, I have to review the case impartially, on the basis of the available evidence, 
rather than be swayed by any suggestion from Mr C of possible future consequences for 
HSBC if the complaint isnt upheld.
Mr and Mrs C are under no obligation to accept my decision. If they decided not to accept it, 
my decision wont be legally binding on them or HSBC and they will be free to pursue their 
grievances against the bank in court, should they wish to do so. Mr and Mrs C might want to 
take legal advice before embarking on any legal action against the bank.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that will I will not be engaging in any further consideration of the merits of the 
complaint nor any discussion with the parties about it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman