DRN-3004275
The complain
Mr and Mrs C complain about Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd.s decision to decline their 
home insurance claim for water damage. 
What happened
In February 2021, Mr and Mrs C discovered water leaking through a light fitting in their 
lounge. They arranged for a plumber to attend to trace and stop the leak. A hole was cut in 
the ceiling after which part of the ceiling fell down damaging the carpet underneath. Mr and 
Mrs C then made a claim to Accredited. 
Accredited referred the claim to its loss adjuster to review, who requested a cause of 
damage report from Mr and Mrs C. The plumber whod attended to trace and access the 
leak provided the report the next day. The report commented that the leak was located 
underneath the new en-suite bathroom so the plumber decided to cut a hole in the lounge 
ceiling below to see if he could discover the source. On doing so, part of the lounge ceiling, 
which was soaked, fell down. The report went on to describe how the plumber was still 
unable to locate the leak so the decision was taken to remove the wall tiles, and the wall 
mounted toilet, in front of the concealed toilet cistern in the bathroom. The plumber reported 
that the leak was coming from the factory set cistern. The plumber turned it off to isolate the 
leak.
Accrediteds loss adjuster looked at a cause of damage report provided by Mr and Mrs Cs 
plumber and advised Mr and Mrs C that their claim wasnt covered because damage that 
was the result of faulty materials was excluded from cover under the policy. Mr and Mrs C 
disagreed. They said that the cistern had been fitted less than a year ago and wasnt faulty 
when it was installed so something unforeseen mustve happened to the cistern to cause the 
leak. They also contacted the manufacturer of the cistern and sent its comments, along with 
some photographs of the crack on the concealed cistern, onto the loss adjuster.
The loss adjuster reviewed the information provided by Mr and Mrs C and noted that the 
manufacturer had said that whilst the cistern was cracked it didnt feel this was the result of a 
manufacturing defect but because it had either been damaged or hadnt been correctly 
installed. Specifically it said it was possible that the crack was the result of stress on the 
reservoir body. The manufacturer also said that if the crack had been present during fitting 
the leak wouldve been apparent immediately. 
The loss adjuster asked Accredited how it wished to proceed. In the meantime, Mr and 
Mrs C raised a complaint with the loss adjuster. They said that they didnt agree with the 
process of referring their claim to the underwriter and they said they thought the loss 
adjuster was doing everything in its power not to pay the claim. The loss adjuster explained 
that it needed to refer the new evidence about the cause of damage to the underwriter as it 
was the insurer. 
The underwriter reviewed the evidence and advised the loss adjuster that the claim was to 
be declined. The loss adjuster wrote to Mr and Mrs C in late April to say that whilst their 
policy provided cover for damage to their buildings, certain causes of damage werent 
covered. It said damage that was the result of misuse, faulty design or workmanship, or the 
use of faulty materials, wasnt covered. It said that having reviewed the evidence against the 
policy terms, their claim was declined. 
Accredited issued its final response to Mr and Mrs Cs complaint at the end of April 2021 but 
didnt conclude itd done anything wrong. It said that its claims process had been correctly 
followed and that it was permitted to investigate and validate all claims that were made. 
Unhappy with the outcome of their complaint to Accredited, Mr and Mrs C complained to this 
service. Our investigator looked into their complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. 
He thought the claim had been fairly declined and that the claims process had been 
reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs C disagreed with our investigators findings. They said that Accredited had 
refused their claim based on words. They said that whilst their plumber correctly said the unit 
was faulty, what he meant was that the unit developed a fault. They said this was for some 
unknown reason  possibly a rise in water pressure. Mr and Mrs C said the fault had caused 
damage to their home and they thought they had cover for that through their policy. 
Our investigator looked at Mr and Mrs Cs complaint again. He said that unfortunately there 
was no evidence that the cistern had developed a fault after installation. So he wasnt 
persuaded to change the outcome of his findings. 
Mr and Mrs C asked for their complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Not all damage a home sustains is covered by a home insurance policy. Only damage thats 
caused by one of the insured perils (events) listed in the policy is covered. Policy perils 
include damage caused to the home by fire, escape of water, theft, flood, storm etc. It is 
generally the responsibility of the policyholder to demonstrate the damage they are claiming 
for has been caused by one of the perils in the policy. Providing they can do so then the 
insurer must pay the claim unless it can successfully apply one of the policy exclusions to 
defeat it. 
The terms and conditions of the contract between Mr and Mrs C and Accredited are set out 
in their policy booklet, schedule and statement of fact. The policy booklet sets out what 
damage Accredited will cover. It says:
In the event of damage to buildingsbecause of a sudden or unforeseen event which is 
not specifically excluded, we will pay the cost incurred of repairs, replacement or 
reinstatement. 
This means that  unless it is specifically excluded  Accredited will pay the cost of repairing 
etc. damage to buildings which is caused by something sudden or unforeseen. Words in 
bold type have specific meanings which are set out clearly. Damage is defined as:
Loss, destruction or damageto physical property caused by 
Storm;
Flood;
Water or oil escaping from fixed water or heating systems;Fire;.
It is not in dispute that Mr and Mrs Cs home has been damaged by an escape of water from 
a fixed water system (the toilet cistern located in their en-suite bathroom). This means that 
Accredited must pay the claim/repair the damage unless it can apply one of the policy 
exclusions to defeat the claim. And, unfortunately for Mr and Mrs C, this is what Accredited 
has done. It has relied on one of the exclusions in the policy terms to exclude Mr and 
Mrs Cs claim from cover. Listed in the policy terms are a series of General Exclusions. The 
policy says:
The following exclusions apply to the whole of this policy
This policy does not cover:
Direct or indirect loss or damage to any property; 
caused by, contributed to or arising from, the following: 
DEFECTIVE DESIGN OR WORKMANSHIP
Any damage caused by, or resulting from defective maintenance or materials, design or 
workmanship. 
So this means that damage thats the result of defective maintenance, materials, design or 
workmanship isnt covered. I know that Mr and Mrs C feel that their claim is being declined 
based on words. I dont disagree with that. But I cant fairly ignore the terms of the contract 
between them and Accredited. That wouldnt be reasonable. There are terms and conditions 
to their insurance policy which dictate what damage Accredited is willing to indemnify them 
for. And it has made it quite clear that damage caused by defective design or workmanship 
isnt something that it is willing to cover. 
Its up to each individual insurer to decide what damage its prepared to provide cover for at 
what price. In other words, what risk it is prepared to take on. Accredited, like many other 
insurers, doesnt want to cover damage caused by defective design or workmanship and it is 
on that basis that it contracted with Mr and Mrs C.
So Ive looked at the evidence about what it was that caused the damage to Mr and Mrs Cs 
home to see if Accredited has fairly and reasonably relied on the above clause in order to 
decline their claim. Having done so, I have to say that I think the evidence Ive seen 
indicates that the toilet cistern was most likely cracked as a result of defective workmanship. 
I say this because the manufacturer of the cistern has provided some very insightful 
comments about how the cistern couldve been cracked. It has said that it was not likely to 
have been caused on manufacture. It said it couldve been there since installation (and had 
been leaking ever since) but it thought this unlikely as such a leak wouldve been detectable 
at that point. Or, it said, the frame (to which the concealed cistern was affixed) had moved 
(due to defective workmanship) and the crack was the result of stress on the reservoir body.
I havent disregarded Mr and Mrs Cs plumbers comments; he said that the factory set 
cistern was faulty and that it caused the leak. However, he didnt elaborate on what couldve 
caused the fault. He seems to have implied it was faulty manufacture but the manufacturers 
comments and tests showed this wasnt the case. So I dont think Accrediteds conclusion 
that a crack on manufacture, or on installation, wouldve been evident from the outset is an 
unreasonable one to have reached. Particularly given the comments of the manufacturer. 
And whilst Ive noted Mr and Mrs Cs comments that a rise in water pressure couldve 
damaged the cistern, unfortunately theres no evidence that this is what happened. 
So whilst I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs C, I dont 
think that Accredited has unfairly declined the claim for water damage to their home. Put 
simply, the terms of their policy dont cover them for the damage that was caused. I know that Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with the way that Accredited processed their claim. 
Having reviewed the way it was handled and the time it took to communicate the claim 
decision, I dont think that Accredited treated them unfairly. I can see they logged their claim 
on 22 February 2021 and that, after reviewing the cause of damage report and considering it 
against the policy terms, the loss adjuster first told them that their claim wasnt going to be 
accepted on 2 March 2021. I dont think that was an unreasonably long time to have taken. I 
can see that thereafter, Mr and Mrs C were challenging the decision that had been taken 
and that further evidence, from the manufacturer, was provided and reviewed before the 
claim was formally declined, in writing, towards the end of April 2021. But the claim decision 
itself hadnt changed from the outset. And insurers are entitled to investigate and validate 
any claim they receive and consider it against the policy terms. I dont think Accredited did 
this in an unreasonable way with Mr and Mrs Cs claim. It considered the points they raised 
and the evidence they provided against the policy terms in order to reach a decision about 
the claims validity. It follows that Im unable to fairly and reasonably uphold this aspect of Mr 
and Mrs Cs claim either.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman