DRN-4272607
The complaint
Mr P complains that his bank National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has refused to 
refund the money he has lost following him falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In my provisional decision sent in June 2023 I explained why I thought this complaint should 
be upheld. I said:
It has not been disputed that Mr P has fallen victim to a cruel scam. The evidence provided
by both Mr P and NatWest sets out what happened clearly. What is in dispute is whether
NatWest should refund the funds Mr P lost due to the scam.
Recovering the payments Mr P made
Mr P made payments to X via his debit card. Although Mr P didnt make these payments to X
directly, instead he made the payments to the cryptocurrency exchange Cro.
When payments are made by card the only recovery option NatWest has is to request a
chargeback.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mr P was dealing with X, which was the person that instigated the scam. But Mr P didnt
make the debit card payments to X, or the platform provided by X directly, he paid a
separate cryptocurrency exchange (Cro). This is important because NatWest was only able
to process chargeback claims against the merchant he paid (Cro), not another party.
The service provided by Cro would have been to convert or facilitate conversion of
Mr Ps payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, Cro provided the service that was
requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchant Mr P paid. As Cro provided the
requested service to Mr P any chargeback attempt would likely fail.
Should NatWest have reasonably prevented the payments Mr P made?
It has been accepted that Mr P authorised the payments that were made from his account
with NatWest, albeit on Xs instruction. So, the starting point here is that Mr P is responsible.
However, banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large
transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether NatWest should have been aware of the scam and stepped in
to prevent the payments from being made.
The first payment Mr P made in relation to the scam for £419.76 did not trigger NatWests
fraud prevention systems. I dont think this is unreasonable considering the value of the
payment was relatively low and was being made to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange.
However, after the first payment was made Mr P attempted several higher value payments
that were stopped by NatWest prompting it to have two conversations with Mr P on 26
November 2021.
When a business picks up on payments it considers could be fraudulent or in relation to a
scam, I would expect it to ask the customer meaningful questions to help discover what the
payments are in relation to.
During the first call the NatWest advisor simply asks Mr P if he was attempting to make
payments to two separate cryptocurrency exchanges (Cro and Binance). In the second call
the NatWest advisor confirms that other payments that were also blocked were made by Mr
P. The advisor then explains that a marker will be placed on Mr Ps account to allow future
payments.
At no point during either of these calls did NatWest ask Mr P any meaningful questions to
ascertain how the payments had come about or what Mr P was making the payments for. I
have no reason to believe that had NatWest asked Mr P meaningful questions about the
payments that he wouldnt have answered honestly, and NatWest would have uncovered the
scam that was taking place.
I think NatWest missed an opportunity to prevent the scam continuing past the first payment
made by Mr P and is therefore responsible for all the payments Mr P made into the scam,
less the first payment.
Our Investigator said that as Mr P was investing in cryptocurrency with another exchange
and continued to invest in cryptocurrency after the scam that Mr P wasnt risk adverse and
would probably have made these payments in any event. But I disagree as I think that had
NatWest asked relevant questions and told Mr P he was likely being scammed he would not
have made any more payments as directed by X. The fact that Mr P decided to continue to
invest in cryptocurrency outside of the scam does not mean he would have ignored a clear
warning from NatWest that he was being scammed.
Did Mr P contribute to his loss?
I think this was a sophisticated scam and Mr P couldnt have reasonably foreseen that he 
was dealing with a scammer. Mr P was able to see balances on his trading account, and X
had built trust with Mr P. I dont think he could have reasonably known that the trading
balance was likely fake or a simulation  unless prompted by his trusted bank.
Overall, I dont think Mr P contributed to his losses, so I dont suggest the overall settlement
be reduced.
I gave Mr P and NatWest time to respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P agreed with my decision. NatWest didnt agree as it said there were red flags that 
should have highlighted to Mr P that the investment was not legitimate. NatWest also said it 
couldnt be sure of Mr Ps loss as it had not seen evidence of the transactions from his own 
cryptocurrency exchange account.
The comments made by NatWest have not changed my decision. Although Mr P was initially 
contacted by X via social media, X built Mr Ps trust before he parted with any money and as 
explained above Mr P was also able to see his investment through a convincing trading 
platform that he would not have known was either fake or a simulation. So, I dont think Mr P 
contributed to his loss, or that he should share responsibility for it.
Mr P has also provided screenshots of the transfers from his cryptocurrency account that 
have been sent to NatWest. NatWest could have asked for this information sooner if it was 
required.
Putting things right
National Westminster Bank Plc should refund Mr P the payments he made into the scam 
less the first payment of £419.76.
To compensate Mr P for having been deprived of this money, National Westminster Bank 
Plc should also pay Mr P interest on the loss at 8% simple per year, calculated from the date 
they were paid, to the date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require National Westminster Bank Plc to put things right by 
doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman