DRN-4166329
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about problems when they asked HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as 
first direct) to make a payment to their mortgage account with another lender. Mr G has dealt 
with the complaint.
What happened
Mr G called First Direct to make a payment to his mortgage account. Mr and Mrs G intended 
to repay their mortgage.
Mr G says First Direct refused to make the payment, saying its systems didnt recognise the 
account and if he sent the money he could lose it. First Direct said he should check the 
details with his mortgage lender. Mr G says he checked the details with his lender three 
times, on each occasion he was on hold for some 40 minutes.
Mr G says the matter was very stressful. He spent hours on the phone and missed work 
meetings. Mr G said they incurred additional interest on the mortgage. He says First Direct 
should be able to check payments, given this is its business, and the £50 compensation it 
offered is an insult. He said he discovered his mortgage lenders account is with First Direct.
Our investigator said First Direct didnt prevent Mr G making the payment. He said it followed 
its usual process for telephone payments. Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage lender isnt part of the 
confirmation of payee scheme, so First Direct couldnt verify the payee. It read Mr G a 
warning and said Mr G could make the payment at his own risk. Our investigator said £50 
was fair compensation for Mr Gs frustration.
Mr G didnt agree, saying First Direct refused to make the payment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First Direct provided recordings of its calls with Mr G on 28 February 2023 and 1 March 
2023. Ive listened to the recordings. I appreciate that Mr G might have had other calls with 
First Direct. But Im confident that I can reach a fair decision based on the available 
evidence.
When Mr G called First Direct on 28 February 2022 because he couldnt transfer money 
using the app. First Direct said hed reached the limit to transfer money via the app, but he 
could make the payment by phone. 
First Direct asked the reason for the payment and how Mr G got the account details. 
Unfortunately, the call was cut off before Mr G provided the details for the payment.
Mr G called back and provided the details. First Direct said as this was a first-time payment, 
it needed to make some checks. It said it couldnt confirm the payee details, as it wasnt part 
of the confirmation of payee scheme. First Direct said Mr G could continue with the payment. 
It said it would usually ask that Mr G call the intended recipient and check the details, but 
hed already done this. Mr G said hed call his lender and check. 
Mr G could have made the payment during this call. It was Mr Gs decision to call his lender 
again to check the details.
Mr G called First Direct again on 1 March 2023. The first person he spoke to couldnt find the 
payee account on First Directs list of beneficiaries or match the sort code. The call handler 
said she didnt want to make the payment when the details didnt match. She transferred 
Mr G to the team that deals with payment transfers.
The payment transfers team said Mr G had missed that days deadline for a CHAPS 
payment. It carried out a confirmation of payee check, and said the confirmation wasnt 
available as the recipient bank didnt offer this service. First Direct said this meant it couldnt 
confirm the payment. So it was for Mr G to consider what hed done to check the payment 
and decide whether he wanted to go ahead. Mr G said that he did. However, he then asked 
whether the payment could be checked against his direct debit (unfortunately the details 
werent the same). Mr G said First Directs fraud team should be able to check the account 
before the payment was made. First Direct said it couldnt do this. Mr G asked to be 
transferred to make a complaint. 
Mr G could have made the payment during this call. It was Mr Gs decision to be transferred 
to the complaints team instead. 
I appreciate that Mr G was worried by the warnings given by First Direct. But I think First 
Direct gave him correct information. I dont think it was wrong for First Direct to tell him that if 
there was an error with the payment details Mr G might not be able to get the payment back. 
It seems Mr G decided to make the payments himself. He says he had to transfer money 
between accounts and this took some time. He incurred interest on the mortgage account in 
the meantime. Ultimately though it was Mr Gs own decision to do this. He could have made 
the payment during the call on 28 February 2023 or the call on 1 March 2023.
First Direct offered £50 compensation, saying the first person Mr G spoke to on 1 March 
2023 didnt follow the correct process to check the payment. I appreciate this was frustrating 
for Mr G. But given that Mr G was then transferred to the payments team, I think that £50 
compensation is fair and reasonable for the frustration caused on the first part of that call.   
The time spent on the call on 1 March 2023 meant that the deadline for a CHAPS payment 
that day was missed. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require First Direct to pay 
compensation for additional interest on the mortgage account because of this. Mr G decided 
not to make the payment. I dont think I can fairly find hed have made the payment if the call 
had been shorter.
Mr G says his mortgage lenders account is with First Direct. I dont know if thats right. 
Nonetheless, its clear from the call recordings that First Direct couldnt confirm the payee 
using the confirmation of payee system. I think First Direct was right to tell Mr G this.
Its clear from what Mr G has said and from listening to the calls that Mr G found this matter 
stressful and frustrating. But  other than the first part of the call on 1 March 2023  I dont 
think First Direct made an error. I think it was right to tell Mr G that it couldnt confirm the 
payee and give him the option to go ahead or check the details with his lender. My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Thats because I think the compensation 
paid by HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct) is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman