DRN-1999825
 
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy with the time it took Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros 
(Ocaso) to approve her claim for escape of water, leading to further damage and financial 
loss.
What happened
Mrs G had buildings insurance with Ocaso for an unoccupied property she had refurbished 
to sell on. She made a claim under her policy for damage caused by a burst pipe. The policy 
specifically excluded cover for burst pipes if the property wasnt permanently heated to a 
minimum temperature while unoccupied. 
Ocasos Loss Adjuster (LA) inspected the damage but the report didnt address the 
exclusion clause. Mrs G said the LA told her no further information was needed. 
There were process delays during which Ocaso asked the LA for confirmation that the 
heating was left on and Mrs G provided her utility bills as evidence. The information didnt 
progress through Ocasos channels properly, leading to duplicate requests to Mrs G. About 
12 weeks later, Ocaso approved the claim.
By this time, the sale of the property had fallen through and, following advice from the estate 
agent, Mrs G took it off the market temporarily. 
Mrs G complained to Ocaso because she had lost out on the sale of the property and 
incurred ongoing costs for its upkeep as a direct result of its delays in approving her claim.
Ocaso told Mrs G that claims of this size always take time and it needed information to 
validate the claim. It apologised for the delays and lack of communication but felt the 
complaint was resolved once all the reinstatement work was completed.
I issued a provisional decision in July 2020 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mrs Gs 
complaint.
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Gs complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. 
However, I dont think enough weight has been placed on Ocasos responsibility for the 
delays and the resulting inconvenience to Mrs G. Ive decided to increase the compensation 
from £100 to £250. Ill explain why.
The following points are not in dispute:
Mrs G had insurance to cover her property for water damage caused by burst pipes;
Ocaso needed to validate the claim;
it was Ocasos responsibility to determine whether an exclusion clause applied, and
the exclusion clause didnt apply but there were delays dealing with this part of the 
process.
What remains for me to decide is whether Ocasos delays were avoidable and, if they were, 
did they cause Mrs G any detriment.
The evidence shows me that Ocaso wouldve been aware from the start that Mrs Gs claim 
needed to be validated taking the exclusion clause into consideration. So I think this is 
something it shouldve asked Mrs G for evidence of right from the start, not several weeks 
later.
Mrs G provided utility bills to evidence that she maintained heat in the property while it 
wasnt occupied. But Ocaso didnt look after the evidence properly and it didnt send the 
information to the relevant part of the business for consideration when it shouldve done. 
This led to further requests to Mrs G for the same evidence, sometimes from different people 
within Ocaso seemingly unaware that others had also asked for the information. Again, it 
was several weeks before the evidence reached the correct part of Ocaso and was dealt 
with properly. The claim was then approved. 
There was a gap of around a week between each action on Mrs Gs claim before it reached 
the right part of Ocaso. It took just over 12 weeks from making her claim to getting approval 
and around eight weeks of this couldve been avoided if Ocaso had processed information 
promptly and properly first time. 
To put some context around the inconvenience and distress Mrs G wouldve experienced 
during eight weeks of delays and having to repeatedly contact Ocaso for updates, its worth 
pointing out that the damage caused by the burst pipe took around five months to repair at a 
cost of £40,000. 
I assume Mrs G had insurance to take away some of the inconvenience and stress this type 
of situation might cause. So I think she could reasonably have expected Ocaso to handle her 
claim efficiently and without causing her more inconvenience during an already upsetting 
time. I dont think it did. For this reason, I think compensation of £250 is warranted.
Ive looked at the remaining points Mrs G made. She thinks Ocaso should pay her more 
because the sale of her property fell through and she incurred ongoing costs. I dont agree. 
She confirmed that the sale fell through because of the water damage. But the burst pipe 
caused the water damage, not Ocaso. Theres no evidence that the repairs wouldve been 
completed significantly quicker than they were had Ocaso accepted the claim immediately, 
so Mrs G wouldve been responsible for the ongoing costs anyway. And I cant hold Ocaso 
responsible for her decision to take the property off the market temporarily.   
I can understand the frustration and upset Mrs G mightve experienced seeing her hard work 
destroyed by a burst pipe, and I sympathise. But I cant reasonably hold Ocaso responsible 
for any part of it beyond the delays in processing her claim information.
I said I was intending to uphold the complaint and require Ocaso to:
pay Mrs G a total of £250 compensation by way of apology for failing to process her claim 
promptly, leading to avoidable delays during an already upsetting time.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mrs G responded to say she had nothing further to add.
Ocaso responded to say that it accepted my provisional decision, although it considered the 
compensation to be at the upper end of what would be reasonable for a delay in processing a claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mrs G nor Ocaso had anything further to add to the evidence, I see no reason to 
change my provisional findings. So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision 
and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros must:
pay Mrs G a total of £250 compensation by way of apology for failing to process her 
claim promptly, leading to avoidable delays during an already upsetting time.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman