DRN-3115792
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Society of Lloyds has turned down a claim they made on a 
corporate travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs K took out an annual corporate travel insurance policy through her employer in January 
2020. Mrs K was due to travel to a country Ill call S on 14 March 2020.
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a 
pandemic. And on 14 March 2020, S government placed the country in lockdown to prevent 
the spread of the disease. On the same day, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development 
Office (FCDO) advised against all but essential travel to S.
Therefore, Mrs Ks trip had to be cancelled and so she made a claim on her travel insurance 
policy for the costs associated with the cancellation of the holiday.
Lloyds turned down Mr and Mrs Ks claim. It said the cancellation section of the policy 
specifically excluded claims which were due to an epidemic or pandemic.
Mr and Mrs K were unhappy with Lloyds decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. They said that theyd never received a copy of the policy terms.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ks complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied 
that the reason Mrs K had had to cancel her trip was because of a pandemic. So she felt it 
had been fair for Lloyds to apply the pandemic exclusion to the claim. And she considered 
that the regulators rules only required Lloyds to provide policy documentation to its 
customer  Mrs Ks employer. She thought it had been the employers responsibility to pass 
the policy terms on to Mrs K.
Mr and Mrs K disagreed. They didnt think Lloyds had treated them fairly as end-
consumers of the policy. Mrs K had made a choice to forego other employee benefits to 
make use of the policy, so they didnt see themselves as any different to a consumer whod 
bought the policy directly. They felt they should have been given full policy information.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs K, I think it was fair for Lloyds to 
turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr and Mrs Ks policy and the circumstances of the claim, to decide whether Lloyds 
treated them fairly.
Was it fair for Lloyds to turn down the claim?
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Lloyds 
contract with Mr and Mrs K. The cancellation section of the policy says that Lloyds will pay a 
policyholders cancellation charges if cancellation is necessary and unavoidable. However, it 
also includes a specific list of things which Lloyds has chosen to exclude from cancellation 
cover. One of these says:
YOU are not covered for
8. any losses arising from an epidemic or pandemic as categorised as such by any 
Government and/or the World Health Organisation.
I think Lloyds has made it clear that it doesnt cover cancellation claims which are down to a 
pandemic or epidemic. In this case, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be 
a pandemic on 11 March 2020. And in Mrs Ks complaint form, she told us that she hadnt 
travelled on 14 March 2020, because S had declared a health emergency due to the 
pandemic. On this basis, I think it was fair for Lloyds to conclude that Mrs Ks claim did arise 
because of a pandemic which had been so categorised by the World Health Organisation. 
And so I think it was reasonably entitled to rely on this exclusion to turn down the claim.
The cancellation section of the policy also excludes:
7. any losses arising from the order or regulation, including enactment and/or enforcement 
of such order or regulation, of any Government.
As Ive set out above, on the day Mrs K was due to travel, S government imposed lockdown. 
Mrs K has said S state of emergency was the reason she couldnt travel. So I think its likely 
this exclusion would also apply to the circumstances of Mrs Ks claim anyway.
The policy paperwork
Theres no dispute that Mrs K opted for travel insurance cover as a benefit of her 
employment. The policy was arranged by her employer, which is listed as the cover-holder 
on the policy schedule. 
Mr and Mrs K have referred to the regulators rules (the Insurance Conduct of Business 
Sourcebooks  ICOBS) and the information obligations these place on insurers and 
intermediaries.
ICOBS 6.1.11 (3) says that insurers should: in relation to a group policy, provide appropriate 
information to the customer, telling the customer to pass it on to each policyholder.Here, Mrs Ks employer was Lloyds customer and the main cover-holder. Therefore, Lloyds 
obligation was to provide policy documentation to the employer, rather than directly to Mr 
and Mrs K. And it was accordingly down to the employer to pass on the policy documents to 
each of the policyholders. So I dont think Lloyds was required to ensure Mr and Mrs K were 
sent a copy of the terms and conditions. It was open to Mr and Mrs K to request a copy of 
the policy terms from the employer or the policy administrator if they wished to do so.
Overall, whilst I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ks position, I find Lloyds acted fairly when it 
turned down their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman