DRN-3419859
The complaint
Mr S complains about Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) who declined his claim under his 
home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S has a home insurance policy with Aviva. He made a claim under his policy when his 
fridge door fell off and injured one of his family members. Aviva declined Mr S claim on the 
basis that there was no insurable peril that had occurred. 
Mr S complained to Aviva as he believed that his policy covered the claim. In its final 
response, Aviva said that Mr S had advised that the fridge door just fell off when it was 
opened. The opening of the fridge door was a normal daily occurrence, and nothing 
specifically had happened to the door. The fridge was around eight years old. Aviva further 
went on to explain, that because there wasnt an insured event that had occurred to the 
door, it was unable to offer any financial assistance and the claim would remain declined. 
Aviva gave Mr S his referral rights and he referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and thought that it should be upheld. She said that 
the incident fitted the definition of accidental damage under the policy and she felt that there 
had been an insured event. On that basis, she recommended that Aviva reconsider Mr S 
claim. She also suggested that Aviva pay compensation of £100 for the trouble and upset its 
actions caused Mr S.
Mr S accepted the view, Aviva did not. It said that the expected use of the fridge door by 
opening it, wouldnt cause damage by a sudden and unexpected force, as opening the door 
is a daily occurrence. It was concerned that the view suggested that the policy covered 
appliances for accidental damage when no force had been used. So, it asked for a decision 
from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint should not be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 25 February 2022 and asked both parties to send me anything else 
by 25 March 2022. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, I intend not to uphold this complaint. I realise that this decision will come as 
a disappointment to Mr S, but I hope that my findings will go some way in explaining why.  
Mr S had a home insurance policy that included cover for accidental damage. The policy 
defined accidental damage as: Damage caused suddenly and unexpectedly by an outside 
force.  The issue here is whether the damage caused was sudden and unexpected and was 
caused by force. 
Mr S said that the fridge was around eight years old and there had been no issues with the 
fridge before the incident occurred. Mr S also confirmed that the opening of the fridge door is 
a daily occurrence. 
I have been provided with call transcripts between Aviva and Mr S and in particular the call 
transcript in which Mr S reports the incident. Mr S explains to Aviva that his family member 
was opening the door and it fell off. So, on this account, I think that the door falling off as 
described by Mr S, was a sudden and unexpected occurrence. 
But I think there is a second part to the policy term and this second part relates to an outside 
force. I asked Aviva what it meant by an outside force. It said that the opening and closing 
of the fridge door is a normal daily occurrence (which Mr S agreed with). It went on to 
explain there is no force used to open a fridge door. And that there would need to a 
reasonable force such as malicious damage, storm, fire, theft and so on. In other words, 
there needs to be a physical element that caused the accident. And because there is no 
force used to open the fridge door, the incident that had occurred, wasnt covered by an 
insured peril. 
I think that Avivas explanation is persuasive, in that opening and closing the fridge door is a 
normal daily occurrence and opening a fridge door doesnt require force. So, I think there 
was no accident that had happened as the opening of the fridge door in the manor (as 
described by Mr S) is a normal daily occurrence.
Aviva said that it had offered to send an engineer to carry out a private repair on the fridge 
door, as its possible that there was a screw loose. But Mr S refused the offer. Furthermore, 
Mr S confirmed that he disposed of the fridge. Consequently, the offer to repair (although 
fair) is no longer required. 
Additionally, this means that the fridge can no longer be inspected to see if there were any 
other issues that caused the door to fall.  So, I dont think there are any other grounds, under 
the policy, that Aviva could now considered the claim.
Taking all of this into consideration, I think that Aviva fairly declined Mr S claim in line with 
the policy terms and conditions. While I understand that Mr S will be disappointed with my 
decision, I wont be asking Aviva to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr S responded as follows:
He didnt agree with the provisional decision and he wouldnt waste his time commenting on 
it.
He said that the agent who he reported the damaged fridge to at Aviva was rude and 
unprofessional. And laughed at him. 
He said that the provisional decision is wrong as he wasnt guilty.
He said that Aviva didnt offer to organize a repair of the fridge, instead it gave him a 
number to call for him to organize and pay for. 
Mr S said that he would be sending in further written comments by 4 April 2022.Aviva submitted the call recording of the first call Mr S made to report the incident. It said 
that at no time had its agent been rude or unprofessional. And it made no further comments 
on the provisional decision. 
I have carefully considered Mr S responses. In the provisional decision, I reviewed all the 
evidence and the issues raised by Mr S.  I understand that Mr S now says that Aviva were 
unprofessional and rude towards him when he reported the damage to his fridge. 
I asked Aviva to provide comments on this, as well as provide the copy of the call recording 
of the first report made by Mr S. Aviva said that at no time was its agent rude or 
unprofessional towards Mr S and at no point did its agent laugh at Mr S. 
Having reviewed the call recording, I agree with Aviva that at no point was the agent rude or 
discourteous towards Mr S. The agent listened to Mr S explanation of how the fridge door 
fell. He then explained to Mr S that this incident wasnt one that would be covered by the 
policy. The agent didnt raise his voice, laugh at, or tell Mr S that he needed to buy a new 
fridge. So, Im not satisfied that the agent was unprofessional, and I havent found any 
issues that Mr S has now complained of. 
Mr S said that he would be sending in further written comments and was given extra time to 
do this, but nothing further was received. In the circumstances, as Mr S policy didnt provide 
cover for damage to the fridge, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision. 
Although, I understand that this isnt the outcome that Mr S wouldve liked, Im unable to 
direct Aviva to do anything further to resolve this complaint, as I think it was fair to decline 
the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman