DRN-3954429
The complaint
Mr O complains about Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (WIC) and the way they 
handled the claim he made on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr O held a motor insurance policy, underwritten by WIC. Unfortunately, in July 2021, Mr O 
was involved in a road traffic accident. Initially, Mr O spoke to a company who managed 
non-fault claims. Ill refer to this company as X. But as part of this claim, X would look to 
reclaim their costs off the third-party insurer (TPI). And the TPI disputed their liability, as they 
felt their insured had sold the car before the incident. So, in September 2021, Mr O returned 
to WIC to make a claim through them directly. WIC used an agent to manage claims of this 
nature, but this agent acts on behalf of WIC and so, I will refer to the actions this agent took 
as WIC throughout the decision.
Mr O was unhappy with how WIC managed his claim from this point. And so, he raised two 
complaints. Initially, Mr O was unhappy with what he felt was pressure from WIC to purchase 
a new car before receiving the pre-accident value (PAV) payment for the car involved in the 
accident. And he was unhappy with WICs request for dashcam footage hed already 
provided, as well as the fact hed had to pay his excess. So, he wanted to be compensated 
for the upset hed been caused.
WIC responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought the information provided 
to Mr O on the call regarding a change in vehicle on the policy was correct. And they 
explained the original dashcam footage had been given to X, who didnt have an obligation 
to transfer it to them. So, they thought they were fair to request it from Mr O again. Finally, 
they thought the excess had been charged in line with the terms of the policy. So, they didnt 
think they needed to do anything more.
Mr O remained unhappy. And he raised further concerns regarding the lack of 
communication during the claim process as well as WICs lack of support during this and 
their decision to close the claim as non-fault but to disallow Mr Os no claims discount 
(NCD). 
WIC responded again and upheld the complaint in part. They agreed that Mr Os policy 
contained an uninsured driver promise and so, they agreed to reinstate Mr Os NCD. But 
they felt they had progressed the claim fairly and explained it had been complicated by the 
driver being uninsured. They also clarified their belief that Mr O had received his excess 
through X, and so, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr O remained 
unhappy with this response, so he asked our service to investigate.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They didnt feel as though Mr O was 
pressured into buying a new car and they were satisfied the information given on the call on 
question was fair. And they didnt think it was WICs responsibility to contact the Motor 
Insurers Bureau (MIB) on Mr Os behalf.
But they recognised WIC had initially disallowed Mr Os NCD when it shouldve been 
covered under the uninsured drivers promise. And although they were satisfied WIC were 
taking actions to progress the claim, they didnt think WIC did enough to keep Mr O updated. 
So, considering this and the fact Mr Os claim had since been settled as non-fault, they 
thought WIC should pay Mr O to recognise the delays and the upset hed been caused.
Mr O didnt agree, providing several reasons as to why and explaining why he felt the £200 
wasnt enough to compensate him fairly. And WIC didnt respond. Our investigator 
considered Mr Os comments, but their view remained unchanged. Mr O continued to 
disagree and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome. I want to reassure Mr O Ive considered all of the comments hes made, before and 
after our investigators recommendation, when considering the complaint.
I note its been accepted by WIC that they disallowed Mr Os NCD unfairly, as he held an 
uninsured drivers promise within the terms of the policy he held. As this has been accepted, 
I wont discuss the merits of this any further. I will discuss the actions WIC have taken to 
recognise this error, and whether I think they were fair, later within the decision.
Instead, Ive focused on the merits of the issues that still remain in dispute. I recognise Mr O 
feels as though he was pressured into purchasing a new car by WIC, and that WIC acted 
unfairly when doing so.
Ive listened to the recording of the call in question, and considered the information provided 
against the terms of the policy Mr O held. Within the call, I think WIC attempted to set out all 
reasonable avenues available to Mr O. And I dont think I can say WIC attempted to 
pressure Mr O to take any specific action.
While I recognise the options WIC outlined detailed the financial position Mr O may be left in 
if he didnt purchase another car, I dont think this means WIC acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. This is because the terms of Mr Os policy explains that If you are paying 
your insurance premium by instalments and we settle a total loss claim under this section all 
outstanding premium may be deducted by the claims settlement.
Unfortunately, due to the value of Mr Os car compared against his excess and outstanding 
premium, this option may have left Mr O with little to no remaining settlement. While I 
appreciate why Mr O would feel as though this was an unfair situation for him to be left in, I 
cant say WIC acted unfairly, or outside of the terms of the policy, when making Mr O aware 
of this possibility. So, I dont think they need to do anything more for this aspect of the 
complaint.
I appreciate Mr O doesnt think the term itself is reasonable. And he feels other insurers 
dont impose this sort of term. But crucially, insurers such as WIC are entitled to set the 
terms of the policies they sell as part of their internal business process. And any 
investigation into an insurers internal business processes would fall under the remit of the 
industry regulator the Financial Conduct Authority, rather than ourselves. So, Im unable to 
comment on the term, and whether its reasonable.Ive then turned to the service WIC have provided to Mr O overall, and in particular their 
communication with him. Ive seen WICs internal system notes and Im satisfied WIC 
progressed the claim effectively, and as Id expect, for the most part. I think its clear the 
claim was delayed due to the issue regarding the driver of the third-party vehicle and 
whether they were insured. I can see WIC remained in contact with the TPI and X during this 
process, until confirmation was provided showing the third-party driver was uninsured. So, I 
dont think the length of the claim resulted from anything WIC did wrong.
But I do think WIC couldve done more to provide Mr O with reasonable updates during this 
process, so he was aware of what was happening and what this meant for him. And I dont 
think Ive seen evidence to show WIC did so. So, I think WIC couldve done more and I dont 
think I can say they acted fairly. Because of this, Ive then thought about what I think WIC 
should do to put things right. 
Putting things right
When thinking about what WIC should do to put things right, any award or direction I make is 
intended to place Mr O back in the position he wouldve been, had WIC acted fairly in the 
first instance.
In this situation, its not in dispute that WIC disallowed Mr Os NCD unfairly. But I do 
recognise this has since been reinstated and so, he is now in the position he wouldve been 
had the NCD have remained under the uninsured drivers promise. And although there was 
conflicting information given around how the claim would be settled, its been confirmed the 
claim was settled as non-fault, with Mr O receiving a refund of the excess he paid. 
So, Im satisfied that Mr O now finds himself in the position Id expect him to be, had the 
claim been progressed correctly and appropriately from the outset.
But I do think Mr O has been caused some inconvenience and upset throughout this 
process. As Ive explained above, I think WIC couldve done more to update Mr O on the 
progress of his claim. And as they didnt do so, I can understand why Mr O would query their 
handling of the claim and question why its taken so long to settle. I also recognise Mr O has 
been given conflicting information throughout the lifetime of the claim, for example being told 
he no longer qualifies for his NCD and that the claim would be recorded as a fault accident, 
when it shouldnt have been. 
I think all of this misinformation, and lack of clarity, wouldve been upsetting for Mr O. And I 
think it wouldve added to an already stressful situation for him, where he found himself 
without a car through no fault of his own. I appreciate Mr O has also needed to take time to 
contact WIC seeking updates, and to confirm exactly how the claim would be settled and 
what it would mean for him, on more occasions than he shouldve needed to had WIC 
communicated with him for effectively. So, I think Mr O should be compensated for the 
above.
Our investigator recommended that WIC pay Mr O £200 to fairly compensate him for this. 
And I think this recommendation is a fair one, that falls in line with our services approach 
and what I wouldve directed, had it not already been made.
I think it adequately compensates Mr O for the upset and inconvenience hes been caused 
by WICs lack of communication, and their error regarding the disallowing of his NCD. But I 
think it also takes into account the complexity of the claim due to the third party being 
uninsured, and the fact WIC were taking steps to progress the claim to a conclusion even if 
they didnt make Mr O aware of this in a reasonable manner. So, I think WIC should pay Mr 
O £200.I understand this may not be the outcome Mr O was hoping for. And I want to reassure Mr O 
again Ive considered all of the comments hes provided regarding the level of compensation, 
and why he thinks it should be increased. But I hope my decision provides clarity as to why I 
think the £200 is a fair compensatory payment and this helps bring some closure to Mr Os 
situation.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Os complaint about Watford Insurance 
Company Europe Limited and direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mr O £200 to fairly compensate him for the inconvenience and upset hes been 
caused during the claim process.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman