DRN-4175476
The complaint
Mr W complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim made 
under his car insurance. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Mr W has car insurance underwritten by Advantage. He made a claim in mid-March 2022 
after he was involved in a road traffic accident.
Because Advantage accepted the claim as non-fault, they put the claim in the hands of a 
contractor to resolve.
In mid-April, having decided that the car was a write off, the contractor made a settlement 
offer to Mr W based on their valuation of the car less the amount theyd be able to recover by 
selling the car for salvage. Mr W had indicated he might wish to retain the car. The 
settlement offer came to just under £2,285.
Mr W wasnt happy with this and asked Advantage to look at the claim again and revalue the 
car. They did so and, in short, came to a lower settlement offer of just under £2,000.
The offer appeared to be lower because Advantage valued the car at a lesser amount and 
because Advantage deducted more from the settlement for the price they could get for 
salvage. 
Mr W wasnt happy with this and made a complaint to Advantage. He thought their valuation 
was too low. And he wasnt happy with the increase in the deduction for the salvage price. 
He was also unhappy with the service hed received.
Advantage provided a final response to Mr W on 6 May 2022. They said their valuation and 
settlement offer were correct and wouldnt be changed. So, Mr W brought his complaint to 
us.
Our investigator looked into it. He thought the car valuation carried out by Advantage was 
fair and reasonable. But he thought the customer service provided to Mr W had been poor 
and he said Advantage should pay him £150 in compensation for his trouble and upset.
Mr W disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. He still believes the car 
has been under-valued. Hes unhappy hes been given two different settlement offers, which 
he says was confusing  and that one of them (from the contractor) is now not available to 
him. And hes still concerned that the salvage value of the car went up between the two 
offers.
It's fair to point out that Advantage also questioned our investigators view. They dont accept 
that the service they (and their contractors) provided has been poor.. And they think our 
investigator took into account events which occurred after their final response to Mr W was 
issued, which means they would be outside our jurisdiction. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I note that it was Mr W who asked Advantage to revalue his car after the first offer 
he received from the contractor. He might have been expected to understand that the 
valuation could go up or down. Certainly, nothing he was told by Advantage or their 
contractor suggested that Mr W could wait to see which valuation took his fancy and then 
choose between them.
More fundamentally, Im satisfied that Advantage have valued the car in line with the 
guidance our service provides on these matters. They use three industry trade guides. One 
was unable to provide a reliable valuation because it doesnt allow retrospective valuations 
showing the value of the car at the time of the loss.
Advantage took an average of the other two guides they used. Weve looked at two further 
guides. One cant value the car because of its age. The other provided a value which was a 
significant outlier.
The trade industry guides provide a reasonably reliable indication of what the current prices 
are for cars at the point of sale. They reflect actual process paid for cars, not the prices at 
which cars are advertised  which may reflect the sellers hopes and wishes rather than the 
final prices achieved.
Im satisfied Advantage have valued Mr Ws car fairly and reasonably. If their valuation 
differed from the one provided by their contractor, that may reflect different methods of 
valuation, but my main concern here is whether Advantages valuation is fair - and, as I say, 
Im satisfied it is.
Similarly, the difference in the deduction made for salvage prices will simply reflect the 
different deals Advantage and their contractor are able to achieve in the salvage market. 
Theres nothing sinister about one being able to achieve a slightly higher price for salvage 
than the other.
So, Im satisfied the settlement offer made by Advantage is fair and reasonable. 
Im sure Mr W will understand that there are certain advantages for Advantage in contracting 
out the handling of non-fault claims. In that context, its not unreasonable for them to carry 
out their own research once the matter has been referred back to them  as it was in this 
case by Mr W  and then to stick to their own valuation and settlement offer once theyve 
been put to that additional trouble.
Turning to the question of delays and poor service / communication, I disagree with 
Advantages view that the service they provided was acceptable. 
I accept that I can only look at events up to the time of the final response letter to Mr W. The 
Financial Conduct Authority rules  the dispute resolution (or DISP) rules  govern the way 
we operate. They say that our service can only consider a complaint once the respondent 
business has had a chance to answer and potentially resolve it themselves. 
Mr W is aware that he can make another complaint about poor service after that date (6 May 
2022). Hed need to make that complaint to Advantage in the first instance but would be entitled to then bring it to us if he werent happy with the outcome.
So, my reasons for saying Mr W should be compensated for his trouble and upset are 
slightly different from those initially given by our investigator. But theyre not significantly 
different and/or different in principle.
I can see form the evidence we have on file that the claim was still not resolved by the time 
the final response letter was issued by Advantage. That was around two months after Mr W 
made the claim. 
Advantages claim notes suggest that at least some of that delay appears to have been due 
to the car not being re-allocated to an engineer in a timely manner. And I can see that Mr W 
had to chase progress on a number of occasions. He also appears not to have had the 
clearest and most timely responses to his queries about progress with the claim.
There also appears to have been a degree of confusion on Advantages part as to how the 
contractor had arrived at their settlement offer to Mr W. In particular, Advantage seem not to 
have picked up that the contractor had deducted the salvage price from the offer they made.
Im aware these internal discussions continued on after the date of the final response letter. 
But Advantage should have picked up the full story in mid-April 2022 when the contractor 
made their offer to Mr W and he then asked Advantage to look into things and provide a 
revaluation. Their failure to do so very likely led to further delays and lack of clarity.
Im well aware that this was a two-way discussion and that Mr Ws claim might have been 
settled earlier had he not asked for the revaluation etc. So, Im not holding Advantage 
(and/or their contractor) responsible for all of the time it took to come to a final settlement 
offer. 
But Im satisfied on balance that there were avoidable delays (before 6 May 2022) which 
were Advantages fault. And Im satisfied their confusion translated into Mr W not getting a 
complete answer to his queries as quickly as he might have been entitled to expect. 
Putting things right
In brief, Im satisfied there were failings in the service provided to Mr W by Advantage and/or 
the contractors - for whom Advantage were ultimately responsible.
The delays and poor service caused a degree of inconvenience and stress to Mr W given 
that the claim was still unresolved and he was understandably concerned about what the 
outcome might be. 
He was also inconvenienced by having to chase Advantage for progress and not always 
getting full and timely answers to his queries.
Im satisfied, taking all of that into account, that £150 is fair and reasonable compensation for 
Mr Ws trouble and upset.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must pay Mr W £150 in compensation for his trouble 
and upset.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman