DRN-1666322
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) hasnt fairly settled a 
claim he made on his home insurance.
What happened
Mr M had a water leak in his kitchen. Lloyds accepted his claim, and said it would repair the 
damage caused by a leaking washing machine. This involved replacing the decorative tiled 
floor in Mr Ms kitchen.
Mr M says he has cover for matching sets included in his policy, and its no longer possible 
to colour match his floor tiles to his wall tiles, so he thinks Lloyds should replace the wall tiles 
too.
Lloyds said it didnt need to do that as there were distinct differences in size and colour 
between the tiles, and it didnt consider them to be matching.
Mr M complained about this, saying hed bought the tiles some time ago and they did match, 
although it was possible some of the floor tiles had discoloured slightly since then. Lloyds 
didnt change its stance so Mr M brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought the wall and floor tiles were meant to match, and recommended 
Lloyds replace Mr Ms wall tiles. Lloyds doesnt want to do this so Ive been asked to decide 
this complaint.
Subsequently Mr M told us about a problem he was having getting the cost of the tiles he 
chose for the floor covered. Lloyds says it has since settled this part of the claim at the 
amount shown on the invoice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I can see Lloyds has recognised Mr M does have cover for matching sets. So I need 
say no more on this point.
The key decision for me to make is whether Mr M has a matching set of tiles across both his 
floor and walls. In particular, the tiles proving difficult to match are yellow  these make up 
about half the wall tiles and are used in a smaller format within the decorative floor pattern. 
Having looked carefully at the photos provided by both parties, Im persuaded that the floor 
and wall tiles  particularly the yellow ones  are meant to match, and I think that means 
they are part of a matching set, even if they are different sizes or textures. 
Having said that, I understand that these particular tiles are no longer available. Thats 
meant Mr M hasnt been able to find matching yellow floor tiles, in particular. Without those, 
Mr M wont have a matching set of floor and wall tiles, so I think its fair for Lloyds to meet 
the claim by replacing both the wall and floor tiles.
I accept Lloyds says Mr M could have chosen other floor tiles that co-ordinated with his wall 
tiles  say plain white. But that isnt what Mr M had before the water leak, and his policy 
does cover him for a matching set of tiles.
Mr M has told us about some other issues hes had whilst settling this claim, including the 
cost of the floor tiles. I understand Lloyds has settled this in line with the costs on the invoice 
provided. That seems a fair way to settle this part of the complaint. If Mr M thinks there are 
other issues then he could talk to Lloyds about these. 
Putting things right
I understand Mr M has had the floor tiles replaced already  with a green accent tile. Thats 
been paid for by Lloyds. So all that remains is for Lloyds to pay for replacing the wall tiles. I 
trust Mr M knows there are matching wall tiles  because it wouldnt be fair to ask Lloyds to 
pay for the floor tiles again.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I order Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited to meet Mr Ms claim for the wall tiles.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman