DRN-3280551
Complaint
Mr D has complained about the overdraft charges Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) 
applied to his current account. Hes said the charges were unfair and Halifax should refund 
them.
Background
Mr Ds complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think that Halifax had 
done anything wrong and or treated Mr D unfairly so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D 
disagreed with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Halifax charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate 
in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. So while Mr D appears to be unhappy with the amount of 
the charges themselves, this on its own isnt a reason for me to uphold Mr Ds complaint, or 
something for me to get involved with.
That said, Halifax wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr D if it applied these 
interest, fees and charges to Mr Ds account in circumstances where it was aware, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr D was experiencing financial difficulty. 
So Ive considered whether there were periods where Halifax continued charging Mr D even 
though it ought to have known he was in financial difficulty or it ought to have realised this 
was the case. 
Ive looked through Mr Ds account statements for the period concerned. But I cant see that 
Halifax ought to have been aware that Mr D might have been struggling during the period 
weve looked at. Mr D did use his overdraft regularly and he may say that this in itself was an 
indication of financial difficulty. 
But Mr Ds account was being regularly credited with funds. And while Im not seeking to 
make retrospective value judgements over Mr D expenditure, nonetheless there are 
significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions 
account going from the account. So I dont think its fair to say that it is the interest, fees and 
charges, which unfairly prevented Mr D from exiting his overdraft when it appears to be case 
that he had the disposable income to repay his overdraft within a reasonable period of time. 
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mr D wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves 
which ought to have alerted Halifax to the fact Mr D was experiencing financial difficulty and 
which meant that it would have been fair and reasonable to step in here. I say this while 
especially mindful that corrective action in relation to Mr Ds overdraft facility is likely to have 
resulted in adverse information being recorded on his credit file.
So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Mr D, I dont think 
that it was unreasonable for Halifax to have proceeded adding the charges that it did. It was 
reasonably entitled to believe that Mr D had the funds to be able to repay his overdraft within 
a reasonable period of time. And bearing in mind the consequences of doing so Halifax 
taking corrective action in these circumstances, would have been disproportionate. So I dont 
think Halifax charged Mr D in circumstances where it ought to have realised that it was unfair 
to do so.
As this is the case, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr Ds complaint. I appreciate that this 
will be very disappointing for   Mr D  especially as he has quite rightly pointed out that it has 
taken sometime for his complaint to reach this stage. But I hope hell understand the reasons 
for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman