DRN-2286140
Complaint
Mr M has complained about a loan Madison CF UK Limited (118 118 Money) provided to 
him. He says 118 118 Money irresponsibly lent him this loan.
Background
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr M and 118 118 Money had told us. And he 
thought that 118 118 Money hadnt lent irresponsibly. So he didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Mr Ms representative disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
118 118 Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr M could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
118 118 Money provided Mr M with a loan for £2,500.00 in February 2016. It had an APR of 
99.9% and was to due be repaid in 24 instalments of £200.96, which meant the total amount 
to be repaid was £4,823.04. 118 118 Money says it agreed to Mr Ms application after he 
provided details of his monthly income and expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out on Mr M. The information Mr M provided about 
his income and expenditure showed hed be able to comfortably make the repayments he 
was committing to. 118 118 Money says, in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. 
On the other hand, Mr M has said he shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr M and 118 118 Money have said. 
This was Mr Ms only loan with 118 118 Money. 118 118 Money has provided a record of the 
credit search information it received, which shows that Mr M had existing debts and some 
defaults. So I dont think it was enough to rely on what Mr M said about his circumstances. 
And I think that 118 118 Money should have done more to check whether Mr M would be 
able to make the payments to this loan. 
But despite having been asked to do so on a number of occasions, Mr Ms representative 
hasnt provided evidence on Mr Ms then circumstances. And it hasnt provided this 
information despite being a professional representative which ought to know that were 
required to understand whether proportionate checks would have made a difference to 
lenders decision to provide a loan, in circumstances where those checks werent carried out, 
before were able to say that a consumer lost out and a complaint should be upheld. 
Given the lack of evidence from Mr Ms representative and the lack of anything obvious to 
suggest Mr M shouldnt have been provided with this loan  for example this being part of a 
series of loans advanced by 118 118 Money to Mr M which was clearly increased what he 
owed to it, I cant fairly and reasonably reach the conclusion that Mr M lost out here. Mr M 
received the funds that he applied for and Mr Ms representative hasnt provided enough to 
show that proportionate checks would have demonstrated the loan payments werent 
affordable for him. 
So bearing in mind the circumstances, I dont find that 118 118 Money treated Mr M unfairly 
or unreasonably when providing him with his loan. And having considered everything, Im not 
upholding Mr Ms complaint. I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr M. But I hope hell 
understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman