DRN-3031273
The complaint
Mr J complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him payment protection insurance 
(PPI) with a loan.  
What happened
PPI was sold to Mr J in September 2008 at the same time as the application for the loan was 
made. 
On 5 September 2014 and again on 10 October 2014, BoS wrote to Mr J to say that 
something may have gone wrong when the PPI was sold. And he was invited to make a 
complaint about that. I havent seen anything to suggest a complaint was made in response 
to that correspondence. 
Mr J then instructed a representative and a complaint was made to BoS on 7 November 
2018. The grounds for that complaint were that PPI had been mis-sold and that the amount 
of commission Mr J paid for the PPI premiums was unfair.  
BoS said Mr J hadnt replied to the letters it sent in September and October 2014 and so it 
thought the complaint about the alleged mis-sale was made too late. But it did pay back to 
Mr J the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premiums. It 
did this because it didnt tell Mr J about the high level of commission and profit share he 
would pay. BoS agreed that failure to disclose was unfair.
The complaint about both the mis-sale and commission was referred to us on 5 March 2019. 
BoS didnt agree we could look at a complaint about how the PPI was sold (the alleged mis-
sale) because it said the complaint had been referred to us too late.   
Our adjudicator looked at all of this, but didnt think we could help with Mr Js complaint 
about how this policy was sold. And they thought BoSs payment in respect of commission 
was a fair way to resolve the complaint
Mr Js representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. They didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Can I consider the mis-sale complaint? 
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that, 
where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint made: 
more than six years after the event being complained about, which would be the PPI 
sale in this case; or 
more than three years after the complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have 
been aware, of cause for complaint. This section applies where the complaint has 
been brought more than six years after the sale of PPI. 
These requirements are set out in Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found 
online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. And in this case BoS hasnt agreed I 
can consider the complaint.  
As I said above, Mr Js complaint was made to BoS in November 2018. This is more than six 
years after BoS sold the policy to him  in September 2008  which is the event he is 
complaining about here. 
So, I next need to consider whether the complaint was made within three years of when Mr J 
should reasonably have been aware he had cause to complain. 
BoS says it sent Mr J two letters, in September 2014 and October 2014 respectively, which 
alerted him to the possibility something might have gone wrong when the policy was sold. 
Given what Mr J is complaining about, I think he should reasonably have been aware he had 
reason to complain when he got these letters. I say this because a significant ground of Mr 
Js complaint is that he wasnt told about the exclusions around pre-existing medical 
conditions. But the letters BoS sent in 2014 did specifically say that Mr J should have been 
told about the exclusions for medical conditions at the point of sale. 
This means Mr J needed to make his complaint about the policy sale by October 2017 at the 
latest. As he didnt complain until November 2018, the complaint is out of time under the 
rules I have to apply. 
I can still look into complaints made outside the time limits if Im satisfied the complaint was 
out of time because of exceptional circumstances. Those representing Mr J didnt tell us 
about any exceptional circumstances as such. Instead, they argued that the letters sent to 
Mr J in October 2014 didnt deal alert him to all the grounds of complaint now raised on his 
behalf. 
But the rules I have to apply dont say that Mr J should be put on notice about every possible 
ground of complaint  just that he reasonably ought to have been aware he had cause for 
complaint. For the reasons explained above, I am satisfied that he would have reasonably 
been aware in September and October 2014. 
So Im sorry that were unable to help Mr J with the complaint about how this policy was sold.
non-disclosure of commission
But I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the 
failure to disclose resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, and if so, what would amount to fair compensation to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided BoS should have disclosed the commission it received and that 
its offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair. My 
reasons are set out below.was there an unfair relationship?
BoS didnt tell Mr J about the high levels of commission and profit share he paid in this case. 
So, I have taken into account: 
the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure 
of commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court 
judgment in Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to 
disclose commission gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business 
expected commission and profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the 
policy; and
the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship 
between BoS and Mr J was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit 
Act because BoS didnt disclose the high levels of commission and profit share 
in this case. 
With all of this in mind, I dont think BoS acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr J 
because it failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider, in all the circumstances, what amounts to fair compensation to 
remedy the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Js representative made a number of submissions about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act.
In summary, it was argued Mr J should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: BoS failed to tell Mr J about the high commission and profit-share rates paid; the 
low claims ratio; and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. It was further argued that 
these things meant the policy was poor value, and I should find that Mr J wouldnt have 
taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission. The representative 
submitted that Mr J should receive a refund of all the premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about 
whether the consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI 
policy had the commission been disclosed; 
a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to 
remedy the unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does 
not follow that a court would automatically order a return of all the premiums 
paid or conclude that a consumer would not have purchased the policy had 
the commission been disclosed; and
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipthe FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to 
merge the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules 
and guidance about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms 
handling PPI complaints) and that the impact of any undisclosed commission 
and any remedy caused by it should be considered at step 2.
I have considered the relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance. At this stage, my role 
as an ombudsman is to determine what would represent fair compensation to remedy the 
unfairness caused by BoS not disclosing the high level of commission to Mr J before the 
policy was sold.
So, taking into account: 
the FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by 
the consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus 
interest in order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the 
level of commission; and
refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, 
in my view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 
140B of the Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; 
I am not, as Mr Js representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for BoSs failure to disclose the level of commission for the reasons 
Ive given above. I think it was fair for BoS to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs 
guidance and return some of the money Mr J paid for the PPI policy. I consider this fairly 
removes the source of the unfairness. 
So I am satisfied that BoSs payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
As BoS has already paid Mr J compensation on this basis, I dont require it to do anything 
further. 
My decision
Im unable to consider Mr Js complaint about how the policy was sold, because it was 
referred to us too late  and Im not persuaded the failure to comply with the time limits was 
because of exceptional circumstances.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Bank of 
Scotland plc should pay Mr J an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid 
in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). As Bank of 
Scotland plc has already paid compensation on this basis, it does not need to take any 
further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman