DRN-2890975
The complaint
Ms V complains about charges that have been applied to her account by Shop Direct 
Finance Company Limited, trading as Very.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ms V, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When Ms V purchased goods from Very in August 2019 the terms of her Buy Now Pay Later 
(BNPL) account explained that to avoid delayed interest the full cash price must be paid by 
4 May 2020. Her April 2020 statement also reminded Ms V of the interest that would be 
added if payment wasnt received. As Ms V didnt pay for the goods by 4 May 2020, Very 
added interest of £27.80. I cant see that Very did anything wrong when applying that 
interest.
Ms V is concerned that Very have applied additional charges since then.
I think the additional charges that have been added to Ms Vs account since the BNPL 
interest was added have related to daily interest charges.
These are explained in the terms and conditions which say:
Interest is charged on the average daily account balance at the applicable interest rate and 
is applied to the outstanding balance every 28 days on the statement date. If you pay off 
your full balance each month, you will not be charged any interest.
and go on to explain
if you only ever pay the minimum payment, it will take you longer to pay your balance off and 
you will be charged more interest. This is partly because the interest charge is compounded i.e. 
you are charged interest on any unpaid interest so the quicker you pay off the balance the less 
interest you will pay.
The rate that interest is charged is shown on Ms Vs statement and the terms and conditions 
explain that that rate may vary and, if it does, the business will give notice of any adverse 
changes. 
I cant see that Very have done anything wrong here. Theyve applied BNPL interest and 
interest on the outstanding debt, in line with the account terms and conditions. Im therefore 
not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman