DRN-4385730
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a medical expenses 
claim they made on a travel insurance policy.
All references to Great Lakes includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J took out an annual travel insurance policy online through a broker. In October 
2021, Mr and Mrs J were abroad on holiday. Unfortunately, Mr J was taken ill and was 
admitted to hospital. He was diagnosed with acute alcoholic pancreatitis. While he was in 
hospital, he also received treatment for existing hypertension and diabetes. Mr and Mrs J got 
in touch with Great Lakes medical assistance company to make a medical expenses claim.
Great Lakes assessed the available medical evidence and turned down Mr and Mrs Js 
claim. Thats because it said the cause of Mr Js illness was alcohol abuse, which was 
specifically excluded by the policy terms. It also referred to a policy term which excluded 
cover for any pre-existing medical conditions which a policyholder had which hadnt been 
declared to and accepted by it. It said that Mr J hadnt declared his existing diabetes and 
hypertension when the policy was purchased.
Mr and Mrs J were unhappy with Great Lakes decision and they asked us to look into their
complaint. They said that all of their family had been unwell whilst they were abroad, but Mr
J had been affected more seriously. They disputed that Mr Js illness was caused by alcohol,
as they said he hadnt been drinking. And they also said that he hadnt been impaired by
alcohol at the time of his admission. Mr and Mrs J added too that Great Lakes medical
assistance company had guaranteed to pay their costs.
I issued my first provisional decision on 20 June 2023, which explained the reasons why I
didnt intend to uphold this complaint. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things,
the terms of Mr and Mrs Js policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether I
think Great Lakes treated them fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the contract
between Great Lakes and Mr and Mrs J. The policy does cover a policyholders emergency
medical and repatriation expenses if they become unwell abroad. However, Great Lakes has
also listed specific, defined events which it has chosen to exclude from cover in the General
exclusions applying to your policy section of the contract. This list of exclusions includes the
following term:
Your policy does not cover you for any claim directly or indirectly resulting from any of the
following:
Any form of alcohol abuse including alcohol withdrawal or you drinking too much alcohol
where it is reasonably foreseeable that such consumption could result in a serious
impairment of your faculties and/or judgement resulting in a claim. We do not expect you to
avoid alcohol on your trip but we will not cover any claim arising because you have drunk so
much alcohol that your judgement is seriously affected and you need to make a claim as a
result.
Great Lakes concluded that Mr Js illness resulted directly from alcohol abuse and so it
considered that his claim fell within the scope of this exclusion clause. So Ive gone on to
think about whether this was a fair conclusion for it to reach.
Its common ground that the policy doesnt define what Great Lakes means by alcohol
abuse. Our investigator concluded that alcohol abuse meant the habitual and long-term mis-
use of alcohol. And she wasnt persuaded that Mr Js medical records indicated long-term
alcohol misuse.
But I dont agree with the investigators interpretation of this particular phrase. I dont think
theres anything in the exclusion which suggests that alcohol abuse has to relate to long-
term or habitual alcohol mis-use. Instead, Ive considered a dictionary definition of alcohol
abuse which defines the phrase as: the excessive consumption of alcoholic drinks. Ive also
considered the plain and ordinary meaning of the phrase. And I think it would be reasonable
and common for most policyholders to understand the meaning of alcohol abuse to be the
excessive consumption of alcohol.
As such then, I dont currently find that Great Lakes needs to show that Mr J had a long-term
history of alcohol misuse in order to fairly rely on the exclusion clause above. In my view, if
the medical evidence indicates that Mr Js illness was likely directly or indirectly caused by
alcohol abuse, then its fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to rely on the term to turn down
his claim.
Ive looked closely at the available medical evidence. Ive placed particular weight on the
hospital report, as this shows the contemporary diagnosis reached by Mr Js treating doctor,
following their assessment and treatment of Mr Js condition. Both the provisional and final
diagnoses were acute alcoholic pancreatitis. Mr Js GP also issued a medical certificate
which restated that the nature of Mr Js illness was alcohol-related pancreatitis. And I note
too that Mr Js medical records contain an entry dated 12 December 2021 which states: (Mr
J) admits to having excess alcohol intake in the past until he ended up in hospital with
pancreatitis.
Theres nothing in the hospital report which indicates that Mr J was treated for the other 
causes of pancreatitis  such as gall stones, pancreatic injury or hypercalcaemia - or that his
pancreatitis was caused by any other condition. So I currently dont think it was unfair or
unreasonable for Great Lakes to rely on the available medical evidence to conclude that Mr
Js illness was most likely caused by any form of alcohol abuse. This means I currently find
that Great Lakes was reasonably entitled to rely on the exclusion clause to turn down Mr Js
claim.
It appears that Mr J also received treatment for hypertension and diabetes whilst he was an
inpatient. Ive considered whether I think it would be fair and reasonable to direct Great
Lakes to cover the cost of any treatment Mr J received specifically for these conditions. But,
on the facts of this complaint, I dont think it would. Thats because theres no indication from
the available medical evidence that but for Mr Js admission to hospital for acute alcoholic
pancreatitis, he wouldve required hospital treatment for either diabetes or hypertension. And
it also appears from the evidence that Mr J didnt declare either condition to Great Lakes at
the time he took out the policy through the broker.Mr and Mrs J say that Great Lakes medical assistance company agreed to cover Mr Js
expenses and the familys costs of extending their trip and returning to the UK. However,
while theyve provided me with screenshots of text messages to show theyd got in touch
with the assistance company; I havent seen any evidence to indicate that Great Lakes
accepted full cover. And it seems to me that irrespective of whether or not Great Lakes
agreed to cover Mr Js claim, its likely he and Mrs J wouldve always had to extend their trip
while he underwent treatment in hospital and incurred costs in doing so.
Overall then, whilst I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Js position, I currently find that it was fair
and reasonable for Great Lakes to turn down their claim. This means Im not intending to
direct Great Lakes to settle their claim or pay any compensation.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to
consider.
Great Lakes provided me with copies of the assistance teams notes and copies of calls
between the assistance team and Mrs J.
Mr and Mrs J disagreed with my first provisional findings. In summary, they said:
They didnt agree with my interpretation of Mr Js NHS medical records. They didnt
agree that there was any mention of Mr J drinking excessive alcohol in the past;
Mrs J had had a phone call with the assistance team, where it had confirmed cover
and allowed them to change their flights;
They provided a report from a radiologist dated October 2022, which showed a stone
had been found in Mr Js ureter. They queried whether the stone had been present at
the time of the claim and whether this had been the cause of Mr Js illness in October
2021;
They asked me to elaborate on my provisional findings in relation to Mr Js pre-
existing medical conditions.
I issued a second provisional decision on 21 September 2023, which explained why I still 
thought it was fair for Great Lakes to turn down Mr and Mrs Js claim, but why I now felt it 
should pay Mr and Mrs J a modest award of compensation. I said:
Neither Mr and Mrs J nor Great Lakes have commented on my provisional conclusion as to
what I considered to be a fair interpretation of the phrase alcohol abuse. And so I see no
reason to comment on this particular point further, other than to confirm that my provisional
findings on this point remain unchanged.
As I explained in my first provisional decision, I was satisfied that the medical evidence from
the treating hospital indicated that the cause of Mr Js acute pancreatitis was alcohol. There
was no contemporaneous medical evidence which suggested that Mr Js illness was down to
any other cause. Having considered again all of the evidence which was available to Great
Lakes at the time it issued its final response to Mr and Mrs Js complaint, I still find it was fair
for Great Lakes to conclude that the cause of Mr Js illness was likely alcohol. And as such,
that it was fair for Great Lakes to rely on the alcohol exclusion to turn down this claim.
Mr and Mrs J have questioned my findings regarding entries set out in Mr Js medical
records. An entry dated 21 November 2021 states: Patient reports that he was on
holidayand was admitted for 6 days where he was diagnosed with acute alcohol related
pancreatitisHas stopped drinking since the attack. I also referred to a further entry, dated
15 December 2021 (rather than 12 December 2021, as I set out in my first provisional
decision) which refers to Mr J admitting having excess alcohol intake in the past until he
ended up in hospital. Im still satisfied then that it does appear Mr J told his GP practice thathed both been diagnosed with acute alcoholic pancreatitis and that hed previously drunk
alcohol to excess.
Following my provisional decision, Mr and Mrs J have provided me with a report dated 12
October 2022 which shows that a stone was found in Mr Js ureter. They have questioned
whether the stone was present at the time of Mr Js hospital admission and therefore,
whether it was the cause of the pancreatitis. However, this report is dated four days after
Great Lakes issued its final response to Mr and Mrs Js complaint. As such, this evidence
wasnt available to Great Lakes when it considered the complaint and it isnt at all clear that
Great Lakes has had a chance to assess it. My role is to decide whether Great Lakes fairly
relied on the evidence available to it at the time it issued its final response to Mr and Mrs Js
complaint. And therefore, it would be inappropriate for me to make any finding on the new
report when deciding this complaint. Its open to Mr and Mrs J to send the new evidence on
to Great Lakes for its consideration should they wish to do so.
I note Mr and Mrs J have asked for clarification regarding my first provisional findings as to
the impact of Mr Js existing medical conditions on the claim. The policy specifically excludes
claims related to pre-existing medical conditions unless theyve been declared to and
accepted by Great Lakes. Mr Js medical notes show that he had existing diabetes and high-
blood pressure. The policy schedule and application records both make it clear that Mr J
didnt disclose these conditions when he applied for the policy and therefore, Great Lakes
hadnt agreed to provide cover for any claims related to those conditions. The medical report
from the treating hospital shows that Mr J received treatment for diabetes and high blood
pressure whilst in hospital. In my view, Mr J most likely wouldnt have needed hospital
treatment for either of those conditions if he hadnt been admitted to hospital with alcohol-
related pancreatitis. And its for these reasons that I still dont think it would be fair or
reasonable for me to direct Great Lakes to pay any costs associated with inpatient treatment
Mr J received specifically for his existing diabetes or hypertension.
Further to previous requests, in response to my first provisional decision, Great Lakes has
now provided me with copies of the assistance teams notes and recordings of calls between
its call handlers and Mrs J. Its unfortunate that this evidence wasnt provided previously. Ive
reviewed the assistance teams records and listened to calls carefully. It seems to me that 
Mrs J knew that shed need to provide Great Lakes with Mr Js medical report and other
evidence before the claim could be paid. And I think at times, it appears she was made
aware that cover wouldnt be confirmed until the medical evidence had been received.
However, having listened to calls specifically on 3 November 2021, I do agree that Mrs J
was left with the impression that the costs of the claim and the costs of amending the return
flights would be covered. I dont doubt how frustrating it must have been when Mr and Mrs J
learned that this wasnt the case and the claim wasnt payable.
So Ive thought about what Great Lakes should do to put things right for its failings here. I
note that at the point Mrs J notified Great Lakes about the claim, Mr J had already been in
hospital for two days. And he was discharged on 3 November 2021  the day I think unclear
and misleading information was given. So even if Great Lakes had clearly told Mrs J that
cover wouldnt be confirmed until all of the evidence had been reviewed, it still seems to me
that Mr J wouldve incurred the same medical expenses.
I acknowledge that prior to amending the original return flights, Mrs J was left with an
impression that these costs would be covered. However, it doesnt necessarily follow that
this means Great Lakes should pay the costs of amending the flights. In order for me to
make such a finding, Id need to be satisfied, on balance, that Mr and Mrs J wouldve acted
differently had they known there was a potential that their claim wouldnt be paid.
We asked Mrs J what she would have done had she been clearly told that the claimremained effectively under review until the evidence had been considered. She and Mr J told
us that it would have depended. In summary, they indicated that if Mrs J could have
arranged to pay the bills, decided on necessary surgery and arranged either family or private
care for Mr J, she and the children would have returned to the UK early. She added that
given Great Lakes had indicated that it would cover the costs for the whole family to stay
abroad, she chose that option. She said staying abroad with Mr J was crucial, as hed been
in intensive care; and he required assistance with arranging medicines, personal care and
returning to the UK, as he wasnt recovered enough to be on his own.
Ive thought about this carefully to decide what I think is most likely to have happened. But I
dont think I could fairly or reasonably find that say that even if Mrs J had known that the
claim remained under review, she would have chosen to act differently. I say that because
she told the assistance company that Mr J couldnt fly back on the original flight, as he was
too weak. So Mr Js flight would always have needed to be rearranged. On balance, given
what Mrs J has told us about the need for Mr J to receive care and assistance both while in
hospital and on the return flight, I think its more likely than not that Mrs J would have chosen
to extend her trip and remain abroad with Mr J and their children in any event. This means I
think its most likely that Mrs J would still have opted to extend the whole familys trip, even if
shed known the amendment costs might not be paid.
Overall then, I dont find that it would be fair or reasonable for me to direct Great Lakes to
pay Mr and Mrs Js flight amendment costs. However, as Ive said, I do think Mrs J was left
with an impression that the claim would be paid. And therefore, I think she and Mr J were
likely caused unnecessary additional frustration and upset, on top of the understandable
disappointment when their claim was turned down. So I think it would be fair and appropriate
for Great Lakes to pay Mr and Mrs J a modest amount of compensation to reflect this. I
currently find that an award of £250 compensation is fair in all the circumstances.
Great Lakes accepted my second provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree with my provisional findings. They didnt agree with the entry 
dated 15 December 2021 which had been recorded in Mr Js medical records. They said Mr 
J had never made those comments and what hed said had been misinterpreted by the 
nurse. They said that whether Mrs J and the children would have returned to the UK on their 
scheduled return date had depended on several factors and that Great Lakes had indicated 
that their costs would be reimbursed. They didnt feel compensation of £250 justified the 
costs or humiliation theyd suffered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs J, I still find that it was fair and 
reasonable for Great Lakes to turn down their claim. And Im still satisfied that an award of 
£250 compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Ill explain why.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs J say Mr Js medical records contain an error and that Mr J 
didnt make the comments which were noted in the entry dated 15 December 2021. Ive set 
out details of this entry above. However, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Great 
Lakes to rely on the medical evidence which was provided to it when it assessed the claim, 
including an entry made only a short time after Mr Js hospitalisation. Its open to Mr and Mrs 
J to speak to their medical practice if they feel the records contain incorrect information. 
For completeness, for the reasons Ive given, I still think it was fair for Great Lakes to turn down this claim, based on the available evidence.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I do acknowledge that at points, I think Great 
Lakes led Mrs J to believe that the amendment costs would be covered. And I dont doubt 
that Mr and Mrs J therefore suffered unnecessary disappointment and frustration on top of 
their natural upset when they learned that the claim wasnt covered. However, I explained 
above why I thought, on balance, it was more likely than not that Mrs J would have chosen 
to stay abroad with Mr J. And in response to my provisional decision, Mr and Mrs J 
acknowledged that whether or not Mrs J and the children returned to the UK on the 
scheduled return date depended on a number of factors. So I still think its more likely than 
not that Mrs J would have chosen to extend the trip, even if shed known the amendment 
costs might not be paid. On that basis, I dont think I could fairly or reasonably direct Great 
Lakes to cover these costs.
However, Im still satisfied that Great Lakes must pay Mr and Mrs J a modest award of 
compensation. Thats to reflect the additional unnecessary upset and frustration they were 
caused when their claim was declined, given I think Great Lakes had led them to have a 
reasonable expectation that at least some costs would be covered. And in the circumstances 
of this complaint, I still find that £250 compensation is a fair, reasonable and proportionate 
award to reflect this. I was pleased to note that Great Lakes agreed to my provisional finding 
on this point.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decisions, my final decision is that it 
was fair for Great Lakes to turn down Mr and Mrs Js claim.
But I direct Great Lakes to pay Mr and Mrs J a total award of £250 compensation for their 
trouble and upset,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman