DRN-2738640
The complaint
Mr R complains about the quality of repairs to his motorhome by Gefion Insurance A/S 
following a claim against his motorhome insurance policy. 
To keep things simple, Ill refer to Gefion Insurance A/S and their agents as Gefion. 
What happened
In August 2019, Mr R collided with a low bridge which caused damage to his motorhome. He 
was able to safely return home where he later raised a claim.
Gefion arranged for an inspection of the motorhome to take place to produce a scope of 
works. Following this, repairs were authorised and completed, and Mr Rs motorhome was 
released back to him in January 2020. Gefion said Mr R signed a document to say he was 
satisfied with the quality of repairs upon collection. 
Mr R noticed several issues with his motorhome shortly after collecting it. So, Gefion 
arranged for an independent engineer to provide a report on the repairs. Following this, the 
engineer listed 29 existing repair and new issues that needed addressing as part of the 
claim. 
Gefion considered this and agreed to several points, except for points numbered 15, 16 and 
20 to 29 in the report. They said Mr R had walked on the roof of the motorhome after the 
repair and had caused further damage, which wasnt related to the incident. 
Mr R disputed this. He said the roof of his motorhome was able to withstand a weight of up 
to 200kg and therefore didnt accept hed caused further damage. He felt poor repairs 
resulted in the independent engineer highlighting further issues. 
Two independent engineers commented on whether they thought Mr R could have caused 
further damage by walking on the roof. Both said they didnt think this was the case. Rather, 
incident-related damage remained, and further work was required to put matters right.  
Gefion maintained their position that Mr R had caused further damage to the motorhome. 
So, Mr R brought a complaint to this service for consideration. Mr R said hed also received 
an invoice for the replacement awning which he felt was carried out as a result of the 
incident. He thinks Gefion should also include this work as part of the claim as he said hed 
spoken to the repair garage whod included this. 
An investigator here considered the complaint and recommended it should be upheld. He 
didnt think Gefion had demonstrated the further issues were non-incident related. So, he 
recommended Gefion should arrange further repairs to be carried out and pay Mr R £250 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator did consider whether the replacement awning should be considered as part 
of the incident-related damage. But, as the awning wasnt listed as part of the repair works 
by the garage and had already been replaced prior to any independent inspection, there was 
insufficient evidence to show it was damaged as a result the incident. Therefore, he didnt 
think it should be considered as part of the claim. 
Mr R accepted our investigators opinion, though he maintained the repair garage had said 
they had included the awning replacement as part of the claim, as it was damaged due to 
the incident. Gefion didnt agree so the case has now been passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Gefion responded to our investigators view saying they werent the responsible party for this 
complaint. Gefion said Mr Rs motorhome was taken to an unapproved repairer prior to them 
being notified of a claim. Therefore, the complaint about the quality of repairs would need to 
be against the party who arranged repairs. 
Ive seen Mr Rs broker arranged repairs. I can also see Gefion authorised these repairs to 
take place. What I havent seen is anything from Gefion that shows Mr Rs broker acted 
without authority. 
As Gefion are the underwriter of Mr Rs policy, Gefion are responsible for Mr Rs complaint 
about the quality of repairs carried out as part of the claim. So, Ill now go onto consider the 
points Mr R has raised. Ive used sub-headings for ease of reading. 
Quality of repairs
Gefion agreed to arrange repairs for several points listed within the independent engineers 
report of March 2020. What remains in dispute here are the further issues set out in that 
report numbered 15, 16 and 20 to 29, which Gefion say are due to Mr R walking on the roof 
and are not incident related. Having considered the outstanding issues, Im more persuaded 
these points are incident related and Gefion should arrange for the remaining works to be 
completed. Ill explain why. 
The first independent engineer was unaware Mr R had walked on top of the roof whilst 
carrying out their inspection in March 2020. So, a second engineer considered all the 29 
points the first engineer listed as being incident related. They said if it is correct that the PH 
[Mr R] has walked on the roof of the vehicle since the repair was carried out. Any repair 
issues to the roof would be down to the PH [Mr R] walking on a newly repaired roof. To 
support this theory, Gefion provided CCTV images which they said showed the roof to be in 
good condition when Mr R collected the motorhome from the repair garage. They said all 
incident-related damage had been repaired at this point. 
The first engineer who carried out the March 2020 report made further comments following 
this. They said  whilst they didnt know Mr R had walked on top of the roof after repairs had 
been completed  they didnt think it was likely Mr R had caused further damaged by doing 
this. 
Following this, a further independent engineer was instructed to provide a report. The report 
they provided gave an estimate for the repair works required and answered questions put to 
them by Gefion. Ive shared some of the comments made by the engineer in their report 
which follows: 
whether damage that is on the roof now could have been caused by [Mr R] walking 
on it? From what I could see there will have been no further damage from 
walking on the roof. The roof should be strong enough to take weight from an average sized person, and is designed as such.
What the standard of repairs are carried out? Very poor. The roof skin should 
have been fully removed and replaced, but understand the roof has been over 
sheeted, if this is correct, I cant physically see from my inspection. 
Whether any of the work needed to the vehicle is not as a result of the accident or 
the repair? I can see little non-related damage pointed out to me or in the report 
seen before my inspection.  
On balance, Im more persuaded the additional damage listed by the first engineer in their 
report of March 2020 is as a result of the August 2019 incident, and therefore claim-related 
damage. 
I dont think Gefion has reasonably demonstrated Mr R  by walking on the roof  caused 
further damage given the reasons set out above. So, in order to resolve Mr Rs complaint in 
this respect fairly and reasonably, I require Gefion to arrange for the further damage to be 
rectified as part of the claim.  
Mr R wants Gefion to use a recognised motorhome repairer to carry out the outstanding 
work  and I appreciate why. But Ive seen Gefion offered an alternative garage to carry out 
the further repairs as Mr R didnt want to use the initial repairer. I think Gefion offering an 
alternative garage is fair. 
whether the awning was replaced as part of the claim
Mr R said the awning casing was damaged in the incident. He said he discussed this with 
the repair garage who confirmed this to be the case. Gefion argued the awning was replaced 
by Mr R outside the claim and in a private agreement with the garage. This is because the 
awning didnt form part of the scope of works or repair costs that were submitted by the 
garage. 
I dont doubt Mr Rs testimony that the awning was discussed with the repair garage. But its 
difficult to determine whether the awning was damaged due to the incident. I say this 
because the awning had already been replaced prior to the independent engineers carrying 
out inspections, and the repair garage hadnt included this within the scope of works. So, 
whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr R in this aspect of his complaint, I cant fairly conclude the 
awning was damaged as a result of the incident. So, I wont be directing Gefion to meet 
these costs. 
Putting things right
Overall, I dont think Gefion has reasonably demonstrated Mr R caused further damage to 
his motorhome by walking on the roof. Im more persuaded on balance that the points 
numbered 1 to 29  set out by the engineer in March 2020  are incident related and 
therefore should be covered by Gefion as part of the claim. 
I also accept Mr R has experienced distress and inconvenience as a result of the quality of 
repairs and the way the claims been handled overall. I appreciate hes been unable to use 
his motorhome to take family trips which I accept would have been very disappointing. Our 
investigator recommended Gefion pays Mr R £250 compensation to recognise this. I think 
this amount is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decisionMy final decision is I uphold this complaint and require Gefion Insurance A/S to do the 
following: 
Arrange for outstanding repairs to be completed to Mr Rs motorhome in line with the 
independent report from March 2020 (points 1 to 29); and 
Pay him £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman