DRN-3662492
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about a life term assurance policy they took out through Countrywide 
Assured Plc.
What happened
In February 2022 Mr and Mrs C received a letter from Countrywide saying that their life term 
assurance policy would come to end in April 2022. 
Mr and Mrs C complained to Countrywide saying they thought there would be a payment to 
them when the policy ended. 
Countrywide said the policy was a decreasing fixed term life plan which was taken out 
without any advice from them. They said no payments or premiums would be reimbursed at 
the end of the term as explained in the conditions of the plan.
Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy so brought their complaint to this service where one of our 
Investigators looked into what happened. They said the conditions made clear that there was 
no cash in value at the end of the policy term. Mr and Mrs C disagreed so the complaint has 
come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy was sold in 1997 and due to the passage of time theres unsurprisingly very little 
paperwork from back then. What I do have is a copy of the Policy Conditions issued by the 
plan provider which was given to our Investigator by Mr and Mrs C. A copy has also been 
provided by Countrywide.
The Policy Conditions say: 
- Fixed Term Life Cover has no cash-in value nor is there any return at the end of the 
period of insurance
- As the aim of the cover is to help protect your familys lifestyle rather than act as a 
form of investment, the policies do not have any cash-in value.
So Im satisfied no payment is due to Mr and Mrs C at the end of the policy. 
The policy was sold in 1997 and theres no paperwork from the time. Countrywide say the 
sale was on a non-advised basis which means that it was up to Mr and Mrs C to read the 
product literature and decide for themselves if it was suitable for them. Without any other 
paperwork I have to rely on the Policy Conditions, and I think they make clear how the plan 
works. 
So on the balance of probabilities, which is the test I must use in cases like this where there 
is little paperwork from the time, I think the way the plan worked was made clear when it was 
taken out.
After considering all of the available evidence Im satisfied Countrywide have acted fairly and 
reasonably when applying the terms of the policy so I wont be asking them to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 November 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman