DRN-3706282
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) rejected their 
claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B bought a solar panel system (the system) for their home in 2015. The 
purchase was funded by a loan from Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for the 
acts and omissions of the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to 
the installer misleading Mr and Mrs B into believing that the panels would be self-funding, 
which they werent.
After the complaint was referred to our service, Shawbrook agreed to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs 
claim and offered redress that it says is in line with our established approach to these types 
of cases. Essentially, Shawbrook offered to work out how much benefit (in Feed in Tariff 
(FIT) payments and savings on energy bills) Mr and Mrs Bs system would generate over the 
10-year term of the loan and charge them no more than that. 
However, Mr and Mrs B felt Shawbrooks offer did not fully compensate them for their losses 
and refused to accept this. The redress offer made by Shawbrook, included an assumed FIT 
benefit Mr and Mrs B were not in receipt of. Shawbrook said it was the consumers 
responsibility to apply for the payments and Shawbrook would not compensate them for 
losses it had not caused. Mr and Mrs B had applied for the scheme, but their application was 
lost, and this didnt come to light until the deadline for the application had passed. Mr and 
Mrs B also felt they had done nothing wrong and without taking this into account, the redress 
was not fair as the system would still not be self-funding. 
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She felt that in order 
to fully compensate Mr and Mrs B, Shawbrook should recalculate its offer taking account of 
the fact that Mr and Mrs B didnt receive FIT payments. Alternatively, it could unwind the 
contract. 
Shawbrook didnt agree  while it was happy to offer compensation, it did not feel it should 
have to recalculate the offer without assumed FIT payments. As an agreement couldnt be 
reached, the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
dont consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Bearing in mind that both parties have accepted that the system was mis-represented to 
Mr and Mrs B, I dont need to consider that as part of this decision. It seems clear, the only 
matter left in dispute is how to put things right which Ill consider as part of this decision. 
Determining fair compensation is not always an exact science and it is all the more difficult in 
a case like this where solar panels have been installed at a property. Usually, if Im 
persuaded that a consumer wouldnt have purchased the system but for the 
misrepresentation, Id have to consider whether Shawbrook should unwind the credit 
agreement. Shawbrook would have to remove the solar panels (at its expense), give Mr and 
Mrs B a refund of any payments theyve made less actual benefit theyve received. 
Shawbrook would also have to make good any damage to Mr and Mrs Bs property caused 
by the installation and removal of the solar panels. This would be the position Mr and Mrs B 
would be in had the misrepresentation not taken place. 
But the removal and disposal of a working system would be disproportionately costly for 
Shawbrook and may also lead to other problems such as damage to Mr and Mrs Bs roof 
and internals leading to further costs for Shawbrook. And of course, this also leads to a 
perfectly working solar panel system being disposed of. This is why we have an established 
approach to redress in these types of cases. We ask financial businesses to work out what 
benefit (usually including savings and FIT payments) consumers are likely to achieve over a 
10-year period and charge them no more than that for the system. The aim of our redress is 
to be fair to both parties. It minimizes costs for Shawbrook and minimizes disruption to 
consumers and puts them in a position where they suffer no financial loss. Mr and Mrs B 
have also indicated they would settle the case on that basis rather than insist on a full 
unwind. 
But if Shawbrook includes an assumed FIT benefit in its calculation, that Mr and Mrs B are 
not actually receiving, they are not placed in a cost neutral position. So, the aim of the 
alternative redress is not achieved. While I do understand Shawbrooks position, and that it 
would normally include this benefit (because consumers would usually be in receipt of it), in 
this case, its offer does not ensure the customers suffer no financial loss  irrespective of 
who is to blame for Mr and Mrs B not being registered for FIT payments. So, I dont think its 
offer is in line with our established approach to these cases. 
Shawbrook says Mr and Mrs B received a receipt from the supplier which they signed, and 
this informed them that they had to apply for the FIT scheme within 5 days of installation so 
this ought to have highlighted the urgent need to apply promptly. 
However, I note the statement on the receipt is in small print and not highlighted and doesnt 
inform Mr and Mrs B of the said deadline. Given the incredibly short window of opportunity 
they had to sign up for the scheme, and FIT payments being one of the main financial 
benefits of having the system  I think this really ought to have been clearly brought to their 
attention. 
In any event, I understand Mr and Mrs B completed an application for the FIT scheme in 
December 2015 in time. When Mr and Mrs B didnt receive payments from the FIT scheme 
as expected, they chased their provider, and they were informed that the application hadnt 
been received. Mr and Mrs B were also told the deadline to register the system had now 
passed. We have to bear in mind that Mr and Mrs Bs installation and application was during 
the holiday period. Mr and Mrs B had a short window of opportunity to register for the 
scheme and they say they werent told of the urgency of it, nor were they told that there was 
a deadline by which the system had to be registered. And, in any event, they say they did 
apply before the deadline. As explained above, including assumed benefit amounts that consumers are not actually 
receiving does not place consumers in a cost neutral position and it does not ensure 
consumers suffer no financial loss  which is the main purpose of the alternative redress.  
So, in cases where customers havent registered for FIT, we usually do not expect 
businesses to include assumed benefit amounts unless there are exceptional reasons why it 
may be fair to do so. Im not satisfied that this is the case here. Mr and Mrs B have done 
what was asked of them in time, despite not being informed of the looming deadline. And the 
failings of either the postal service or their provider misplacing their application does not 
mean theyve been negligent in any way. 
So, Im not satisfied that its fair for Shawbrook to depart from our usual approach to redress 
in these types of cases. It should, therefore, only include the actual benefit amounts Mr and 
Mrs B have (and will) achieve over a 10- year period and work out their compensation on 
that basis. This will put them in a position where they suffer no financial loss because of the 
misrepresentation. This is still more cost effective for Shawbrook than a full unwind and 
ensures that Mr and Mrs B suffer no financial loss. So, I think the redress Ive ordered in this 
case is fair and reasonable considering all the circumstances of this case. 
Putting things right
To clarify, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr and 
Mrs Bs complaint for Shawbrook to put things right by recalculating the original loan based 
on the known and assumed future savings that Mr and Mrs B will get from the solar panels 
over a 10-year period so they pay no more than that, and they keep the solar panel system, 
and any future benefits once the loan has ended. To confirm, the recalculation would usually 
include a reduction for the FIT benefit Mr and Mrs B would have received from the solar 
panel system. But Mr and Mrs Bs solar panels were not registered for the FIT scheme, and 
they have not received any payments from this scheme. So, for the reasons explained 
above, in these circumstances, I dont think its fair that any assumed FIT payments are 
included in the recalculation.
In the event the calculation shows that Mr and Mrs B have paid more than they should have, 
then Shawbrook needs to reimburse them accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr and Mrs B by way of explanation. 
I understand Mr and Mrs B have settled the loan, so Shawbrook should pay them the 
difference between what they paid in total and what the loan should have been under the 
restructure above, with 8% interest.
Shawbrook has offered £200 compensation for the time taken to respond to Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint which I think is fair. I direct that Shawbrook should pay £200 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Shawbrook Bank 
Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman