DRN-3701595
The complaint
Mr M complains that Openwork Limited trading as The Openwork Partnership (Openwork) 
failed to progress his late wifes pension benefits in time resulting in tax becoming payable. 
He would like reimbursement of the tax paid, the professional costs incurred and 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
What happened
Mr M is represented in his complaint by his Solicitor, but I will refer to Mr M in this decision 
except where necessary.
Mr Ms wife was a client of Openwork. When she passed away in May 2018, his Solicitor 
advised Openwork it was dealing with the Estate and provided authority letters from the 
Executors. Openwork contacted the pension provider (IFDL) on 24 May 2018 and requested 
claim forms. Once IFDL had been notified there was a two-year period in which the benefits 
of his late wifes pension could be payable free of tax. 
The two-year deadline was missed and what happened is disputed by the parties.
Mr M complained about the missed deadline to IFDL, and this complaint was also referred to 
our service. IFDL said it thought that Openwork was acting on Mr Ms behalf, but it should 
have been more proactive with regard to the deadline. It said along with Openwork it had a 
joint responsibility to manage the account. IFDL offered to cover 50% of the tax costs 
incurred and pay compensation for the distress caused. The Solicitor says the eventual 
settlement agreed with IFDL was £20,229.31.
Mr Ms Solicitor then raised this complaint with Openwork asking that it pay 50% of the tax 
liability, the solicitors costs of £846 and £3,000 in compensation. The Solicitor made the 
following points:
Mr M hadnt provided Openwork with instructions to notify IFDL of his wifes death,
That it failed to advise him it had done so or the consequences of the two-year 
deadline, 
Having received claim forms from IFDL on 28 May 2018, it forwarded the death 
certificate to IFDL on 8 June 2018, but it then failed to communicate with IFDL until 
February 2020, when it asked for the claim forms to be resent, 
That instead of ensuring his late wifes pension was dealt with properly, Openwork 
saw the situation as a marketing opportunity with the adviser brashly sending Mr M 
his CV and insisting on meetings without explaining the importance of the two-year 
deadline, 
That Mr M had contacted Openwork on 17 April 2020 regarding transferring the 
pension, but Openwork had responded wanting a planning meeting and that a 
meeting was also necessary for identity verification purposes, despite Mr M being an 
existing client,  
As a result, Mr M sought financial advice elsewhere and completed the necessary 
claim forms, but these werent received by IFDL in adequate time to meet the 
deadline.
Openwork rejected the complaint. It said Mr M had appointed the Solicitor to act for his late 
wifes estate. It said it had responded promptly to enquiries from the Solicitor. It said its email 
to the solicitor of 24 May 2018 advised that it had spoken to IFDL and the call was treated 
as notification of death and that claim forms would be forwarded as soon as they were 
received. And these forms were emailed to the Solicitor on 31 May 2018. These gave the 
value of the pension and explained the tax position and that the benefits needed to be paid 
within 2 years of the date of death to be tax free. It said the Solicitor had requested further 
information about the pension in November 2018 to enable inheritance tax forms to be 
completed, which had been promptly provided.
Openwork said the adviser had contacted Mr M on many occasions from 14 June 2018 
onwards offering assistance, but that Mr M was either rude, refused to speak or said the 
matter was being dealt with by his Solicitor. But that Mr M had emailed the adviser on 17 
April 2020 saying:
I think we are now in a position to start making a decision regarding  pension and 
will probably transfer it over to me, as stipulated in her will. Could you please advise 
me how we would go about doing this  
Openwork said the adviser had emailed back to set up a meeting, but Mr M declined saying 
he just required the process and paperwork. The adviser replied to clarify exactly what he 
wanted but didnt receive a response. It said it appeared Mr M had then emailed IFDL 
directly on 30 April 2020, enclosing a benefit options form but not the death claim form also 
required. Openwork said IFDL had emailed it on 26 May 2020 asking if the death claim form 
had been sent to Mr M. So, it sent this to Mr M but didnt receive a reply. IFDL received the 
form on 14 August 2020.
Openwork said Mr M had appointed the Solicitor to act for the estate and it had provided it 
with the necessary forms within two weeks of the death. And these clearly stated the 
deadline. It said the adviser made multiple attempts to meet Mr M to progress matters either 
without success or to be told the Solicitor was dealing with it. It said it didnt think the adviser 
had made inappropriate approaches. It said the adviser couldnt make Mr M meet with him 
and it wasnt clear why the Solicitor, who should have been aware of the deadlines, hadnt 
appeared to engage with Mr M to ensure the forms that it had requested were completed 
and returned in good time. 
Openwork said our service hadnt made any ruling on Openworks involvement in 
considering the complaint against IDFL. But it agreed with the comment made that the 
adviser should normally be involved in the process, which it had repeatedly attempted to do 
and had been rebuffed by Mr M.  
Mr M referred his complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it but didnt uphold 
it.
Our investigator said he thought Mr M had given instructions for Openwork to deal with the 
Solicitor and it had quickly provided the necessary documents and details. He said 
Openwork had then tried to progress matters promptly and proactively, but Mr M had 
declined this. He said there was no evidence that the Solicitor had taken steps to ensure the 
necessary documents were completed in time, which was its responsibility. Mr M disagreed 
and said he would provide further comments but hasnt done so.
As Mr M doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
I understand that this was a very difficult time for Mr M and the issues here will only have 
caused further distress. But I dont think Openwork has made any error or treated Mr M 
unfairly. On the contrary, I think the adviser dealt with matters promptly, considerately and 
made considerable efforts to help Mr M. 
Openwork has provided evidence of multiple attempts by email, by telephone and text 
message to arrange a meeting or discussion with Mr M, to review his late wifes pension 
benefits and the options available. Some of these options required advice to be provided as 
noted on IDFLs Beneficiary Options Form already sent to his Solicitor. Thats a reasonable 
explanation why the adviser would want to discuss matters with Mr M, one completely at 
odds with the brash marketing opportunity allegation raised in the complaint. 
And in his email of 4 September 2019 Mr M does ask for the advisers thoughts on how the 
benefits should be dealt with. In his reply the adviser noted some options the plan offered in 
terms of flexibility and inheritance planning. He suggests a meeting to explore the best route 
forward. There was no reply to this email, or the advisers follow ups. 
It appears IFDL contacted Openwork in February 2020 for an update and sent further copies 
of the claim forms. Openwork has records of it unsuccessfully trying to contact Mr M then 
before contact was made in April 2020. When Mr M again asks for advice on transferring his 
late wifes pension over to him. But again, he declines a meeting or discussion with the 
adviser, saying instead he just wants the paperwork. The adviser then sought to clarify his 
requirements in an email of 20 April 2020:
Not a problem but please can you confirm what you mean by move the pension 
over? Do you mean to consolidate the pension into your existing pension plan with 
the same investment strategy/structure?
Mr M didnt respond to this email. It isnt clear why Mr M or his Solicitor seemed unprepared 
to properly engage with Openwork. Because, had they, I think the matter could have been 
resolved without problems. But it wasnt possible for Openwork to explain the options and 
advise Mr M on them as he requested without some discussion of his aims and objectives 
and as it has said it couldnt force Mr M into a meeting. 
And if Mr M didnt want to discuss anything with the adviser, then all that was required was 
for him to complete one of the alternative options set out in the forms sent to his Solicitor in 
May 2018 and return them to IFDL. Along with the identity verification documents that were 
also required by IFDL, not the adviser as the Solicitor claims. 
There is no doubt the Solicitor had these documents. It confirmed receipt on 7 June 2018, 
whilst chasing outstanding forms for another arrangement. It noted it was eager to get 
things moving along. This suggests to me the Solicitor was, as Openwork says Mr M 
confirmed, taking the lead and dealing with matters. But apart from querying the contribution 
history of the IFDL plan in November 2018 there is no evidence it raised any queries about 
the benefits subsequently with either IFDL or Openwork. Or that it was advising Mr M to 
make contact himself. I think the Beneficiary Options Form is a clear and simple document. It set out the value of 
the pension plan, so it would have been considered by the Solicitor. And I think its 
reasonable that the significance of the deadline also noted on it should have been readily 
apparent to any Solicitor dealing with estates and probate. And Openwork had already 
advised it that notification of death had been made  something that had to be done to 
generate the claim documents the Solicitor had requested. 
As Mr M subsequently did send the benefits form to IFDL, he presumably obtained this from 
his Solicitor. It isnt clear why the death claim form also required wasnt also returned to 
IFDL. Had it been it may have been possible to settle matters before the deadline, but I dont 
think the actions of Openwork were the reason the deadline was missed. And whilst I cant 
uphold this complaint or comment on the arrangement between Mr M and his Solicitor it 
does appear that the total amount already paid by IFDL would cover a substantial amount of 
the tax liability incurred through the deadline being missed based on the valuation at the 
date of death. 
So, I dont think Openwork made any error or treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably. I think it 
made many attempts to contact him to discuss his late wifes pension benefits in good time 
for matters to have been dealt with, and it need not do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman