DRN-2645683
The complaint
Miss B complains that Santander UK Plc incorrectly registered a default on her credit file.
What happened
Miss B had an overdraft facility with Santander. As she had used more than the arranged 
overdraft with Santander, this created an unarranged overdraft. Santander wrote to Miss B in 
April 2020 to explain this. They asked her to make a payment within 10 days to clear the 
unarranged overdraft, or to contact them to make an arrangement to pay the unarranged 
overdraft.
Santander wrote to Miss B several times after the initial letter. As they heard nothing back 
from Miss B they removed all banking facilities (including her arranged overdraft) in June 
2020. Miss B had been unwell so she gave Santander a call in July to see if she could make 
an arrangement to pay off the outstanding balance.
Santander completed an income and expenditure form with Miss B, but as she had more 
outgoings than income by £147 a month, they were unable to come to an arrangement to 
pay off the outstanding balance. Santander also explained to Miss B that there were debt 
charities which may be able to help her and recommended she talked to one of them.
As a result of this phone call Santander wrote to Miss B in July 2020 explaining that as she 
was in financial difficulty they would pause the collections process for 30 days. The letter 
explained they wouldnt add charges or interest to her account during this timeframe, but if 
they didnt hear from her within the 30 days then they would continue with the collections 
process.
As Miss B didnt contact Santander after July, they continued with the collections process. 
Santander wrote to Miss B several times from this date, including explaining to her that if she 
didnt pay the outstanding balance then they would need to tell credit reference agencies 
that she had defaulted on the account.
On 2 October 2020, Santander wrote to Miss B with a default notice, explaining that if she 
didnt contact them within 14 days of the notice then a default would be issued. As Miss B 
didnt contact Santander within the 14 days notice Santander started the process of 
registering a default.
Miss B rang Santander on 29 October 2020. She informed the call handler that her 
circumstances hadnt changed since she spoke to them in July. The call handler said that in 
order to put an arrangement in place then Miss B would need to complete another budget 
planner within 10 days but as her account was close to a default then she should try and 
complete it today or tomorrow. Miss B said she would complete it on the same day.
Santander registered the default within the 10 days. Miss B complained to them and asked 
how they could register a default within the timeframe they had given her to complete the 
budget planner. 
Santander told Miss B that the call handler gave her incorrect information and that as she 
had failed to contact them within the 14 days of the default notice then the default process 
had already started when she spoke to them on 29 October and that completing the budget 
planner wouldve made no difference to them registering a default. They paid Miss B £75 for 
the call handler giving her incorrect information but said they registered the default 
accurately. 
Miss B didnt agree so brought her complaint to our service. She said she hadnt received a 
default notice from Santander. Our investigator did not uphold Miss Bs complaint. The 
investigator said that Santander had wrote to Miss B at her registered address approximately 
15 times regarding the unarranged overdraft but Miss B didnt respond to any of the 
correspondence between when she spoke to Santander in July and when she rang 
Santander on 29 October. The investigator concluded that Santander had correctly 
registered the default. 
Miss B asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. She added that shes told 
Santander she doesnt always receive her letters and this was a poor way to communicate to 
her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened carefully to the call Miss B made on 29 October 2020 to Santander. On the call 
Miss B confirmed the last letter she received from Santander was a couple of weeks ago. 
Looking at the correspondence Santander sent Miss B then Im satisfied the letter she is 
referring to was the default notice. I say this as given Miss Bs comment, along with the 
timing of the call and the letters that were sent to Miss B at this time, I think its more likely 
than not that she received the default notice and was referring to this here. Although Miss B 
confirms she only read this letter the previous day Im satisfied Santander fulfilled their duty 
in sending the default notice to the registered address and therefore it would be unfair to 
hold Santander responsible for Miss B not reading the correspondence that they sent her.
Ive considered what Miss B has said regarding her not always receiving her post and 
informing Santander that this is not her preferred method of contact, however, Im not 
persuaded that Miss B didnt receive any of the communication Santander sent her, as she 
said on the phone call on 29 October that she had received letters from Santander. While I 
appreciate that post isnt her preferred method of contact, it does appear that she has 
received the letters Santander sent, most importantly the default notice.
Santander have to follow regulatory requirements to send out information for accounts which 
are in arrears. Thats what they did here and I dont think they acted unfairly in doing so. 
Letters like these will sometimes be worrying to receive and read, but they have to be sent 
so the bank can tell a customer what will happen, or has happened, to an account. 
So I think that Santander were entitled to apply the default as they did here. But Santander 
shouldnt have inferred to Miss B that by completing a budget planner that this may avoid a 
default. Although the call handler confirmed the default process had started, this information 
wouldve given Miss B false hope that the default could be avoided, when in reality it 
couldnt. Had she been told the correct information on the call - then this wouldve prevented 
any false hope she may have had that the default couldve been prevented.
But, Ive also thought about what wouldve happened had Miss B completed the budget 
planner within the time Santander mentioned. She said none of her circumstances had changed since she completed the budget planner in July which showed she couldnt make 
an arrangement with Santander because she had more outgoings than income by £147 a 
month. When the call handler asks Miss B how she would be able to make arrangement in 
light of her circumstances not changing Miss B replies I dont know. 
So its likely that a new budget planner wouldnt have enabled Santander to make a new 
arrangement. But in any event here, Santander had already told Miss B that she had 14 
days from 2 October 2020 to contact them to discuss this to avoid a default and this didnt 
happen. So Santander were entitled to start the default process and thats what they did. 
While I understand that the default hadnt been fully registered with the credit agencies by 
the time Miss B had contacted Santander in October, I cant say that Santander did anything 
wrong by applying their terms and conditions and registering the default for the reasons 
above.
Santander have apologised for their mistake and credited Miss Bs savings account with 
£75. I think this is fair as it recognises that the wrong information wouldve had an impact on 
Miss B. So Im satisfied that the £75 paid is reasonable to reflect the impact the incorrect 
information wouldve had on Miss B.
With regards to the entries on Miss Bs credit file though, Santander have a duty to report 
activity accurately to credit agencies and appear to have reported activity on this account 
accurately including registering defaults. Santander registered a default as she was unable 
to pay the unarranged overdraft balance for a significant amount of time. I realise thatll have 
a significant impact on Miss B  but it wouldnt be fair for me to tell Santander to remove 
information theyve recorded that accurately reflects the conduct of the account. So it follows 
that Ill not be asking Santander to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman