DRN-4014132
The complaint
Ms A complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as More Th>n 
(RSA) handled her claim following the theft of her catalytic convertor. 
What happened
Ms A had a motor insurance policy with RSA covering her car which has a hybrid power 
system. In March 2022 her car was the subject of the theft of its catalytic convertor. 
RSA recovered the car to its repairer, who Ill refer to as F.
F carried out works to replace the catalytic convertor and returned the car to Ms A. Ms A 
used the car once, but then it wouldnt start. 
F took the car back and investigated the issue. It said that a main cable had been cut. This 
cable wasnt available, so her car would be written-off as being beyond economic repair. 
RSA said it would pay her the cars market value, less her excess, if she made another 
claim.
Ms A arranged for another garage to investigate the damage in August. This garage said it 
thought the cable was damaged in the original theft. 
RSA didnt agree as the car couldnt be driven with the cable cut, and it had been started 
and moved to return it to Ms A and then by Ms A. RSA said it thought the cable had been cut 
in a separate event to the original theft of the catalytic convertor. There was some confusion 
about this, because Ms As garage had removed the exhaust to investigate the damage.
Ms A was unhappy with RSAs service during its investigation of the damage and asked that 
it compensate her for her inconvenience. RSA paid her £396 for loss of use of her car, plus 
£100 for her general inconvenience. This doesnt form part of her approach to this service 
and Im not going to comment on it further.
She remained unhappy with RSAs decision about how the damage had happened and 
brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into Ms As complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought that the 
damage to the cable happened after the original theft and not as a result of Fs actions on 
behalf of RSA. Ms A didnt agree with the view, so her complaint has been passed to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold Ms As complaint and Ill explain why.
In the file I can see that F took photos of the car before and after replaced the catalytic 
convertor. I can see from those photos that the catalytic convertor seems to have been 
precisely cut out from the exhaust system and there doesnt appear to be any other damage 
from what I can see. 
Ms As garage has supplied a video of the underside of the car and I can see that theres 
damage to the cables, and one of them has been cut. These cables sit behind a protective 
guard which has been cut through. Ms As garage says this cut was probably made by a 
professional grinder machine, and it reported to Ms A that the cut was made when the 
catalytic convertor was stolen.
Having looked at the video I think its unlikely that F would have failed to see the cut to the 
housing, which is quite large and in a location F was working on.
Ive also seen evidence that says the car couldnt be started with the cable cut. I know Ms A 
has said F told her the car wouldnt start, which slightly delayed returning the car to her, but 
ultimately it was returned to her in working condition. 
This point seems to me to be the key one here  if the car was driven onto the recovery 
vehicle, then (presumably) driven off it and then used by Ms A once, I think its more likely 
than not that the cable was whole when F returned the car to Ms A.
So, the logical conclusion is that the cable and its housing was damaged later in a second 
attempt on the car. 
I feel I should point out to Ms A that RSA offered to consider her claim for the car being 
written-off if she made a second claim. This claim would be subject to her paying her excess 
again, but as I think its reasonably for a second claimable event I think its fair that RSA 
apply its policy terms in that way.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman