DRN-2066156
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Nationwide Building Society (trading as Cheshire Building Society)
mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage in 1991.
The mortgage was in joint names, but the PPI was in Mrs Ms name only. The policy covered 
Mrs M against accident, sickness and unemployment. 
The policy was amended in 1996 when Mr and Mrs M bought some additional cover for 
Mrs M.
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint on the basis that it wasnt made clear to Mr and Mrs M 
that they had a choice about taking out PPI. Nationwide disagreed with our adjudicator. 
It mainly said that:
Mr and Mrs Ms recollections of the sale cant be fully relied on as theyve given 
contradictory information about how they took out the PPI
under the section headed PAYMENT PROTECTION INSURANCE' on their 
mortgage application, Mr and Mrs M were given the option of declining the policy by 
ticking Please tick if you do not require or are not eligible for this cover
none of the documentation it has sent us showed PPI was compulsory with the 
mortgage
Nationwide believes that Mr and Mrs M were fully aware that the policy was an 
optional and separate product to the mortgage, and they actively choose to take the 
insurance as being something that was suitable to their needs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case.
On the mortgage application form signed by Mr and Mrs M, there was a section about PPI.
This reads as follows: The Society will arrange sickness, accident and unemployment 
insurance on behalf of the first named applicant....
There were then two tick boxes. The first box offered the option to switch the cover to the 
second named applicant instead.
The other tick box could be ticked if the applicant did not want PPI or wasnt eligible for it. 
On Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage application I can see that both these boxes are blank.
Ive thought carefully about Nationwides view that having the option to decline PPI is 
enough to show that Mr and Mrs M had a choice about it. 
But in the particular circumstances of this case, I dont agree with Nationwide about this.
Mr and Mrs Ms recollection of this sale is vague  to my mind, thats unsurprising after so 
long. I dont think it would be reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs M to have any detailed 
memories of the actual sale process, especially as I expect they were mostly interested in 
getting the mortgage they wanted to buy their new home. This isnt a reason for me not to 
uphold their complaint.
I think its significant that they recall thinking they had to have the PPI.
I accept thats not the case. 
But because the form confirmed that the default option was that PPI would be taken out 
unless it was specifically de-selected by ticking the box I think this is broadly consistent with 
Mr and Mrs M thinking PPI was part of the mortgage. 
And I think that perception was likely reinforced by the wording and layout of the form  all 
the other main optional features offered required applicants to tick to say they did want to 
include something  not that they didnt want a particular option. Or there were clear Yes 
and No tick boxes alongside each other. 
I think its likely Mr and Mrs M could easily have missed that they needed to do something if 
they didnt want the cover, especially as the PPI part is on the last page of quite a detailed 
application form.
On balance, its my view that the way in which the PPI section is laid out fails to make it 
sufficiently clear to Mr and Mrs M that they had a real choice about whether they wanted to 
take out PPI.
I accept that none of the mortgage paperwork stated that taking out PPI was a condition of 
the mortgage and that Cheshire Building Society never made PPI a condition of its 
mortgages. But I dont think that makes any difference to the outcome of Mr and Mrs Ms 
particular complaint.
In the circumstances of this sale, I think that Nationwide failed to give clear enough 
information to Mr and Mrs M so that they wouldve understood they had a choice about 
taking out PPI. 
And I think that Mr and Mrs M have lost out as a result of what Nationwide did wrong 
because they told us PPI wasnt something they felt they needed. So theyve paid for a 
policy I think its unlikely they wouldve opted to have (or amended later on) if Nationwide 
had more clearly explained that having PPI was optional. Putting things right
Nationwide should put Mr and Mrs M in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI.
Nationwide should:
 Pay Mr and Mrs M the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
 Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The rate 
of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
 If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes Mr and Mrs M.
It can also deduct any sum that it has already refunded to Mr and Mrs M in respect of 
commission paid under the policy.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr and Mrs M as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman