DRN-3472788
The complaint
Mr T has complained that he was mis-sold an Individual Savings Account (ISA) by Bank of 
Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) in 1999. 
Mr T is being represented by a claims management company (CMC), but for ease I have 
referred just to Mr T throughout the decision.
What happened
Mr T took out the ISA with a £3,000 investment into the Halifax Investor ISA in 1999. The 
ISA remained invested until it was surrendered in February 2010 for £3,410.96. 
Mr T complained in October 2021 that the ISA sold to him had not matched his attitude to 
risk at the time. 
An Investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think that it had been mis-sold. He said 
that from the information available, he couldnt say the ISA recommendation was unsuitable. 
He said that the level of risk it carried was appropriate and that Mr T had sufficient savings 
and net disposable income to cover any potential losses.  
Mr T responded through his CMC to say that they felt that the funds carried too much risk for 
him at the time of sale, as he wasnt an experienced enough investor to be advised to go into 
funds invested 100% in equities. He also felt that the advisor had used his shareholding in 
his business as evidence of a separate investment. He also didnt believe he had sufficient 
case savings as he was recorded as wanting to retire at 55.  
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why. 
Unfortunately, due to the length of time that has passed since the sale, we dont have much 
information available to show everything that was discussed. Whilst we do have a copy of 
the fact find, we dont have a suitability letter or application form. 
Whilst I acknowledge Mr T had no previous investment experience, this doesnt necessarily 
mean equity investments shouldnt be recommended. The suitability of this is dependent on 
the investors financial position, capacity for loss and objective for investing. In this case, 
what we do know from what we have, is that Mr T was 53 years old and looking to retire a 
couple of years later. He had no mortgage or liabilities, was a director and joint owner of a 
business and a higher rate taxpayer. He had cash deposit savings of approximately £70,000 
and a joint net disposable monthly income with his wife of approximately £1,900. Whilst I 
cant be sure what Mr Ts objective was, he agreed to invest £3,000 of these savings into the 
ISA.
Inside the ISA wrapper, Mr T was invested into three funds, which were classified as 
medium risk by the business. I appreciate that these were equity based and Mr T and the 
CMC have said they carried too much risk for his circumstances at the time. However, I dont 
agree.  
Whilst Mr T was looking to retire shortly after the point of sale, the investment only made up 
a small percentage (approximately 4%) of his savings with no stated further plans for the 
amount. Along with his wife he also had a large net monthly disposable income of almost 
£2,000 and so would have been able to recover any losses brought on by this investment. I 
say this even though Mr T was looking to retire shortly after, as he had a sizeable pension 
fund. 
In summary, whilst it doesnt look like Mr T had previous equity-based investment 
experience prior to this advice, I think it was still a suitable recommendation. He was clearly 
looking for more of a return from the amount and it only made up a small percentage of his 
savings. I think his circumstances meant he could take the risk that this investment posed 
and be in a position to recover any losses, despite aiming to retire a couple of years later. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman