DRN-2844074
The complaint
Mr B complains that Leek United Building Society (Leek) didnt tell him about a cashback 
offer when he was advised on his new mortgage.
What happened
Mr B applied for two mortgages from Leek. One in July 2020 for £124,00, and one for 
£163,000 in October 2020. Both were agreed and the properties purchased. Later, Mr B 
found out that there was a promotion running called FeelGood Factor whereby he couldve 
asked for two cash sums of £200, plus two amounts of £50 to go to nominated charities.
Mr B complained. He said he shouldve been made aware of the promotion when he spoke 
to Leeks mortgage advisor  who completed the advised sale of the mortgages. He said he 
told the advisor that his main aim was to achieve the lowest cost mortgages as possible  
and therefore the offer shouldve been mentioned to him. Then he couldve opened a 
savings account and got the £400.
Leek said they didnt consider the FeelGood Factor to be part of their mortgage product 
range. And therefore, it wouldnt have formed part of the recommendations they made. And 
 the terms of the promotion were that customers should ask for the FeelGood Factor to be 
added to the mortgage  it wasnt part of the role of their advisors to do that. Also, there 
were two further conditions  that Mr B had to have a savings account at the time of his 
application, and he didnt. And  it was for new mortgage customers  and Mr B already had 
a mortgage with Leek on another property  which he had taken out in August 2020. So   
he only would have been eligible for the offer on the first mortgage anyway.
Mr B brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said the mortgage advisors responsibility 
was to give suitable advice to recommend mortgage products based on needs and 
circumstances. She was comfortable that had happened. The terms of the offer clearly 
stated that customers had to tell the advisor they wanted to take part in the promotion, and 
he hadnt done that.
Mr B disagreed and asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Bs complaint is that Leeks mortgage advisor shouldve told him about the 
promotion  because hed said that he wanted the cheapest mortgage deal possible. And so 
 this shouldve formed part of the recommendations.
Ive looked at the FeelGood Factor offer. It does state that Dont forget to tell your 
mortgage advisor you want the FeelGood Factor adding onto your new mortgage. And to 
qualify, customers had to have a savings account open at the time of their mortgage 
application. Also, it was only available to NEW mortgage customers.
Mr B didnt ask for the offer to be added onto either of his two mortgage applications  and 
Leek therefore say he doesnt qualify. If the offer had been allowed, I can see that Mr B 
couldve opened a savings account prior to the applications being completed  so the issue 
of having an existing savings account isnt relevant here. And  because of the clause that it 
was for new mortgage customers, Mr B wouldve only qualified for the offer on the first 
mortgage.
So  looking at the wording of the promotion, it made it clear that borrowers needed to ask 
advisors for this to be added to the mortgage if they wanted to take advantage of it. Thats 
clear from the terms of the offer. I can see why Leek did it this way  because they wanted 
the offer to attract new mortgage business, and therefore it was reasonable for a prospective 
borrower to say they wanted the offer  because it showed theyd gone to Leek because of 
it. 
But  Mr B has also argued that he shouldve been given the offer because he wanted the 
lowest cost mortgage  and this should therefore have formed part of the mortgage advisors 
recommendations. I can see where hes coming from. So  I need to consider whether the 
FeelGood Factor could be considered in that way.
When a mortgage interview is carried out  Leek had to provide advice on the best 
mortgages from their range - based on the affordability and suitability for Mr Bs 
circumstances. This considered things such as his income, employment, mortgage 
repayments, interest rate, fees and other costs of buying the properties. Based on this, Leek 
recommended certain mortgage products from their range. Mr B approached Leek for advice 
on a mortgage. The advisor gave advice on the suitability of a mortgage based on Mr Bs 
needs. At the time Mr B approached Leek, he did not hold a savings account with them, and 
so was not eligible for the promotion. I wouldnt have expected the advisor to mention a 
promotion to Mr B that he was not eligible for at the time. 
Its unfortunate that Mr B did not see the promotion in advance of his application, as he could 
have taken steps to satisfy the eligibility criteria before approaching Leek. But Im not 
persuaded the fact he didnt do that is the result of unfair treatment from Leek. 
I can see that Mr B feels strongly about his complaint and so my decision will be 
disappointing for him  but Im not going to ask Leek to do anymore here.
(continued)
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman