DRN-3234606
The complaint
Ms A is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC wouldnt void a loan when she requested to withdraw 
from it within the 14-day cooling off period.
What happened
Ms A applied for a £1,800 loan with Lloyds. Her application was successful, and the money 
was credited to her Lloyds current account. Shortly afterwards, Ms A transferred the £1,800 
to another Lloyds account held jointly in her and her husbands names. This money was 
applied by Lloyds to reduce the overdraft arrears outstanding on that joint account.
Later that same day, Ms A approached Lloyds and said she wanted to withdraw from the 
loan as per her rights within the 14-day cooling off period. But Lloyds explained that as per 
the terms of the loan, if the loan money had been used to pay off other debts  which in this 
instance it had  then the money couldnt be recalled, the loan couldnt be withdrawn from, 
and the full balance owed on the loan would remain outstanding. Ms A wasnt happy about 
this, so she raised a complaint.
Lloyds looked at Ms As complaint. They reiterated the loan terms and didnt feel that theyd 
acted unfairly by continuing to consider the loan as outstanding. So, they didnt uphold Ms 
As complaint. Ms A wasnt happy about this, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also felt that Lloyds hadnt acted 
unfairly or unreasonably by continuing to consider the loan as outstanding, given that the 
money had been used to reduce the joint account overdraft arrears before she requested the 
withdrawal. So, they also didnt uphold Ms As complaint.
Ms A remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so its clear that the loan funds of £1,800 were transferred to the joint account 
shortly after being received into Ms As account. Ms A states that she didnt make this 
transfer. But Lloyds have confirmed that the transfer was initiated by Ms A. 
In situations such as this, where the testimonies of two parties contradict each other, I have 
to decide which version of events I feel is more likely to have happened, on balance, and in 
consideration of all the information and evidence available to me.
In this instance I feel that its more likely than not that the transfer was initiated by Ms A. I 
say this because the statements state that it was a transfer initiated by the account holder, 
and also because the alternative that Ms A suggests  that the loan funds were moved from 
her sole account to the joint account by Lloyds themselves, with no instruction or agreement 
by Ms A  doesnt seem plausible to me, and has no evidence to support it.
Ms A has also stated that the joint account wasnt a joint account, but rather was an account 
held solely in her husbands name, and that Ms A hadnt been associated with the account 
for several years. Ms A has provided a screenshot of a partial document which she feels 
demonstrates this point. 
But this screenshot, which lists her husband name and address without reference to Ms A, 
is preceded by the words document requested by. And while I dont doubt that the 
document was requested by Ms As husband, it doesnt follow from this that Ms A isnt a joint 
account holder with her husband. Additionally, Lloyds have been able to provide statements 
for this joint account which confirm that the account is a joint account held in both Ms A and 
her husbands names.
Finally, the terms of the loan are very clear, and include that if the loan funds are used to 
clear other debts  for instance, such as reducing the amount of overdraft arrears on another 
account  then the payment to reduce those other debts wont be recalled, even if the loan 
account holder requests to withdraw from the loan within 14-days.
In short, Im satisfied that Ms A did in all likelihood transfer the loan funds to the joint account 
and that these funds were then reasonably applied by Lloyds to reduce the amount of 
overdraft arrears outstanding on that account. Im also satisfied that as a result of this, 
Lloyds werent obliged to honour Ms As request to withdraw from the loan within the 14-day 
period. This is because the loan funds had already been used to pay towards other debts, 
which as per the loan terms Lloyds werent obliged to recall.
It follows therefore that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any 
further action at this time. I realise that this wont be the outcome Ms A was wanting, but I 
trust that shell understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that 
I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman