DRN-3647723
The complaint
Mr B complains that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd unfairly declined 
a claim on his pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B took his pet to the vets with a hind leg injury. The vet said the condition was potentially 
serious. Although the x-ray showed surgery wasnt required the pet was diagnosed with a 
severe stifle injury. 
Mr B said Casualty rejected his claim because it was related to a pre-existing condition. But 
Mr B didnt think that was fair. And hed like Casualty to uphold his claim and repay the fees 
hes already paid.
Casualty said Mr B had submitted a claim for lameness in his pet. But after reviewing the 
evidence itd declined the claim. The policy didnt provide cover for any condition that was 
pre-existing or had shown clinical signs before the policy started.
Casualty said the policy also excluded any claim resulting from the pet being medically 
overweight and needing treatment as a result. The vets notes indicated that in 2017 Mr B 
had been advised the pet should lose some weight. But the pets recorded weight was still 
above the suggested target some three years later. And Casualty felt itd correctly declined 
Mr Bs claim under the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr B wasnt satisfied with Casualtys response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. Our investigator looked at the evidence and arguments 
and felt Casualty had acted fairly in declining Mr Bs claim for a pre-existing condition. The 
pets medical history showed signs or symptoms relating to the condition for which the costs 
had been declined. 
The medical history also showed the pet had been overweight, which the vet said was a 
factor in the condition being treated. Claims under such circumstances were also specifically 
excluding by the pet insurance policy. So our investigator couldnt say Casualty had done 
anything wrong. 
Mr B didnt agree with our investigator. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision. He 
didnt think it was fair for Casualty to reject the claim due to his pets weight when it hadnt 
been highlighted as an issue during other visits to the vet. Mr B said itd been remarked on 
many occasions how fit and healthy his pet looked. 
And Mr B felt it was unfair for the insurer to refer to a previous diagnosis of stifle injury in 
2014 which had resulted in minor treatment for stifle pain  a much less serious condition 
thatd been treated with painkillers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr B has experienced. It mustve been very upsetting 
when Casualty declined his claim on the pet insurance policy. So Ive looked at whats 
happened to see if Casualty has acted fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy.
Mr Bs pet insurance helps cover veterinary treatment to keep his pet healthy. But as with all 
insurance policies, the policy has conditions and exclusions that apply to the cover provided. 
Under what is not insured the policy includes any claim for illness or accidental injury that 
relates to a pre-existing condition. A pre-existing condition is defined as any diagnosed or 
undiagnosed condition and/or associated condition which has happened or has shown 
clinical signs or symptoms of existing in any form before the policy start date or within the 
waiting period.
The policy also excludes any claim resulting from your pet being medically overweight or 
underweight and this results in your pet needing treatment as a result of not being the 
recommended medical weight for its age, breed type and sex as recommended by a vet.
I can see the medical history shows the pets recorded weight as 33kg in February 2017 
during an examination for a lameness. Rest and anti-inflammatory drugs were prescribed. 
And the vet recommended ideally lose some weight, target 30kg. However the recorded 
weight at the end of that year, and during subsequent visits, is around 35kg. The medical 
notes also refer to lameness and stifle pain in late 2014 and further lameness in 2015 and 
2017. 
Casualty has declined Mr Bs claim as it said the treatment was related to a pre-existing 
injury. The insurer also noted that the pet had been overweight for some time, which 
wouldve contributed towards the injury. Casualty said claims resulting from a pet being 
medically overweight were also excluded from cover.
Mr B feels its unfair to consider the recent treatment for lameness and stifle injury as being 
related to previous treatment. He feels they are very different things in terms of the impact 
and treatment received.  And Mr B felt any view on what his pets ideal weight should be was 
subjective. The pet was active, healthy and fit and following a recommended diet. The note 
from 2017 was the only time a vet had drawn attention to the pets weight.
Ive carefully considered what Mr B has said. But taking into account the medical history I 
cant reasonably say Casualty has unfairly declined his claim. I dont think it was 
unreasonable to say the pet had previously shown clinical signs or symptoms of the 
treatment claimed for. And I dont think it was unfair to consider the pets weight had been a 
factor in the lameness/stifle treatment received. 
I sympathise with Mr Bs situation. But both of those considerations are specifically excluded 
under the terms and conditions of the pet insurance policy. So I dont think Casualty has 
declined Mr Bs claim unfairly. And I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman