DRN-1987824
The complaint
Mr R complained that Capital One (Europe) plc did not provide clear information about cash 
advance charges and interest. 
What happened
Mr R has two credit card accounts with Capital One, opened in 2017 and 2019.  
Mr R complained to Capital One in September 2019 about the cash fees applied to one of 
his credit cards in relation to gambling transactions. Capital One said it explained to Mr R 
why these charges were made and agreed to credit his account with £24 as a gesture of 
goodwill. The complaint was closed. 
Mr R complained to Capital One again in February 2020 about the level of the cash fees 
applied to one of his credit cards in relation to gambling transactions. Mr R told Capital One 
he feels it should be more transparent about the charges it applies.  
Capital One responded to Mr Rs complaint and didnt uphold it. It said when credit cards are 
used for cash transactions, there are fees of £3 or 3% of the transaction amount. It listed 
what it classified as cash transactions, and this included Gambling e.g. lottery, scratch 
cards, online casinos. Capital One also said it charges interest on a monthly basis, as per 
the terms of the credit agreement. It said one of the three types of interest charged is interest 
on cash transactions. 
Capital One said when customers apply for credit cards, it always includes a list of all fees 
and charges within the terms and conditions. It said these must be read and signed before 
an account can be opened. It said, in this way, it makes sure it provided information about 
the different types of fees charged. Looking at Mr Rs complaint that the fees were too high, 
it said these reflect a fair proportion of the costs incurred by Capital One when a consumer 
uses a card for a particular transaction. It said it will only refund fees or interest if they have 
been applied incorrectly. Nonetheless, it offered Mr R a £25 gesture of goodwill. 
Mr R was unhappy with Capital Ones response and so complained to this service. He said 
there is ambiguity about when cash charges and interest apply. He said he uses one of his 
cards for online gambling and the frequently asked questions (FAQ) section simply says that 
cash interest applies to foreign currency and travellers cheques. Mr R said details of 
charges shouldnt be embedded in a complex set of terms and conditions. He said he had 
paid £43 in charges and would like past cash and interest charges for gambling transactions 
refunded and a token payment of £50 for the distress caused. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the definition of a cash withdrawal is 
explained in Mr Rs credit agreement and includes making a payment in relation to gambling. 
And he said that although Mr R would like to be made aware of cash fees on gambling 
transactions at the point of sale, he doesnt think Capital One need to do this, as the fees are 
outlined in the terms of the account. Our investigator said he doesnt think Capital One has 
done anything wrong here, so he is not going to ask it to do anything further. 
Mr R didnt agree with the outcome reached by our investigator and so this has come to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
I first of all want to say that although I realise that Mr R has complained about the charges 
being excessively high, this service cannot tell Capital One how much it can or cant charge 
its consumers for using its services. What we can do is look at whether or not any charges 
have been applied fairly and in line with Capital Ones own terms and conditions. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions that applied when each credit card was taken out to 
see whether these make it clear that cash withdrawals include payments made for the 
purposes of gambling. 
Looking first at fees, the terms outline the various charges that will be levied and say these 
depend on how individual accounts are used. It lists a cash withdrawal handling fee and 
says this is the charge you pay when you withdraw cash. 
Later, in the definitions section, the terms say Throughout this agreement there are words 
that we use that need defining, so you know exactly what they mean 'cash withdrawal' 
means any cash that you or additional cardholders take out. It also means any transaction 
where you or they:  make a payment to an establishment that is identified as carrying on 
gambling, and the transaction is to pay for gambling activity. 
The terms then go on to deal with interest charges. They list a standard cash withdrawals 
rate and say this means the interest rate that applies to cash withdrawals that dont benefit 
from a promotional interest rate. 
So Im satisfied the terms and conditions make it clear that gambling transactions are dealt 
with as cash withdrawals and that cash withdrawals will be subject to both fees and interest. 
And while it might be the case that Mr R didnt read the terms and conditions in full when he 
took out the cards, he did have to agree to them before his application could be processed 
and Capital One is allowed to assume that he has read them. 
I know that Mr R said he doesnt think information about cash withdrawal charges should be 
embedded in a complex set of terms and conditions, but the terms and conditions Ive seen 
were not overly long, at just over four pages, and Im satisfied the relevant terms are clearly 
worded. 
Mr R also said that the FAQ section on Capital Ones website says that cash interest applies 
to foreign currency and travellers cheques only. But, having checked the website, Im 
satisfied thats not the case. Under the question Why have I been charged cash interest 
when I havent withdrawn any cash this month it says: in addition to withdrawals, buying 
foreign currency, travellers cheques or other types of currency (such as money orders or 
using online gambling sites) also count as cash transactions. So Im satisfied the question 
of interest charges applying to gambling related cash withdrawals is properly dealt with here. 
I know that Mr R is concerned that the website might have been updated since he made his 
complaint, but I have also seen the screenshot of the above question and answer that Mr R sent to this service back in February 2020 and Im satisfied its identical to the question and 
answer currently on the website.  
Mr R also said he feels Capital One are targeting vulnerable people with poor money 
management skills. I can see that Capital One offered to withdraw Mr Rs cash facility, if he 
thought that might help him manage his finances. And I would encourage Mr R to contact 
Capital One again to discuss this, if he wants additional support around managing money 
spent on gambling websites. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman