DRN-3857309
The complaint
Miss W complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk
(MoneyBoat) provided her loans during a time that she was having financial difficulties 
and having to take out other payday loans to settle existing loans. Miss W says she 
couldnt afford the repayments she was committed to making.
What happened
Miss W was advanced two loans between March and May 2022. A summary of her
borrowing can be found below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateinstalments instalment 
amount
1 £200.00 12/03/2022 20/05/2022 3 £84.88
2 £400.00 20/05/2022 outstanding 4 £158.70
Following Miss Ws complaint, MoneyBoat wrote to her to explain it had carried out
affordability checks which showed Miss W could afford the repayments she was committed
to making. Unhappy, with this outcome, Miss W referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman.
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint and he thought MoneyBoat had carried out a
proportionate check before granting these loans because the checks showed it that Miss W
could afford the payments. He also didnt think it had yet reached the point where 
MoneyBoat needed to verify the information Miss W had provided or it had reached the point 
where the loans were unsustainable for her. Overall, he didnt uphold the complaint.
MoneyBoat didnt acknowledge or provide any further comments about the proposed
outcome.
Miss W didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment, and she sent several emails with her
reasons. But Ive summarised all her responses below.
Miss W had multiple loans outstanding at the time these loans were approved.
Loan 2 was taken on the same day loan 1 was repaid.
MoneyBoat refused to set up a repayment plan for her.
An updated copy of her credit file was provided.
Miss W has a number of other creditors who needed repaying.
The adjudicator went back to Miss W to clarify his assessment. He explained the credit
check results did show some historic defaults the repayments of these appeared to be up to
date. He also said that the income and expenditure checks showed the loans to be
affordable for her.
Miss W, in response confirmed that in May 2022, she had the following active accounts:
4 credit cards,
3 catalogue shopping accounts,
4 outstanding debts and
7 payday loans.
As no agreement has been reached, the case was passed to an ombudsman to issue a 
decision. I then proceeded to issue a provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was 
intending to uphold Miss Ws complaint  in part. A copy of the provisional findings follows 
this in smaller font and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Miss W could afford to pay back the
amounts shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks couldve taken into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments,
and Miss Ws income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss W. These factors include:
Miss W having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss W having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss W coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss W.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Miss W could sustainably repay the loans 
not just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss W was
able to repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ws complaint.
Loan 1
For this loan, MoneyBoat asked Miss W to declare her monthly income and expenditure.
Miss W declared her income was £2,835 and she declared expenditure of £636. In addition,based on a credit search (which I go into more detail below) MoneyBoat thought it was
reasonable to increase Miss Ws monthly expenditure by a further £214. Overall, MoneyBoat
calculated a monthly disposable income of £1,985.
Based solely on the information Miss W declared to MoneyBoat, it was reasonable for
MoneyBoat to have concluded Miss W would be able to afford her monthly repayment of
around £85.
MoneyBoat has also said for this loan, it carried out a credit search and it has provided the
Financial Ombudsman Service with the results it received. It is worth saying here that
although MoneyBoat carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement to do
one, let alone one to a specific standard.
Therefore, its entirely possible that the information MoneyBoat received may not have
entirely reflected the information Miss W may be able to view in the credit reports shes
obtained and sent to us. There could be for several reasons for this, such as MoneyBoat
only asking for certain pieces of information. But what MoneyBoat cant do is carry out a
credit search and then not react to the to the information it received  if necessary.
This means it isnt reasonable, at this point, to consider the credit reports Miss W has
provided. I say this because, MoneyBoat carried out its own credit search and received the
results. In that situation I think its entirely reasonable to see what MoneyBoat was told and
whether the information it received ought to have prompted it to either decline the application
or to have made further enquires with Miss W. So, while I thank Miss W for sending in her
full credit file Im only considered in this case, the results of the credit search which we know
MoneyBoat carried out.
When loan 1 was approved, MoneyBoat was aware that Miss W had £5,817 of outstanding
debt spread across 14 active credit accounts. The number of active accounts could be quite
high  in certain situations. However, MoneyBoat knew that only one new account had been
opened within the last six months. So, this wouldnt suggest Miss W was reliant on or a
regular user of high-cost loans.
In addition, MoneyBoat was aware historically, Miss W had defaulted on three accounts. But
these defaults had been applied more than 12 months before the loan but less than three
years. Although, this again, isnt an insignificant number, I do think, given the historic nature
of these defaults that MoneyBoat wouldnt have been concerned about Miss Ws ability to
repay this loan.
Ive seen a number of the active accounts were credit cards and mail order accounts, and
the total monthly repayments (based on what Miss W had previously paid) was around £269.
This was considerably more than the £100 she declared to MoneyBoat. But as I explained
above, MoneyBoat did increase Miss Ws expenditure by a further £214. So, I do think
MoneyBoat had a fairly good idea of Miss Ws total credit commitments.
Overall, while there are some negative indicators in Miss Ws credit check such as the
defaults but there doesnt seem to me, enough to indicate that Miss W was reliant on other
forms of credit and / or payday loans. Of course, the number of active accounts MoneyBoat
was told about may not be correct, but it was entitled to rely on the information it was given.
Given it was still quite early on in the lending relationship and there was nothing else in the
information that Ive seen that wouldve led MoneyBoat to believe that it needed to go further
with its checks  such as verifying the information Miss W had provided. In addition, there
wasnt anything, as far as I can see which wouldve suggested wasnt anything to suggest
that these loans were unsustainable for her.
For this loan, I consider MoneyBoat carried out a proportionate check which showed it that
Miss W would be in a position to afford the repayments she was committed to making. I
therefore do not uphold her complaint about this loan.Loan 2
Miss W appears to have repaid loan 1 and, on the day, she repaid it, she returned to
MoneyBoat for a loan of twice the size to be repaid over a longer period. The result of this, is
that her monthly commitment to MoneyBoat had almost doubled.
MoneyBoat carried out carried out the same sort of checks for this loan as it had done so for
loan 1, it carried out an income and expenditure check as well as carrying out a credit
search.
For this loan, Miss W declared her income was £1,919  this is a drop of nearly £1,000
compared to when Miss W took out loan one. Her monthly outgoings have been recorded as
£1,250. Leaving, £619 a month in disposable income to be able to afford her repayment of
nearly £159 per month. For this loan, MoneyBoat didnt increase Miss Ws declared
expenditure, as it did for loan 1. Based solely on what Miss W declared the loan appeared
affordable.
However, I would add, that Miss W declared at loan 2, that her rent / mortgage was now
£250 per month more than at loan 1. And for this loan, unlike loan 1 costs have been
declared for items such as food and transport.
In addition, for this loan Miss W increased her declared credit commitments from £101 to
£300 per month. Which wouldve suggested to MoneyBoat that her credit commitments,
were roughly the same  given for the first loan MoneyBoat had added an extra amount to
her credit commitments to cover what it saw in the credit report.
MoneyBoat also carried out a credit search before loan 2 was advanced, and again, it has
provided a copy of the results. Ive therefore considered the results to see whether MoneyBoat was 
on notice that Miss Ws financial position had deteriorated.
The headline summary showed, Miss Ws debt had increased slightly, so she now owed
£6,437 across 16 accounts. So, since her last loan, MoneyBoat was on notice that two
further credit accounts had been opened, one of which wouldve likely been the previous
MoneyBoat loan. So, it ought to have been aware that Miss W was able to open at least one
new account elsewhere. MoneyBoat was also aware that Miss W was using 94% of her
available credit  which a similar percentage when compared to her situation at loan 1.
MoneyBoat also knew, that there hadnt been further defaulted accounts.
While Miss W had opened three accounts within the last six months (which included loan 1)
MoneyBoat was aware there had been 4 credit searches in the last three months. That is a
sign, to me, that Miss W was actively trying to seek credit and wasnt always being approved
for the credit she was requesting.
MoneyBoat was provided some details of open credit accounts and those payments Miss W
was making. It seems she had two open utility accounts where she was paying £76 a month
towards them both. On top of this, there were two telecommunication contracts with
payments of £66 per month in total.
The payments to the active mail order accounts came to £137 per month and credit card
payments came to at least £70 per month.
On top of that, there were two new high-cost credit accounts which had been updated (and
likely added to her credit record) in April 2022. One of those had a monthly instalment
repayment of £96 and another one hadnt yet been paid but had a balance of £425. It isnt
clear whether this was an instalment loan or whether that was the full amount Miss W was
due to pay.
So already, MoneyBoat was on notice that potentially £870 was being used up out of her
income - of £1,900 was going towards credit commitments before any other living costs were
factored in.In addition, it seems from the decreasing balances, that two of Miss Ws defaulted accounts
were being collected through a third-party agency, and the repayments to those companies
were, in total, about £200 per month. In total, even before Miss W paid MoneyBoat for loan 2
she was likely committed to spending £1,070 each month.
Now, there is an argument that this is too high portion of her income when there were still
other living costs to factor in as well such as rent and food that needed to be considered.
And I could be wrong in relation to one of the debts, in as much as the outstanding loan
balance of £425 wasnt due to be paid in one lump sum  but over a number of instalments.
But even, if Im wrong about this loan, that wouldnt change the outcome that Im intending to
reach.
What the credit checks do show, is that Miss W was now making payments to debt collectors
for historic debts, had opened at least two further high-cost loans since loan 1 was granted
and her income had significant decreased since the first loan, just two months prior. All in all,
I do think MoneyBoats checks didnt go far enough.
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Miss Ws actual financial position to
ensure the loan was affordable. This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for
evidence of her outgoings (such as copies of bills) or looking at bank statements and/or 
Miss Ws full credit file.
I accept there is no regulatory requirement for MoneyBoat to have viewed the bank
statements but in this case, I think it was proportionate to do so. Miss W has sent us copy
banks statements for the period shortly before this loan was approved. So, I consider it
entirely reasonable to consider these.
In May 2022, I can see that Miss Ws declared income does appear to be accurate, so she
did receive a salary of around £1,900 per month. In this month, payments solely to her direct
debits to cover insurances, other credit facilities, union fees and utilities as well as her rent
comes to around £1,622.
This left Miss W with only around £279 per month in order to cover her food, transport and
any other costs, as well as her loan repayment to MoneyBoat. On top of this, in the weeks
leading up to the loan (and what wasnt shown in the credit check MoneyBoat carried out)
were two more loans to high-cost credit providers totalling £500  loans that needed to be
repaid and serviced.
In addition, there were two other loans, that were visible on the credit report and which
I mention earlier on in the decision  which totalled another £650. So, all in all, Miss W had
borrowed £1,100 of capital from four different lenders. The fact, that Miss W had four such
loans outstanding, is in my mind further evidence that she was having financial difficulties.
Other documentation has also been provided by Miss W, in the form of returned direct debit
notification letters. These show that in March 2022 she had five direct debits returned as
unpaid, one in April and in May 2022 she had a further for. Importantly, some of these returned
payments were for priority bills, such as utilities and her television licence. The fact, Miss W
had so many returned payments is in my mind further evidence that she was having financial
difficulties and struggling to maintain her existing credit commitments and therefore evidence
this second and final loan wasnt affordable for her.
Therefore, based on what I can see, I think its highly likely Miss W wasnt in a position to
take on this loan because it was unaffordable and indeed, there are signs that she was
having other difficulties. Im planning to uphold Miss Ws complaint about her second loan.
Other considerations
Miss W has in short said that she doesnt feel that she has been treated fairly by MoneyBoat
while trying to set up a payment plan.Miss W has sent the Financial Ombudsman copies of I believe all the emails she has sent
MoneyBoat to date, has also provided copies of its contact notes, which I have looked
through.
As part of my investigation into the complaint, further enquires have been made with
MoneyBoat about the help and support it has offered as well as details of the payment plan
Miss W attempted to set up, when she offered £5 per month  and was told that this was too
low and therefore MoneyBoat wouldnt accept it.
MoneyBoat says, that the original complaint Miss W made was solely about the unaffordable
lending. I take from this, that as the original complaint was only about whether it was right or
wrong for the loans to be granted it considered further enquiries about how it may (or may
not) have helped Miss W to be out of scope for this complaint.
I dont entirely agree with that, but as the complaint is now partly upheld, there will now need
to be calculations carried out to reduce Miss Ws outstanding debt and this will provide an
opportunity to move forward with a payment plan (if needed).
But for completeness, Ive outlined what MoneyBoat told the Financial Ombudsman Service
in response to the information requests.
MoneyBoat has currently confirmed that no formal payment plan has been put in place and
Miss W is currently in a breathing space.
MoneyBoat says, that Miss W made offers to pay £50 and then £30 per month. However,
when payment was due only £5 was made. MoneyBoat says, that this amount was too small
to accept given the infancy of the loan. It says it asked for further documentation to support
the level of payment Miss W wanted to make. MoneyBoat says, it wont consider accepting
such an offer, on a short-term loan without supporting documentation  given to date it
hasnt received anything from Miss W.
MoneyBoat, to date has confirmed  currently the interest is capped at the contractual
amount meaning that Miss W [name removed] has not been charged any additional interest.
Finally, MoneyBoat says, that Miss W has continued to apply for further loans from it  which
have been declined.
However, its worth saying here, that as Im planning to uphold Miss Ws final loan, this
means no interest, fees or charges ought to be added to the balance. This means Miss W
should only repay MoneyBoat the amount of capital she borrowed.
Therefore, the total Miss W ought to repay MoneyBoat is £400. Based on the statement of
account, Miss W appears to have paid £168.70 towards this loan so at most she has another
£231.70 left to pay.
Miss W has told the Financial Ombudsman Service of recent health problems and has said
that due to other loans and the cost of living she cant afford to repay what she owes
MoneyBoat (along with other creditors). These are issues that MoneyBoat will need to take
into account while working with Miss W to pay down what is owed. But I leave it to Miss W
and MoneyBoat to discuss a fair way forward once the complaint is settled.
It is of course possible, that Miss W doesnt consider  moving forward that shes been
treated fairly. If so, then she may wish to raise these concerns directly with MoneyBoat who
will then be able to investigate the matter.
Response to the provisional decision Both Miss W and MoneyBoat were asked to provide anything further for consideration in 
response to the provisional decision as soon as possible, but in any event, no later than 
14 December 2022. 
No response has been received from MoneyBoat. 
Miss W emailed the Financial Ombudsman Service confirming she accepted the findings of 
the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W accepted the findings in the provisional decision and MoneyBoat hasnt responded. 
Therefore, as no new information or comments have been provided, I see no reason to 
depart from the findings I reached in the provisional decision. 
I still think MoneyBoat was wrong to have granted loan two, for the reasons outlined in the 
provisional decision (above), and Ive outlined below what MoneyBoat needs to do in order 
to put things right for Miss W. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not lent loan two to Miss W, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Miss W may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Miss W in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Miss W would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
MoneyBoat shouldnt have given Miss W loan two.
If MoneyBoat has sold the outstanding debt it, should buy it back if is able to do so and then
take the following steps. If MoneyBoat isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. MoneyBoat should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 2, 
and treat any repayments made by Miss W as though they had been repayments of the principal. If this results in Miss W having made overpayments then MoneyBoat 
should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled.
B. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then MoneyBoat should try to agree 
an affordable repayment plan with Miss W. Id remind it of its obligation to treat 
Miss W fairly and with forbearance. 
C. MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ws credit file 
in relation to loans 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat
should give Miss W a certificate showing how much tax it deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Miss Ws 
complaint in part.
Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk should put things right as 
directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman