DRN-3601888
Complaint
Mr F has complained about a guarantor loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as George 
Banco.com) provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
George Banco provided Mr F with a guarantor loan for £3,000.00 in January 2018. This loan 
had an APR of 49.7% and a term of 60 months. This meant that the total amount to be 
repaid of £7,102.20, including interest, fees and charges of £4,102.20, was due to be repaid 
in 60 monthly instalments of just under £120. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Fs complaint and he thought George Banco shouldnt 
have provided Mr F with his loan. So he thought that Mr Fs complaint should be upheld.
George Banco disagreed with our investigator so the case was passed to an ombudsman for 
a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Fs complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Fs complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
George Banco needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is George Banco needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
Mr F could afford to repay any credit it provided. The fact that George Banco may also have 
been able to seek payments from a guarantor did not alter or dilute this obligation in any 
way.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information George Banco has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check 
before this loan was provided. The results of which showed that Mr F had had previous 
difficulty repaying credit. Indeed George Bancos own checks showed that, at best, the 
payments to this loan were taking Mr F towards the margin of his income. And this was with 
the use of estimated living costs and what appears to be an over-optimistic declaration of 
rent payments too. 
I also have concerns that the recorded purpose of this loan was debt consolidation. This is 
because Mr F was supposedly going to consolidate debts that had already defaulted and 
therefore werent accruing interest. So its unclear to me how this loan, which was on such 
disadvantageous terms, was going to improve Mr Fs already precarious financial position 
going forward and how George Banco could accept what Mr F said at face value in these 
circumstances.
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Mr F has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time. And while its possible Mr Fs difficulties reflected his choices 
rather than financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases suggest 
this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from George 
Banco, Ive been persuaded to accept Mr Fs version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Fs existing financial position meant that he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this guarantor loan, without undue difficulty or 
borrowing further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more 
like than not have shown George Banco that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr F. 
As George Banco provided Mr F with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to 
act fairly and reasonably towards him. 
Mr F ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a guarantor loan he shouldnt have 
been provided with. So Im satisfied that Mr F lost out because of what George Banco did 
wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what George Banco needs to do to put things right for Mr F
Having thought about everything, George Banco should put things right for Mr F by:
refunding any interest, fees and charges that Mr F actually paid on this loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded interest payments from the 
date they were made by Mr F to the date of settlement;
removing all adverse information it recorded on Mr Fs credit file as a result of this 
loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires George Banco to take off tax from this interest. George 
Banco must give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Fs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman