DRN-3372003
The complaint
Mr P complains Lex Autolease Ltd (Lex) didnt extend his hire agreement as he requested. 
What happened
In August 2017, Mr P entered into a 36 month hire agreement for a car. He paid an initial 
rental of £2,876 and he was required to make monthly payments of £479.
The agreement was due to come to an end in August 2020 but due to the Covid-19 
pandemic Mr P requested for the agreement to be extended by six months. 
Lex sent a modified agreement to allow a further six months hire of which Mr P would be 
required to pay £409. Based on a previous extension request, it appears Lex said in order 
for the extension to be granted, the signed modified agreement had to be returned to them 
by email or post. Wanting to proceed with it, Mr P said he signed the agreement and 
returned it via email. However he said he was told by Lex this couldnt be accepted as the 
image wasnt clear so he sent it by post on the same day which he said was 19 August.
In December 2020, Mr P noticed the direct debits taken from his account were for £546 
which was more than he had agreed to. He complained. Lex looked into matters and said as 
they never received the modified agreement, the extension hadnt been set up. This meant, 
Mr Ps agreement had fallen into an informal extension at a cost of £546 per month. 
The car was later collected on 1 February 2021 and Lex said there was an outstanding 
balance of £1,092 (two months of informal extension rental) for Mr P to pay. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr P referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case wasnt upheld. They accepted its most likely the signed agreement 
was sent by Mr P but as it was never received by Lex, they hadnt done anything wrong by 
not setting up the extension. They said it wouldve been irresponsible for Lex to do so 
without signed confirmation it had been accepted by him. 
Mr P disagreed. In summary he said:
- Lexs offices were closed due to the pandemic so it wasnt his fault if it wasnt 
received;
- He spoke to a female advisor who confirmed receipt of the signed modified 
agreement;
- He requested on several occasions for Lex to collect the car but they didnt for over 
four weeks and hes been charged for it;
- He had difficulty contacting Lex both by email and phone and he felt their level of 
service was poor;
- He had received persistent emails and calls about the outstanding balance and this 
caused him distress. 
In February 2022, I issued my provisional decision upholding the complaint. I said:
Extension
Both parties accept Mr P requested a six month extension as the agreement was due to end 
in August 2020. Whats in dispute is whether the signed modified agreement was sent by Mr 
P and received by Lex. On one hand, Mr P said he sent it by email but as it wasnt accepted, 
he sent it by post, on the other hand Lex said they had no record of receiving it by post. 
There is limited information in this case as Mr P is unable to provide proof he initially sent it 
by email, proof it was posted such as a tracking number nor have I seen evidence of Lex 
advising him his email attaching the modified agreement wasnt acceptable in August 2020.
In the absence of documentary evidence, Ive thought carefully about Mr Ps version of 
events and Im persuaded by them as hes been consistent from the outset. I say this 
because based on his testimony about his request for an extension, Im satisfied it was more 
than a simple query. Mr P said he had a discussion with the advisor and he was offered the 
extension at a lower rate than the contractual amount given the mileage needed. I note the 
proposed extension was for a lower amount at £409 so this matches with what Mr P said. 
Mr P said he tried sending the signed agreement by email but a Lex agent responded by 
email and said it couldnt be accepted as it wasnt clear and it needed to be posted. Ideally I 
wouldve liked to have seen evidence of this exchange but neither party has provided the 
same. However I note when Mr P complained in December 2020, he provided a copy of the 
signed agreement that was originally sent in August 2020. Lex said they werent able to read 
it and it had to be sent by post. Based on what Mr P said, this is what he was also told in 
August 2020 by Lex so I believe this is likely to be the case, Mr P was told to send it by post.
Mr P was required to sign two copies of the modified agreement and return one. For the one 
he kept, he has provided a picture of it and I can see it was signed and he has written 
Posted 19/8/19. Although the year was incorrect, I have no reason to believe this is nothing 
more than a typo. I think this is another indication it was indeed posted in August. For these 
reasons, I believe Mr P did try to send it by email in August 2020 but he was advised to send 
it by post. This strengthens my belief that it was clear to Lex that Mr P wanted to extend the 
agreement and he was trying to do so.  
Given the effort Mr P had gone through to get the extension set up, I see no reason not to 
believe he didnt post it. Like the investigator, I find that he did. I note Lex has commented 
because Mr P hasnt provided a tracking number there is no proof it was sent. While it 
wouldve been helpful to have the same, this doesnt mean it wasnt posted. For whatever 
reason, Lex said they never received it. 
Shortly after sending the modified agreement, Mr P said he spoke to Lex and he was 
advised by an agent that it had been received and it had gone upstairs. There is insufficient 
evidence of such a call on Lexs contact notes. Nevertheless on balance, Im satisfied the 
signed agreement was posted by Mr P but it appears to have gone astray. For that reason, I 
cant hold either party responsible for that, such unfortunate events do happen from time to 
time.
In light of the above, I need to consider what I believe to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Had the signed agreement been received, the agreement wouldve been 
extended by six months, the instalments wouldve been £409 and it wouldve ended in 
February 2021.
Given Mr Ps plausible and persuasive testimony, I also cant see any reason why Lex 
wouldnt allow the extension to be backdated once the circumstances had come to light in December 2020 when Mr P complained. I believe this wouldve been the reasonable thing to 
do. 
For the reasons explained above, I believe its fair for Lex to treat the agreement as being 
extended by six months. To put things right, they should treat the payments for the six month 
extension as £409 and refund Mr P the difference based on what he paid from September 
2020 onwards.  This refund should be offset from the amount Mr P owes.
Informal extension
The car was collected in February 2021 and Lex said Mr P owed £1,092 which is the 
equivalent of two months informal extension rentals covering the months of December 2020 
and January 2021. They said Mr Ps last payment was on 13 December 2020 which covered 
up to 1 December 2020. Mr P disputed this amount as he said he asked on several 
occasions for the car to be collected. Due to the ongoing dispute about the extension, he 
said he stopped using the car but despite his repeated requests, Lex delayed in collecting it.
 
I havent seen evidence of Mr Ps requests for the car to be collected prior to December 
2020. Ive seen a copy of an email dated 31 December 2020 to Lex where he said the car 
could be collected after 18 January 2021 and I note the car was collected in February 2021. 
On this basis I dont agree there was a delay in Lex collecting the car. So I find they are 
entitled to charge for December 2020 and January 2021 but for the reasons above, this 
should be charged at £409 only. 
Other
Mr P has explained he received letters and phone calls demanding payment of the balance 
for December and January. He said this was distressing and caused him worry. Based on 
his level of communication with Lex, its clear it was having a negative impact on him. Lex 
said because there was an outstanding balance, automated communication was sent to Mr 
P. I find there was an outstanding balance owed as Mr Ps last payment was in December 
2020 and he remained in possession of the car up to when it was collected in February 
2021. Although he chose to stop using it, that doesnt mean this money wasnt owed to Lex 
so I can understand why communication about the arrears were sent as Lex is required to 
accurately report the status of the agreement. 
However given the level of communication from Mr P to Lex, it was clear this was causing 
him distress. He didnt believe the amount was correct and for the reasons explained above, 
I agree with him, I find the amount they were demanding was incorrect due to the reasons 
Ive explained above. Given these circumstances, I believe Lex should also pay £100 
compensation to Mr P for the trouble and upset caused. 
Response to my provisional decision
Both parties were invited to respond. Lex accepted the provisional findings, Mr P didnt have 
any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.On the basis I havent been provided with any further information to change my decision I 
still consider my findings to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Therefore, my final 
decision is the same for the reasons as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint.
To put things right, Lex Autolease Ltd must:
- Treat the agreement as being extended for six months at monthly instalments of 
£409 and refund any difference owed to Mr P plus pay 8% simple interest from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement. The refund should be offset from the 
amount owed by Mr P*;
- Remove any adverse information from Mr Ps agreement from September 2020 
onwards upon the agreement being fully settled;
- Pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
*If Lex Autolease Ltd (Lex) considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman