DRN-2741477
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy with the settlement Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) made 
following a claim under her caravan insurance policy for damage caused by rats and with 
the way it handled her claim.
What happened
In March 2019 Mrs G made a claim to RSA after discovering her caravan had been 
damaged by rats. A lot of the fixtures and fittings were damaged beyond repair.
RSA recommended that Mrs G instruct a particular company to sanitise the caravan. As part 
of that process the company removed and disposed of some items without authority. RSA 
agreed to pay £1,200 to replace those items.
RSA also instructed a contractor to estimate the cost of repairing the caravan. He quoted 
£10,800 plus VAT.
In June RSA said it would either arrange for the caravan to be repaired or pay Mrs G 
£10,800. It also agreed to pay up to the policy limit of £1,500 for damaged contents less the 
policy excess. Mrs G thought RSA should replace her caravan. RSA said it wouldnt do that 
as it was more economical to repair it. Mrs G reluctantly accepted the cash settlement which 
was paid in August with £250 compensation for poor service. She disposed of the caravan 
without repairing it.
Mrs G remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. She thought RSA 
should have provided her with a replacement caravan or a cash settlement of £22,000 to 
cover the cost of refurbishment, additional maintenance, loss of contents, five emergency 
accommodation days, the rental fees back for time not in the caravan and to compensate for 
the undue stress that the situation had caused.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint in part. 
An extract from my provisional findings is set out below:
Mrs Gs policy sets out the basis on which claims would be settled. It said if RSA made a 
cash settlement, it wouldnt pay more than it would have cost to repair the damage. It also 
said no allowance would be made for VAT in the event of a cash settlement. Since Mrs G 
wasnt going to get the caravan repaired, I think RSAs decision to settle Mrs Gs claim on 
the basis of the repair quote excluding VAT was fair and reasonable. It also paid her up to 
her policy limit for contents and £1,200 on top for the items that the cleaning company 
disposed of. I dont think Mrs G was entitled to any more in respect of that part of her claim.
Claims of this sort inevitably give rise to a degree of stress and inconvenience. Ive looked at 
how RSA made the situation worse than it needed to be for Mrs G. I think she suffered 
unnecessary stress due to the caravan not being properly cleaned and a large number of 
items having been disposed of without her authority. In addition the cash settlement wasnt 
paid until about five months after the claim was made. I think there were several weeks 
when there was little or no progress and Mrs G had trouble speaking to anyone at RSA 
about her claim. All in all though, I think the £250 paid by RSA for poor service was 
reasonable to compensate her for this.
Mrs Gs policy covers her for emergency accommodation costs of up to £75 a day for a 
maximum of 15 days. The policy says that receipts must be produced in support of the claim.
Mrs G lives about a two and a half hour drive each way from the caravan. She spent some 
time trying to clean the caravan unaware of the health risks of doing so. So I can understand 
that she and her family would have had to spend some time in emergency hotel 
accommodation. Shes claiming for five days accommodation. 
RSA asked for receipts in support of this part of the claim. Mrs G has provided us with two 
receipts. One is for hotel accommodation in her name for an amount exceeding £75 for one 
day. The other is in the name of a man with a different last name. I dont think RSA acted 
unfairly in rejecting the second receipt when theres no acceptable explanation as to why it 
was in someone elses name. I think RSA should pay her £75 in respect of one nights hotel 
accommodation. If Mrs G has any other receipts or can satisfactorily explain the discrepancy 
with the second receipt, she should provide those to RSA for it to consider.
Under Mrs Gs policy shes entitled to be covered up to a limit of £2,500 for the ground rent 
payable to the site owner if the caravan couldnt be occupied because of damage covered by 
the policy. I can see that RSA paid this up to the date of settlement.
Mrs Gs policy doesnt cover loss of rental income or the loss of a holiday for her and her 
family in the caravan. So she isnt entitled to be compensated for these losses.
RSA  agreed  with my provisional  decision.  In summary  Mrs Gs representative  made  
the following  points:
It would  cost more  than £1,200  to replace  the items  which  had been  disposed  of 
without  permission.  He said they hadnt  seen  a breakdown  of how this figure  had 
been  reached.
The kitchen  repair  costs  werent  included  in the settlement  even  though  the 
infestation  was in the kitchen.
The receipt  for emergency  accommodation  was in the name  of Mrs Gs elderly  
parents  who were  with her on the night  that the rat infestation  was discovered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that RSA asked its repairer to quote for replacing the items which were disposed 
of by the cleaning company and that quote formed the basis of its offer. In the absence of 
any evidence to the contrary, Im not persuaded that this was an unreasonable offer on 
RSAs part.
I can also see that RSAs loss adjuster agreed to replace the damaged kitchen units and the 
settlement offer was increased to reflect this. The repairer also agreed to include the cost of 
a new worktop. So again Im not convinced RSAs settlement offer was unfair in this respect.
The second receipt for emergency accommodation is for two nights in a double room at the 
same hotel as Mrs G stayed. It is for £141.50. RSA said it didnt agree to this because it 
wasnt in Mrs Gs name and didnt represent a direct expense incurred by her. However the policy does cover emergency accommodation for family. It says:
If You or Your Family are deprived of the use of Your Structure as a result of it being 
uninhabitable by Damage insured by this policy, We will pay (any one claim) the cost of 
emergency accommodation up to the limit shown in Your Schedule
The definition of Your Family includes parents. The limit shown in the Schedule is £75 a 
day for a maximum of 15 days. In order to treat Mrs G fairly I think RSA should consider 
this part of the claim further.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay Mrs G 
£75 in respect of accommodation costs and consider her claim for her parents emergency 
accommodation costs.
.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman