DRN-2832457
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the service provided by FirstRand Bank Limited trading as Motonovo 
Finance (Motonovo).
What happened
The background and circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties. Rather 
than repeat what is already known to both parties and not generally in dispute, in my 
decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell both parties that I think the investigator has reached a fair 
outcome here and I uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why below.
Motonovo accept that they made a mistake in sending a default notice to Mr R in January 
2020. They said:
 We managed to locate your payment, which had not been allocated to your 
agreement from our online portal. It was indeed made on 1st January 2020, and thus 
the arrears balance was incorrect. Had the payment been allocated correctly and on 
time, we would not have sent out the notice of default, and as such, the £15 fee was 
unfairly added.
They agreed to remove the £15 fee associated with this notice. I consider this fair and 
reasonable. In a second final response letter, Motonovo offered Mr R £50 for any trouble or 
upset caused by their error. 
Mr R felt this didnt go far enough and I agree  to an extent. Hes described the impact of 
these messages on his health and provided some medical evidence to support what hes 
told us. Mr R feels that the impact on his health was as a direct result of Motonovos actions 
and wants compensation of over £3,000 - which he says is loss of earnings.
The text messages received by Mr R prior to him making Motonovo aware of their error will 
have been most likely generic, system automated. Motonovo have said:
.as soon as Mr R contacted us the issue was resolved and we removed the fee 
and advised him of the error.
But I find that some of these messages continued after Mr R made Motonovo aware that 
there had been a problem. Whilst I find them unlikely to be the sole cause of the health 
problems Mr R has described, given his symptoms it seems reasonable to assume that 
Motonovos error in continuing to send messages will have had some impact on his health.
Motonovo have disputed the impact of their actions on Mr R and referred to the 16 January 
call between both parties as evidence that the receiving of text messages didnt have the 
impact as described by Mr R. But Im not persuaded by their argument. I find that it was 
Motonovos error following the payment Mr R made that meant he received he messages in 
the first instance and then their continued error that meant he continued to receive text 
messages after making them aware that there was a problem.
I find that the additional £50 compensation recommended by our investigator is fair, 
reasonable and proportionate to the impact of Motonovos actions on Mr R. I say this 
because - whilst there was a high volume of messages, I cant safely say that the receiving 
of text messages was the sole cause of the health impact as described by Mr R. But I do find 
that it will have had some impact on Mr R - for which further compensation is appropriate. 
I find £100 (in total) is fair, reasonable and proportionate to the impact of Motonovos actions 
on Mr R. 
Whilst I appreciate that this may not be the outcome either party wanted, its the one I 
consider fairest given the evidence.
Putting things right
I direct FirstRand Bank Limited trading as Motonovo Finance to pay Mr R £100 in total. If 
theyve already paid Mr R £50, they need to now pay him an additional £50. 
FirstRand Bank Limited trading as Motonovo Finance should now make arrangements with 
Mr R to pay this direct to him.
My final decision
My Final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct FirstRand Bank Limited trading as 
Motonovo Finance to follow my direction as set out under Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman