DRN-4156920
The complaint
Ms B complains about the level of service provided by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited (RSA) following a claim made on her motor insurance policy. She wants 
compensation for this. 
What happened
Ms Bs car was taken for repair by RSA following a low speed collision. Ms B was provided 
with a courtesy car, but she was unhappy with this because it smelled of drugs. She said a 
month after her car was returned to her its wheels needed to be realigned. She thought this 
was due to the accident and it hadnt been repaired. She was also unhappy that her car had 
half a tank of petrol when it went to the repairer, but it was nearly empty when it was 
returned to her. RSA paid Ms B £100 compensation for its lack of updates during the repairs. 
But Ms B remained unhappy.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought 
RSA had acted promptly to replace the hire car when Ms B told it about the problem. And 
she thought its compensation for the lack of updates was fair and reasonable. She was 
persuaded by RSAs engineers opinion that the wheel alignment problem was unlikely to 
have been caused by the low speed collision. But she thought there was evidence that the 
car had had half a tank of petrol when it was taken for repair. And she thought RSA should 
pay Ms B £25 compensation for this.
RSA didnt respond to the Investigators view. Ms B replied asking for an Ombudsmans 
review. She said RSA hadnt fully considered the wheel alignment issue. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Ms B was unhappy that the courtesy car provided by the garage 
smelled of drugs. She has explained that this affected her health. But, fortunately, she drove 
the car just once a week and her husband wasnt bothered by the smell. Ms B raised the 
matter with the garage, but she said it didnt take her seriously. RSA said alternative cars 
were in short supply. But I can see that when Ms B raised the matter directly with RSA it 
replaced the car reasonably promptly. So I think that was fair and reasonable. 
Ms B was unhappy that a month after the accident and after she hit a kerb a garage told her 
that the wheel alignment may have been affected by the collision. She had to pay for this to 
be done and for two replacement tyres. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
If there are concerns about repairs, we think its reasonable for a consumer to firstly return to 
the repairer to give it a chance to assess and rectify the issues. But Ms B didnt do this. She 
had the car repaired and so RSA couldnt consider evidence of the issue. 
A geometry report wasnt completed after the car repairs were done. Ms B said her garage 
told her the alignment may have been affected by the accident. And I can see that RSAs 
engineer considered its report. But the engineer also considered the repairs carried out and 
the accident circumstances. His opinion was that the low speed impact wouldnt have 
affected the wheel alignment. I cant see that there was any further evidence for RSA to 
consider. 
So I think RSA reasonably investigated and considered Ms Bs concern and justified its 
decision that it wasnt responsible for the wheel alignment issue. 
When Ms B complained to RSA, it said it would consider any evidence she could provide to 
show that her car had half a tank of petrol before the repairs. And Im satisfied that Ms B has 
done this as this is shown on the check-in sheet completed by the garage. And so I think 
RSA should reasonably pay Ms B £25 compensation for this.
Ms B said she wasnt provided with updates on her car repairs during the three months it 
was with the garage. She said she called the garage and was told parts were on order. RSA 
agreed that Ms B should have been better updated. And it paid her £100 compensation for 
this. I think that was fair and reasonable for the trouble and upset caused as its in keeping 
with our published guidance. 
Putting things right
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to pay Ms B £25 compensation for the loss 
of half a tank of petrol.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman