DRN-2826662
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained about a travel insurance policy sold to them by TICORP 
Limited. 
Staysure is a trading name of TICORP Limited and so Ive referred to TICORP Limited as 
Staysure throughout this decision. 
What happened
I should start by confirming that my decision is limited to the sale of the policy by Staysure 
only. Any claim complaints will have to be dealt with and made separately against the 
underwriter. 
Mr and Mrs M bought a single trip travel insurance policy in September 2019 by phone, sold 
by Staysure. This was to cover a trip to India between November 2019 and April 2020. Mr M 
said he wanted cover for medical expenses and repatriation. And rejected any additional 
cover which wasnt mandatory. 
Whilst in India, Mr M contacted Staysure for advice, in March 2020. He asked whether the 
medical cover under the policy would continue if they got stuck in India as a result of Covid-
19 and was told the policy would automatically extend. But they would need to take the first 
available flight home. So Mr and Mrs M arranged the next flight home and made a claim. 
The claim was declined by the underwriter as Mr M didnt have travel disruption cover added 
to the policy when he bought it. Mr M feels the policy was mis-sold and has raised the 
following concerns:
Travel disruption cover wasnt part of the policy he was sold and wasnt mentioned in 
the sales call.
He was given incorrect information when he called from India as a result of which he 
paid for flights which he cant claim back.
The policy wasnt clearly explained and the documents werent easy to understand. 
The policy documents have been altered in the online account to reflect the situation 
with Covid-19. Staysure shouldnt be able to alter their documents after a sale, they 
form part of the insurance contact.
The questions and answers on the Staysure website and Trustpilot reviews are 
untruthful and misleading.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. Mr M disagreed and raised 
some new concerns, which Ive summarised here:
Mr M feels travel disruption should be something which is provided as standard.
He received an email from Staysure inviting him to buy the travel disruption cover but 
understands that many customers werent able to take advantage of the cover. 
Claims relating to pandemics or epidemics such as Covid-10 would have been 
excluded. So even if he had bought the additional cover, he wouldnt have been 
covered.
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done do, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why and deal with 
each of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint points in turn. Mr M has provided a number of additional 
comments which Ive carefully and fully considered. But for simplicity, my decision will only 
address and summarise the issues which I consider to be key. 
Travel disruption cover wasnt part of the policy and wasnt mentioned in the sales 
call
Mr M was asked whether he was interested in adding cover for cancellation due to natural 
disasters and terrorist events. This wasnt referred to as travel disruption cover although this 
is what the adviser was referring to. Mr M confirmed he didnt want this.
Our investigator didnt think Staysure had provided a clear explanation about travel 
disruption and I agree. I think it could have provided further examples and referred to it as 
travel disruption.
Mr M confirmed to our investigator that he wouldnt have added travel disruption cover even 
if it had been fully explained to him. He has since explained that he would have added travel 
disruption cover if he had been told he would need this to be covered for repatriation in all 
circumstances. He says he wasnt clearly told that repatriation was only covered in medical 
circumstances. 
Ive carefully considered what Mr M has said. But Im not persuaded that Mr M would have 
bought the travel disruption cover, even if it had been referred to as that and even if it had 
been explained properly. In travel insurance policies, repatriation usually comes under the 
medical expenses section and refers to repatriation as a medical necessity. At the time of 
taking the policy, Covid-19 was unheard of and there wouldnt have been any need for Mr M 
to be concerned about repatriation in those circumstances. And so I dont think a further 
explanation would have influenced Mr M to buy it. In addition, the policy documents clearly 
confirm repatriation is included under the emergency medical section.  
He was given incorrect information when he called from India as a result of which he 
paid for flights which he cant claim back
Mr M called Staysure from India and asked whether he would still have medical cover if he 
was stuck there for longer than originally planned and he was told that he would. He was told 
the policy would automatically extend due to Covid-19 but only until Mr and Mrs Ms first 
opportunity to get home. 
This wasnt incorrect information as the advice from the Foreign and Commonwealth Office 
was for anyone abroad to return home. So I dont think it was unreasonable for Staysure to 
stipulate that Mr and Mrs M would need to fly home at the first opportunity.
The policy wasnt clearly explained and the documents werent easy to understand 
Mr M says the policy was confusing, unclear and wordy. And he didnt receive an Insurance 
Product Information Document (IPID). Had Mr M received an IPID, this would have provided a summary of his key cover. And this 
is something Staysure should have provided. It didnt do so and so Ive considered what 
other information Mr M was provided with.
Ive seen the validation certificate and the policy terms and conditions. The policy document 
includes a table of benefits, sections of cover and limits. Im satisfied that the table of 
benefits was clear enough to see, at a glance, what Mr M was covered for. And so I think Mr 
M had enough information to see what his policy covered.
Although the policy documents are lengthy, this isnt unusual in these types of policies. I 
dont think the terms are overly complicated and Mr M hasnt pointed out which part of the 
documents he finds confusing or unclear. Overall, I think the section relating to emergency 
medical and repatriation expenses, which was most important to Mr M, is sufficiently clear. 
The policy documents have been altered in the online account to reflect the situation 
with Covid-19. Staysure should not be able to alter their documents after a sale, which 
form part of the insurance contract.
The alterations to the documents related to Covid-19 and were shown in an additional box 
on the validation certificate. This explained claims arising from Covid-19 couldnt be covered. 
But it also confirmed the changes only applied to policies issued or amended after March 
2020. As Mr and Mrs M bought their policy before March 2020, this alteration didnt apply to 
them.
I dont think using an online portal to provide important notices is unreasonable. 
The questions and answers on the Staysure website and Trustpilot reviews are 
untruthful and misleading
Mr M has said the Staysure website confirms repatriation is covered. And so he thinks this is 
misleading as repatriation is only covered in medical emergencies. I dont think the Q&A 
section on the website can be relied on as confirming the exact extent of cover. And referring 
to repatriation isnt misleading as it is covered under the emergency medical and 
repatriation section. I wouldnt expect a Q&A section on a website to give a detailed 
explanation of what is and isnt covered.
 
Mr M has also provided information about Trustpilot reviews from other customers. And says 
customers are asked to leave a review at a certain point in the sales process which allows 
Staysure to manipulate the data. Staysure can decide when to ask for reviews. The reviews 
written by other customers on Trustpilot are not a regulated activity under our rules and so I 
cant comment any further. 
Mr M feels travel disruption should be something which is provided as standard.
He received an email from Staysure inviting him to buy the travel disruption cover but 
understands that many customers werent able to take advantage of the cover. Claims 
relating to pandemics or epidemics such as Covid-10 would have been excluded. So 
even if he had been told about it and had taken it out, he wouldnt have been covered.
Staysure isnt under a duty to sell cover as standard. And an insurer can decide what cover 
theyre willing to provide as standard or as additional cover. 
As Mr M didnt attempt to buy the travel disruption cover at the time he received the email, I 
cant speculate what would have happened if he had done so or whether he would have had a successful claim. Any claims issues would be a matter for the underwriter and not 
Staysure in any event.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman