DRN-1957396
The complaint
Mr M has complained that AXA France IARD mis-sold him a store card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
AXA France IARD, the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale of such policies. To 
keep things simple, Ill therefore just be referring to AXA in this decision.
What happened
Mr M took out the policy in March 2001 at the same time as applying for the store card whilst 
in a shop.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
On his complaint form, Mr M had said that he was just asked for his personal details and told 
where to sign. He says he didnt tick any boxes or agree to any extras on the account 
therefore, the PPI was added without his knowledge or consent.
Ive seen a copy of the application form. There is a separate section for PPI which is called 
Account Cover. It states: Yes, I would like to protect my Account with Account Cover 
(subject to my eligibility). Please debit my Account with the relevant monthly premium until 
further notice. Mr M has signed in this section to request PPI.
There is a cross next to this section which Mr M says denotes the fact that he was told to 
sign that part of the form. There are also crosses next to other sections of the form that 
needed to be completed, such as the name and address section and the signature box at 
the end of the form.
Beneath the PPI section, there is a section for Card Protection. However, this has been 
crossed through to indicate that Mr M didnt require that particular insurance cover. Mr M has 
suggested that it is strange that he would want the PPI but not the card protection. However, 
if, as Mr M has suggested, he wasnt given a choice about taking out the PPI and it was just 
added by the adviser, I might have expected him to end up with all of the available insurance 
options, especially if the adviser was getting commission on insurance sales as Mr M has 
suggested.
Overall, looking at the available evidence, I consider it is most likely that there was some 
discussion between Mr M and the adviser and that the adviser then marked a cross next to 
the PPI section, and crossed through the Card Protection section, based on what had been 
discussed. Mr M has signed and dated the bottom of the form to confirm that he agrees to its 
contents.
I have no doubt that Mr M has provided his honest recollection of events. But the sale was a 
long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if his memory has faded, particularly as the 
taking out of a store card and associated insurance isnt generally a noteworthy event. On 
balance, based on the available evidence, I consider that Mr M would have known from the 
wording and layout of the form that the PPI was optional. I consider it is more likely than not 
that Mr M knew that he was purchasing PPI and that he probably agreed to buy it, knowing 
that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
Mr M says that the credit card application doesnt conform to the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Mr Ms view is that, as the form was non-compliant, the associated PPI was not lawfully 
agreed. I accept it is possible that a court might conclude that the credit agreement was not 
enforceable. But in deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, my view is 
that, by signing in the PPI section, Mr M has indicated that he wished to purchase the policy.
AXA didnt advise Mr M to buy the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met his needs. 
But it did need to provide Mr M with enough information for him to be able to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for him.
There is wording on the application form that refers the applicant to the customer copy of the 
credit agreement for more information about the benefits, eligibility requirements and 
exclusions relating to cover. I think that Mr M would have known something about the main 
features of the PPI  that it would cover his store card repayments if he was unable to work 
due to accident, sickness or unemployment  because I dont think hed have agreed to take 
it out without knowing anything at all about it. The application form also mentions the cost of 
the policy as being one pence for every pound of monthly balance, so I think that Mr M 
would have had a broad understanding of what hed be paying for it.
The evidence about Mr Ms circumstances at the time of the sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. Mr M has provided evidence of his pension benefits, 
including details of what hed get if he were to be retired due to ill-health and his death in 
service benefit. But the PPI could have paid out in circumstances other than if Mr M was 
being medically retired. Although there was an element of life insurance to the Account 
Cover Policy, the main benefits of the policy were not duplicating Mr Ms existing cover.
Mr M has said that he would have received generous sick pay. But the policy would have 
paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer than Mr M would have received full pay 
for. Mr M had some savings. But having the policy would have allowed him to retain these or 
use them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time. Overall I 
consider that Mr M had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it.
Mr M has asked for proof that AXA sent him a copy of the policy document in 2001 and 
again in 2003 when the terms were changed. Unfortunately, due to the passage of time, 
AXA is unable to provide copies of the mailings that would have been sent to Mr M at the 
time that enclosed the policy terms and conditions. It also no longer has copies of the 
mailout that it would have sent to its policyholders in relation to the change in policy terms. 
Mr M has asked for proof that he agreed to the change. However, normally a policyholder 
wouldnt be required to actively agree to a change  they would be informed of it and could 
then cancel the policy if they were unhappy with the updated policy terms.Its possible that, at the point of sale, AXA didnt provide as much information as it should 
have about the policy, particularly the things that it didnt cover. But Mr M wasnt affected by 
any of those things. As I consider that he had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I 
dont think that further information would have caused him to change his mind. So Mr M is no 
worse off as a result of anything AXA may have done wrong, so there is nothing AXA needs 
to do to put things right. It follows that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman