DRN-3115467
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that West Bromwich Building Society (West Brom) unfairly imposed 
an early redemption charge (ERC) when they redeemed their mortgage. This happened as 
a result of West Broms withdrawal of its help to buy (HTB) mortgage product  the product 
Mr and Mrs N needed to port their mortgage.
What happened
In 2017 Mr and Mrs N took out a mortgage with West Brom for approximately £146,000, 
over 25 years and on a capital repayment basis. They opted for a five-year fixed rate which 
meant an ERC would be chargeable in the event of redemption before August 2022.
In 2020 they wanted to move to a new property using the government help to buy 
scheme. They met with West Brom in March 2020 to start an application to port their 
mortgage using West Broms help to buy product. Mr and Mrs N say they had an 
agreement in principle for the mortgage. West Brom says Mr and Mrs N werent in a 
position to continue at that time because they hadnt received their HTB approval and 
they hadnt sold their current property.
Shortly after the initial discussion, in March 2020, West Brom contacted Mr and Mrs N to 
say itd had to withdraw all its products because of the covid-19 national lockdown. It has 
explained that staff had been sent home with only a few key workers remaining in the office 
to work on mortgage applications that were due to complete. At that time Mr and Mrs N 
asked how they could find out when West Brom were going to starts to offer new mortgage 
products again and were told to keep checking in with West Brom.
West Broms records show that, on 22 May 2020, Mr and Mrs N called to say they were in 
a position to apply for the new mortgage and they made an appointment with an advisor for 
26 May 2020. At the appointment West Brom said it still hadnt launched a new HTB 
product and was re-launching products slowly. It says it told Mr and Mrs N it would not be 
contacting customers to let them know of product launches and Mr and Mrs N should keep 
in contact. West Broms mortgage adviser contacted Mr and Mrs N again on 1 June 2020 
to say it would be launching new products in the next few weeks but couldnt confirm a 
date.
On 10 June 2020 Mr and Mrs N complained to West Brom. During that call they said they 
had to apply to a new mortgage lender as West Brom wasnt offering the HTB product 
and they think the early redemption charge should be waived. They said they dont want 
to lose their buyer and have already had to wait a long time. Mr and Mrs N told West 
Brom theyd applied last week to another lender.
West Brom re-introduced its HTB product on 19 June 2020 and sent its final response 
letter to Mr and Mrs Ns complaint on 8 July 2020. In its final response letter West Brom 
explained that it had to put mortgage processing on hold and drastically reduce the 
numbers of staff within its offices for their protection and under government guidance. It 
allowed a skeleton staff to work in its offices to administer business critical tasks. New 
mortgage and porting applications were not considered critical. It also confirmed that it had 
re-launched its HTB mortgage and if Mr and Mrs N wanted to discuss this, they could 
contact the mortgage advisor. West Brom confirmed the ERC would become payable if the 
mortgage was redeemed before 31 August 2022.
Mr and Mrs N redeemed their mortgage with West Brom on 21 August 2020 and 
incurred and early redemption charge of £5,297.39. They brought their complaint to us 
saying they didnt have the time to wait as they were in a chain and had previously lost a 
buyer. They say the agreement in principle for the product they were offered prior to 
lockdown should have been honoured. And, as it wasnt honoured, they had no choice 
but to redeem their West Brom mortgage and take out a mortgage with a different 
provider. They say they should not have to pay the ERC due to the exceptional 
circumstances of the covid-19 pandemic.
In her opinion letter, our investigator explained why, particularly with fixed rates, a lender 
will include an ERC clause in the mortgage agreement. And that this relates to the lenders 
own commitment and costs to raising the funds to be able to offer lending on a fixed rate 
over a specified term. She also said she didnt think it was unreasonable for West Brom to 
remove its products, given the government guidelines and the impact of the pandemic on 
businesses.
However, our investigator thought West Brom should have contacted Mr and Mrs N when it 
relaunched their HTB product  on or around 19 June 2020. And as West Brom didnt 
inform Mr and Mrs N until 8 July 2020, they were denied this time to make an informed 
decision about whether to proceed with the mortgage application elsewhere. Our 
investigator thought that, on balance, Mr and Mrs N would have proceeded with West Brom 
had they been made aware of when the HTB product was relaunched. So, she found that 
West Brom was partially responsible for Mr and Mrs N incurring the ERC and should refund 
50% of it.
West Brom disagreed. It said it doesnt think its reasonable to conclude Mr and Mrs N 
would have continued with West Brom if theyd known about the relaunch without delay, 
given that theyd already confirmed they were proceeding with another lender. At that time 
West Brom were still operating on a reduced staff and the mortgage advisor, whod been 
dealing with Mr and Mrs N, was dealing with exceptionally high volumes of work. It said it 
isnt reasonable to expect the advisor to have contacted each customer theyd previously 
dealt with. West Brom also said there was no guarantee it would have accepted the new 
application.
As West Brom didnt agree with our investigators findings, the complaint was passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision of 15 September 2021 I wrote:
I think Mr and Mrs Ns central complaint point is that they were forced  because 
West Brom withdrew the HTB product  to apply elsewhere for a mortgage. So, 
they shouldnt have been charged the ERC which applied to their mortgage with 
West Brom. To decide that complaint Ive thought about whether it was reasonable 
for West Brom to withdraw the HTB when it did and, in the overall circumstances of 
the pandemic, whether it was reasonable for West Brom to apply the ERC.
In addition, our investigator identified a delay between when West Brom relaunched the HTB product and when it informed Mr and Mrs N of the relaunch. 
So, Ive also considered whether West Brom should have informed Mr and Mrs N 
of the relaunch sooner and whether that would have made a difference to what 
happened after.
The withdrawal of the HTB product
Mr and Mrs N say they had an agreement in principal before the withdrawal of the 
HTB product and West Brom says they werent in a position to proceed. An 
agreement in principal is subject to full application including affordability checks and 
an assessment of the suitability of the property for mortgage. So, either way, its 
clear to me that Mr and Mrs Ns enquiries were at an early stage in March and there 
was no guarantee a full application would have been successful.
As has been well documented previously, when the country went into the first 
lockdown businesses received guidance from the government around protecting 
staff and preventing the spread of the virus. I think its reasonable that, in the light of 
that guidance, West Brom withdrew all its products to focus on the essential 
functions of the business. I say that because I think that, unless West Brom was 
already set up to allow home working for a substantial proportion of its staff, it would 
have had no option but to reduce services as it did. And if it was set-up for home 
working, I cant see that it would have had any reason to reduce services in the way 
that it did.
Mr and Mrs N say West Brom shouldnt have withdrawn the product for them as 
they had an agreement in principle. West Brom has said that it did continue with 
mortgage applications that had already been made. But Mr and Mrs N hadnt made 
a full application by that stage. And I dont think an agreement in principle 
represents a commitment from either party. Its more an agreement to consider a full 
application, subject to a number of criteria. So, I dont think West Brom was required 
to hold the HTB product open to Mr and Mrs N while it withdrew it from the market.
The delay between relaunch and informing Mr and Mrs N
Mr and Mrs N made a complaint about the delay in relaunching the HTB product 
to West Brom on 10 June 2020. During that call they also informed West Brom 
theyd changed mortgage provider because they didnt want to lose their buyer. 
They said theyd made an application last week.
West Brom relaunched the HTB product on 19 June 2020, and informed Mr and 
Mrs N of the relaunch on 8 July 2020. Our investigator reasoned that the delay 
between the relaunch and making Mr and Mrs N aware, caused them to lose the 
opportunity to change back to West Brom. Ive thought about whether, on balance, 
Mr and Mrs N would have changed back to West Brom had they known about the 
relaunch on or closer to 19 June 2020  so, whether that delay actually made a 
difference.
I know that Mr and Mrs N were financially committed to their application elsewhere 
and their broker, application and valuation fees added up to £1,676. However, 
£1,324 of this was refundable if the mortgage didnt complete. And they were also 
committed to West Brom via their ERC  their ERC liability was £5,297. They didnt 
redeem their mortgage until 21 August 2020 which was six full weeks after they 
were informed of the HTB relaunch. Unless Mr and Mrs N had exchanged contracts 
six weeks before completion  they havent said that they did  I cant see that they 
were committed in any other way to using another lender. While I accept that re-applying with West Brom may have delayed the process, I think they could have 
chosen to lose £1,646 rather than £5,297. And I think its clear that they were aware 
of the ERC at that stage because they mentioned it as part of their complaint on 10 
June 2020.
The complaint Mr and Mrs N brought to us didnt mention the delay between the 
relaunch and them being told of it. It was only about the withdrawal of the product 
and West Brom applying the product in the circumstances of the pandemic. So, I 
think its likely that they didnt see that as an issue because they had no intention of 
changing back to West Brom, irrespective of when they were told about the 
relaunch of the HTB product.
West Brom have said it took it from the 10 June 2020 conversation with Mr and Mrs 
N that their minds were made up about proceeding with a different lender and it 
didnt have the resources to contact all customers about the product relaunches as 
they happened. I think thats reasonable given that there were many product 
relaunches and it was likely  as its said  to have had lots of customers whos 
plans were on hold. Ive seen that it said to Mr and Mrs N on two separate occasion 
they should make contact with West Brom to check whether the product they 
needed had been relaunched. So, I dont think it was unreasonable or unexpected 
that West Brom didnt tell Mr and Mrs N of the HTB relaunch as soon as it 
happened.
The application of the ERC in the broader circumstances of the pandemic
As Ive explained above, I think Mr and Mrs N were fully aware of the ERC. So, 
in ordinary circumstances theres little doubt that it would apply given that they 
redeemed their mortgage within the ERC period.
The purpose of the ERC is to protect West Brom from those losses in the event of 
early redemption. Mr and Mrs N have argued that they didnt have any other choice 
but to seek a mortgage elsewhere, but I dont agree. I accept that they had a 
property and a buyer that they didnt want to lose, but I havent seen anything to 
suggest that they were compelled to move at that time or to that property. So, I think 
they couldve waited if they werent prepared to incur the cost of the ERC. On the 
other hand, as Ive explained above, I dont think West Brom had any real choice but 
to temporarily remove their products from the market. So, I dont think its fair that 
West Brom should bear the expense or part of the expense of Mr and Mrs Ns ERC 
in the circumstances.
Overall, I dont think its unreasonable that West Brom withdrew the HTB product 
from the market and that also applied to Mr and Mrs N. And I dont think there was 
an expectation from either party that West Brom would inform Mr and Mrs N when 
the product was relaunched. I also dont think the delay in Mr and Mrs N finding out 
about the relaunched product need necessarily have prevented them from applying 
with West Brom. And I dont think it was unreasonable for West Brom to apply the 
ERC in the broader circumstances of the pandemic. For those reasons, I dont 
intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint.
In their response to my decision Mr and Mrs N said they werent informed of the relaunch 
of West Broms help to buy product. They also said they were compelled to move at the 
time and outlined their personal circumstances explaining why. In a further response  and 
with reference to my comment that they didnt have to take the mortgage with the other 
lender - Mr and Mrs N said there was no guarantee any mortgage application with West Brom would have been successful, whereas their application elsewhere had already been 
accepted.
Ive carefully thought about Mr and Mrs Ns comments and reviewed all the evidence that 
I think is significant to my decision. Having done so, Im still of the opinion that West 
Brom havent acted unreasonably. But I would like to respond to Mr and Mrs Ns 
comments and explain why theyve not changed my thinking.
West Brom wrote to Mrs N on 8 July 2020  in response to her complaint. In its letter it said:
As the situation regarding COVID -19 is now stabilising we are now in a position 
to again process new mortgage applications, including porting applications. We 
have slowly relaunched our mortgage products, and more recently our Help to 
Buy mortgage I understand that you may have already submitted your mortgage 
application with another lender; however; I can see that you have recently been 
in email contact with our Personal Mortgage Consultant. Therefore, if you would 
like to contact her directly she can make arrangements to discuss this further 
with you.
So, while I dont doubt Mr and Mrs Ns recollections of the information they received 
around that time, the evidence I have available shows that West Brom informed them of 
the help to buy product relaunch.
Mr and Mrs N have shared some information about their personal circumstances at the time 
which, they think, means they were compelled to move home at that time, rather than wait 
until West Brom relaunched its help to buy product. As a result, I do now understand why 
they felt they had to push forward with their plans to move at that time. And I accept that 
they couldnt have known how long they may have had to wait for West Brom to relaunch its 
help to buy product. However, this doesnt alter my thoughts on whether West Brom acted 
reasonably in the context of the overall circumstances, including its response to the 
pandemic.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ns concerns that an application for a shared equity loan with 
West Brom may not have been successful. But the evidence available shows that they 
didnt apply after they ought to have become aware of the product relaunch. So, I dont 
think they tried to minimise the cost they incurred. Had they applied and been declined  
and thought that was unfair  that may have been another complaint we could consider.
I understand my decision will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs N. And I can see why they 
feel the way they do about the issue. But, to uphold their complaint, I would need to have 
found that West Brom acted unreasonably and in a way that caused Mr and Mrs N to incur 
the early redemption charge. As the evidence Ive seen  including the comments from 
both parties  doesnt suggest that, I dont uphold their complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint about West Bromwich 
Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
Gavin Cook Ombudsman