DRN-4466107
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined their home insurance 
claim.  
The policy is in the name of Mr and Mrs F. Mr F has been the main contact for the claim and 
complaint. So in this decision, for ease, Ive referred to just Mr F. Hes been represented at 
points for the claim and complaint. For simplicity Ive referred to the representatives actions 
as being Mr Fs own. 
What happened
In June 2023 Mr F discovered damage to his property  including movement to a wall. He 
called Aviva to claim against his home insurance policy. But it declined his request for 
assistance. It didnt feel the cause of damage was likely to be one covered by Mr Fs policy.  
But it said it would consider supporting evidence from a relevant expert. 
As the damage was progressive Mr F involved the fire brigade and local authority. He was 
advised not to use a part of the property. He and his family moved to alternative 
accommodation.  
Mr F complained to Aviva, but it didnt change its position. It said his policy covered his 
property for a range of insured events. It explained it hadnt been advised of the potential 
cause, nor could it attribute it to any insured one. So it had correctly, in its view, made the 
decision to decline the claim. Aviva said it is Mr Fs responsibility to substantiate his claim. 
Finally it explained that if he provided a report confirming the cause of damage being an 
insured one it would reconsider its position.  
Mr F wasnt satisfied so came to this service. He feels Avivas negligent handling of the 
claim, including its failure to investigate the cause of damage, is responsible for financial loss 
and significant distress for himself and his family.  To resolve his complaint he would like 
Aviva to cover his losses and pay compensation for pain, suffering and discrimination. 
Our Investigator didnt feel Aviva had acted unfairly or unreasonably by not accepting the 
claim. She said it had requested he provide supporting evidence on numerous occasions, 
but Mr F hadnt done so. She didnt agree Aviva had discriminated against him. As he didnt 
accept that outcome the complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr F and Aviva provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be key or
central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered everything
provided.
Ive first considered Avivas decision not to investigate the damage. As Aviva has said Mr Fs 
property is insured against various events or cause of damage. In general with insurance the 
onus is on the policyholder to show that an insured event is most likely the cause of damage 
or loss. 
Often in practice the policyholder wont need to do that. If it seems to the insurer that a loss 
could be covered it will consider the claim  including making its own investigations to decide 
whether an insured event caused the damage. 
In this case, when Mr F initially made the claim, Aviva decided not to investigate the damage 
itself. Instead it asked him to provide supporting evidence. It didnt feel, based on the 
information Mr F provided, that it was likely caused by an insured event. Having considered 
the information he provided then, and since, I cant say that was an unfair or unreasonable 
decision. 
Due to its technical nature, if there was a reasonable indication of subsidence, Id expect 
Aviva to undertake investigations. Mr F did refer to cracks. But his main description was of 
bowing. Thats not something, in my experience, thats typically associated with subsidence. 
Aviva suggested Mr F provide a relevant report to support the cause being an insured one. 
As far as Ive seen he hasnt provided anything persuasive so far. Hes provided his own 
account of why he feels subsidence to be the likely cause. But he hasnt provided anything 
from an expert to support what he says.  
Mr F did commission a structural engineer. I havent seen their report, but as far as Im 
aware they didnt find subsidence, accidental damage or any other insured event to be the 
likely cause. A local authority surveyor has also been involved. But Mr F hasnt provided 
anything from them to support the cause being an insured one. So I cant say Avivas 
decisions to decline the claim and not to undertake further investigations of its own are 
unreasonable.
If Mr F does pay for his own report, Id expect Aviva to respond to its contents  including 
undertaking its own investigations if appropriate. And if the evidence resulted in a change in 
the outcome of the claim, Id expect Aviva to reimburse the cost.     
Mr Fs unhappy that Aviva didnt provide assistance when he reported his home to be unsafe 
- including with temporary accommodation. I accept it was a distressing time for Mr F and his 
family. However, I wouldnt expect Aviva to provide such assistance where the loss hadnt 
been shown to be one thats likely covered by his policy 
Whilst Mr Fs had a difficult time I cant say Avivas at fault for that. Essentially its for him to 
show his loss is one likely coved by his policy. He hasnt done that. Avivas been willing to 
consider further evidence, having made reasonable requests for it. 
Mr Fs mentioned a medical condition, feeling Avivas discriminated against him directly and 
indirectly. Hes referred to an unprofessional, uncaring attitude towards him. I havent seen 
anything to persuade me that he was treated unfairly. As Ive already set out, I dont feel it 
acted unreasonably by deciding not to investigate the damage itself or to provide assistance. 
But I hope it helps Mr F to know that someone impartial and independent has looked into his 
concerns.  
I realise this will be frustrating for Mr F, but for the reasons given above, Im not going to 
require Aviva to settle his claim or to do anything differently.    My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman