DRN-2130695
The complaint
Mr W complains about mis-information reported to credit reference agencies by OneSavings 
Bank Plc trading as Kent Reliance.
Mr W has a buy-to-let mortgage with Kent Reliance but, due to a systems issue, information 
about another persons mortgages with Kent Reliance was also recorded on Mr Ws file with 
credit reference agencies.
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont repeat it again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Kent Reliance has admitted it made a mistake with the information it reported on Mr Ws 
credit file when he took out the mortgage in February 2018 so I dont need to make a finding 
on that. What I need to decide is whether the offer made by Kent Reliance is fair, or whether 
further compensation is warranted.
I can see Mr W feels very strongly about this. And thats not surprising as his credit reports 
werent accurate for a period of time in 2018. But Im afraid I have to tell Mr W that I agree 
with our investigator; Kent Reliance doesnt need to do anything more or pay him any more 
compensation than its already offered.
Mr W notified Kent Reliance of the problem in May 2018 and it got to work in resolving things 
in its records, and it also notified all three credit reference agencies. Its not on file exactly 
when in June 2018 Equifax updated its records, but Experian confirmed its records had been 
updated on 7 June and Call Credit (now TransUnion) confirmed its records had been 
updated on 20 June.
Kent Reliance said it would cover the higher finance costs Mr W incurred due to the error; 
that is the difference between what he was paying each month on his bridging loan, and 
what he would have paid had he been able to refinance that bridging loan as a normal 
mortgage with a mainstream lender. Kent Reliance ran the calculation from February 2018 
(when the error occurred) until September 2018 (when Mr W refinanced to another bridging 
loan). It calculated a loss of £4,862.75 plus interest of £634.97. Onto that it added £500 
compensation, which gave a total of £5,997.72.
Mr W has said compensation should be paid for his higher costs right up until May 2019 
when he refinanced with a mainstream lender; a sum he worked out to be around £14,400. 
Mr W said 
My mortgage broker encountered difficulties in obtaining a conventional mortgage 
because of the "stain" on my credit record due to KRBS error, despite me having a 
substantial income and good credit record.
But no evidence has been supplied of that. Although Mr W and his broker say theyve 
provided evidence, the only failed application we have on file was detailed in an email from 
the potential lender to Mr Ws broker on 15 June 2018. As that overlapped with Kent 
Reliance correcting Mr Ws credit reference information then it doesnt evidence the ongoing 
stain Mr W has mentioned. 
Mr W was aware Kent Reliance was fixing the problem so Mr W needed to wait until hed 
had confirmation that the issue had been resolved. Im satisfied that if an application had 
been attempted after the final response letter was issued on 20 June 2018, then the multiple 
mortgage accounts would no longer come up on any search. To be clear, there was no 
ongoing stain as all that happened was extra mortgages were listed on Mr Ws credit 
reports for a four-month period, and after those were removed (in June 2018) any check of 
Mr Ws credit file would show no record of the error ever happening in the first place. 
In fact, we have on file a copy of Mr Ws credit report from Experian dated 15 June 2018 that 
Mr W kindly provided to us. That shows the correct information, which is that he had just one 
mortgage account with Kent Reliance. Any search by a lender of Mr Ws credit file after 
June 2018 would pull through that information, and the potential lender would have no idea 
any of this had happened. So if Mr W was turned down for credit between July 2018 and 
May 2019  which weve not been provided with any evidence of in any event  that simply 
couldnt have been due to the mistake made by Kent Reliance in February 2018.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied the offer Kent Reliance made in its final 
response letter is fair, and so for that reason I cant uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Finally, Mr W has said Kent Reliance made further errors when it was dealing with his 
complaint. He says:
KRBS mis informed me of the correct regulator to appeal to in their initial letter, 
delaying my contact with yourselves as the correct financial regulator; a significant 
error considering KRBS sole business is finance.
KRBS initially miscalculated the capital owing and monthly payments after 
acknowledging and correcting their initial error, I had to point this out to them which 
they corrected and acknowledged in writing.
Our rules set out the matters that we can look at as being; regulated activities, payment 
services, lending money, paying money by plastic card, and ancillary banking services. In 
addition, we can consider complaints about ancillary activities carried on in connection with 
the above.The handling of complaints is not itself a regulated activity. Its something that the regulator - 
the Financial Conduct Authority - requires financial businesses to do. But that isnt enough to 
make it a regulated activity within the meaning of the rule; that is, one from the list of 
activities set out in the legislation from which we derive our powers.
Were able to consider concerns about complaint handling in some limited circumstances, for 
example, if the complaint handling was ancillary to something we have the power to 
consider. So we can, in theory, consider how Kent Reliance handled Mr Ws complaint.
But there is another thing that we need to consider and that is that we can only uphold and 
make an award for any poor customer service in handling a complaint if were upholding the 
underlying issue being complained about. As Ive not upheld Mr Ws complaint it follows I 
cant uphold any complaint about how Kent Reliance handled the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense that I consider OneSavings Bank Plc trading as 
Kent Reliance made a fair and reasonable offer in its response to the complaint. As that 
payment has already been made to Mr W I make no order or award. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which means well 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my 
decision before 12 January 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman