DRN-3332731
The complaint
Miss H complains that esure Insurance Limited (esure) has treated her unfairly in relation 
to an escape of water claim under her home insurance.
Any reference to Miss H or esure includes any respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties and has been described 
previously at length by our Investigator, so Ive summarised events.
In September 2020, a flood caused damage to Miss Hs property. Company A  Miss 
Hs home emergency provider dealt with an initial claim. Following this, esure, Miss 
Hs home insurance provider, accepted the claim. Following necessary works, repairs 
were completed in April 2021.
Miss H raised concerns with esure about its claims handling, including delays. A 
previous complaint about the claim was addressed by esure in its final response of 4 
November 2020. Our Investigator determined the matters addressed by this 
response fell outside of this Services jurisdiction. But said we could consider the 
events that took place after 4 November 2020, including a compensatory sum of 
£300 it paid in March 2020. 
The Investigator outlined a timeline of events and explained that some degree of 
disruption was inevitable when handling a claim of this nature given the extensive 
damage and required drying works. But she found that esure couldve done more to 
support Miss H arrange alternative accommodation (AA). She also said there was a 
lack of updates, expectation management and poor communication in places. She 
also said some delays had occurred due to esures inaction. And overall, she felt the 
£300 compensation for the events following November 2020 was fair.
Miss H disagreed. She explained Company As actions from the start of the claim 
and a failure to diagnose the issue had caused catastrophic damage and impact. She 
said decorating works had been delayed by a month purely due to esures mistakes. 
She described the contractors acting unreasonably by not providing notice to carry 
out works, and an overall lack of proactive management. Miss H also described the 
impact of having to work from her AA and the stress this carried. And she said its 
compensatory sum of £300 was insufficient.
Our Investigator looked again. She explained she could only consider esures 
actions, not Company As under this complaint. She said the decorating delay had 
been recognised as a mistake on Miss Hs part, after she had misread an email and 
apologised for this. And she said she recognised the frustration caused by 
unannounced visits or poor communication when considering the compensatory sum. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss H is unhappy with the actions of Company A within its role as her home 
emergency provider. Its actions do not fall within the scope of this complaint as it is a 
separate business to esure, so Im not going to comment on these concerns further.
Miss H is also unhappy with esures actions from the start of the claim. But as our 
Investigator has outlined, this Service can only consider esures actions from 4 
November 2020 onwards. So, I simply cant consider everything Miss H is unhappy 
about within this complaint because of the jurisdiction issues previously explained. 
ICOBS 8.1. requires insurers to handle claims promptly and fairly and to provide 
appropriate information on a claims progress. Ive kept this in mind when reviewing 
this claim. And in this case, its clear to me that esure has not met these obligations, 
and that there are periods of delay and communication breakdowns in places. esure 
has also acknowledged it hasnt handled this claim as it shouldve, going as far to say 
it had let her down throughout the claim.
So, I see no benefit in detailing these issues or delays any further beyond saying I 
think these were unacceptable and Im sympathetic to the impact this has had on 
Miss H. Including the actions of its agents arriving unannounced and, issues with a 
cheque not being paid. In response to Miss Hs reply to our Investigator, I will 
comment that the delay regarding decoration appears to be due to Miss Hs request 
based on the evidence Ive been given including claim notes that reflect this.
For the above reasons, taking into account the impact of the events from November 
2020 onwards, and not any actions that had taken place prior to this, Im satisfied 
esures compensation of £300 is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is Im not upholding this complaint, as Im satisfied esures offer of £300 
compensation is fair and it doesnt need to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman