DRN-2415613
The complaint
 Mr M complains that he has incurred an avoidable tax liability because Towergate Financial 
(East) Limited didnt carry out the transfer of his investment to it in the most tax-efficient way.
What happened
 In 2009 Mr M invested in various funds within an offshore bond based on advice from 
Towergate including Non-Mainstream Pooled Investments (NMPIs). He complained about 
the advice in 2013 and this was referred to our service. 
An adjudicator upheld the complaint in January 2014 and awarded redress, which included a 
provision that if Mr M couldnt access the NMPIs due to it being illiquid, redress should be 
calculated on the basis it had a surrender value of nil with Mr M to transfer ownership to 
Towergate - although the opinion of the adjudicator was silent as to how the transfer should 
be carried out. 
Towergate calculated redress at £157,639 and this was put to Mr M by the adjudicator and 
accepted. There was then further correspondence between Mr M/his IFA and Towergate 
about the transfer of ownership of Quadris, which culminated in Mr M transferring Quadris to 
Towergate by way of segment surrender in 2016.
HMRC wrote to Mr M in June 2019 saying that it considered him to be liable to income tax 
on the gain shown in the chargeable event certificate from the bond provider  which 
showed a chargeable gain of £37,390. It also said this should have been included in his tax 
return for the year ending April 2017. Mr M paid HMRC £4,638 tax and a £695 penalty.
Mr Ms IFA wrote to Towergate asking it to pay Mr M the money he had paid to HMRC on 
the basis Towergate had agreed to pay the tax. Towergate responded and said that shortly 
after the transfer of ownership to it the Net Asset Value (NAV) was dramatically reduced as a 
new fund administrator didnt consider the previous NAV could be justified and the fund was 
then wound up with no proceeds paid to investors. It suggested that Mr M put the argument 
to HMRC that basing a chargeable event on a NAV that was subsequently shown to be 
incorrect was illogical.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that the illiquid funds had been transferred to Towergate in 2016 in accordance with the 
redress set out in the complaint that was referred to us in 2014. He noted that Towergate 
had agreed to pay any undue or punitive tax arising from the transfer but didnt think that the 
tax Mr M had been required to pay was punitive or undue. He said arguably the amount paid 
is around what Mr M would have had to pay on any gains if Towergate had done nothing 
wrong.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. In summary he made the following points:
Towergate took two and a half years, after his acceptance of its offer of 
compensation, to request the in-specie transfer of the funds.
His IFA had previously alerted him and Towergate to the potential tax consequences 
of a segment surrender.
The funds were held within an offshore investment bond and Towergate advised that 
the only way to complete the in-specie transfer was by way of segment surrender, 
and it should have made him aware of the consequences of this.
He should have made been made aware by the adjudicator in his previous complaint, 
or by Towergate, that the transfer required by the settlement would involve a 
chargeable event.
He wrote to Towergate on 5 May 2015 and it responded on 11 May 2015 confirming 
it would be responsible for any income tax liability arising from a chargeable event.
Before he agreed the withdrawal from the offshore investment bond to facilitate the 
in-specie transfer his IFA wrote to Towergate in October 2016 requesting 
confirmation it would pay any income tax liability arising from a chargeable event.
In its response of 7 October 2016 Towergate said the withdrawal had been 
completed in the most tax efficient way possible and that if the IFA identified that he 
had incurred a tax liability beyond that which would have been incurred through a 
more suitable means it would take the steps necessary to remedy the situation.
Towergate was aware, or shouldve been, that based on the prevailing Net Asset 
Value (NAV) of the NMPIs the segment surrender, and subsequent chargeable 
event, would result in an unavoidable income tax liability.
The policy was written on multiple lives last event basis which allowed assignment of 
policy segments to new owners and if he had done this there would not have been 
any chargeable event or income tax liability arising.
I asked for Mr Ms explanation as to how tax would have been avoided if Towergate had 
requested assignment. In his response he said that if the segments had been assigned to 
Towergate this would have been for a consideration and so taxable in his hands. However, 
he suggested Towergate could have applied a nil value to the NAV based on its real value - 
as referred to in its response to his complaint  and he wouldnt then have incurred any 
income tax. He said that Towergate and HMRC could have then argued whether the funds 
had value and paid any taxes due accordingly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator that this complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
I acknowledge Mr Ms strength of feeling about the responsibility he feels Towergate has for 
the tax that he has had to pay as a result of the transfer of his funds. But having considered 
all the evidence Im not satisfied Towergate has any responsibility for the tax he has paid as 
a result of the transfer in 2016.
His IFA wrote to Towergate on 3 October 2016 and said that Mr wanted to ensure that the 
in-specie transfer of the funds by means of segment surrender did not result in chargeable 
events and subsequent income tax liabilities and that the understanding, from previous 
correspondence, was that Towergate would pay any income tax liability. The IFA asked for 
confirmation that this was the case.  
I have noted the reference to previous correspondence and the reference by Mr M to an 
agreement in 2015 that Towergate would pay the tax. However, I have not seen any 
evidence that shows there was an agreement by Towergate to pay any and all tax liabilities 
arising. The IFAs letter of 3 October 2016 asking for confirmation there was such an 
agreement indicates there wasnt an open-ended agreement it would pay any tax liability no 
matter how this arose. 
And whilst the IFA asked in his letter for confirmation that a tax liability wont arise, the decision to go ahead with the surrender doesnt appear to have been dependent on the 
answer to this - given the IFAs letter refers to the surrender forms having already been sent 
to the provider. 
Towergate responded to the letter on 6 October 2016 and said that:
Our primary objective is to place the clients as close as possible to the position they would 
be in had the unsuitable advice not occurred. In line with previous correspondence, please 
be assured that this includes making good any undue or punitive tax liability your clients 
have incurred as a result of our actions.
The Request for Payment paperwork was completed to ensure that the withdrawal was 
executed in the most tax effective manner possible. Should you identify that the client has 
incurred any tax liability beyond what the client would ordinarily have incurred via a more 
suitable course of action, please let us know and we will take the necessary steps to remedy 
the situation.
I think this sets out the extent of an any possible responsibility Towergate has for tax 
payable by Mr M. The first paragraph indicates that Towergate would only pay a tax liability 
that was punitive or undue. I think the second paragraph clarifies what it means by this, in 
that it indicated that Towergate would remedy the situation if Mr M established that the 
transfer could have been done in a more suitable way which would have meant less tax 
being payable. This falls a long way short of it agreeing to pay any tax resulting from the 
transfer.
I have seen no evidence that the IFA or Mr M went back to Towergate and argued that what 
it had said wasnt in accordance with what had been discussed previously. This reinforces 
the view that there wasnt a previous open-ended agreement to pay the tax.
Mr M suggests that Towergate should have asked for segments to be assigned to it, but he 
accepts that if it had done this it would have been for a consideration. However, he then 
suggests it could have applied a nil value based on the real NAV of the underlying assets - 
so that he would then have had no tax to pay. He says that Towergate could then have 
argued with HMRC as to whether the segments assigned had a value and pay any tax due 
accordingly.
Im not persuaded this was something it should have done, or that this was a suitable way 
for the segments to be transferred to it. Im not satisfied that it would have been appropriate 
for Towergate to have shown the NAV as nil at the time of the transfer from Mr M, when this 
isnt the figure that was showing for the fund. In other words, it wasnt for Towergate to 
specify the NAV for the fund.
Even if Towergate had done this there is no reason to think that HMRC would have 
accepted the NAV was nil at the time of transfer. This argument has in effect already been 
put to HMRC, without success, by Mr M. It isnt possible to say that the same argument put 
by Towergate would have had any more chance of success. In the circumstances it is more 
likely than not that the tax Mr M has paid would still have been payable even if Towergate 
had done what Mr M suggested.
Mr M has suggested that in that case Towergate could have simply paid whatever tax HMRC 
deemed payable. But, as I have already said, I am not persuaded that Towergate agreed to 
pay tax in any circumstance. It agreed to pay punitive or undue tax which, as explained in its 
letter, meant tax that would not have been payable if a more suitable way of transferring the 
investment had been used. This wouldnt be the case if tax was still payable after 
unsuccessfully arguing with HMRC that the NAV was nil.I am sorry to disappoint Mr M, but based on the evidence that has been provided Im not 
satisfied that Towergate has any obligation to pay him the amount he has paid to HMRC as 
a result of the transfer of his funds to it in accordance with the outcome of his previous 
complaint.
My final decision
 I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman