DRN-3139792
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the increase his motor insurer Skyfire Insurance Company 
Limited (Skyfire) applied to his motor insurance premium when the perceived mileage on the 
policy increased.
What happened
Mr H took out a motor insurance policy with Skyfire in November 2020. The policy was 
based on an estimated mileage for the year being 1,500 miles and the premium was 
£196.42. The mileage on the policy was later amended from 1,500 miles to 15,000 miles and 
an additional premium of £65.47 was applied to Mr Hs policy.
Our Investigator considered the evidence provided by both Mr H and Skyfire and thought the 
increase in premium Skyfire had requested was fair. Mr H disagreed; he said when he was 
first looking to take the policy there was very little difference in the premiums quoted when 
the mileage was changed from 1,500 to 15,000.
As Mr H didnt agree this complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to explain that we cannot tell a business how it should price its policies, 
as this is the role of the regulator. I will be looking at whether Skyfire acted fairly when it 
increased Mr Hs premium and treated him as it would any other customer under the same 
circumstances.
Skyfire has provided an explanation as to how it arrived at the new premium it requested 
from Mr H when the mileage recorded on the policy changed. This information is 
commercially sensitive as it includes the pricing structure Skyfire uses to arrive at its 
premiums. So, I am unable to share this with Mr H.
The tables and calculations used by Skyfire show that it has priced Mr Hs policy in the same 
way it would have any other customer in the same position. So, I cant say it has treated Mr 
H unfairly.
I appreciate what Mr H has said about the quotes he obtained online, but this doesnt 
change my decision. These quotes were obtained at a different time to when Mr H applied 
for his policy and the overall premium is also very different to that he was asked to pay. 
Premium calculations change regularly so a quote obtained one day can and, in this case, 
did differ on different days.
Skyfire has applied the increase to Mr Hs policy in the way I would have expected it to. Also, 
the mileage recorded on Mr Hs policy increased by ten times the original estimate so, I am 
not surprised Skyfire found this to pose an additional risk. I dont think the increase of £65.47 
is excessive, and I wont be asking Skyfire to do anything to resolve Mr Hs complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman