DRN-3684860
The complaint
Mrs W complains that AWP P&C SA didnt fully settle a claim he made on her motor 
warranty.
What happened
Mrs W holds a motor warranty with AWP. When her car developed a fault, it was taken to a 
repairer to diagnose the problem.
Mrs W says the repairer refused to submit a claim on her warranty and said the problem with 
her car was driver error. So, reluctantly Mrs W authorised and paid for the repairs herself 
and submitted a claim for the costs to AWP herself. While the repairs were being carried out, 
further work was identified by the repairer. This further work was submitted as a claim on the 
warranty and subsequently accepted by AWP.
Mrs W is complaining about the cost she incurred. Shes said after she submitted the claim 
to AWP directly, she heard nothing back and doesnt understand why this part of the claim 
isnt covered, but the second part is.
Our investigator recommended Mrs Ws complaint be upheld. They said theyd asked for 
information from AWP but hadnt received anything. So, they recommended AWP pay the 
first part of Mrs Ws claim.
Mrs W accepted our investigators assessment. AWP, despite numerous chasers, didnt 
respond. So, the case has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill explain why.
Weve received very little information and evidence on this case from AWP. Theres a small 
email train explaining it paid part of the claim to the repairer. The email says AWP doesnt 
think its responsible for the remaining bill, but its not entirely clear why. Our investigator 
asked AWP to provide evidence to support its position, but no further information was 
provided.
So, based on that little information, our investigator didnt think AWP had done enough to 
show why this claim wasnt covered. So, they recommended AWP pay Mrs W the invoice 
shed presented (£727.96) minus the policy excess (£100)  a total of £627.96. Our 
investigator also said simple interest of 8% should be added to that payment from the date 
Mrs W paid it to the date AWP pay her.
AWP didnt respond to this view. So, as well as not having much information on why AWP 
arent paying this claim, theres no information as to whether or why they disagree with our 
investigators view.
So, on that basis, Im also upholding this complaint. Mrs W has presented what looks like a 
valid claim. It would be for AWP to evidence why it feels this claim shouldnt be paid. And Im 
not satisfied its done this despite being given multiple opportunities to do so, so it should 
pay Mrs Ws claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. To put things right AWP P&C SA 
need to
Settle Mrs Ws claim by paying her £627.96  which equates to the invoice she paid 
minus the policy excess. Simple interest of 8% should be added to this payment. 
Interest should be calculated from the date Mrs W paid the invoice to the date AWP 
pay her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman