DRN-3199916
The complaint
Mr J complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him two term assurance policies and 
told him both would have a maturity value.
What happened
In 2008 Mr J met with Lloyds and discussed his protection needs.
A decreasing term assurance policy was recommended to protect his mortgage and provide 
life cover initially at a value of £125,000. The second policy recommended provided life 
cover and critical illness cover on an increasing basis over 10 years  initially valued at 
£25,000.
Mr J complained recently. He felt the policies were mis-sold as he was led to believe they 
had a cash-in value at maturity. Lloyds disagreed, and the complaint was referred to our 
service.
Our Investigator found the policies were a suitable recommendation at the time and that 
Lloyds had provided correct information regarding the policy benefits and their lack of 
maturity value. They didnt think there was enough evidence to suggest that any discussion 
which took place at the point of sale had suggested the policies would mature.
Mr J disagreed. He provided no further commentary in response to our Investigators opinion 
but requested that an Ombudsman review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key considerations are whether Lloyds did enough to effectively communicate that the 
policies had no cash-in value at the outset, and whether the policies recommended were 
suitable for Mr J.
Mr J has said he agreed to take out the policies because he was told they would pay out in a 
similar way to an endowment policy. I recognise Mr Js recollections about the time of sale, 
but I must weigh his recollections against the consideration of any documentary evidence 
available and decide what is most likely to have happened. Having done so, Im not satisfied 
that there is enough evidence to persuade me that, more likely than not, Mr J was told or led 
to believe the policy would mature and provide a lump sum.
This is because I havent seen anything to suggest the policies had a cash-in value. The key 
features documents for the policies state Theres no cash-in valueat any time. The 
illustration also confirms: If you stop any policy in this plan you do not get any money back. 
And the suitability letter Lloyds sent reiterated that there was no cash value at any time. As 
there is no savings element detailed in any of the documentation available, Im satisfied that 
it was reasonably clear the policies had no cash-in value.
Whilst I appreciate that I cant say with certainty what was discussed verbally at the time of 
sale, all documentation available explains how the policies werent designed to mature or 
pay out a final sum. Im satisfied the documentation is the most reliable representation of 
what happened available to me. So, I cant reasonably conclude that Lloyds misled Mr J 
about the nature of these policies as the balance of evidence doesnt support this. Im 
satisfied that Mr J was reasonably informed that the policies were designed to provide critical 
illness and life protection, with no cash-in value.
Regardless, Id still expect both policies to be a suitable recommendation based on all the 
information Lloyds was given by Mr J at the time. Ive considered whether the policies were 
suitable for Mr Js needs based on the information he disclosed.
The fact-find completed at the time records Mr J as 51 years old, employed, and married 
with no children. It noted Mr J had a mortgage worth £125,000 with a remaining term of 23 
years. He also had two existing decreasing term assurance policies with a combined benefit 
of £71,000. 
Mr Js existing policies wouldve left a shortfall of £54,000 had he passed away, so I can see 
why Lloyds wouldve recommended that he cancel his existing cover and take out a new 
decreasing policy which matched his mortgage. Mr J had a clear need for protection which 
had the primary purpose of providing a lump sum to cover his mortgage in the event of his 
death. The cover recommended meant that should Mr J die within its term the property 
would be able to be left to his partner.
Taking into consideration his recorded income and expenditure the policy recommended 
also appears to have been affordable for Mr J when it was taken out. Ive seen no evidence 
to suggest the costs of premiums were unaffordable at the point of sale and Lloyds have 
also confirmed it wouldve been more expensive for Mr J to combine his cover with his 
partners. Im satisfied that Lloyds recommendation was suitable.
Equally the recommendation for increasing term assurance which provided life and critical 
illness cover provided a benefit which Im satisfied there was a clear need for. Mr Js fact find 
indicated that he was interested in taking out some critical illness cover  but that Scottish 
Widows did not offer a critical illness policy that would cover Mr Js mortgage for someone in 
his circumstance. It was noted:
If you wanted to cover the new mortgage for critical illness, you would need to 
see an IFA who may be able to offer a policy, but at present you do not wish to 
look at that area but may review it when you shorten the mortgage term.
The documentation available shows Lloyds couldnt offer a critical illness policy for his 
mortgage, but that Mr J had indicated he still wanted some cover to maintain his lifestyle in 
the event of being diagnosed with a critical illness. It was recorded that Mr J wanted cover to 
assist with making home improvements and adjustments following the diagnosis of any 
critical illness, and Im satisfied the policy recommended would fulfil that need.
The policy recommended fulfilled a different need to the decreasing term assurance also 
recommended  if Mr J became critically ill this policy would help to maintain his lifestyle. 
Looking at Mr Js expenditure, this policy also appears to have also been affordable. 
Im satisfied this policy was also a suitable recommendation, and that the two policies 
provided different benefits for different purposes.As the policies met Mr Js recorded needs, Im satisfied that the recommendation was 
suitable in the circumstances. As I think Lloyds recommendation was suitable, and I think it 
was clear about what benefits each policy offered, I wont be asking it to do any more.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman