DRN-4354009
Complaint
Mr B has complained about personal loans Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to him. He 
says the loans were unaffordable and were therefore irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
L2G provided Mr B with a loan for £1,700.00 in February 2021. This loan had an APR of 
253.7% and a term of 24 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£4,923.12, including interest, fees and charges of £3,223.12, was due to be repaid in         
24 monthly instalments of £205.13. 
L2G then provided Mr B with a second loan for £500 in March 2023. But Mr B withdrew from 
this application and no interest was paid as a result. 
Mr B was then provided with a third loan for £320 in May 2023. This loan had an APR of 
770% and a term of 18 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £1,184.04, 
including interest, fees and charges of £864.04, was due to be repaid in 18 monthly 
instalments of £65.78.
As Mr B withdrew without penalty from loan 2, weve not looked into the circumstances 
behind that application. And any and all reference to loans from this point forward is in 
relation to loans 1 and 3.
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Bs complaint and thought that L2G shouldnt have 
provided any of these loans to Mr B. L2G disagreed with our adjudicators assessment. So 
the case was passed to an ombudsman as per the next step of our dispute resolution 
process. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Bs complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
L2G needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is L2G 
needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr B could afford 
to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Im concerned that L2Gs own checks in the lead up to loan 1 showed that hes had recent 
payment difficulties in the form of some missed payments and others accounts that were 
close to their limits. I can also see that Mr B had taken out a number of payday loans too. 
I do appreciate that Mr B repaid loan 1 ahead of schedule. But the credit search does show 
that Mr B took out loans elsewhere as his indebtedness had grown. And Mr B appears to 
have defaulted on an account and had taken out an increased number of payday loans too. 
So I think that further enquiries into Mr Bs circumstances were warranted before loans 1 and 
3 were provided.
Mr B has now provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he applied 
for his loans. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And just 
because something shows up in the information Mr B has provided, it doesnt mean it would 
have shown up in any checks L2G might have carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from L2G showing what this information would have 
shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable weight 
on what this information says as an indication of what Mr Bs financial circumstances were 
more likely than not to have been at the time. 
Its also important to note that L2G was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably 
make his loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The loan payments being affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence basis might be an indication that a consumer could sustainably make the 
repayments. 
But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to 
borrow further in order to make their payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to sustainably make 
their repayments if it is on notice that they are unlikely to be able to make their repayments 
without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered the information available in light of all of this.
The information provided shows that Mr B was already struggling to manage and finding it 
difficult to make the payments to his existing commitments. Given this, it is apparent to me 
that Mr B was unlikely to have been able to repay these loans without borrowing further or 
experiencing financial difficulty. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Bs existing financial position meant that he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the repayments to these loans, without undue difficulty or 
borrowing further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more 
like than not have shown L2G that it shouldnt have provided these loans to Mr B. 
As L2G provided Mr B with these loans, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied that it failed to act 
fairly and reasonably towards him. And Im upholding this complaint. Mr B ended up paying (and is still being expected to pay) interest, fees and charges on loans 
he shouldnt have been provided with. So Im satisfied that Mr B lost out because of what 
L2G did wrong and it now needs to put things right for Mr B.
Fair compensation  what L2G needs to do to put things right for Mr B
Having thought about everything, Im satisfied that L2G should put things right for Mr B by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr B paid on loan 1;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mr B to the date of settlement
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 3 from the outset. The 
payments Mr B made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £320 
originally lent. If Mr B has already repaid more than £320 then L2G should treat any 
extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mr B. Should 
an outstanding balance remaining remain after all adjustments have been made, L2G 
can use the compensation due from loan 1 to clear whatever is left to pay on loan 3;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr B to the date of settlement
removing any and all adverse information it recorded about these loans from Mr Bs 
credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give           
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman