DRN-4362417
The complaint
Mrs N is unhappy with how esure Insurance Limited (Esure) settled a third-party claim under
her car insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs N has a car insurance policy with Esure.
In January 2022, Mrs Ns neighbour accused her of damaging their vehicle whilst she was
parking outside her house.
A claim was made to Esure by the neighbour who also provided CCTV footage of the
alleged incident. After consideration of the information provided, Esure accepted the claim
made by the third-party, settled it as a fault claim and paid for repairs to the third-party
vehicle.
Mrs N is unhappy Esure settled the claim as fault and paid for the repairs claimed for by the
neighbour, so she approached this service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but he didnt uphold it. He said it wasnt
his role to decide who was responsible for the claim, but he said Esure had considered
matters several times and reached a reasonable conclusion to settle the third-party claim.
However, he also explained that Esure had offered £100 for the poor communication during
the claim, and he thought that was fair.
Mrs N didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I was minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator, so I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings, before I 
reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive reached a different outcome to our investigator, Im issuing a provisional 
decision to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I 
reach my final decision.
As explained to Mrs N by our investigator, the role of this service isnt to decide who 
is responsible or liable for a claim. That is the role of the courts. Instead, we consider 
whether an insurer has conducted a reasonable investigation and reached a 
reasonable conclusion based on the information they had.
Mrs Ns policy terms explain:
We have full discretion in the settlement of your claim or any legal 
proceedings which may arise and we may take over, defend or settle the 
claim in your name for our own benefit.
So, the policy terms allow Esure to decide whether to settle a claim or not, and an 
insurer having discretion to make the decision is common across motor insurance 
policies.
Esure considered the CCTV footage provided by the third party (who didnt give 
permission for it to be shared). This showed Mrs N reversing and hitting the parked 
vehicle, which was said to be left moving afterwards, showing an impact occurred. 
Esure said that if the claim was taken to court, based on their experience of claims 
such as this, the court would most likely say Mrs N was responsible for the incident. 
So, they accepted Mrs N was liable for the incident that occurred.
Based on this, I dont think Esure reached an unreasonable conclusion that as Mrs N 
hit the third-party vehicle, they would be responsible as her insurer for damage which 
was caused by this.
However, whilst I dont think Esure reached an unreasonable conclusion on holding 
Mrs N responsible for the incident itself, I dont think Esure reasonably settled all the 
damage claimed for by the neighbour. Ill explain why.
Ive not seen the CCTV footage of the incident itself as Esure hasnt been able to 
provide another copy as the link from the third party has expired. But what I have 
seen is both video and photographic evidence provided by Mrs N of both vehicles 
immediately after the incident occurred.
Im not entirely sure whether Esure has actually reviewed the video they were sent by 
Mrs N of both her car and the third-party vehicle, as it is only showing its been 
played back five times. Three of these were me when considering things, and I 
assume at least one was our investigator.
Both the video and photos dont show any damage to Mrs Ns car consistent with the 
alleged incident. The damage being claimed for by the third party is to the grill, and 
the front bumper of their car.
The grill is set some way back from the front of the car, behind the number plate, 
front camera, manufacturer badge and surround - I estimate around 10cms inset 
from the most forward point of the vehicle. So, to be able to impact that area and 
cause damage to the grill, I think there would be visible signs both on Mrs Ns car, 
and to the number plate, bumper, camera and badge on the third-party vehicle. But 
instead, there isnt any other damage, besides the set-back grill in isolation.
I think it should have been evident to Esure that, on balance, to cause this damage to 
the grill but no other damage in the surrounding area would have been incredibly 
difficult given the incident that occurred.
The bumper on the third-party vehicle also has a deep gouge that has been claimed 
for. The bumper is angled from the front and most forward point of the third-party 
vehicle. Mrs Ns car has a smooth rear bumper. I also fail to see how that gouge damage could be caused in the incident either, given the angles, and no evidence of 
corresponding damage to Mrs Ns car either.
So, whilst Esure acted reasonably in accepting Mrs Ns car hit the third-party, and 
therefore theyd be responsible for damage actually caused during this impact, I dont 
think they acted fairly by simply accepting these repairs being claimed for without 
question, as I fail to see how they correspond with the incident that occurred.
It does seem from the internal notes I have seen that Esure held a similar view in the 
early stages of the claim too, before then simply accepting the repair costs on the 
basis there was an impact, without actually considering the likelihood of the claimed 
for damage occurring.
However, Esure has accepted the claim and associated repairs, so it is too late now 
for this to be challenged. So, I need to consider what else Esure can do instead to 
put things right.
Mrs Ns claim has been recorded as fault, with her no claims discount being reduced. 
Whilst I accept Mrs N would be responsible for hitting the third party, on balance, I 
dont think the damage being claimed for corresponds with this. And if there was no 
specific damage as a result of the impact itself, then there wouldnt have been 
anything for Esure to pay to settle the claim. This would mean there was no outlay, 
and the claim wouldnt have been recorded as fault if there was no damage, or 
associated repair costs.
Therefore, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional 
decision, Im minded to direct Esure to amend its internal and external records to 
reflect the claim as non-fault and reinstate Mrs Ns no claims discount.
I cant ask Esure to amend the amount of the claim costs recorded externally as this 
needs to be accurate for the costs Esure actually incurred  whether they incurred it 
incorrectly or not. However, what this does mean is that Mrs N will have around 
£2,700 of claims costs recorded against her name and driving history, even after it is 
amended to non-fault. Im minded to conclude Mrs N should also be paid a further 
£300 compensation by Esure for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
accepting and settling the claim without question, and the impact of this on her 
driving records.
This would be in addition to the £100 compensation Esure has offered for poor
communication during the claim, which I dont think is unreasonable for the 
communication issues alone.
So, I was minded to uphold the complaint and to direct Esure to pay a total of £400 
compensation, amend the claim internally and externally to non-fault and reinstate Mrs Ns 
no claims bonus.The responses to my provisional decision
Mrs N responded and agreed with the provisional decision.
Esure also responded and confirmed they agreed with the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the provisional conclusions I reached. As both parties 
accepted my provisional decision, and neither party has provided anything which would lead 
me to depart from this, my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, and 
for the same reasons.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct esure Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mrs N a total of £400 compensation
Amend the claim internally and externally to non-fault
Reinstate Mrs Ns no claims bonus
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman