DRN-3420752
The complaint
Mr O complains about the level of service provided by AXA Insurance UK Plc after he made 
a claim on his motor insurance policy. He wants compensation for his trouble and upset.
 
What happened
Mr O was involved in an accident and made a claim on his policy. AXA took his car for 
repairs and provided a courtesy car. The courtesy car broke down and Mr O was provided 
with roadside assistance. A roadside repair couldnt be made and so Mr O said he had to 
wait on the roadside for eighteen hours for recovery. He said this caused him physical harm, 
inconvenience and upset. He was also unhappy that the replacement car didnt suit his 
needs. 
AXA offered Mr O £50 compensation for twice providing a manual rather than an automatic 
courtesy car. But Mr O thought AXA was responsible for the failures of the courtesy car 
company and the roadside assistance company. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought AXAs 
offer of compensation for not providing the automatic car was fair and reasonable. He 
thought Mr O had been provided with the car size in keeping with the policys terms and 
conditions. 
But he thought the roadside assistance company wasnt an agent of AXA and the service 
hadnt been provided under Mr Os policy. So he thought Mr O should raise this concern with 
the courtesy car provider so that the roadside assistance company could investigate his 
complaint.
Mr O replied that he thought AXA was responsible for the services provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about Mr Os unfortunate experiences and the effects these had on his 
health. I can understand that he felt let down by the service he received and that he wants 
his complaint addressed. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that AXA accepts that it twice arranged for a manual courtesy car for Mr O rather 
than the automatic he required. AXA offered Mr O £50 compensation for this inconvenience. 
I think thats in keeping with our published guidance for the level of trouble caused. And so I 
think that was fair and reasonable.
Mr O was unhappy with the replacement courtesy car provided as it was too small for his 
needs. But I think the courtesy car provided by the policy is clearly described as a small car. 
If Mr O had taken out enhanced cover then he would have been entitled to a like for like 
replacement. But he hadnt chosen this option. So I cant say that Mr O wasnt provided with 
a car in keeping with the policys terms and conditions. 
Mr O thought AXA was responsible for his experience after the courtesy car broke down. But 
I dont agree. The roadside assistance wasnt provided under his policy. And the roadside 
assistance company wasnt acting as an agent of AXA. From what I can see, the roadside 
assistance company was instructed by the courtesy car provider. So I think Mr O should 
raise his concern with it so that his complaint about the service he received can be 
investigated. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman