DRN-3780812
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as F, complains that Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) has 
declined a buildings insurance claim for damage to its commercial property caused by water 
ingress. 
Mr H, who is a director of F, brings the complaint on Fs behalf. For ease of reading, Ill refer 
to all actions and comments of Mr H and his representative as being those of F.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them at length 
here. 
Briefly, F lets a commercial property which benefits from a buildings insurance policy 
provided by the areas local council. 
In 2019 Fs property suffered damage caused by water ingress from rain. The water was 
penetrating from a deteriorated flat roof which serves as access to the domestic flats above. 
F said that it contacted its local council on a number of occasions over the last three years 
regarding the flat roof which had suffered deterioration however work to repair the roof didnt 
commence until March 2021. While the flat roof remained in a poor condition, water ingress 
caused damage to Fs property over a number of years. 
In September 2020 F made a buildings insurance claim against the local councils Property 
Owners insurance policy for the internal damage caused by the water ingress. In March 
2021 a loss adjuster visited Fs property to inspect the damage and produced a report on his 
findings. 
F told the loss adjuster that water had been penetrating through the deteriorated flat roof 
section at the rear of the property for approximately three years while waiting for repairs to 
be carried to the flat roof by the local council. 
As well as the water ingress, the loss adjuster also found that blocked drains had caused 
flooding in the property which damaged stock and equipment. As well as this there were 
other maintenance issues identified such as the exterior pointing in poor condition causing 
gradual water ingress through the walls and a significant gap at the rear of the building 
between the brick coursing and pavement causing rainwater to enter into the basement. The 
loss adjuster advised that these were maintenance issues which fell outside the scope of this 
policy. In addition to this, the damage to stock and equipment would need to be claimed 
against Fs own insurance policy.  
The loss adjuster said in his report that the water penetration over the last few years had 
resulted in significant deterioration of the ceiling throughout the property and also stained 
flooring. He also commented on the general condition of the property, which he referred to 
being in poor condition and has suffered damage as a result of deterioration and general 
wear and tear. The loss adjuster concluded that due to the considerable delay in reporting 
the claim and the local councils failure in mitigating the damage despite being aware of it for 
three years had prejudiced Zurichs position. Zurich therefore declined the claim on the basis 
that the damage was as a result of deterioration and general wear and tear which were 
excluded under the policy.  
Zurich did however accept that there was a delay in the claims teams response to F when it 
reported the claim and therefore, they paid F £250 compensation for any inconvenience 
caused. 
F is dissatisfied that the claim for damage to its property has been turned down, while 
neighbouring properties have had the same claim paid by the insurer. 
Our investigator considered the issues raised but didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. In summary she said that she couldnt comment on why other claims may have been 
paid by Zurich as her role was to consider the complaint at hand about Fs claim. In 
considering Fs complaint, our investigator said she was satisfied that the damage was as a 
result of gradual deterioration and wear and tear, therefore Zurich had acted correctly in 
declining the claim. 
F didnt accept our investigators findings. It believed that the water ingress in 2019 and the 
subsequent floods caused the damage to the property  there was no damage prior to these 
events taking place and therefore the damage should be covered. So, because no 
agreement had been reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint centres on Zurichs decision to decline Fs claim. The relevant 
rules and industry guidance say that Zurich has a responsibility to handle the claims 
promptly and fairly and they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I have to decide if I think 
Zurich have applied the terms of the policy in a fair and reasonable manner when declining 
Fs claim. Having reviewed everything available to me, overall, I think they did, Ill explain 
why.
In Fs complaint to this service, it said that similar claims for its neighbouring properties have 
been paid however Zurich declined Fs claim. I agree with the investigator that we can only 
consider how Zurich have handled the claim relating to Fs property and therefore I cant 
comment on why Zurich may have settled other claims for neighbouring properties. 
From the evidence that I have seen and based on what F has said, the deteriorated flat roof 
caused water ingress from rainfall and a result damaged the interior of Fs property. F also 
said there have been a number of floods which damaged stock and equipment. The floods 
seem to relate to blocked drains. I agree with the loss adjuster that these issues are 
maintenance matters and not the responsibility of Zurich. I am also satisfied that damage to 
Fs stock and equipment is not covered under this insurance policy because there is no 
cover for contents in the premises. F would therefore need to consider raising a separate 
claim for the damage to its stock and equipment under its own contents insurance policy if it 
has one.  
The buildings insurance policy provided cover for accidental damage and theres no dispute 
that theres damage to the interior of Fs property. Accidental damage cover would typically 
cover the type of claim made by F  damage to the interior of the building such as ceilings 
and walls caused by water ingress. I therefore need to consider whether Zurich have correctly applied an exclusion when declining Fs claim. 
The insurance schedule specifies exclusions for accidental damage and the one most 
relevant to Fs claim and that has been relied on by Zurich states: 
Accidental Damage being all risks of damage to the property insured excluding:
(b) damage or business interruption caused by or consisting of: 
(i) inherent vice, latent defect, gradual deterioration, wear and tear, its own faulty or 
defective design or materials 
Zurich said that F told their loss adjuster the water ingress had been a problem for several 
years and that it made many attempts to report the issue with the flat roof to the local council 
however no progress was made until March 2021 when works were scheduled for the repair 
to the flat roof - the source of the problem. 
From the images Ive seen in the loss adjusters report, it seems to me that the property was 
already in a poor condition and suffering from wear and tear. Im persuaded by this 
evidence, and what F has said about the water ingress being a problem for several years, 
that the damage being claimed is as a result of gradual deterioration and wear and tear 
which had happened over a number of years. 
Having thought about all the evidence I have seen, in my opinion its more likely than not the 
damage was caused by wear and tear over a period of time as described by Zurich. So on 
balance, I think the decision that Zurich have come to, that the damage to the interior of Fs 
property is caused by gradual deterioration and wear and tear over time, which is specifically 
excluded under the policy, was fair. 
In addition to the above exclusion, the policy terms also outline the claims procedure, which 
states: 
6. Claims Procedures
(a) Action by the insured
On the happening of any event which could give rise to a claim or on receiving verbal 
or written notice of any claim the insured will: 
i) As soon as possible give notice to the insurer 
iii) At the insureds own expense and within:
3) 30 days in all other cases 
Supply full details of the claim in writing to the insurer together with any 
evidence and information that may be required by the insurer for the purpose 
of investigating or verifying the claim. 
Im satisfied that both F and the local council were aware of the water ingress and the 
damage caused by it over a number of years however no action was taken to mitigate the 
damage. It is evident that there was a considerable delay in reporting the claim to Zurich and 
as such Im satisfied that Zurich werent notified of the claim within the timescale specified in 
the policy. I therefore believe that Zurichs position was prejudiced as they were unable to 
investigate or verify the claim. Overall, while I sympathise with F because of the damage its property suffered, Im satisfied 
that Zurich fairly declined the claim in question in line with the policy. While I agree that 
Zurichs decision was fair, I do note that there was a delay on Zurichs part in responding to 
F when it reported the claim. Im not however persuaded that this delay contributed to the 
overall damage being claimed for. I say this because the water ingress had already been an 
issue for several years by this point and so I dont think the delay by Zurich would have 
contributed to the extent of that damage. As such, I think Zurichs offer of £250 for the 
inconvenience caused is fair and reasonable.  
Taking everything into account, I think that Zurichs decision to decline the claim, based on 
the exclusion they relied on, was fair and reasonable. I understand that this wont be the 
outcome that F wouldve liked but, I cant reasonably ask Zurich to do anything further to 
resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman