DRN-3273687
The complaint
Mr V complains about delays and poor service from Barclays Bank UK PLC with his 
residential and let to buy mortgage applications. Mr V says due to the delays he had to 
borrow elsewhere at a higher interest rate. He asks that Barclays pays compensation.
What happened
In 2021 Mr V applied to Barclays for a residential mortgage to buy a property. He also 
applied for a let to buy mortgage to repay the residential mortgage on the property he 
already owned. It was a condition of the residential mortgage offer that Mr V repay his 
existing mortgage. For this, he needed the let to buy mortgage to complete at the same time 
as his purchase.
Mr V says the vendor of the property he wanted to buy said if he couldnt complete by a 
certain date theyd withdraw from the sale. He says by this time five weeks had elapsed 
since he made his let to buy application to Barclays and he hadnt received an offer. Not 
wanting to risk losing the property, he decided to accept a mortgage offer from a different 
lender despite the interest rate being higher. 
Barclays said while it had made errors and caused delays it had acted within its own 
timescales. It offered £150 compensation.
Our investigator said Mr V made a decision to accept the mortgage offer he had from 
another lender, rather than risk his purchase falling through. The investigator said Barclays 
wasnt responsible for the vendor threatening to withdraw or for the decision Mr V made.
Our investigator said Barclays did make errors. Despite this causing some delays the overall 
time Barclays took to process the application wasnt unreasonable. The investigator said the 
£150 offered by Barclays for the inconvenience caused was reasonable.
Mr V didnt agree. He emphasised that the vendor had said theyd withdraw from the sale if 
he couldnt complete by a certain date.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr V says he applied for a residential mortgage and a let to buy mortgage at the end of July 
2021. Barclays says the applications were submitted with supporting documents in mid-
August.
Barclays issued an offer for the residential mortgage before the end of August 2021. While 
this was in time for Mr V to exchange contracts for his purchase, it was a condition of the 
offer that Mr Vs existing residential mortgage was repaid. This meant he also needed the let 
to buy mortgage offer. 
Barclays issued the let to buy mortgage offer on 13 September 2021. Mr V says this was too 
late. Concerned his purchase would fall through, Mr V had accepted a mortgage offer from 
another lender and exchanged contracts on 3 September 2021 with completion on 8 
September 2021.
Mr V says the vendor made it clear theyd withdraw from the sale if he couldnt complete by 
a certain date. Property purchases can be stressful and I understand this deadline would 
have added to the stress. Mr V had to choose whether to accept the mortgage offer he had, 
despite the higher interest rate, and secure the property. Or wait for the offer from Barclays 
and hope his vendor didnt withdraw from the sale in the meantime. I appreciate that Mr V 
had to make a difficult choice. But I dont think this in itself makes it fair to require Barclays to 
pay compensation.
Barclays says Mr V made the application and provided supporting documents for the let to 
buy mortgage in mid-August. But even if, as Mr V says, he did this at the end of 
July/beginning of August, this would have given Barclays less than five weeks to process the 
application and issue an offer in time for exchange of contracts on 3 September 2021. 
Barclays says while it made errors which caused some delays in the let to buy application, it 
progressed the application within its own timescales. I understand that Mr V would have 
preferred the residential mortgage from Barclays, which he says was cheaper than the one 
he took out. Barclays could have progressed the application more quickly, although I dont 
know if the offer would have been made in time for contracts to be exchanged on 3 
September if it hadnt made any errors. Overall though, I dont think Barclays timescales 
were unreasonable. I dont think Barclays caused delays such as to make it fair and 
reasonable to require it to pay compensation for Mr V taking out a mortgage with another 
lender. 
However, the errors made by Barclays did cause Mr V inconvenience and upset. There were 
some delays with his applications. And Barclays gave Mr V incorrect information when he 
first tried to make a complaint. Barclays offered £150 compensation for this, which I think is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that Barclay Bank UK Plc should pay £150 to Mr V, if it hasnt already done 
so. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman