DRN-3299742
The complaint
This complaint is about the way in which Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) dealt with a property 
formerly owned by Mr and Mrs A (and mortgaged to BoS). Mr and Mrs A say that, due to 
delay by BoS in dealing with the property, they suffered financial loss, distress and upset. 
They are asking BoS to pay substantial compensation.
The complaint has been brought in the joint names of Mr and Mrs A, but all our dealings 
have been with Mrs A.
What happened
What happened can be summarised fairly briefly. This is because BoS has agreed that it 
didnt take action to sell the property within a reasonable time. As a result, BoS has accepted 
our investigators findings that compensation should be paid for the period November 2014 
to December 2016. Consequently, I dont need to go into detail about what happened in 
order to establish who is at fault; the only issue in dispute is the amount of compensation 
payable.
In addition, what happened has been set out in detail in our investigators correspondence 
with Mr and Mrs A and BoS. Because our decisions are published, I must be careful not to 
include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs A being identified. For these reasons, I 
will not set out the full history of this matter.
Briefly, Mr and Mrs A owned a property mortgaged to BoS. They fell into arrears and a 
possession order was granted in favour of the bank in 2014. The bank was able to take 
possession in November 2014, but didnt do so. Mr A had already left the property and was 
living elsewhere. Mrs A surrendered the keys in 2015. The property remained empty and no 
action was taken by BoS to sell it until December 2016. The property was sold for £255,600. 
After payment of the mortgage, there was a surplus of just over £72,000, which was paid 
over to the second charge holder, which I will call AG.
Mrs A complained about what had happened. She though the property had been sold for too 
low a price, and she werent happy the surplus had been paid to AG. 
BoS agreed it had delayed taking possession and should have taken steps to realise the 
debt in late 2014. As a result the bank agreed to refund interest added to the mortgage 
account totalling (including compensatory interest) £8,995.33, plus the cost of telephone 
calls and compensatory interest of £128.77, and £650 for distress and inconvenience. After 
deducting tax of £375.68 the total offered was £9,398.42.
Unhappy with this, Mrs A (with the consent of Mr A) complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
The investigator didnt think the property had been sold for too little.  She also thought it was 
reasonable for BoS to have paid the surplus to AG, given there was a second charge on the 
property. 
The investigator thought the compensation offered by the bank in relation to the mortgage 
and for trouble and upset was fair. But she didnt think the total award of compensation was 
sufficient. This is because, during the time the bank had delayed, AG was continuing to add 
interest to the second charge account. In addition, Mrs A was liable for council tax and 
utilities on the property.
BoS reviewed its offer of compensation and agreed that it should have taken account of the 
additional interest accrued on the debt owed to AG. BoS agreed to pay interest totalling 
£11,633.21 for this, which needed to be paid to AG, as there was, as far as BoS knew, still a 
shortfall debt owed to AG.
BoS also agreed to pay the council tax on the property, totalling £3,809, plus interest of 
£395.66. The bank said that if Mrs A could supply copies of utility bills, it would look to 
reimburse these too.
BoS also agreed to adjust Mr and Mrs As credit files to reflect that the property should have 
been taken into possession in 2014.
Our investigator thought this was fair and reasonable. Mrs A agreed and so it appeared the 
complaint was resolved. Mrs A wasnt able to provide utility bills, but BoS paid the 
compensation of £9,398.42 to Mrs A, as well as the council tax refund. BoS confirmed it was 
dealing with the refund to AG direct.
However, Mrs A then said she wanted more compensation for distress and inconvenience, 
and also wanted reimbursement of the utility bills. BoS has said it will pay the utility bills of 
Mrs A is able to provide copies. But the bank has pointed out that, given the property was 
vacant, the amount Mrs A is claiming (about £1,800) is more than the standing charges. As a 
result, the bank says it needs to see the actual bills before it can agree to this.
Because the matter is unresolved, it now falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said at the outset, the only outstanding issue is the level of compensation payable. Ive 
looked at everything thats happened, and I have no doubt this has been an upsetting time 
for Mrs A. But I have be impartial and decide this case on the basis of the evidence, and not 
be swayed by emotion.
Ive looked at the online sales history for Mrs As property and similar ones in the area. I note 
Mrs A believes the property was worth £300,000 to £350,000 in 2014. However, a similar 
property in the same street sold in 2014 for £250,000. Another similar property on the same 
estate sold for £247,500 in 2014. A slightly smaller property, but of similar design and 
construction, on the same estate sold in 2016 for £184,000. Give this, Im not persuaded that 
the price achieved for the property (£255,600) in 2016 was too low.
Im satisfied that the compensation already paid to Mrs A totalling £9,398.42 fairly 
compensates her for additional interest on the mortgage, expenses in bringing the complaint 
and trouble and upset. This puts Mrs A back in the position shed have been in had the bank 
not delayed in selling the property, and includes £650 for distress and inconvenience. Im 
also satisfied that the compensation of £3,809, plus interest of £395.66 for council tax is fair 
and reasonable. This compensation has already been paid to Mrs A.I note BoS has agreed to adjust Mr and Mrs As credit files as if the possession had taken 
place in 2014, not 2016, and I think this is fair and reasonable.
I agree with the investigator that BoS needed to compensate Mr and Mrs A for the additional 
interest accrued on the shortfall debt owed to AG. Ive looked at the banks calculations, and 
Im satisfied the amount paid to AG of £11,633.21 is fair and probably over-compensates in 
relation to the actual amount of interest that was charged.
Im not persuaded that any further compensation for distress and inconvenience is payable. 
BoS has already paid Mrs A £650, which I think is fair, reasonable and proportionate to the 
upset caused to Mrs A by the banks delay.
Putting things right
Im satisfied that BoS isnt required to pay the utility bills Mrs A is claiming without evidence 
of those bills. I agree with the bank that the amount shes claiming  almost £1,800  is more 
than the standing charges that would have been payable on an empty property for the period 
in question. Given this, it is reasonable for BoS to want to see evidence of the actual bills 
before it pays these. Upon production of those bills, the bank should pay them, together with 
statutory interest at 8% per annum.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Bank of Scotland plc has already paid 
the compensation for additional interest on the mortgage, and on the second charge to AG, 
as well as the cost of calls, reimbursement of council tax, compensatory interest and 
compensation for trouble and upset, as detailed above.
If Mrs A is able to provide itemised statements for gas, electricity and water accounts for the 
period November 2014 to December 2016, I direct Bank of Scotland plc to reimburse Mrs A 
for these, together with simple interest at 8% per annum.*
I make no other order or award of compensation.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
* If Bank of Scotland plc considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from any interest, it should tell Mrs A how much it has taken off. Bank of Scotland 
Plc should also give Mrs A a tax deduction certificate if requested, so the tax can be 
reclaimed from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman