DRN-4088774
The complaint
Miss O complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc recorded information about her with the national 
fraud database Cifas.
What happened
Miss O had an account with HSBC.  In October 2022, HSBC decided to close Miss Os 
account.
But Miss O subsequently had difficulties opening a new bank account  and discovered that 
HSBC had recorded information about her on the Cifas national fraud database. Miss O 
complained to HSBC, and referred the complaint to us.
Our investigator looked at this, and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Miss O didnt 
agree. The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The marker HSBC recorded shows theres been a misuse of facility. It means that Miss Os 
account was used to receive fraudulent funds. To file this marker, HSBC needed to have 
reasonable grounds to believe that fraud or financial crime had been committed and the 
evidence needed to be clear, relevant and rigorous. HSBC also needed evidence that 
Miss O was aware that the payment she received was, or might be, from an illegitimate 
source. This could include any evidence and testimony supplied by Miss O.
In this case, HSBC has told Miss O it was unhappy with the operation of Miss Os account, 
and that its concerns related to specific transactions on Miss Os account. It also asked Miss 
O for information about certain payments into the account.
In July 2022, Miss O received a payment of £100 into her account. HSBC asked Miss O for 
details about this payment. According to HSBCs notes, Miss O told them shed received this 
money from a friend of her brother-in-law. She said her brother-in-law didnt have access to 
his own account, so hed asked his friend to send the funds to her instead. She then 
transferred the funds to her brother using a cryptocurrency exchange. The notes state that 
HSBC advised Miss O at this time that she should only receive credits from people she knew 
personally. 
A few days later HSBC contacted Miss O about a second payment, of £963.81. The 
statements suggest this payment came from a construction firm to pay an invoice. It appears 
Miss O told HSBC that this money was also for her brother so he could buy food. Towards 
the end of August 2022, Miss O called HSBC and said that her brother-in-law was 
threatening her for the money left in the account. HSBC said Miss O could withdraw salary 
or benefits in branch, but that if she felt threatened she could contact the police.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied fraudulent funds entered the account.
Ive gone on to consider if Miss O knew these payments might be illegitimate. 
I note that during the initial investigation HSBC warned Miss O about receiving payments 
from people she didnt know. Meanwhile, the explanations Miss O has given us and HSBC 
have been inconsistent:
When HSBC investigated the first payment, Miss O said she spoke to her brother-in-
law all the time  but then said, when asked for evidence, that she wasnt able to ask 
her brother-in-law to send her the evidence again. She said she was unable to 
provide evidence of conversations relating to the first payment because her phone 
had deleted everything. 
Despite saying the second payment was for food for her brother, she was unable to 
provide any evidence to support this.
Miss O told us that the payments came from family members  but told HSBC they 
were payments from third parties she didnt know.
Thinking about all of this, I dont find what Miss O has said plausible or persuasive. I 
appreciate this will be disappointing to Miss O. But based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied 
HSBC met the requirements to record information with Cifas. Im satisfied fraudulent 
payments entered Miss Os account. I find she knew they might be from an illegitimate 
source.
It follows that I dont uphold the complaint and Im not going to tell HSBC to remove the 
information.
Ive considered Miss Os further comments. She is unhappy that the information is recorded 
with Cifas as she says it stopped her applying for a bank account elsewhere. I dont doubt 
that the information recorded with Cifas has had serious consequences for Miss O. But for 
the reasons Ive already explained, Im satisfied HSBC was justified in recording this 
information. So this doesnt change my conclusion.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 October 2023. 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman