DRN-2316027
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was mis-sold a personal pension in 1989 by an adviser from Abbey 
Life. He also raised general dissatisfaction with the adviser sales practices, the mis-
management of his pension and lack of transparency and information provided, particularly 
in respect of charges, as well as poor customer service.
Phoenix Life Limited (PL) has taken on Abbey Life Assurance Company Limiteds liabilities 
and is therefore responsible for this complaint. Ill refer to PL throughout the complaint for 
ease of reading. 
What happened
Mr M was sold a personal pension in 1989. He was 22 at the time and had an annual income 
of £8,700 and outgoings of £500 per month. He didnt have any pension arrangements and 
his employer didnt offer a work pension at the time. 
Mr M was sold a personal pension with initial net monthly premiums of £21. The funds were 
invested in the international fund. Under this plan Mr M was also contracted out of the State 
Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS). So rather than building up an additional state 
pension, benefits would accrue by receiving some of the National Insurance contributions as 
a rebate from the government to the pension plan. 
In 2008, Mr M transferred his contracted-out pension (protected rights) of £16,765.47 to 
Legal & General (L&G). Mr Ms non-protected rights remained with PL invested in the 
international fund.
In 2018, Mr M complained to PL. He was unhappy about several different products being 
sold to him and his wife over the years. Separate complaints have been set up dealing with 
the other policies. This complaint solely deals with Mr Ms pension.
Mr Ms key points were:
- he had no investment or financial experience and was harassed by the adviser to buy 
his products. He feels the advisers behaviour was inappropriate.
- the pension product wasnt explained and management charges, fees and exit fees 
were never mentioned by the adviser during his dealings with him over the years. He 
wasnt told that fees would go up when he stopped paying premiums. The charges 
had been disproportionate and destroyed a lot of the investment growth. They should 
be refunded.
- waiver of premium had been added to the pension which wasnt needed as he was 
single with no dependents or a mortgage.
In response to Mr Ms complaint PL said they didnt find any indication that Mr M had been 
harassed. They thought setting up the pension and contracting out of SERPS had been 
appropriate for Mr M. They also pointed to the sale information literature which explained 
what the charges were. However, they found that the international fund was a higher risk 
fund which would not have been suitable for Mr M. 
They compared the value of Mr Ms non-protected rights in the international fund with what 
the value would have been at the point of their calculation in 2018 if he had been invested in 
a balanced portfolio. This showed that the international fund had in fact performed better, so 
Mr M had not suffered a loss.
They did the same comparison for Mr Ms protected rights up to the point in July 2008 when 
he transferred the funds to L&G. This showed a loss of £3,979.95. PL said they would ask 
L&G to work out how much Mr Ms pension would be worth now if this additional sum had 
been transferred in 2008. They said they would pay the difference to ensure Mr M was in the 
same position he would have been in if he had been invested in suitable funds. 
PL also offered Mr M a total of £600 to acknowledge that it had taken them a long time to 
investigate Mr Ms complaint and that they had been slow in providing requested information 
about the pension and its charges to him.
Mr M remained dissatisfied and referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators considered that PLs offer had been fair in the circumstances.
Mr M still disagreed. He didnt think that the compensation was sufficient to compensate for 
the point of sale process or the inconvenience the whole matter has caused him. And so the 
complaint was referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M says he was harassed and pressured by the adviser into buying lots of different 
investment and protection products which he and his wife couldnt afford. These sales 
happened a very long time ago so its not possible to establish what exactly was discussed 
and how the sales were conducted. 
Mr M was in his twenties at the time and had no pension, investments and insurance 
products, so it would have been reasonable for a financial adviser to see whether any of 
these products were suitable. Mr M said the adviser kept contacting him even when he 
moved further away. However, its not unusual for an adviser to check in with clients and see 
whether the products they hold are still appropriate for their circumstances and whether they 
need any additional products, for example if their circumstances have changed.
I dont doubt that the adviser would have been interested in selling products to Mr M. 
However, there isnt sufficient evidence for me to say that Mr M was unduly pressured or 
harassed into buying his pension. 
Having looked at Mr Ms circumstances in 1989, Im satisfied that the advice to take out a 
pension and contracting out of SERPS was suitable in the circumstances. He was young, 
had no other pension provisions and the premiums seemed affordable based on his income 
and expenditure. So planning for his retirement was sensible. Given the projected 
investment returns in the 1980s and 90s, it would have also been reasonable to assume Mr 
M would be better off contracting-out of SERPS.
However, I agree that the international fund was too high risk. The adviser didnt assess Mr 
Ms attitude to risk until 1997 (when he had a balanced attitude to risk). Theres nothing to 
suggest that his attitude to risk would have been different in 1989. PL have already acknowledged this and the way they offered to redress this is fair and in line what this 
service would expect. I also understand Mr M accepted this offer when it was made. 
Mr M has recently told us hes still invested in the international fund and he expects 
recalculations for the non-protected rights values are necessary. However, I dont agree. At 
the point the offer was made in 2018 there was no loss in respect of his non-protected rights. 
The calculation method was fair and I wouldnt expect PL to revisit these calculations now. 
Mr M was informed at the time that he could switch funds free of charge. I would reasonably 
expect him to mitigate his losses and not stay in a known unsuitable fund for several years 
when he had the ability to switch.
I understand that PL hasnt compensated Mr M for the unsuitable investment of his protected 
rights yet. So I expect PL to liaise with L&G and calculate what Mr Ms protected rights 
pension would be worth now if an additional £3,979.95 had been transferred in 2008.
Mr Ms main issue is that he says he was never properly informed about the charges. I dont 
know whether charges were verbally discussed in 1989 or during the ongoing advisory 
relationship. However, the pension brochure from the time of sale explains what the charges 
are. For Mr Ms plan there was a 0.75% annual management charge plus 0.25% for regular 
contributions up to £5,000 per year (for non-protected rights only), plus a policy charge of 
£2.50 per month. It said this charge would be annually reviewed and was expected to 
increase with inflation.
The brochure also explained about charges when contributions were stopped (reduced 
policy charge, but annual charge would increase). And that if the pension was transferred to 
a different provider before retirement the transfer value would generally be less than the 
ongoing value of the policy.
So based on the evidence provided Mr M was given information about the charges when he 
took out the policy. Having looked at an overview of what Mr M was charged, I also dont see 
that charges were excessive. I appreciate Mr M also had a stakeholder pension which has 
lower charges. However that doesnt mean other plans which have higher charges are 
automatically inappropriate.
I can see from the pension application form in 1989 that Mr M took out a waiver of premium. 
However, this wasnt life cover (it seems he took out life cover some years later). It covered 
Mr Ms contributions if he was unable to work due to sickness. As he didnt have any other 
form of protection and charges for this likely would have been low given Mr Ms young age, I 
dont see that this was necessarily unsuitable.
Mr M also alleges PL lost some of his funds. He bases this on the fact that when he called 
PL in 2019 he was told his pension value on 31 December 2002 had been £14,071.11 but 
was £5,096.57 a year later. He wants this difference investigated. PL said the case handler 
quoted the wrong information and the value in 2003 only reflected the value of the non-
protected rights. I think this is correct. Protected and non-protected rights are usually shown 
separately, so its conceivable that only one value was incorrectly quoted, rather than a total 
value.
Ive also seen a statement from 2004 and it shows Mr Ms pension value as £12,043.87 
(protected rights) and £5,073.98 (non-protected rights). So Mr Ms pension value overall 
increased from around £14,000 to over £17,000 between 2002 and 2004. Theres no 
evidence Mr M lost a large sum of money between 2002 and 2003.
I understand that Mr M feels he spent a lot of time chasing PL for information which wasnt 
forthcoming and that their customer service wasnt good enough. However, PL have offered £600 for the inconvenience and distress they caused Mr M and I think this is a fair amount in 
the circumstances. 
Mr M mentioned that PL had offered to waive any transfer charges if he wanted to move to 
another provider. I would generally expect PL to honour any offers they made. However, I 
havent seen any evidence of this offer and PL have confirmed that transfer charges do 
apply. They said the fund value as of 13 September 2021 is £18,315.57 and the transfer 
value is £16,983.18. At age 55 the charge is capped at 1% and theres no charge from age 
60. A transfer charge in itself is not unfair and Mr M is being informed about the charges 
before he transfers so he can make an informed decision. So I wont ask PL to waive these 
charges. However, if Mr M still wants to switch away from the unsuitable international fund 
within his PL plan, PL should allow him to do this free of charge. 
Putting things right
As per their offer, I request PL to request a notional value from L&G of what his pension 
would be worth now if an additional £3,979.95 had been transferred in 2008. The difference 
should be paid into Mr Ms pension. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment should be made into Mr Ms L&G 
pension or - if he has since transferred- into his new plan. 
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free 
and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
Additionally, PL should pay Mr M any part of the £600 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience that they havent paid him already.
My final decision
I think the offer made by Phoenix Life Limited is fair and so I wont ask them to pay Mr M any 
additional compensation to what is set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman