DRN-2280883
The complaint
Mr A complains that Wirecard Card Solutions Limited blocked his account and didnt allow 
him access to his money. He says this left him in a difficult situation.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr A received his usual Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) benefit into 
his Wirecard account. On the same day, Mr A made a transfer out of his account. 
On 10 July 2019, Wirecard carried out a review on Mr As account. While the review was 
carried out, Mr A couldnt access his account or the money in it.
On 17 July 2019, Mr A received a credit into the account from a third-party company.
Mr A raised a complaint to Wirecard. Wirecard responded to Mr As complaint in August 
2019 letting him know they were entitled to block the account while carrying out a review and 
that it would remain blocked until further notice.
Once Wirecard completed their review, they sent the remaining money left in Mr As account 
back to the original source. The review was completed in August 2019, and the funds were 
returned to the source in October 2019.
Mr A told our service that not having access to the money in his Wirecard account left him 
with no other source of money and therefore he couldnt eat or pay his gas and electricity 
bills.
The investigator who reviewed Mr As complaint upheld it. While she agreed Wirecard could 
review and suspend the account, she thought Wirecard should have given Mr A access to 
his benefit payments. And she thought theyd caused delays when returning the money to 
source. Wirecard didnt agree. They said their process to return money was around three 
months and said they were acting in line with their legal and regulatory obligations.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator for broadly the same reasons. 
Wirecard are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Wirecard were acting in line 
with these obligations when reviewing Mr As account. Theyre also not obliged to give Mr A 
a reason for reviewing or blocking the account. However, Id like to reassure Mr A that based 
on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied Wirecard were entitled to take the action they did.
Im aware Mr As account was blocked around 10 July 2019, and they requested for the 
funds to be returned to source on 5 August 2019. The funds were returned around 1 October 
2019. Like the investigator, I find this to a be a long time. Ive thought about what Wirecard 
has said about their internal transfers and the time it takes. But I dont think its reasonable 
for a customer to not have access to their money for around two months. While I recognise 
the money was returned to DWP, I havent seen anything to confirm Mr A wasnt entitled to 
the benefit money. And therefore, I think the delay in returning the money to DWP had a 
direct impact on Mr A. 
Ive also considered Mr As individual circumstances. While I appreciate Wirecard are 
entitled to suspend accounts while carrying out a review, its usually reasonable that a 
customer still has access to their benefit money. This is certainly the case for Mr A as the 
money he receives from the DWP is his only source of income. Mr A made Wirecard aware 
of his difficulties and Wirecard told him somebody would be in touch about the benefit 
payments. I havent seen anything to suggest Wirecard did reach out to Mr A and therefore 
agree they left him in a vulnerable position. Because of this, I think Wirecard should pay 
compensation to recognise the trouble and upset caused to Mr A.
Im aware Wirecard returned the additional credit Mr A received into his account around 17 
July 2019 to Mr A directly. I agree this was the right action in the circumstances.
Putting things right
Overall, Wirecard were entitled to review Mr As account and suspend it while they did so. 
However, I think they should have allowed him access to his benefit payments. I also think 
they caused extra distress by making Mr A wait two months before DWP received the money 
back for him to then get in touch with them and claim it back. Because of that, I think 
Wirecard should pay Mr A £75 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that, in order to resolve Mr As complaint, Wirecard Card Solutions 
Limited should pay Mr A £75 compensation for the trouble and upset he suffered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman