DRN-3956719
The complaint
Mr P complains that a car acquired with finance from Black Horse Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In July 2021 Mr P was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with Black 
Horse. At the point of supply the car was around 2 years old and had covered 19,720 miles.
Mr P experienced issues with the car. The car was inspected, and repairs were attempted 
but the issues werent resolved. Black Horse upheld Mr Ps complaint about the quality of the 
car and said he could reject it. It said it would refund Mr Ps deposit plus 8% interest and pay 
£200 compensation for distress and inconvenience. Black Horse said it wouldnt refund any 
monthly payments due to the usage charge it applied which charged one monthly repayment 
for every 1000 miles covered.
Mr P wasnt happy with Black Horses response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. She said it was reasonable for Black Horse to 
retain Mr Ps monthly payments to reflect the use of the car. But she thought that Black 
Horse should increase its offer of compensation and refund all payments Mr P had made 
towards the warranty which had been financed under the agreement.
Mr P didnt agree. He said the dealership had told him to contact Black Horse about the 
issues and had advised him to keep paying monthly instalments. Mr P said hed paid two 
further monthly instalments before Black Horse agreed the rejection.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Black Horse has agreed that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and that it can be rejected. 
So I wont comment further on the quality of the car. Instead, Ill focus on whats a fair and 
reasonable resolution to Mr Ps complaint.
When a car is rejected, Id expect the business to refund the deposit and to refund monthly 
payments subject to a deduction for usage. The relevant legislation allows the business to 
make a deduction for usage but doesnt specify how this should be calculated. A business 
may  as in this case  retain one monthly payment for every 1000 miles covered. Or it may 
apply a rate per mile for every mile covered.
Mr Ps car had mileage of 19,720 at the point of supply. During the time he had the car, he 
covered mileage of around 20,500 in 10 months. So although the car had some issues, Im 
satisfied that Mr P was able to use the car.
I dont think its unreasonable for Black Horse to retain Mr Ps monthly payments to reflect his 
use of the car.
I appreciate that Mr P feels that hes made more monthly payments than he shouldve done 
before the rejection was agreed. However, I can see that at the time Black Horse issued its 
final response and agreed the rejection, Mr P had paid 10 monthly instalments and had 
covered around 20,000 miles. Mr P hasnt made any further payments since May 2022. In 
the circumstances, I dont think its unreasonable for Black Horse to retain all of Mr Ps 
payments. It has retained 50% of what it could have retained based on the charge of one 
monthly payments per 1000 miles. 
That said, I recognise that Mr P has suffered a significant degree of distress and 
inconvenience as a result of being supplied with a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality, I 
agree with the investigator that Black Horse should pay more compensation than it has 
offered.
Mr P has paid towards a warranty as part of his monthly instalment [payments. These 
payments shouldnt be subject to the usage deduction and should be refunded to Mr P, 
together with interest.
Putting things right
To put things right, Black Horse Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further for Mr P to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr P
Refund the deposit plus simple interest of 8% per year from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement
Refund the warranty payments plus simple interest of 8% per year from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement
Pay compensation of £300 for distress and inconvenience
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold the complaint. Black Horse Limited must take the 
steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman