DRN-1491228
 
The complaint
Mrs G complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to her 
alongside a store card in December 2001.
Although the PPI was sold by another business AXA France IARD has taken responsibility 
for this complaint. For ease of reference, I will refer to AXA throughout this decision.
What happened
Mrs G took out the PPI over the telephone in 2001. This policy covered her if she lost her job 
or was off work because she was sick of if she had an accident. The policy cost £1.00 for 
every £100.00 of the outstanding balance owed on the card and on a successful claim, it 
would have covered Mrs G for 15% of that balance until the end date of her cover, the 
outstanding balance on the card was repaid, or she returned to work.
Our adjudicator said she didnt think this was a case that should be upheld. Mrs G disagreed 
with our adjudicators view and asked that the matter be referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs G, but I havent upheld her complaint. Ill explain why below.
The first thing Ive considered is whether Mrs G had a choice about buying the PPI. This 
policy was taken out over the telephone. Based on what we know about how the business 
conducted sales at that time over the telephone, I think the representative would more likely 
have given Mrs G a choice about buying the PPI or leaving it. And I think the PPI would have 
appeared on Mrs Gs statements so if she didnt want the policy or didnt know she had it she 
could have questioned it at the time - I havent seen evidence she did so.
Taking everything into account, on balance, I think its more likely that she agreed to take it 
out at the time knowing she could refuse it if she didnt want it even if its understandable if 
she cant remember that now after such a long time. 
I dont think AXA recommended this policy to Mrs G. So it didnt have to make sure it was 
suitable for her circumstances. But it still had to give her enough clear information, so she 
could decide for herself whether she wanted to take out the policy or leave it.
Its possible that not all the information was as clear as it could have been but even if the 
information could have been clearer, I still think Mrs G would have bought the cover. I say this as it appears Mrs G was eligible for the policy. And as she was in full time employment 
and had no pre-existing medical conditions, I dont think she would have been affected by 
any of the main terms and conditions of the policy which might have made it more difficult to 
make a successful claim.
Mrs G said she didnt need the policy as she would have received sick pay from her 
employer of six months full pay and that her husband could have supported her if she had 
needed help. But I have taken into account that this policy would have paid out in addition to 
and for longer than her sick pay would have lasted. And I dont doubt that it would have been 
the intention of those close to her to help. But circumstances can change and sometimes 
help isnt always available as and when it's needed and as Mrs G was responsible for the 
payments, I still think the policy was useful to her. 
So, for the reasons Ive given above I still think the PPI could have been useful if Mrs G lost 
her job or couldnt work. And it looks as though she chose to buy the insurance  so it looks 
like she wanted that type of cover at the time. I also havent seen anything to suggest the 
premiums were unaffordable. With that in mind, I dont think Mrs G would have acted 
differently even if AXA had given her more or better information about the policy. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mrs G, but after taking everything into account, it follows that I 
havent upheld her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint about AXA France IARD. I dont 
require AXA France IARD to take any further action in respect of it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman