DRN-4204913
The complaint
Mr M as the trustee of the CM trust complains that in 2006, Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited mis-sold the late CM a whole of life policy for funeral cover.
What happened
In 2006, CM - who was in her early 70s at the time - met with a financial adviser 
representing a business since acquired by Aviva. CM wanted life cover so that her family 
wouldnt have to pay for her funeral and was recommended a whole of life policy on a 
standard cover basis with the minimum premium available within the policy. CM, through her 
representative, complained to Aviva in 2021 that the policy had been mis-sold. CM thought 
shed been told the premiums and life cover were fixed, and that the life cover would be paid, 
plus interest, when she passed. CM said she believed the premiums would stop at age 85. 
Aviva didnt uphold CMs complaint because it had provided CM with illustrations and key 
features documents to explain the life cover and premiums were only guaranteed for the first 
10 years. Aviva thought the policy was suitable for CMs needs at the time.
CMs representative brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of 
our Investigators looked into things. Unfortunately, CM passed before the investigation could 
be completed and Mr M as trustee of the CM trust is now dealing with the complaint. Our 
Investigator thought that at the time the policy was sold it was suitable for the needs of CM 
and that the policy hadnt been mis-sold. Mr M as trustee of the CM trust asked that an 
Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I address the crux of the complaint, I wanted to clarify that the whole of life policy had 
been written under trust. When CM passed, the benefits were paid to the trustee named 
within the trust  this isnt disputed. The complaint has been brought by Mr M as trustee of 
the CM trust and CMs representative, who raised CMs complaint with Aviva has also joined 
the complaint. 
I understand that Mr M as trustee of the CM trust will be disappointed, but Ive decided that 
at the time of the recommendation the policy Aviva sold to the late CM was suitable for her 
needs  and for this reason I dont think it was mis-sold. I will now explain why.
CM believed the premiums and life cover were fixed and that the life cover provided would 
keep pace with inflation - and that if shed known this wasnt the case, she wouldnt have 
taken out the policy. The sale of the policy took place 17 years ago so I cant be sure what 
was discussed at the sale, but Ive been provided with copies of the fact-find, reason why 
letter, key features and illustration Aviva provided to CM at the time the policy was 
recommended. Aviva has also provided copies of the review letters it sent to CM during the 
course of the policy. Although these tell me what happened at the review dates, I have to be 
reasonably sure Aviva made the late CM aware that the premium and life cover were 
reviewable when it sold the policy.
The fact-find records a meeting took place with CM and that her daughter in-law was 
present. It records that CMs need at the time was for life cover for funeral costs and that she 
could afford to pay a monthly premium of £20. The premiums were to be paid from the CMs 
daughter-in-laws bank account. The illustration Aviva provided to CM explained that the 
amount of life cover provided was on a standard cover basis, which meant that using current 
assumptions, the cover should last throughout CMs life. It explained the initial level of life 
cover was guaranteed until the year before CMs 80th birthday. In this regard the reason why 
letter also said, You are aware that this cover is guaranteed for 10 years then reviewed. 
And, within the key features document, Aviva said that the level of life cover and premiums 
would be reviewed, and the cost of the cover may increase as CM got older, and that 
increases could be significant.
The reason why letter, which was sent to CM a week after the sale, explained why the policy 
met CMs priority at the time; to provide sufficient funds to cover funeral costs. The same 
letter also highlighted the policy provided the option to vary the level of cover, but I dont 
think this was a priority for CM at the time, although it could have been useful if CM wanted 
to increase the life cover in the future. The letter also explained the policy was written under 
trust so that the benefits could be payable without delay and would be payable on death 
whenever it occurred  in this case there was no fixed term. I think the policy recommended 
met the needs of CM at the time of the sale - it provided life cover without a fixed term which 
is what CM agreed she needed, and theres nothing to suggest that CM would only want life 
cover for a specific period of time.
It seems to me that Aviva made it reasonably clear that the premiums and life cover were 
guaranteed until CM reached her 80th birthday but were then subject to regular reviews. Ive 
taken into account that the policy was taken out on a standard sum assured basis. This 
increased the likelihood of the sum assured being maintained in the long term, because a 
larger part of the premium would be directed towards the investment element of the policy. 
CM had no need for savings at the time of the sale, so I think it was reasonable for Aviva to 
set the policy up on a standard cover basis. Although this may have led CM to think that the 
policy provided life cover plus the potential for an additional sum to be paid on death by way 
of savings, Im satisfied that the documents provided made it clear the policy wasnt a 
savings plan.
I considered whether it would have been prudent for Aviva to recommend a whole of life 
policy on a minimum sum assured basis which would tend to be more expensive. However, 
CM had a limited budget and could only pay the minimum premium and wanted life cover of 
£3,500  so I dont think the sale of a standard sum assured policy was unreasonable in the 
circumstances of this case.
Aviva says it carried out a review of the policy in 2011, as it said it would. Ive not seen this 
review, but its likely it resulted in a small reduction in life cover of £500 because the review 
letter Ive seen from 2016 confirms the then existing life cover of £3,324. Aviva carried out a 
further review in 2016 which gave CM the option to increase the premium she was paying to 
maintain the level of cover, or to pay the same premium and take a reduced level of cover. 
The letter also advised CM that she could take independent financial advice about what she 
could do. As CM didnt respond to the review letter, Aviva reduced the life cover to £1,917 
which it believed could be maintained until the next review in 2021. The review in 2021 
provided further options to CM as Aviva was unable to maintain the level of cover if the 
premium remained at £20 per month.
Mr M as trustee of the CM trust says CM understood the policy was a whole of life policy, but also believed the policy would provide £3,500 life cover for the rest of her life. However, Im 
persuaded that the documents Ive referred to make it reasonably clear the life cover and 
premiums werent fixed. CM paid into the policy more than the live cover paid out, and 
indeed more than the life cover CM thought was guaranteed. However, I do think Aviva 
made it reasonably clear that the life cover and premiums were only guaranteed until CM 
reached age 80 - and during the early years of the policy its more likely than the life cover 
provided by the policy would have been much more than the amount CM had paid to Aviva. I 
think that Aviva also provided CM with reasonably clear information regarding the level of 
cover and the premium increases required to maintain the cover regularly. This information 
also made it reasonably clear to CM that she should take action if she wanted to maintain 
the level of life cover. I appreciate that Mr M as trustee of the CM trust believes CM didnt 
understand the reviews process, but each review provided contact details for Aviva if CM 
required any assistance in this regard. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive provided above, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint Mr M as 
trustee of the CM trust has made against Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M as trustee of 
the CM trust to accept or reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman