DRN-3848263
The complaint
Ms S complains that an adviser from Key Retirement Solutions Limited refused to proceed 
with an application for further borrowing on her lifetime mortgage.
What happened
Ms S took out a lifetime mortgage with Key Retirement in May 2021. This included an initial 
advance and a drawdown facility, which Ms S made use of. 
In October 2021, Ms S approached Key Retirement for advice to take out additional 
borrowing. 
Following an assessment of Ms Ss needs and requirements, a sum of £10,000 was 
suggested  as Ms S wanted the smallest sum possible and this was the minimum Key 
Retirement would consider. The adviser said that he would waive his usual advice fee. This 
call was concluded by the adviser saying that he would look at the figures and call Ms S 
back. 
On 20 October, the adviser called Ms S and confirmed the call was recorded. In this call, the 
adviser explained that he would not be progressing the application any further. He explained 
that he didnt think it would be in her best interests long term so would not be progressing 
the application.
Unhappy with this, Ms S complained to Key Retirement. She says it unfairly declined her 
application and that the adviser was inappropriate and discriminated against her as she 
would not proceed with the application to borrow a higher amount. 
Key Retirement didnt uphold the complaint. It said that its adviser hadnt treated Ms S 
unfairly and had valid concerns as to whether it was appropriate to proceed with the 
application.
Ms S referred the matter to this service. Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt 
think it should be upheld. Ms S disagreed and so the matter has been passed to an 
ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The heart of the complaint here is that the adviser from Key Retirement decided not to 
proceed with Ms Ss application. Its important to note that it is not the role of this service to 
force an adviser to arrange lending  that is a decision for firms to make independently  this 
service looks at whether people have been treated fairly or not.
Ive considered the correspondence between Key Retirement and Ms S. The adviser clearly 
explained that he didnt think putting through the application for additional borrowing was the 
right thing to do and explained his reasons why. These were that it didnt address Ms Ss 
needs long term and that it may affect the benefits that Ms S was receiving. 
Based on the available information, I dont think this was an unreasonable assessment of the 
circumstances at the time. And so, it follows that I dont consider Key Retirement treated 
Ms S unfairly when it decided not to proceed. It has regulatory obligations to provide 
appropriate and sound advice and it would have been acting contrary to these if it decided to 
arrange this lending. 
Ms S also complains about the advisers conduct. Ive listened to the available calls and am 
not persuaded that the adviser was intentionally rude  although I do acknowledge that 
some of the calls were not recorded and so I havent been able to listen to these. In the first 
call, Ms S identifies herself as vulnerable and I can see that the adviser made their manager 
aware and followed its internal process.
I think the call where the adviser communicated that they would not be proceeding with the 
application was a difficult message to receive and can appreciate that Ms S was very 
disappointed when the adviser delivered this. But from the evidence Ive seen, I dont 
consider that the adviser was inappropriate or abusive in any way. Although I do accept 
Ms S may feel differently. 
Ive noted that Ms S has been able to secure lending elsewhere. Im pleased for Ms S that 
shes been able to obtain the lending she requested  but this doesnt mean that Key 
Retirement acted unfairly when it declined her request. Different advisers have separate 
criteria and so it follows that Key Retirement may make a different decision to another firm. 
Whilst I understand that this will come as a disappointment to Ms S, having considered 
everything, I dont think I can fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman