DRN-3359671
The complaint
Mr L complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) has treated him unfairly in relation to his current 
account which has led to him avoidable debt.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, and the sums and dates 
involved were detailed by our Investigator at length previously. So, Ive summarised events. 
Mr L holds a TSB current account. Around late April 2021, he spent over £1,800 from 
the account gambling across a number of transactions. He said the available balance 
of the account reduced, but the funds were not deducted until 10 May 2021.
Mr L says this delay led him to believe the funds had already been taken, and the 
remaining sum was previous winnings. On 7 May 2021 he had transferred £1,866 to 
a separate bank account with Company A.
So, when the funds were taken on 10 May 2021, it left Mr Ls account overdrawn 
beyond his agreed £500 overdraft. TSB is seeking the funds owed, and Mr L entered 
into a repayment plan. Mr L complained, saying TSB was at fault for the debt. 
TSB apologised, saying there had been a technical error which led to the delay of the 
funds being taken. But it said Mr L was beyond his overdraft because he moved 
money to his Company A account, which he wouldve been aware of. It gave him £50 
in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused and said it would 
consider any additional expenses he incurred such as telephone calls or fuel costs.
The complaint was brought to this Service and one of our Investigators didnt uphold 
it. She said a processing error had occurred, but Mr L wouldve been reasonably 
aware of the available sums in light of payments made a short period before. She 
concluded £50 compensation was fair.
Mr L disagreed. He said the system error lay with TSB. And he referenced the 
gambling website confirming it would receive funds within 48 hours of the payment 
being made. He also provided a number of statements from his Company A account 
that he said showed the extent of payments being made, and why this meant he 
wouldnt have realised the sums were already spent.
Our Investigator looked again. She was persuaded the transactions elsewhere 
showed Mr L didnt realise the sums hadnt left his account. So, TSBs error had a 
larger impact than it had recognised, and she awarded £150 compensation in total.
Both parties disagreed. Mr L argued the compensation wasnt enough, and that 
charges and interest should be removed from the sum owed. So, the complaint was 
been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
Upon my review of the complaint I let Mr L know I didnt intend to uphold his complaint and 
outlined my reasoning why. And I gave him until 8 March 2022 to provide any further 
comments in response. Mr L hasnt responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L spent a sum of money gambling which is not disputed. After Mr L processed his 
payment with a gambling website, the money was earmarked within his TSB account, 
meaning it could not be spent. This is a standard process on TSBs part. 
TSB has said as a result of a processing error this money wasnt taken within a week as it 
wouldve expected. The earmark expiring within this time meaning Mr L had use of the funds 
even though theyd yet to be taken. So, its clear to me TSBs actions led to Mr L being able 
to use the funds. I have to go on to consider what the impact of this mistake was.
Mr L says he believed the sum that remained was part of his winnings. It seems to me that a 
win of around £1,800 wouldve been a memorable event. As wouldve a loss of the same 
value. So, while Ive taken Mr Ls arguments and points into consideration, Im not 
persuaded on balance TSBs actions reasonably led him to believe the available sum in his 
account was not already accounted for. And it seems most likely to me hed have been 
aware of the outstanding sum owed.
Mr L has argued that his Company A account statements show the extent of his gambling at 
the time. While this might be the case, the evidence doesnt persuade me he wouldve 
reasonably confused matters with his TSB account. And I cant ignore Mr Ls own 
responsibilities as a TSB accountholder to manage his account. Hes also provided 
information from the betting website that suggests the money was taken in 48 hours. But this 
doesnt align with the sums in his own account, so this doesnt change my conclusion.
TSB argues Mr L shouldve reasonably known the sum in question hadnt left the account. 
And Im in agreement. For these reasons I think TSBs compensation of £50 and apology 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances, and Im not asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman