DRN-3855338
The complaint
Mr M complains Acromas Insurance Company Limited has unfairly declined a claim hes 
made on his Parts and Garage insurance cover. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary 
here.
Mr M has an insurance policy which provides cover for the cost of replacement parts 
and work undertaken by a garage following a breakdown. The policy is underwritten 
by Acromas so its responsible for this complaint. 
Mr Ms car broke down and his recovery agent was unable to fix the problem at the 
roadside so arranged for the car to be transported to a garage.
Acromas arranged for a vehicle inspection to take place and the inspector found 
some of the parts had experienced wear and tear. Additionally, other parts had been 
disposed of by the garage and so werent available for inspection. So Acromas 
declined the claim.
Mr M wasnt happy with this and complained. He said the garage was approved by 
Acromas and it wasnt his fault some of the parts werent available for inspection. 
Acromas issued a final response but maintained its position so Mr M referred his 
complaint to us.
Our Investigator considered the evidence but didnt uphold the complaint so Mr M 
asked an Ombudsman to reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point for my decision is the policy terms and conditions.
These explain the policy provides cover to help with the cost of work thats done in a 
garage following a breakdown. A breakdown is defined as A sudden or unexpected 
event as a result of a Mechanical or Electrical Failure. 
This failure is defined as The sudden and unforeseen breaking or burning outof 
any insured part(s)
The terms go on to explain it may be necessary to appoint an independent engineer 
to inspect the insured vehicle to assess if the claim is covered under the policy terms.
When the engineer inspected Mr Ms vehicle, he found some of the parts had failed 
through general in-service wear and deterioration. This kind of damage inherently 
happens over time rather than suddenly, so Im satisfied this doesnt meet the 
required definition of damage covered under the policy terms. 
The engineer also noted some of the failed parts werent available for inspection as 
they had been disposed of by the garage. So, it wasnt possible to say whether the 
damage to them would have been covered under the policy terms.
Overall, Im satisfied Acromas acted fairly and in line with the policy terms in 
declining the claim, for the reasons Ive explained above.
Mr M says it wasnt his fault the parts werent available for inspection and, as the 
garage was approved by Acromas to undertake repairs, it should be held 
responsible. 
Having listened carefully to the call when Mr M reported the damage, Im satisfied, on 
balance, that he chose the garage where his car was sent for repairs and Acromas 
played no part in this decision. And Im not persuaded, just because Mr Ms garage 
was one of many garages approved by Acromas to undertake repairs, that it would 
be fair or reasonable for me to hold Acromas responsible for the garages 
independent disposal of some of the damaged parts.
For the reasons Ive explained, I wont be upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman