DRN-4045964
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society, having closed his account in 2010, 
havent paid him the money present in the account at that time.
What happened
In December 2010, Nationwide closed an account held by Mr B which held approximately 
£10,000. Nationwide have said that they sent the money in the account to Mr B, but Mr B 
has never received it. So, in 2022, he raised a complaint.
Nationwide responded to Mr Bs complaint and explained that while the length of time thats 
passed since 2010 means theyre no longer able to confirm exactly how they returned the 
money held in the closed account to him, they were confident that a cheque for the account 
balance had been sent to Mr B at the time the account was closed. Mr B wasnt satisfied with 
Nationwides response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that it was more likely than 
not, given the information available, that Nationwide had sent a cheque to Mr B in 2010, 
which had subsequently been chased. So, they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Nationwide have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. Such declarations 
would be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
In this instance, the events about which Mr B complains  the closure of his Nationwide 
account  took place in 2010. And Nationwide have explained that because of the length of 
time that has passed since then, they no longer hold full records to confirm exactly how they 
returned the £10,000 that was in that account at the time it was closed to Mr B.
Banks arent obliged to keep information indefinitely, so it doesnt seem unreasonable to me 
that Nationwide havent retained full records of events that took place over twelve years ago.
In circumstances such as this  where evidence to confirm how events under consideration 
unfolded may not be available  I have to make an evaluation of what I feel is most likely to 
have happened, in consideration of all the information that is available to me, and then make 
a decision on what I feel is fair outcome to a complaint in light of that evaluation. 
And, having considered all the information available to me here, I feel that it is most likely 
that Nationwide did send Mr B a cheque for the £10,000 in 2010, and that this cheque was 
then cashed.
Ive arrived at this position for several reasons, including that Nationwide have been able to 
demonstrate to my satisfaction that the £10,000 wasnt transferred to another account at the 
point of account closure in 2010. Nationwide have also explained that the only other way 
they could have returned the money to Mr B was by cheque. 
Nationwide havent been able to find a record of a cheque being issued. But given that 
Nationwide arent obliged to have retained all information from 2010, I dont feel it follows 
from this that a cheque therefore wasnt sent. Rather, I feel its likely that a cheque was sent 
in 2010, but that Nationwide no longer retain a record of it being sent.
Additionally, Nationwide have explained that they retain a record of sent cheques that 
havent been cashed, and that theres nothing in their record of uncashed cheques that 
corresponds to the cheque that was likely sent to Mr B in 2010. And so, given that I feel a 
cheque was most likely sent to Mr B, I consequently feel that its also likely  given 
Nationwides explanation here  that this sent cheque was then subsequently cashed.
Of course, this isnt to say that Mr B definitely did receive a cheque from Nationwide in 2010 
such that he has received the money from the closed account. But it is to say that I feel its 
both plausible and likely that this happened. And as such, I dont feel that I can fairly or 
reasonably instruct Nationwide to pay this disputed amount to Mr B now.
Mr B is adamant that he didnt receive the £10,000 from Nationwide in 2010 or at anytime 
afterwards. But this would mean Nationwide had kept the balance of the closed account 
contrary to their processes at that time  which mandated that it be returned to Mr B. And if 
Nationwide had kept the £10,000, Id expect them to have been able to locate it. But 
Nationwide havent been able to locate the £10,000.
The passing of time makes it difficult to resolve this matter with any certainty, because the 
passing of time also means it isnt unreasonable that some information and evidence is no 
longer available. And as I hope Mr B will understand, as an impartial party, for me to 
consider instructing Nationwide to pay him the £10,000 he feels he never received, Id need 
to feel that its more likely than not that Nationwide didnt send that money to Mr B in 2010. 
Ultimately, I dont feel this way  for the reasons explained above. I may be wrong, and if so, 
then I apologise to Mr B. But the remit of this service isnt to declare that something did or 
didnt happen in 2010. Instead, its to decide what its felt a fair outcome is to this complaint. 
And, given that I dont feel that I can fairly uphold this complaint in Mr Bs favour and instruct 
Nationwide to pay him the money he feels hes owed  because I dont feel that theres 
sufficient or compelling information or evidence for me to do so  it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Nationwide to take any further action. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr B was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given all 
that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman