DRN-2022006
The complaint
Mr K complains about how Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited handled a claim made 
on his motor insurance policy. He wants compensation for the loss of value in his van when 
he sold it. 
What happened
Mr K made a claim to Markerstudy after he said hed hit a pothole and found that the 
doorframe had come away on his motor home. Markerstudy told him not to drive the 
motorhome, and to get a quote for repair. Mr K couldnt do this as he couldnt drive the van 
and so Markerstudy sent an independent engineer to look at the vehicle. He said the 
damage was caused by long-term water ingress through the door frame. And Mr Ks claim 
was declined as wear and tear were excluded under the policy. 
Mr K complained pointing out other areas of damage and that the engineer hadnt looked 
under the van. Markerstudy agreed that a more thorough inspection was needed, and it 
appointed forensic engineers to look at the vehicle. Mr K sold his motorhome before this 
inspection took place. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Markerstudy had reasonably appointed forensic assessors and so she didnt look at the 
decline of the claim further. But she thought Markerstudy had caused delays in the claim, not 
appointed the correct engineers soon enough, not provided storage for the vehicle, and kept 
Mr K on hold for long periods. She recommended that Markerstudy should pay Mr K £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Markerstudy replied that the evidence showed that the claimed for damage was long-
standing. Mr K said £100 compensation wasnt sufficient. He said hed sold his motorhome 
for much less that it was worth.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K complained to Markerstudy when it rejected his claim. In response, Markerstudy 
appointed forensic engineers to inspect his van further. I think thats fair and reasonable 
when theres a dispute about engineering evidence. But I can see that Mr K sold his 
motorhome before this inspection could take place. So I dont have any evidence to say 
whether or not Markerstudys decision to repudiate the claim was wrong and so I wont 
comment further on this point of Mr Ks complaint. 
So, like our investigator, Ive considered how Markerstudy handled Mr Ks claim. I can see 
that Markerstudy agreed that a second inspection was needed as the first inspection hadnt 
looked underneath the motorhome. Mr K had reported that hed hit a pothole at the time. So I 
think this should reasonably have been included in that inspection. 
I can see that it took some time for Markerstudy to find a garage with a ramp suitable for 
inspecting the van. And so I think the lack of a thorough initial inspection cased avoidable 
delays in the claim as another had to be arranged. The first inspection was in October and 
then Mr K had to wait for a second inspection four weeks later. Mr K lost patience and sold 
his van before the inspection could be carried out. 
Markerstudy offered Mr K storage for his van two months after the incident and after Mr K 
had complained frequently about the effect of the heavy weather. I think this should have 
been offered sooner. Markerstudy has already agreed that Mr K was kept on hold for long 
periods when he called, and this caused him frustration.
Putting things right
I think this level of service warrants some compensation. The investigator recommended that 
£100 compensation for Mr Ks trouble and upset was reasonable in the circumstances. But 
Mr K thought it wasnt sufficient. 
But I can see that Mr K was responsible for some delays in the claim by not reporting the 
claim immediately and by not sending in required photographs earlier. And I can also see 
that Mr K refused to have the motorhome removed to storage when this was offered. And he 
didnt respond to the forensic engineers request for an appointment. 
So I think £100 is fair and reasonable compensation for the frustration caused by delays and 
the call waits as its in keeping with what Id award in similar circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Markerstudy Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Mr K £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
handling of his claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman