DRN-1619446
Complaint
Ms D is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Intelligent Finance) (IF) wont refund 
a series of transactions that were made from an account by her estranged husband which 
she hadnt authorised.
Background
Ms D and her estranged husband took out a plan with Intelligent Finance in October 2002. 
The plan was divided up into different savings jars each with their own categorisation  for 
example, Holiday and Joint Bills. Although this was a joint application, each jar could be 
separately configured to either be an account in an individuals sole name or held jointly.
In February 2004, two cash ISAs were added to the plan. ISA allowances are specific to the 
individual and funds deposited in them cant be held jointly. For that reason, one ISA was 
created in the name of Ms D and the other in the name of her husband. Further savings 
accounts were added in 2006 and 2008. Ms D says that she didnt consent to these 
accounts being created. She says that the signatures on these forms arent hers and that 
shes informed the police of this. She says that, throughout the period in which they were 
customers of IF, she was financially abused and wasnt permitted any involvement in the use 
of any of these accounts. 
When divorce proceedings commenced, she notified IF and asked it to freeze the accounts. 
IF wrote to her in March 2016 and said we have placed a temporary stop on transactions on 
your account and that in order to remove the stop, we require written instructions from both 
parties. Ms D says that, despite this promise by IF to freeze the account, Mr D was able to 
withdraw money in April 2016. He was then able to close the plan fully in June 2016. 
This complaint was looked into by one of our investigators who said that, as Ms D was 
currently going through divorce proceedings, it would be inappropriate for us to make a 
finding about who was entitled to use the money in these accounts. Thats something that a 
judge will have to come to a determination on. However, the investigator concluded that IF 
hadnt been clear when it said the accounts were frozen that this would only apply to any of 
the accounts that were jointly held. 
When Ms D discovered that her husband had been able to withdraw money from the ISA in 
his name and later close the plan, this was a cause of distress for Ms D. The investigator felt 
IF should pay her £200 in recognition of that. IF has agreed to pay £200. But as Ms D didnt 
accept the investigators recommendation, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
Findings
I've considered all of the available information when deciding what's fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. And having done so Ive come to the same conclusion 
as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Theres no question that Ms D has endured exceptionally difficult circumstances and she has 
my complete sympathy. Ive explained in a separate decision that I dont think its 
appropriate for me to investigate matters relating to the division of assets that will take place under Ms Ds divorce proceedings. However, I think the way IF handled matters did cause 
Ms D distress. Its letter of March 2016 assured her that the account had been frozen. Ms D 
told us that she took this to mean that the entire plan had been frozen. 
I understand IF may have been legally required to allow Ms Ds husband to withdraw cash 
from the plan but I think it shouldve been clearer when it communicated the position to Ms 
D. Ive considered the impact that this error on IFs part had on Ms D. The investigator 
recommended she be paid £200 in recognition of the distress caused and I think thats a 
reasonable sum in the circumstances.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint. If Ms D accepts this 
decision, Bank of Scotland plc should pay her £200 without delay.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman