DRN-1391530
The complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance, wont allow him to return the car that was supplied to him under a conditional sale 
agreement and end the agreement. Hes being helped with his complaint by his mother.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator - so I wont repeat them again here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for 
my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr S signed a conditional sale agreement with Barclays Partner Finance in May 2019 
 he made an advance payment of £99 and agreed to make 60 payments of £132.56 
for a used car to be supplied to him;
he became ill and his mother contacted Barclays Partner Finance on his behalf and 
said that she wanted the car to be returned and no further payments to be required  
but his payments for the car were up to date at that time;
Barclays Partner Finance referred to the voluntary termination provisions in the 
agreement and provided him with a quote for voluntarily terminating the agreement  
it also provided contact details for its customer support team;
the agreement said: You have a right to end this agreement. To do so, you should 
write to the person you make your payments to. They will then be entitled to the 
return of the goods and to half the total amount payable under this agreement, that is 
£4,026.30. If you have already paid at least this amount plus any overdue 
instalments and have taken reasonable care of the goods, you will not have to pay 
any more;
Barclays Partner Finance says that its also considered a voluntary surrender of the 
car but the amount that Mr S would be required to pay to do that was likely to be 
higher than the amount he would have to pay to voluntarily terminate the agreement;
Im not persuaded that the evidence shows that the agreement was mis-sold to Mr S 
or that it was unaffordable for him at the time that he entered into it; 
I sympathise with Mr S and his mother for Mr Ss health issues and the other 
difficulties that theyre facing, but I consider that Barclays Partner Finance has 
correctly applied the terms of the conditional sale agreement that were accepted by 
Mr S - so I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require it to allow Mr S to return the car without making the voluntary termination 
payment (or to end the agreement in any other way without Mr S making the agreed 
payments for the car); 
I consider that Barclays Partner Finances response to Mr Ss complaint has been fair 
and reasonable so I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require it to 
take any action in response to his complaint; and
if Mr S is now experiencing financial difficulties, he should contact Barclays Partner 
Finance about them  its required to respond to any such difficulties positively and 
sympathetically.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman