DRN-3098264
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) gave the wrong contact address to the 
company it sold his debt to.
 
What happened
In late 2020, Mr Y raised a complaint with BoS because it had provided the wrong contact 
address to the company it had sold his overdraft debt to.
 
BoS acknowledged that it had made an error. It said that when BoS sent information about 
Mr Ys account across to the other company, it hadnt made it clear which address was      
Mr Ys current address. BoS paid £200 into Mr Ys account as an apology.
Mr Y says he didnt receive BoSs response to his complaint. He was confused when he saw 
£200 had been paid into his account and had to contact BoS to find out what it was for. Mr Y 
was unhappy that BoS hadnt called him to discuss the complaint before paying 
compensation. He felt that the compensation BoS should be much higher. So, he brought his 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ys concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. 
He thought the £200 BoS had already paid Mr Y was enough to compensate him for the 
impact of its error on him.
Mr Y asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So, its been passed to be 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ys complaint. Ill explain why.
Im aware that Mr Y has raised other complaints with BoS. To be clear, Im only considering 
his complaint about BoS providing the wrong contact address to the company it sold his debt 
to. 
BoS has acknowledged that it made an error when it passed Mr Ys contact details to the 
company it sold his debt to. So, Ive needed to think about whether the £200 it paid Mr Y is 
enough to put things right. 
I understand Mr Y is concerned that BoS may have breached the General Data Protection 
Regulation (GDPR) by giving the wrong address details to the other company. Mr Y says 
hes been told by another organisation that he can claim up to £1,300 for his data being 
breached.  
Our service isnt able to decide if theres a breach of GDPR. Thats the role of the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO). We also dont have the power to fine a business 
for a potential breach. But we can award compensation to consumers whove suffered 
financial loss or have been caused distress and inconvenience by the way a financial 
business has handled their data. 
Mr Y says that the address BoS provided to the debt company was his former address and 
his ex-partner may have still lived there. He was worried about her reading the letters and 
having access to information about his bank account. He was particularly concerned about 
this because shed previously been found sharing pictures of his bank statements. 
Mr Y says he was also concerned that his post might have been passed to a previous 
occupier of the property who had been jailed for fraud. He says this was a stressful 
experience and he had to close his bank account as a result of what happened. 
I appreciate this will have been worrying for Mr Y and, from what hes said, he would have 
been inconvenienced by having to close his bank account. But theres nothing to suggest 
that Mr Y has lost out financially because of BoSs error and I think the £200 is enough to 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced. 
Mr Y has also raised concerns about how BoS handled his complaint. He was frustrated that 
his complaint was dealt with by a complaint handler hed told BoS he didnt want to deal with. 
Hes unhappy that £200 was paid into his account without BoS discussing his concerns with 
him, explaining how it had arrived at that amount or him agreeing to the payment. But 
complaint handling isnt something this service is able to consider, according to the rules set 
by the Financial Conduct Authority. So, I cant consider these matters in my decision.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr Y, but I wont ask BoS to do anything further in 
relation to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman