DRN-2056451
The complaint
Mrs N has complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
associated with her mortgage by Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B).
What happened
In July 1998 Mrs N applied for a mortgage with B&B and at the same time took out a PPI 
policy to cover her for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Mrs N complained that the PPI was mis-sold. B&B didnt agree and so didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mrs N was unhappy with what B&B said, so brought her complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator said they didnt think the PPI was mis-sold and what B&B had said was fair. 
Mrs N remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ns case. 
Both Mrs N and B&B have indicated that the mortgage and the PPI were applied for in a 
meeting in a branch of the B&B.
Mrs N has told us when she took out her mortgage B&B told her it was important to have the 
PPI but doesnt recall being told about the costs and benefits. She says she had good 
employment benefits and didnt need the PPI but took it out because of pressure and the 
emphasis of the adviser at the time. Mrs N says she doesnt believe B&B took into account 
her employment benefits and other means she had to repay her mortgage and it should not 
have advised her the PPI was important.
B&B has told us that when the PPI was sold to Mrs N this was not an advised sale. This 
means that B&B didnt assess Mrs Ns means to determine the suitability of the PPI for her 
circumstances. But it should have provided her with information so she could assess in the 
light of her circumstances if she wanted to take out the PPI or not. 
I have seen a copy of the application form that was completed for the mortgage and PPI. 
Within the mortgage application form there is a section about the PPI. This section requires 
selection of the type of cover, if any, that is wanted and also the amount of benefit, recording 
the monthly mortgage payment, any endowment payment or similar product to repay the 
mortgage and any buildings insurance. I can see on Mrs Ns mortgage application form this 
section has been completed to select cover for accident, sickness and unemployment and 
the level of benefit recorded is £440 in total. 
There are also some basic questions about whether Mrs N had any medical conditions and 
any unusual employment conditions or is aware of any possible redundancy. These have all 
been completed to indicate there is nothing that applies.  
Taking account of what was completed in this PPI section of the mortgage application is 
would seem that some discussion about PPI must have taken place in the meeting. But I 
have seen nothing to show that B&B carried out a full assessment of Mrs Ns financial needs 
to determine if the PPI was suitable for her. 
It is not a requirement when selling this type of insurance that the business always 
undertakes a suitability assessment to then recommend a policy. The business should be 
satisfied that the consumer is eligible for the insurance, which in this case Mrs N was, and it 
if does not do a full assessment of needs, it should provide information to enable the 
consumer to decide if they want to take out the policy.
I cannot know exactly what was said in the meeting, but I do think the application form does 
make clear Mrs N should have known she had a choice about taking out the PPI. The no 
PPI box on the form is empty, and some choices are recorded about the type of PPI cover 
and the amount of the monthly benefit. This is recorded on the mortgage application form 
that Mrs N signed in April 1998 to say was a true recording of the content.
There is some basic information about what the policy covers also indicated on the 
application form and as Ive already said, Mrs N obviously made choices about this. So, at 
the time, which was over 25 years ago, I think after some discussion about the PPI, Mrs N 
knew she had a choice about taking out the policy and she chose to take it out.
I also note that the PPI was free for the first six months and it may be Mrs N thought this free 
provision was of value. The mortgage offer letter dated the 24 June 1998, sets out the basic 
PPI cover selected, the monthly cost, the amount of benefit and that the first six months of 
the premiums will be paid for by B&B. This also refers to a summary of the cover, which was 
enclosed with the offer. 
A Certificate of Insurance and Schedule was sent to Mrs N on 27 July 1998 and this 
indicated the premium cost was nil for the first six months and from February 1999 it would 
be £28.60 per month. 
Looking at the forms completed, and information collected from Mrs N, I think this was not an 
advised sale, in that B&B did not assess her needs to assess suitability. I think B&B provided 
information about the PPI and it was for Mrs N to decide if in her circumstances she wanted 
the PPI. 
I have noted the application section in the mortgage form and also the letter from B&B where 
it is indicated B&B feel it is important to have the cover and because of this it is willing to pay 
the first six months of the premiums. That was the view of B&B and the policy could have 
been of benefit to Mrs N if she had needed to claim. But at the time it was Mrs Ns choice 
whether to take out the policy, and she knew her circumstances and the other benefits and 
resources she had available.
I have considered if the policy was suitable for Mrs N.  Looking at her circumstances at the 
time, I think Mrs N was eligible for the policy. And it doesnt look like she was affected by any 
of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. For example, she didnt suffer from any pre-
existing medical conditions that would have restricted claims relating to medical issues. Even though Mrs N had good some employment benefits if she was off sick, the PPI would 
have paid out in addition to this and would have enabled any other income Mrs N had to pay 
for other household and living expenses. So, it would have been useful for Mrs N to have the 
cover. 
Its possible the information B&B gave Mrs N at the time of the sale about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it could have been. But I think she chose to take out the PPI  so I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put Mrs N off taking out the cover as she wasnt 
affected by any restrictions. And from the information Ive seen it also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. 
Ive also taken note of Mrs Ns reference to her other means including an endowment policy 
and another insurance policy she had with a third party. The endowment was to cover the 
repayment of Mrs Ns mortgage as a large part of her borrowings were on interest only 
payments. 
And the insurance policy Mrs N has indicated she had an insurance policy with a third party 
which she has indicated would have provided an annual amount of income. No 
documentation about this policy has been provided but from what Mrs N has said, and the 
annual benefit the policy would pay, it sounds like some sort of Income protection policy. 
This other insurance policy would have paid out in addition to the PPI  which was to cover 
the mortgage repayments  so allowing the other policy to provide a small annual income if 
Mrs N wasnt working. 
When considering if a PPI policy has been mis-sold, it isnt a question of whether the policy 
is essential, it is whether the consumers wants to take out the policy having been given 
information about it.  This is an insurance policy that generally a consumer has a choice to 
take out or not. A PPI policy should be offered to a purchaser with information to explain 
what it is, what it costs, what the benefits are and with enough detail about the policy terms 
and conditions to enable the consumer to decide if it is suitable for them. 
PPI could be looked at in the same light as other optional insurance such as life insurance, 
pet insurance or accidental damage insurance. With optional insurance types of this sort, it is 
for the consumer to decide whether they want to take it out on the basis of it being suitable 
and whether the reassurance the policy offers is worth the benefit and risk it covers for their 
circumstances.
Mrs N may have been able to pay her mortgage and not lose her home if she wasnt working 
for a time, but the purpose of the PPI was to provide the mortgage payments to make it 
easier to manage in what could have been difficult and trying times.
As long as the PPI policy bought would have paid out and provided the benefits expected, 
and the purchaser of such a policy was given a choice about taking it out, then then it 
wouldnt be considered mis-sold. 
It is possible that Mrs N was persuaded to take it out because of the free six months period, 
and she could have then cancelled it if she didnt want it after this period if she felt she had 
adequate other resources should she not be working. Mrs N wasnt caught by any 
restrictions in the terms and conditions, so further information about those terms would not 
have had any effect on her decision at the time, to take out the policy. In summary I have seen nothing to show the PPI taken out with her mortgage, was mis-sold 
to Mrs N. I think at the time she did agree to take it out and most likely felt it would be of 
benefit to her should she have needed to make a claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold by Bradford and 
Bingley Plc to Mrs N and Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman