DRN-3426986
The complaint
Mrs C and Mrs G complain that they were mis-led by Auto Logistics Solutions Limited (ALS) 
into accepting their services as they thought they were dealing with their insurer.
For ease of reading I will only refer to Mrs G in my decision.
What happened
In November 2018 Mrs G was involved in a road traffic accident that she said wasnt her 
fault. She said she rang her insurer from the roadside and her car was recovered. She said 
she spoke to her insurer and they arranged for use of a courtesy car. But Mrs G said when 
she rang her insurer for an update, she found that they didnt have an insurance claim, and 
they told her she was using the services of an accident management company. Mrs G said 
she asked ALS to stop working for her, but she was prevented from getting her car back 
from the garage. And ALS didnt take back the hire car until February 2019. Mrs G said ALS 
has asked her to pay the hire car cost of over £14,000. She complained to them.
ALS said theyd made clear who they were in the first call with Mrs G and that they werent 
her insurer. They said theyd provided their services and had looked to claim back the hire 
car costs from the third-party insurer (TPI). But Mrs G had raised concerns about ALS with 
the TPI that meant they would no longer deal with ALS. And any offer for the settlement of 
the hire costs was withdrawn. ALS said Mrs G had agreed to use their services and so they 
had no option other than to seek reimbursement for the hire car costs form Mrs G.
Mrs G wasnt happy with ALS response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said Mrs G had signed a hire agreement with ALS and so they could ask 
her to settle the outstanding costs.
Mrs G didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. I know Mrs G will be disappointed by my 
decision, so Ill explain why.
Firstly, the services of a claims management company (CMC) such as ALS are usually paid 
for through an unregulated finance arrangement. 
The hire car agreement Mrs G signed with ALS covers the cost of hiring a car while her car 
was being repaired. And the TPI would be asked by ALS to pay this as part of the accident 
claim. Its sometimes referred to as a credit hire agreement  an unregulated credit 
agreement meaning its not regulated under the Consumer Credit Act 1974. So, the credit 
hire agreement itself isnt something that I can look at. 
But I can look at the service ALS gave Mrs G in managing her claim to see if their actions 
were fair and reasonable.
Up until 31 March 2019, CMCs were regulated by the Claims Management Regulator. And 
complaints about CMCs were dealt with by the Legal Ombudsman. On 1 April 2019 the 
regulation of CMCs switched to the Financial Conduct Authority, and complaints moved to 
the Claims Management Ombudsman. Because the events Mrs G is complaining about took 
place before this change in regulation, my decision must be based on the approach the 
Claims Management Regulator and Legal Ombudsman would have taken.
ALS offer what are known as accident management services, which means they would 
provide certain services to someone who had been involved in a road traffic accident that 
wasnt their fault. For example, they would typically arrange a hire car, where needed, 
organise repairs, or determine the pre-accident value of the car if its deemed non repairable 
and then claim these costs back from the at fault TPI. They would have a responsibility to 
mitigate any costs as the TPI wouldnt cover any costs incurred if they werent as a result of 
the accident.
The advantage to the non-fault driver is that as they dont claim against their own motor 
insurance policy. This means they dont have to pay their motor insurance policy excess and 
there isnt any impact on their no-claims discount, if they have one.
Immediately following the accident, Mrs G said she contacted who she thought were her 
insurance company to make them aware of the claim. But I think she contacted a third-party 
company and she was put in touch with ALS.
Ive listened to the call Mrs G had with ALS the day after the accident. At the very outset of 
the call ALS say who they are and how they work. That they handle non-fault claims and 
look to claim back the costs from the TPI. They said they claim through them for repairs and 
also a vehicle whilst yours is off the road  They also say  were totally separate from normal 
insurance -  you wont lose your no claims or pay any excess.
After being told this, Mrs G was happy to continue with the call. During this call Mrs G 
explained the circumstances of the accident which indicated it wasnt her fault.
ALS followed up this call with an email the same day, and the email address clearly shows 
as ALS. Theres nothing in either the phone call or follow-up email that indicates ALS are 
part of, or are acting for, Mrs Gs insurance company. The direct email address given by ALS 
to Mrs G says its for their claims department.  At the end of November 2018, ALS sent by 
email to Mrs G their Customer Notification which shows that the claim handling was being 
done by ALS. I can also see that Mrs G was sent by email in December 2018 log in details 
for her claim with ALS, which is accessed through ALS website. 
During the first call with ALS arrangements were made for a vehicle to be provided while  
Mrs Gs was off the road. And it was agreed that both she and her partner would have use of 
the replacement car. Mrs G has said that she understood that she wouldnt have to pay 
anything for the use of the car and took this to mean it was a courtesy car. But during the call 
I didnt hear the replacement car referred to as a courtesy car, but ALS did say they would 
look to recover the costs of the replacement vehicle from the TPI. Ive seen the hire 
agreement that was sent out to Mrs G and while I cant comment on whether the hire 
agreement is enforceable, I can see that it clearly says Hire Agreement. And details daily hire costs. I can also see that there was a Notice of Right to Cancel, that gave 14 days to 
cancel the hire agreement without giving any reason. 
I can see from ALS records that Mrs G first raised concerns about their involvement in early 
December 2018 after shed called her motor insurer, Ive listened to this call and Mrs G is 
surprised that her claim wasnt being dealt with by her motor insurance policy. And this isnt 
helped when she is made to think that ALS is a bogus company. Mrs G is advised to tell 
ALS to stop acting for her and to make an accident claim under her motor insurance policy. 
But I can see from ALS records that Mrs Gs concerns were addressed after it was agreed 
with her motor insurer that ALS would continue to manage her accident claim.
And once Mrs G was satisfied with the repairs to her own car, she arranged with ALS for the 
hire car to be collected in late February 2019. And ALS looked to claim these costs back 
from the TPI.
But I can see in September 2019 the TPI withdrew the offer for the hire car costs as they 
said Mrs G told them she hadnt agreed for ALS to manage her accident claim. I can see 
ALS tried to resolve this with Mrs G, but werent able to speak to her as their number had 
been blocked. But they emailed Mrs G outlining their contact with her insurer and the 
acceptance of their services.
I can understand Mrs G maynt have been happy that ALS were handling her claim, but I 
think ALS had been clear that theyre an independent company and under what specific 
circumstances theyre able to act. And ALS provided the hire car which she had use of from 
November 2018 until February 2019. So, I dont think ALS have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in seeking the settlement of these costs.
Should Mrs G wish to make detailed legal arguments about whether or not the hire 
agreement is ultimately enforceable are arguments she would need to make in court as I 
have no power to find Mrs Gs hire agreement as unenforceable. This would be for the court 
to decide.
I hope that all the parties concerned can reach an agreement about how these costs will be 
settled especially as Mrs G hasnt been deemed to be at fault for the accident.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mrs G 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman