DRN-4107399
The complaint
Mrs and Mr D have complained about National House-Building Council (NHBC). They are 
unhappy about the settlement of their claim on their building warranty following the 
developers refusal to carry out the required rectification work.
What happened
Mrs and Mr D bought a new-build property and had an ongoing problem with the drainage 
system outside their property. When NHBC looked into the claim it offered a cash settlement 
in line with its proposed schedule of repair works following some excavation work and a brief 
trial under man made conditions following the insertion of a trial pit. But when Mrs and Mr D 
and their own surveyor kept an eye on the trial pit over a winter period it became obvious 
that the trial pit wasnt working. 
As the site still wasnt draining as it should they asked NHBC to reattend and have a look at 
the position, but it wouldnt. So, their surveyor put in place a further, more extensive, trial 
which was observed over a sustained period and appeared to be successful. And on the 
back of this Mrs and Mr D felt that NHBC should increase the cash settlement offer in order 
to take account of the higher cost to undertake their surveyors proposal. But NHBC refused 
to consider this.
Mrs D and Mr D werent happy about this, so they complained to NHBC. It maintained its 
position and so they complained to this Service. They wanted the cash settlement originally 
offered to be lifted to cover the additional work their surveyor identified; to be reimbursed 
their surveyor costs; for a 12% contingency plan to cover any unexpected costs; and 
compensation for the inconvenience caused by NHBCs delay in resolving matters and the 
difficulties they faced due to the ongoing water damage. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs D and Mr D and partly upheld their complaint. 
Although she explained that some issues raised were brought to this Service too late and 
were outside our jurisdiction she thought NHBC should carry out the rectification work in line 
with their surveyors recommendations or pay the cash equivalent (£124,849.66). And she 
thought it should pay Mrs and Mr Ds surveyor costs (subject to proof) and £300 
compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused. But she didnt feel the 12% 
contingency plan was fair.
Although Mrs D and Mr D accepted the investigators position NHBC felt that its original 
proposed schedule of works was sufficient. So the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree that the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
I think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information provided 
by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been said in 
this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux 
of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless 
its relevant to the crux of the complaint. 
I know NHBC feels its original cash settlement offer was fair. And this followed a brief trial of 
a proposed method of drainage that it was hoped would ease the difficulties Mrs D and Mr D 
faced at their property which had been ongoing for a significant period of time. However, that 
trial was brief and wasnt exposed to the elements over winter. And given the ongoing nature 
of the problem and the need for a long lasting and effective repair their surveyor undertook a 
more detailed and prolonged trial. And this trial, over a longer period covering real life 
conditions, showed NHBCs proposals to be inadequate.
NHBCs original investigation trial hand dug a pit directly behind the affected wall in order to 
investigate the drainage system that was in situ. The conclusion was that the back of the 
wall drainage system that was in place wasnt adequate as it had been backfilled with clay 
and that the weep holes had effectively been blocked. The proposal was to open the weep 
holes to allow water to flow through and to excavate a trench behind the retaining wall.
However, when Mrs D and Mr Ds own surveyor undertook a more detailed review and trial 
he didnt think the steps were adequate. His detailed trial and report suggested the proposed 
remedy didnt go far enough and that the depth of the excavation behind the retaining wall 
needed to be deeper and the weep holes wider. And he suggested that the settlement 
NHBC proposed didnt consider how water in the area dispersed amongst other things. 
As our investigator explained this Service relies on expert opinion in cases like this in order 
to try and establish what seems fair and reasonable. And in this instance, although I accept 
NHBC thought its initial proposal was fair and covered the drainage issue, it hasnt engaged 
with Mrs D and Mr Ds further report and the detail provided. It has simply maintained that its 
original proposal was sufficient and suggested all parties agreed with its original proposal at 
the time. While I accept this point generally, although Mr D has said he and his surveyor 
werent in full agreement with the proposal when it was tested, the position changed when it 
became clear that the proposal didnt go far enough and wouldnt solve the drainage 
problem Mrs and Mr D faced. And Im more persuaded by Mrs D and Mr Ds report here 
which clearly shows that the original proposal didnt go far enough to rectify the ongoing and 
difficult drainage issue. 
Ultimately, NHBC hasnt provided any real evidence or explanation as to why the additional 
works arent required in order to ensure a lasting and effective repair. Indeed, it didnt 
engage with Mrs and Mr Ds points in its final response letter. NHBC simply implied it wasnt 
responsible for costs increasing (suggesting that this was solely because of the delay in 
commencing work) as opposed to considering the increase in the level of work proposed 
following Mrs and Mr Ds surveyors findings which inevitably increased costs. And Mrs and 
Mr D have provided persuasive evidence that the original scope of work isnt sufficient. Their 
surveyors report followed an in-depth investigation and monitoring and clearly explained 
what was required and why the original suggested scope of work was insufficient. Their 
report shows that NHBCs proposed solution doesnt prevent water from collecting behind 
the retaining wall so it wouldnt be a lasting and effective repair. 
I know NHBC feel the drainage issues in relation to the garden shouldnt be part of the 
resolution here as gardens arent covered under the policy as they arent defined as part of 
the home. But it is clear here that the drainage problem immediately affects the house which 
is covered. I accept there may be a knock-on effect here that could prevent the garden from 
flooding as well, but it would appear that the two issues are linked. And the original proposed 
schedule of works would have had a similar affect in any event if they had been successful.
Given all of this I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of 
this case, is for NHBC to undertake the repairs as per Mrs D and Mr Ds own surveyors 
report or to pay a cash settlement (£124,849.96 or more if this cost has increased given the quote was more than a year ago subject to new quotes). And to pay the surveyors costs as 
it is clear that his expert opinion has moved things forward here. 
Finally, I agree that the poor service, especially the delay, has caused Mrs D and Mr D a fair 
degree of stress and inconvenience here and so they should be awarded £300 
compensation. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im upholding this complaint. I require National 
House-Building Council to either carry out the repairs identified by Mrs and Mr Ds surveyor 
or to pay the equivalent cash settlement of £124,849.96 (subject to any potential cost 
increase and reasonable proof). And pay Mrs and Mr Ds surveyor costs subject to 
reasonable proof and £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman