DRN-3599070
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) have been unreasonable to reject a 
claim she made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ikano, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a fixed sum loan, as is the 
case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer 
Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement 
has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
Section 49 (1) of the Consumer Rights Act (2015) says that:
Every contract to supply a service is to be treated as including a term that the trader must 
perform the service with reasonable care and skill.
I think there has been a breach of contract here as I dont think the installation has been 
performed with reasonable care and skill.
I say that because the independent inspection commissioned by Mrs H said that. The 
inspector explained:
 the installation is not up to the standard we would expect. 
He noted amongst other things that, the windows and door set were undersized, the kitchen 
windowsills were not proprietary, there was evidence of a leak, the bedroom windows were 
poorly insulated, and there were holes and filled areas on the frames.
He suggested that the only viable method to alleviate (the problems) would be to replace 
the windows.
Im persuaded by his expert opinion that is the case.
I can see that when Mrs H first referred her complaint to this service she was concerned that 
a finance agreement had been established. She had no recollection of entering into a 
finance agreement. The agreement was signed electronically on 23 September 2020 and Im 
persuaded, on balance, its likely to have been signed by Mrs H as Ive not seen an 
explanation about how an electronic signature could have been obtained without Mrs Hs 
approval. Im not persuaded therefore that Mrs H didnt agree to the finance and its helped 
her here as shes been able to raise a section 75 claim she wouldnt have been entitled to 
raise had she paid in cash. 
Putting things right
Ikano will need to end the finance agreement and theyll need to refund any money Mrs H 
has paid towards it. 
Legislation allows Ikano to withhold some of that refund in respect of the usage Mrs H has 
had from the goods. Ive therefore thought about how much they should be allowed to retain.
Its clear the goods are of particularly poor quality. The inspector noted there was evidence 
of a leak and that the lack of insulation in the bedroom would not help noise reduction; an 
issue Ive read Mrs H was particularly keen to tackle when ordering the windows. I dont 
therefore think Mrs H has had too much use from the windows that were installed. The 
benefits she may have gained have been impacted by lack of insulation, leaks, and poor 
acoustic properties shes experienced. All told I think it would be fair for Ikano to withhold 
any finance instalments paid or due before they issued their final response on the section 75 
claim in June 2021 but any payments made or due after that should be refunded to Mrs H, 
with interest, or waived if due and not paid.
Mrs H has also had to fund an independent inspection to illustrate the concerns she had with 
the installation. She wouldnt have had to do that if the window installation was of the correct 
quality. Ikano should therefore refund the £300 that inspection cost and they should add 
interest to the refund. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Ikano Bank AB (publ) to:
End the finance agreement.
Refund all payments made (or waive them if they were due and havent been paid) 
since they provided their final response on Mrs Hs section 75 claim in June 2021. 
Add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement, to any refund.
Refund the £300 Mrs H paid for her independent inspection and add 8% simple 
interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information they may have reported to Mrs Hs credit file in 
relation to this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman