DRN-1843739
 
The complaint
Mrs J says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a regular payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy to cover her store card repayments. 
What happened
Mrs J took out a store card in 2003. At the same time she took out a PPI policy to cover her 
card repayments. The policy cost £1 per £100 of the balance on Mrs Js store card. A 
successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the store 
card if Mrs J was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost her job. The benefit 
would continue to be paid until Mrs J returned to work or the balance was cleared.
Our adjudicator thought Mrs Js complaint should be upheld because he didnt think Mrs J 
needed the policy enough to make the cost worthwhile. AXA disagreed because it didnt 
think there was enough information to show that Mrs J had alternative cover in place
So the complaint came to me for a decision. I issued my provisional decision in April 2020. In 
my provisional decision, I explained why I was proposing not to uphold Mrs Js complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final decision 
and neither AXA or Mrs J have added anything further.
So the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In my provisional decision I said that:
 The PPI was applied for in store when Mrs J applied for a store card. AXA have given us a 
copy of the original store card application form. I can see that the sections on the application 
form that deals with card protection and additional card holders have been left blank and 
been struck through.
But I can see that Mrs J has signed for PPI in the section Protecting your Account. 
If Mrs J didnt want to take out PPI she couldve left this section blank like the others and not 
signed to take the cover. Because she signed within the PPI section rather than leaving it 
clear, I think its likely Mrs J knew she had a choice about taking out PPI. And I think she 
signed within the box because she wanted the cover.
I dont think Mrs J was advised to take the cover. What this means is that AXA didnt 
recommend PPI to Mrs J, they just gave her information about PPI and it was up to her to 
decide if her circumstances were such that she needed the policy. This information needed 
to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so she could make an informed 
choice about buying PPI.AXA say that sufficient information wouldve been provided at the point of sale to allow Mrs J 
to make an informed choice on whether to add PPI to her account. But I cant say whether 
this information was good enough. That being said even if AXA did give all the information 
Mrs J needed to make an informed choice on taking out the policy, I think she wouldve still 
taken the policy because at the time of sale:
She was eligible for the PPI.
 
It doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
 
At the time of the sale Mrs J says she was entitled to a significant level of sick pay 
and had savings she could use to make her repayments if she was unable to work or 
lost her job. I think it is likely Mrs J did have a sick pay entitlement but based on the 
information given to me I dont think it would be at a level to make the policy not 
worthwhile. And the policy wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits and savings 
and for potentially longer. So I dont think knowing this information wouldve changed 
her mind about taking the policy. 
 
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mrs J and if she no longer 
wanted the policy she was able to cancel it.
 
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mrs J on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to her.
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I do 
not uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
I do not uphold Mrs J's complaint against  AXA France IARD.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman