DRN-3136815
The complaint
Ms Ls representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), complains on her behalf that 
she was given unsuitable investment advice by Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited  
formerly Merchant Investors  referred to as Sanlam. 
In short, the CMC says the recommendation was unsuitable because:
Theres no evidence that Sanlam discussed Ms Ls deposit-based savings for 
emergencies. 
The term was too long.
There was no need for life cover. 
What happened
In 1989, Ms L was advised to invest £30 a month into the Merchant Investment Savings 
Programme (the plan) until her 65th birthday. The plan included life cover and had a £945 
sum assured. 
It was recorded that Ms L was:
In her late 20s, divorced with no dependents. 
She was employed with a net monthly income of £700, and her outgoings were 
around £208 leaving a net monthly disposable income of £492. 
She had £400 invested in stocks and shares and £100 in a national savings/premium 
bonds account.  
Ms L wanted to contribute £30 a month into the plan, which was then split  50/50  
between the Merchant Investor Managed Fund and the Property Fund. 
In September 1999, in response to a letter from Ms L about the returns on her plan, Sanlam 
re-explained that the plan was designed to run for between 20 and 25 years to allow it to 
perform and achieve a reasonable return. It also explained that the contributions could be 
made until she was 65 years of age and it provided an illustration of the sort of returns that 
she might get. 
In December 2007, Ms L stopped paying the monthly contributions. The plan is still in place 
and the value as of 4 October 2021 was given at £15,330.  
 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
There isnt a recommendation letter, but Ms L wished to save for a car and a house. 
Given Ms Ls income and expenditure, the plan contributions werent unaffordable, 
and the plan was paid into for 18 years. 
Theres nothing to suggest that Ms L didnt want to invest for the long-term. 
In 1999, when Ms L raised an issue about the performance of the fund, the term of 
the investment was clarified again, so its unlikely  despite what the CMC says  Ms 
L wouldve thought the plan was for 10 years. In any event, she went on to make 
contributions for another eight years after raising these issues.  
Ms L still has the plan some 32 years later, which suggests that she was happy to 
keep an investment in the long-term. 
Just because the business is unable to provide more information about the point of 
sale doesnt mean the complaint should be upheld. 
At the time, there wasnt a requirement for Sanlam to record what was discussed. 
However, the fund selection which was originally 100% Managed Fund and later 
equally split with the Property Fund, suggests that attitude to risk was likely to have 
been discussed. 
The plan met Ms Ls objective for growth. 
Given Ms Ls investment experience didnt mean that she couldnt invest or take a 
risk with her money.  
Ms L thought her investment would be tax free after a period, which would suggest 
that she was looking for tax efficient savings. 
In this instance, a small amount of life cover was included to ensure that the plan 
would be qualifying for tax purposes. Sanlam confirmed that the cost was £0.64 
pence a month and the charge stopped in August 2013. 
Whilst there wasnt an obvious need for life cover given Ms Ls personal 
circumstances, she (the investigator) cant say that the inclusion of life cover was 
unsuitable in this case given the tax benefit. 
The CMC disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
short it maintains that it has a compelling case for an uphold for the reasons it has already 
explained, and thats why Sanlam tried to have the complaint time-barred. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im unable to 
safely say that the recommendation for Ms L was unsuitable in the circumstances. 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by the CMC and Sanlam and reach what I 
think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. As a 
fresh pair of eyes looking at the complaint, its for me to decide, based on the information 
Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
I appreciate the regulatory rules from that period required financial advisers to exercise 
reasonable care and skill to know your customer and to give recommendations that were 
suitable for the clients circumstances. At that time, many advisers may not have completed 
fact finds, and reason-why letters werent obligatory until 1995. Despite this I note the 
business did in fact complete a fact find which has been of assistance.
Nevertheless, given the passage of time, Im not surprised that there isnt more detailed 
information available from the point of sale from some 32 years ago. Therefore, its 
understandable that there may not be documentation to specifically show what was said or 
discussed.  Furthermore, financial businesses arent required to retain information indefinitely, therefore I 
cant blame Sanlam for not being able to provide more information about what was and 
wasnt said at the time. Like the investigator I dont think this is a reason to uphold the 
complaint. 
In this case Ive not seen any evidence that Ms L was led to believe that the plan, although 
to a greater extent an open-ended contract, was a medium-term savings plan for a term of 
10 years. In fairness, Ive seen no evidence from the point of sale that Ms L specifically 
wanted a short or medium-term plan, so I cant say that the business has done anything 
wrong by not recommending one.  
In other words, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Ms L was against saving for the longer term 
or that she specifically wanted a short/medium-term plan. I note that Ms L wished to buy a 
house and/or a car in the future, but I dont think a plan  which enabled her to affordably 
save for longer-term financial goals  was unsuitable in the circumstances. Or that it would, 
given the monthly contributions, stop her from pursuing any other goals in the interim. 
Im aware of the general position regarding a young single person taking out a long-term 
plan. However, in this instance Im mindful that Ms L was divorced at the time, with no 
financial dependents. And unless her circumstances were to change  there was nothing to 
suggest that they would soon  I dont think a plan that allowed her to put a little money 
away (potentially) until the age of 65 was unsuitable.  
It might be argued that because she no longer had the additional support, income or security 
 that would generally come with being in a partnership or marriage  it was very much up to 
her save up for her financial goals and the future, potentially until the age of 65, although she 
wasnt obliged to keep it for that long. 
Like the investigator, Ive also seen nothing to suggest that she was risk averse, or that she 
wasnt willing to take some risk in order to achieve her objective for growth. Im mindful that 
the investment was split between the Managed Fund and the Property Fund even though 
initially it was all going to be invested in the Managed Fund which would suggest that its 
more likely than not that risk was considered with Ms L.  
Given Ms Ls income and expenditure and other investments, I dont think contributing £30 a 
month in the plan was unsuitable given that it was unlikely to have a material difference to 
her day to day living. 
I note that Ms L continues to hold the plan and did so whilst contributing for another eight 
years even after raising issues about its performance in 1999. This doesnt suggest to me 
that she was unhappy with a long-term plan or that she was against it at the point of sale. 
Given Ms Ls personal circumstances at the time  Im mindful that she was in her very late 
20s, single and with no financial dependants  arguably there wasnt a need for life cover. I 
also appreciate what the CMC says, but these plans arent inherently unsuitable just 
because they combine life cover with longer-term savings and their suitability will usually 
depend on the circumstances of each individual case. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, in this instance I dont think the inclusion of life 
cover rendered the recommendation unsuitable, notwithstanding Ms Ls circumstances. I 
note that minimum life cover was included for qualifying tax purposes so that Ms Ls gains 
wouldnt be subject to tax. So, in this instance, I cant safely say that the inclusion of life 
cover was unsuitable given the potential tax benefit. Im mindful Sanlam confirmed that the 
cost was £0.64 pence a month and the charge stopped in August 2013.In my opinion, complaining about the plan via her CMC some 32 years after it was taken out, 
whilst keeping it going, doesnt in my mind suggest Ms L was dissatisfied with the product.
I appreciate Ms L will be very disappointed that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. But in the circumstances, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give her what 
she wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman