DRN-3690828
The complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) will not refund payments he 
believed were going to a legitimate trading company.
Mr T is represented by Refundee Ltd in this matter.  For simplicity, I will refer to Refundees 
actions and submissions as those made by Mr T.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In 2016, Mr T made several payments from his personal and business accounts with 
Barclays to VXMarkets.  Mr T says at the time he believed VXMarkets were a legitimate 
trading company.  He says he later discovered he had been scammed and lost all the money 
he had invested.
Mr T contacted Barclays and asked it to recover/refund his money.  As this did not happen, 
Mr T raised a complaint which he referred to our Service.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint and  after dealing with a jurisdiction 
issue  did not uphold it.  As Mr T did not accept the investigators findings, his complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points of this 
complaint, I have read and considered what has been provided.  Having done so, I agree 
with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following key reasons:
There is no published warning about VXMarkets on the FCA website.  And whilst 
there is a warning about them on IOSCOs Investor Alerts Portal, this was placed on 
the Portal after all of Mr Ts payments to VXMarkets.  So, I would not have expected 
Barclays to have intervened and stopped the payments in this regard.
I am not persuaded that Barclays ought to have intervened and stopped the 
payments because they were unusual/out of character.  That is, I am not persuaded 
Barclays ought to have been altered to the payments, delayed them and asked 
questions to get to the bottom of what was going on.  In my view, I do not find the 
payments remarkable in any way to be cause for concern.  This applies to both the 
payments from Mr Ts personal and business accounts.
For completeness, I have considered chargeback.  Based on the evidence before 
me, I do not find that Mr T had/has the relevant evidence required for a successful 
chargeback claim under the applicable scheme.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman