DRN-2009100
 
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited settled another drivers claim 
against her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs M had a minor accident whilst driving. I understand that her car made contact at low 
speed with the rear of a stationary van. The driver of the van made a claim against Mrs Ms 
policy. Admiral contacted Mrs M about the claim. Mrs M told Admiral that she thought that 
the other drivers claim was fraudulent. She said that the only point of collision was between 
her fog lamp and the vans tow bar and that the only damage was to her fog lamp, which she 
popped back into place.
Admiral settled the other drivers claim and Mrs M didnt think that was right.
Admiral said that it upheld Mrs Ms complaint and apologised for the inconvenience. It said 
that it has a business arrangement with some insurers which means that it deals with some 
straightforward, minor claims without exchanging letters, calls or engineers evidence. 
Thats why it settled the other drivers claim without investigating Mrs Ms concerns.
Mrs M says she had a very minor bump with the van that caused minor damage to the 
front of her car, which cost nothing to fix. She says that she didnt cause damage to the 
van and its impossible that her car caused the damage that was claimed for.
Mrs M says that shell now have to disclose that theres been a claim against her, which will 
cost her more in future premiums. Shed like compensation for that.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Admiral had
acted unreasonably.
Mrs M didnt agree with the investigator. She said she doesnt accept liability for the 
damage claimed by the other driver, but she did admit to having a minor bump with the 
van. Mrs M says that the amount claimed by the other driver couldnt have been caused by 
her, so the claim wasnt valid, and she wasnt given an opportunity to challenge the claim.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
My provisional decision
I sent my provisional decision to the parties on 23 June 2020, in which I said:
This service doesnt decide liability for an accident; thats a matter for the courts. But we 
do consider whether an insurer, Admiral in this case, acted in accordance with the policy 
terms and fairly.
Mrs Ms policy provides that Admiral is entitled to conduct the defence or settlement of any 
claim on Mrs Ms behalf. Thats a common term in motor insurance policies. So, Admiral 
was entitled to deal with the other drivers claim as it saw fit. But wed expect it to do so 
fairly.
Admiral says that it has an arrangement with some insurers which means that it deals with 
some straightforward, minor claims without exchanging letters, calls or engineers 
evidence. So, it cant now produce evidence to show the extent of the damage for which 
the other driver claimed or how the repair costs were calculated. That means I cant 
establish whether Admiral acted fairly in proceeding on the basis that the other drivers 
claim was not exaggerated.
In the particular circumstances here, where Mrs M told Admiral that she hadnt caused the 
damage claimed, provided her explanation and photographs to support what she said, I 
think Admiral should have done more to investigate the claim. Admirals actions in settling 
the claim without investigation effectively meant that Mrs M lost the opportunity to 
challenge what the other driver said and claimed. Admiral appears to acknowledge that in 
its final response to Mrs M and apologised. But I dont think that goes far enough. I think 
that Mrs M suffered distress and inconvenience when Admiral didnt consider what she 
said and when she discovered that it had settled the claim. I think that fair compensation 
for that is £300.
Mrs M acknowledged that her car made contact with the stationary van  its tow bar. 
There doesnt appear to be any independent witnesses to the incident. It appears that the 
other driver alleged damage to his van as soon as the incident happened, as Mrs M took 
a photo of what she says is the area of the van the other driver said was damaged. 
Considering everything, I dont think I can safely conclude that, if Admiral had investigated 
the claim properly, it would have been able to defend it in its entirety. I think its more 
likely than not that Admiral would have paid the other drivers claim, at least in part, if it 
had looked at things more closely. So, it would have recorded this as a fault claim in any 
event, which would have affected Mrs Ms future premium.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs M wasnt happy with the level of compensation but said that she was willing to accept 
my provisional decision in order to bring this matter to a close and to show that Admiral 
failed in its duties towards her. 
Admiral didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said:
Its outlay was £1,027.39: £777.39 to the other drivers insurer and £250 to the other 
driver in relation to his excess due under his policy. 
Mrs M confirmed that she had hit the van, so its reasonable that there would be 
damage to it. As the claim was low value, it wouldnt look to litigate, which would 
cost more, and it settled the claim on the best terms possible. 
Mrs M provided photographs of her car behind her neighbours van, which had a step 
at the back which wasnt present on the other drivers van. So, theres no direct 
comparison.
The incident was 11 March 2019, but as Mrs M didnt report the incident, Admiral 
became aware of it from the other drivers insurers on 16 April 2019. So, its satisfied 
that the repairs were either already underway or completed before it was aware of 
the situation, so it couldnt have reviewed the damage to the van.  Given the value of the claim, the circumstances of the accident and it being unaware 
of the incident for approximately five weeks, it settled the claim on the best terms 
possible, as its entitled to do. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admirals actual outlay was greater than it said in its final response to Mrs M. I dont think 
that alters the outcome here.
I agree with Admiral that I dont think I can safely conclude that, if it had investigated the 
claim, it would have been able to defend it in its entirety. But as Admiral handled the claim as 
it did, Mrs M lost the opportunity to challenge what the other driver said and claimed. 
Mrs M provided one photo of the other drivers van at the time of the incident and two photos 
of a similar van. I note that the similar van had a step, which the other drivers van didnt. I 
think Mrs Mr provided the photos of the similar van to show relative heights of the car and 
van at the point of impact. So, I think those photos are useful, even though the vans differ.  
When Admiral received the claim, it may have been the case that the repairs were underway 
or complete. But that doesnt mean that it couldnt have challenged the claim. It was for the 
other driver to show the damage and his risk if there was no evidence of the damage at the 
time of the claim. 
Putting things right
Ive considered what Admiral said but I dont think it changes the outcome here. I remain of 
the view that, in the particular circumstances of this case, Admiral didnt treat Mrs M fairly in 
settling the claim without investigation. I think fair compensation for Mrs Ms distress and 
inconvenience arising out of that is £300.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint. I now direct Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mrs M compensation of £300 in relation to her distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman