DRN-3349443
The complaint
This complaint is about an equity release mortgage taken out by Mr and Mrs S, who have 
now both passed away. Their son is bringing the complaint. For the sake of clarity, I will refer 
to the father as Mr S and the son as Mr S1.
The complaint has been brought by Mr S1 in his capacity as Executor of the estate of his 
late father, Mr S. The complaint, on behalf of the estate, is that in 2005 an equity release 
mortgage was mis-sold to Mr and Mrs S, Mr S1s parents, by Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited. 
Mr S1 says the mortgage wasnt suitable for his parents needs, and the interest rate was too 
high. Mr S1 believes Aviva should have carried out regular review of the product and offered 
Mr and Mrs S a lower interest rate as these became available to new customers. 
To settle the complaint, Mr S wants Aviva to accept it should have reviewed the interest rate 
and to refund 50% of the approx. £210,000 paid to redeem the mortgage.
What happened
I will keep my summary of what happened fairly brief. There are several reasons for this. 
First, it isnt disputed that Mr and Mrs S took out an equity release mortgage, so I dont need 
to set out all the details of how the mortgage came to be in existence. Secondly, the history 
of the events leading up to the complaint have been set out in detail in the correspondence 
between Mr S1 and Aviva, and in letters from our investigator. Finally, our decisions are 
published, so its important that I dont include any information that might lead to Mr S1 or 
his parents being identified. For these reasons, I will keep my summary of the events fairly 
brief.
In April 2005 Mr and Mrs S had two meetings with a mortgage adviser from Aviva (then 
known as Norwich Union) to discuss equity release mortgages. At the time Mr S was aged 
66 and Mrs S was aged 64. A fact-find was completed, which recorded Mr and Mrs Ss 
circumstances, needs and wishes.
The fact-find showed that Mr and Mrs S had a joint monthly income of £1,265 and monthly 
expenditure of £1,111, leaving very little disposable income.. They wanted to borrow 
£70,000, of which £30,000 was earmarked for home improvements (including a loft 
conversion), £1,200 for legal expenses and £38,800 for general expenses. Although 
Mr and Mrs S had savings of about £30,000 (mostly in PEPs or ISAs which came with some 
tax benefits), they did not want to use these and wished to maintain the growth on these 
investments.
The fact-find also records that Mr and Mrs S did not want to take out a conventional 
mortgage that came with monthly repayments, because they didnt want to increase their 
outgoings.
A suitability letter was sent to Mr and Mrs S on 21 April 2005. This summarised what had 
been discussed with Aviva at their meetings, including confirmation that Mr and Mrs S didnt 
want to have any other person (such as a relative) present during the meetings.
Although Mr and Mrs S could borrow up to £70,000, Aviva recommended they should take 
only £31,200 on their equity release mortgage, leaving the option to draw down any 
remaining sum at a later date. The adviser explained that, if Mr and Mrs S took the full 
£70,000, they would probably earn less in interest than would accrue on the equity release 
mortgage. However, the letter records that Mr and Mrs S were insistent on drawing down the 
full £70,000.
The suitability letter also sets out all the alternative options to achieve their objectives that 
were discussed with Mr and Mrs S, which were:
using existing savings (which Mr and Mrs S didnt want to do);
moving to a smaller property (Mr and Mrs S did not want to move);
potential future inheritance or maturity of investments, policies or bonds (there was none);
taking out a conventional mortgage (which Mr and Mrs S didnt want to do);
home improvement grant from the Local Authority (Mr and Mrs S didnt want to pursue this);
a Home Reversion plan, where the property is sold to a company which provides a lump sum and 
a lifetime tenancy (Mr and Mrs S wanted to retain 100% ownership of the property);
The letter states that Aviva had discussed both fixed-rate and index-linked lifetime 
mortgages, but Mr and Mrs S wanted the security of a fixed rate, and to know in advance 
exactly what the repayable balance would be. It was also recorded that Mr and Mrs S told 
Aviva that theyd discussed their plan to take out the equity release mortgage with the future 
beneficiaries of their estate.
Aviva explained how the mortgage worked, that no monthly repayments were due, that this 
was intended to be a long-term mortgage to last the rest of Mr and Mrs Ss lives, and that the 
interest rate on the loan is fixed until the end of the mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs S decided to go ahead with their application, and a mortgage offer was issued 
for a loan of £70,000 at a fixed rate of 7.09%. The offer set out, in slightly more formal terms 
than the suitability letter, the full details of how the mortgage worked. It contained a 
calculation of how interest would accrue over a 24-year period. It also set out details of how 
any early repayment charge would be calculated, should the loan be repaid early, and the 
circumstances in which the loan could be transferred onto another property. 
There was a specific section explaining that the interest rate was fixed for the lifetime of the 
mortgage and would not change. The mortgage offer also explained the no negative equity 
guarantee. This ensured that if the price of the property was to fall over the years, leaving 
more owing to Aviva than the property was worth, Aviva would not ask Mr and Mrs S (or their 
estate) to pay back more than the value of the property. However, if property prices 
increased more than the amount owing on the mortgage, the full amount of the loan would 
be repayable to Aviva at the point where it became due to be repaid.
Before taking out the mortgage, Mr and Mrs S were required to have independent legal 
advice from their own solicitor. They chose a local solicitor, who confirmed to Aviva that 
advice had been given explaining the implications of entering into the mortgage and 
ensuring that Mr and Mrs S understood the nature and effect of the transaction.
The mortgage completed on 17 May 2005.I am very sorry to note that Mr and Mrs S have now both passed away, Mrs S in August 
2015 and Mr S quite recently in January 2021.
It was just before Mr S passed away that Mr S1 first learned about the equity release 
mortgage. Mr S1 complained to Aviva, explaining that he thought the mortgage was 
unsuitable, given that Mr and Mrs S had savings and investments plus generous pensions. 
He said that the product had been sold without any input from a solicitor or anyone else in 
the family. Mr S was also unhappy about the interest rate that applied to the mortgage. 
Mr S1 said that his father had understood from speaking to the adviser that, as long as 
house prices continued to rise by more than the cost of the loan, then the equity in the home 
would be safe. Given this, Mr S1 was surprised that, although the value of the property had 
increased by about 95%, the amount owing to Aviva had increased by 200%.
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint, so it was brought to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An investigator looked at what had happened, but didnt think Aviva had done anything 
wrong. 
Mr S1 accepted that the point of sale documentation showed the full details of how the 
product worked, and that his parents had signed and agreed to the terms of the loan. Mr S1 
said, however, that this didnt correlate with his fathers understanding of the position 
concerning the equity in the property.
Mr S1 was also unhappy that Aviva didnt undertake a product review and didnt think it was 
fair that the rate on the product remained fixed at 7.09% throughout the term of the loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am very sorry to learn that Mr S has recently passed away and I would like to express my 
condolences to Mr S1 and his family. I appreciate this is a difficult time for him, and so what I 
have to say will, I know, be unwelcome news. But after reviewing everything thats 
happened, Im unable to uphold the complaint. These are my reasons.
I will start first by explaining the extent of our powers in relation to this matter.
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer. Mr and Mrs S were 
consumers and so met the definition of an eligible complainant set out in our rules. For the 
purposes of this complaint, the rules say that a complaint may be brought on behalf of an 
eligible complainant by a person authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. 
In this respect, Mr S1 is bringing the complaint on behalf of the estate of the surviving 
borrower, Mr S, and as such Mr S1 is authorised by law to do so.
But I must explain that, although Mr S1 is representing the estate, it is Mr and Mrs S who 
were Avivas customers (or at least were at the time of the events complained about). 
Mr S1s role is to bring the complaint on the estates behalf, in the same way that other 
consumers might instruct a solicitor or accountant to represent them in a complaint. But this 
does not entitle Mr S1 to air his own grievances about Aviva, because he is not its customer; 
Mr S1s role is limited to putting forward the estates complaint.
I note from the detailed correspondence that Mr S1 has expressed his own opinions about 
what he perceives to be Avivas failings  and I do not doubt his strength of feeling about 
this. But because he is not Avivas customer, Mr S1s concerns about Aviva dont form part 
of this complaint.Mr and Mrs S hadnt complained about the mortgage previously, and it seems that it was 
only just before Mr S passed away that a complaint was raised with Aviva, after Mr S1 found 
out about the existence of the mortgage. So in this final decision I have looked at the sale of 
the mortgage. Without a specific complaint from Mr and Mrs S about it, I have considered 
generally whether Aviva did anything wrong when the mortgage was taken out.
Sale of the mortgage: Ive reviewed all the documentation from 2005 very carefully. This 
mortgage was arranged pursuant to the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook, or MCOB. The mortgage was also covered by the rules of what was then 
known as the Safe Home Income Plan (now the Equity Release Council). The FCA and the 
Equity Release Council are (and have always been) aware that there is potential years down 
the line for family members to raise a complaint, sometimes in circumstances where the 
borrowers themselves are no longer able  for reasons of illness or infirmity, or because they 
have died  to give their own explanation for why they took out the mortgage. 
This  and the fact that equity release mortgages are sold to elderly customers  is why this 
type of mortgage is (and always has been) subject to such a robust and rigorous sales 
process, with the need for borrowers to have advice from a financial adviser, as well as from 
an independent solicitor. (In this case, the financial adviser worked for Aviva, and sold only 
Aviva products. There is nothing untoward about this, as it was disclosed at the outset.)
Having reviewed the documents, Im satisfied that there was a full and open discussion 
between Aviva and Mr and Mrs S in April 2005 about their circumstances. Specifically, 
Mr and Mrs S were clear that they wanted to borrow the full £70,000, even though this was 
against the advice of Aviva. 
Mr and Mrs S also told Aviva that they had discussed their plans with family members. Mr S1 
says this wasnt the case, and that he only learned about the mortgage in 2021. However, 
Aviva was entitled to accept what Mr and Mrs S said. In my experience of dealing with equity 
release mortgages, I have to say that it is not uncommon for parents to want to keep their 
finances private from their children. 
This is borne out by Mr S1s belief that his parents had generous pensions, when the fact-
find shows that they in fact had only about £150 disposable income left each month. This 
suggests Mr S1 might not have been aware either or his parents actual income or 
alternatively the amount they were spending. 
But in any event, if Mr and Mrs S decided not to discuss their plans with the family, this was 
entirely their prerogative; as independent people with their own agency, it was their right to 
take out the mortgage and to do so without telling their family. Aviva was under no obligation 
to contact any family members to verify what Mr and Mrs S had said. It would be both a 
breach of data protection legislation and a gross invasion of Mr and Mrs Ss privacy if Aviva 
had done this.
Im satisfied that the suitability letter and the mortgage offer set out clearly how the mortgage 
operated, including the interest rate that would apply, the fixed interest rate, the no negative 
equity guarantee and any early repayment charge that might apply. Im also satisfied that 
Mr and Mrs S had advice from their own solicitors before taking out the mortgage.
Mr S1 says that his father had understood that, as long as the value of the property 
increased, the equity in the property would be preserved. I think what Mr S might have been 
referring to here is the no negative equity guarantee, which I referred to above. So Mr S was correct in his understanding that, if the value of the property increased by more 
than the amount outstanding to Aviva, the remaining equity in the property (after paying off 
the loan) would be available for Mr and Mrs Ss beneficiaries. 
But Mr S1 is mistaken in his belief that the amount owed to Aviva should only be the same 
percentage increase as the increase in the property value over the term of the loan.
Overall, after reviewing the point of sale documentation, Im satisfied that the mortgage 
wasnt mis-sold.
Interest rate:  Generally, equity release mortgages are priced at a higher rate of interest 
than standard residential mortgages. Aviva is under no obligation to alter the interest rate to 
mirror fluctuations in variable rate mortgages  because the contract is for a fixed rate of 
interest. The product is structured to reflect the fact that Aviva has lent money over a long 
term with no return on its funds until the mortgage ends  which could be in 25 or 30 years 
from the date it was taken out. The implications of this on the overall amount owed are 
explained clearly in the documents.
So when the contract is entered into, Aviva advances the funds in the knowledge that it will 
receive no interest or capital for many years. Equally, the borrowers know they have the use 
of the money without needing to make any repayment, with this eventually coming out of the 
equity in their home upon their deaths or when they leave the property to go into nursing 
care. If the borrowers want to repay the mortgage early, they can do so, but there may be a 
substantial early repayment charge in breaking the contract early. 
Mr S1 is unhappy about the fixed interest rate of 7.09% that applied to the mortgage 
throughout the term. This was a contractual term to which Mr and Mrs S agreed in 2005, and 
the mortgage documentation is clear that this is for the lifetime of the loan. 
Mr S1s argument is that other customers who took out equity release mortgages with Aviva 
at different times have different interest rates. I agree; some customers are on lower rates, 
some are on higher rates. But Aviva is under no obligation to review the interest rates on all 
the equity release mortgages on its lending book which are at fixed interest rates and 
contact every single customer whenever interest rates change or a product at a lower rate 
becomes available to new customers. This would be logistically unviable, and, in any event, 
these are lifetime mortgages, and so are intended to be long-term contracts at the rate of 
interest agreed at completion.
If Mr and Mrs S had wanted to switch to a lower interest rate, they could have contacted a 
financial adviser to discuss this. It would have meant repaying the existing mortgage 
(including the early repayment charge of a maximum of £17,500) and taking out a new 
product, including any fees involved in doing so. It was up to Mr and Mrs S to review their 
finances and to take advice on their options. 
I appreciate that compound interest over the years since the mortgage and further advance 
were taken out has increased the amount the estate has had to pay to redeem the 
mortgage. But Im unable to find Aviva did anything wrong in structuring its product in this 
way. This was  as the name suggests  a lifetime mortgage product at a fixed interest rate. 
So although I appreciate Mr S1 is unhappy at the interest rate charged, as I explained at the 
outset, I cant take account of what Mr S1 considers to be unfair, as he is not Avivas 
customer.
I do understand that it can be a shock to family members to learn that there is an equity 
release mortgage that has eroded the value of the estate. I fully appreciate Mr S1s dismay 
at finding this out, and I do not criticise him at all for raising his concerns with Aviva, as his role as Executor is to maximise the assets of the estate.  But after careful consideration, Im 
unable to find either that the mortgage was mis-sold, that Aviva was under any obligation to 
review the interest rate and reduce it, or to contact Mr and Mrs S to see if they wanted to 
switch to a new product at a lower interest rate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S1 on behalf of 
the estate of Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman