DRN-2635218
The complaint
Mr A complains that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) declined his claim  
against his private medical insurance policy. Reference to AIG includes reference to its 
agents. 
What happened
Mr A says that he broke his front toot whilst eating. He says that he contacted the NHS on 
27 June 2019 and was referred to a dental practice for emergency treatment. On                
28 June 2019, Mr As tooth was repaired temporarily. A further appointment was made for  
12 July 2019.  
On 29 June 2019, Mr A contacted AIG asking for confirmation of cover before               
12 July 2019. Mr A spoke with AIG on 3 July 2019. Ill refer to that phone call in more 
detail below. After the phone call, AIG wrote to Mr A enclosing a claim form for 
completion by the treating dentist. In that letter, AIG said that Mr As policy covers only 
surgical removal of impacted teeth or roots, carried out by a dental surgeon with 
recognised qualifications, not a dental practitioner. Mr A says that he didnt receive that 
letter. 
On 12 July 2019, Mr As tooth was extracted. He subsequently submitted a claim to AIG 
in relation to his dental treatment. 
AIG declined Mr As claim against the policy. It said that the extraction of Mr As tooth 
was carried out by a dental practitioner, not a specialist with a surgical qualification. 
Mr A says that its not clear from the policy that the treatment should be by a consultant 
with a specialist qualification, rather than a dental practitioner. He says that the NHS 
referred him to the dentist, and he assumed that the policy requirements would be met. 
Mr A says that he didnt receive AIGs letter of 3 July 2019 until after his tooth had been 
extracted on 12 July 2019. He says that during the phone call on 3 July 2019,  AIG 
confirmed cover. Mr A wants AIG to settle his claim. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He said that AIG was entitled to 
decline the claim, as the dental practitioner who treated Mr A wasnt a specialist or an 
NHS consultant. But the investigator thought that a fair outcome in the circumstances 
here was for AIG to pay Mr A 50% of the costs of the tooth extraction. 
Mr A said that the investigator hadnt considered the provisions in the policy relating to 
compensation for tooth extraction. 
AIG didnt agree with the investigator. It said that theres no evidence that the NHS 
helpline told Mr A to go to the treating dentist. AIG said that Mr A had a claim in 2014, 
which it also declined. It said that the prescription receipt and the treatment plan show 
that this was Mr As regular dentist. 
Mr A disputed what AIG said. 
The investigator considered all the comments but didnt change his view. 
AIG asked that the matter be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me to 
decide. 
My provisional decision
On 12 February 2021, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case in which I 
indicated that I didnt intend to uphold Mr As complaint. I said:
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say as 
follows:
What this policy will pay for
If [] you need to seek treatment for a medical condition, we will pay for the costs as 
outlined below or the NHS cash benefit, provided that the medical condition and treatment 
is covered by this policy []
Section D  What this policy does not cover
We will not pay for:
[]
Any dental treatment except for surgical tooth extractions relating to impacted/buried 
roots or teeth only;
Consultant
[] For dental treatment only, a dental practitioner who is  registered with the General 
Dental Council and who specialises in dental surgery or holds an NHS consultant post in this 
speciality.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AIG has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Mr As complaint because I dont think that AIG treated him unfairly in 
declining his claim. I say that because:
Mr As policy doesnt cover every sort of dental treatment. It only covers surgical 
tooth extractions relating to impacted/buried roots or teeth. Thats not the treatment 
Mr A had here. In a letter to Mr A of 14 August 2019, the treating dentist said that   
Mr A didnt require any surgical treatment. Not all tooth extractions require surgery 
and the evidence available to me shows that Mr A didnt have a surgical tooth 
extraction related to impacted/buried roots or teeth. So, the treatment Mr A had isnt 
covered by the policy.
Even if I reached a different conclusion about that, Mr As treatment wasnt carried 
out by a dental practitioner who specialises in dental surgery or who holds an NHS 
consultant post in the speciality, as required by the policy. When AIG wrote to Mr A on 3 July 2019, it said that Mr As policy covers only surgical 
removal of impacted teeth or roots carried out by a dental surgeon with recognised 
qualifications, not a dental practitioner. I think that letter was clear. Mr A says that he 
didnt received that letter until after his tooth had been extracted. I can see that letter 
was correctly addressed. AIG isnt responsible for any failings in the postal service. 
Ive listened to the recording of the phone call between Mr A and AIG. I dont agree 
that in that phone call AIG agreed to cover Mr As claim. It said that it couldnt 
assess Mr As claim on the information hed provided and needed a completed claim 
form, which it would send to Mr A. 
The treatment Mr A had didnt come within the terms of the policy. Considering 
everything, theres no basis on which to direct AIG to pay his claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
AIG said that it had no further comments. Mr A responded at some length, which I wont set 
out in full here. In summary, Mr A said:
He was referred to the treating dentist by the NHS. He attended his regular dentist 
because the practice name is the same name as the dentist to which he was referred 
by the NHS.
The  tooth he had extracted was an impacted tooth. 
There was enough time between 29 June 2019 and 12 July 2019 for AIG to resolve 
the matter and there was undue delay on AIGs part. 
He had two calls with AIG on 9 July 2019.
The claim which AIG previously declined didnt relate to a tooth extraction. 
Its not fair for him to suffer the consequences of late or undelivered post. 
He requires a replacement tooth.
AIG has increased the monthly premium.
Mr A provided a system note from NHS 111.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr A has very strong feelings about this matter. Hes 
provided detailed submissions to support his complaint, which Ive read and considered. 
However, I trust that he will not take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider 
the central issue, that is, whether AIG treated Mr A unfairly or unreasonably in declining his 
claim. 
Ive considered all thats been said and provided but the determining issue here is that the 
treatment Mr A had isnt covered by his policy. Mr As policy only covers surgical tooth 
extractions relating to impacted/buried roots or teeth. As I said in my provisional decision, 
the treating dentist said that Mr A didnt require any surgical treatment. In a letter to Mr A of 
14 August 2019, the treating dentist said you did not require any surgical treatment. So, AIG didnt act unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mr As claim. And Mr As policy 
doesnt cover a replacement tooth. 
The other issues Mr A has mentioned  - his referral by NHS 111, undelivered post, his phone 
calls with AIG and previous claims - dont alter the outcome here. It remains the case that 
the treatment he had isnt covered under the policy. 
Considering everything, I remain of the view that AIG didnt treat Mr A unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining his claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman