DRN-2932877
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy Quickly Finance Limited, trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) is charging
her a fee for a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) claim.
What happened
Mrs C said she looked at using FTRs service in January 2019. But was told there werent 
any records of her having been sold PPI. In the summer of 2020 Mrs C said she saw a 
television programme that advised consumers to make a PPI claim to their credit card 
provider. And this is what she said she did. In July 2020, Mrs Cs provider Ill call B told her 
the claim was successful and offered her compensation. But shortly after FTR sent her an 
invoice asking her to pay their success fee for this claim. Mrs C complained to FTR, she said 
she hadnt instructed them to pursue a PPI claim and her behalf. 
FTR said Mrs C had signed a letter of authority (LoA) in August 2019 instructing them to act 
for her. They submitted the LoA to several of her lenders and notified her in November 2019 
when PPI was found. They asked Mrs C to complete a PPI questionnaire to support her mis-
sold PPI claim. They said the PPI questionnaire was completed and returned to them. And 
they forwarded the PPI questionnaire and a letter of complaint to B. In July 2020 B told 
them Mrs Cs claim was successful. As Mrs C hadnt cancelled her agreement with them, 
they said their success fee was justified.
Mrs C didnt agree and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said Mrs C had instructed FTR to act on her behalf. And as the claim was 
successful FTR could ask Mrs C to pay their success fee.
Mrs C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This 
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on 
one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information 
were given. Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I base my 
decision on what I consider most likely happened.
In reaching my decision I need to determine whether I think its more likely than not Mrs C 
authorised FTR to act on her behalf, and whether FTR has acted fairly and reasonably in 
their actions with her.
FTR has shown an online application was made about mis-sold PPI with them on
22 August 2019, a few days before the deadline for making such claims. Ive looked at the
web journey process for making an application for FTR to pursue a PPI claim.
FTR has shown the screens they say Mrs C would have gone through. The screen shows a
statement that says:
Isnt it time you checked for PPI. * Free PPI check
And below is a box that says, How it works. And includes the wording:
*Free PPI check. Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and we will
continue to work on preparing, submitting and negotiating your Claim(s). Our fee of 24%
inclusive of VAT will be payable on all successful claims as per the Terms of Engagement.
The *Free PPI check in this wording was bolded in red and the asterisk linked it to the
headline statement. The screen also had a link to the Terms of Engagement.
The next screens asked for information from Mrs C about her personal details and lenders.
The personal details in the application FTR has for Mrs C include date of birth, current
address, previous address, landline telephone number and email address. And correlate 
with personal details Mrs C has given to us. The personal information is specific to Mrs C, so 
Ive no reason to doubt she provided this information to FTR. So, Im satisfied its most likely 
that Mrs C would have completed this stage of the journey.
On completing the application, FTR said a LoA would have been generated, populated with
this information. FTR has shown an audit trail of the time the application was made and the 
details that were provided. FTR has said the LoA couldnt be submitted without the insertion 
of a signature, and the audit trail shows a signature was added at the time the application 
was completed.
As outlined above FTRs terms and conditions were also available to see. And in signing the
LoA Mrs C would have agreed to them. FTRs terms and conditions say:
Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You authorise FTR to
continue to provide You with the Claims Services.
I can see from FTRs records that in November 2019, they advised Mrs C that PPI had been
found. At this point the free PPI check period would have ended and FTRs would start to 
provide their claims service.
Finding PPI had been sold to Mrs C doesnt automatically mean that a PPI claim will be 
successful, as the claim needs to show the PPI policy was mis-sold. So, FTR asked Mrs C to 
complete a PPI questionnaire, to provide information to strengthen her claim. The message 
FTR sent says, You HAVE Paid PPI. And provides a link for a PPI questionnaire to be 
completed. 
From FTRs records I can see several emails were sent from them to Mrs C in November 
and December 2019. With a similar message that PPI had been found and a request for the 
PPI questionnaire to be completed
In early December 2019, I can see that as the PPI questionnaire wasnt completed through 
the link, FTR sent the PPI questionnaire postally to Mrs C. The questionnaire was 
pre- populated with information known to FTR, Mrs Cs name, address, landline telephone 
number, and gave the name of the financial provider being complained about B and a 
policy number. The date field was also pre-populated with the year 2019. FTRs records show the remainder of the PPI questionnaire was completed and received by them in 
January 2020 and submitted with a letter of complaint to B the same month. So, I think its 
more likely than not that Mrs C authorised FTR to act on her behalf.
Ill now consider whether Mrs C cancelled her agreement with FTR.
FTRs terms and conditions say:
You may cancel Your Claimis) at any time within 14 days from the date you sign the
Letter of Authority  Cooling-off Period') at no cost to you, unless you or FTR have received
a reasonable offer of Compensation within the Cooling-off Period.
The terms and conditions give details of the various channels Mrs C could have used to
cancel the agreement. Ive considered the date I think the 14-day cooling off period would 
start. I dont think its fair and reasonable for it to start from the date the LoA was signed, as 
at this point Mrs C was agreeing to a free PPI check to be done. So, I consider the 14-day 
cooling off period to start from the date Mrs C would have been told PPI had been found as 
its from this date that FTRs claims service would start.
The first notification email that said PPI had been found was sent to Mrs C on 22 November 
2019, this means she would have had up to 5 December 2019 to cancel the agreement 
without incurring any charge. But I havent seen any evidence of Mrs C asking FTR to cancel 
the agreement. And the PPI questionnaire was completed and returned after this date.
So, Im satisfied Mrs C authorised FTR to act on her behalf to pursue her claim with B. And
by submitting her claim before the August 2019 deadline B investigated her claim for mis 
sold PPI. 
Mrs C said she made her claim directly with her credit card provider. But in July 2020 I can 
see that B told both Mrs C and FTR about the outcome of her mis-sold PPI claim. And 
reference the information FTR provided as part of the basis for the decision they made. I 
think this shows that B saw FTR as being Mrs Cs representative and that they werent 
solely dealing with Mrs C.
The agreement Mrs C had with FTR was on a No win No fee basis. This means
FTR charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did.
This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a
claim was successful, FTRs fee maybe more or less than the value of the work they actually
did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. And Mrs Cs claim was
successful.
I know Mrs C will be disappointed with my decision. But I think shed authorised FTR to act
on her behalf and she hadnt cancelled that agreement before her claim was successful. So,
I dont think FTR has acted unfairly or unreasonably in asking her to pay their success fee.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman