DRN-2768945
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him a fee-
paying FlexPlus packaged bank account, which he took out in May 2018.
Mr W submitted a claim under the mobile phone insurance policy provided by the FlexPlus 
account and was unhappy with how his phone was repaired. Mr W says that Nationwide 
should be held responsible for how the insurer dealt with his claim.
What happened
Mr W submitted a claim with the mobile phone insurer. But, unhappy with how the claim was 
handled and how it was settled, I understand Mr W submitted a complaint to the insurer. And 
as the phone insurance was provided through his packaged bank account with Nationwide, 
he also submitted a complaint with Nationwide too. 
This complaint solely concerns whether Nationwide did anything wrong.
One of our adjudicators considered Mr Ws complaint and she concluded that Nationwide 
had not mis-sold the account. Mr W asked for his complaint to be referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about mis-sold packaged bank accounts on our 
website, and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint.
As this complaint is against Nationwide, I can only consider whether it did anything wrong in 
relation to the FlexPlus account. And having looked at everything that Mr W and Nationwide 
have provided, I am unable to conclude that the account had been mis-sold or that 
Nationwide has acted unreasonably. I will explain why.
When Mr W took out the account in 2018, he did so by applying for it online. Because of this, 
Im satisfied that the account was sold to him on a non-advised basis. This means that 
Nationwide was not required to check if the packaged account, or any of the individual 
benefits it included, were right for Mr W. However, Nationwide was required to present Mr W 
with the important information about the account and associated benefits, so that Mr W could 
decide for himself whether it was right for him.
Nationwide says that its online application process wouldve required Mr W to check: that he 
was eligible for the account and packaged benefits, the monthly cost of the account, the 
main benefits and exclusions of the insurance products, as well as explain Mr Ws 
cancellation rights. And based on what both parties have said and provided, Ive seen 
nothing to suggest this didnt happen. 
Nationwide explain that after Mr W had agreed to the account, he was then provided with a 
welcome pack. And I have seen no reason to doubt that this was sent to him. This included 
the terms and conditions that applied to the packaged benefits  including the mobile phone 
insurance. Therefore, Im satisfied that Nationwide did what it needed to do, in terms of 
providing Mr W with the important information about the mobile phone insurance, when it 
sold him the FlexPlus account.
I understand that a bone of contention for Mr W is that when he sent his phone off to be 
repaired, the insurer used non-genuine parts. Mr W has said that this significantly devalued 
his phone. But whether the terms and conditions have been applied correctly and reasonably 
to Mr Ws claim, is the responsibility of the insurer - not Nationwide. This is because the 
contract of insurance is between Mr W and the insurer, with Nationwide effectively acting as 
an insurance intermediary i.e. a company that sells insurance policies that are provided by 
insurance companies.
So whether his phone was repaired in line with the policy terms and conditions, would need 
to be considered under a separate complaint, against the insurer  as is explained in the 
FlexPlus mobile phone insurance terms and conditions. So I wont comment further on it 
here. 
Finally, I appreciate that Mr W maybe unhappy with Nationwides choice of insurer for the 
mobile phone cover. But just because Mr W is unhappy with how the insurer dealt with his 
claim, doesnt mean that Nationwide was wrong, or has acted unreasonably, by choosing to 
use that insurer. I can see the one it did choose is a UK based insurer, that is regulated by 
both the Prudential Regulatory Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority. And any 
requirement to monitor the activities of the insurer is the responsibility of the regulators, 
rather than Nationwide. So again, whilst I do understand Mr Ws frustrations, I am unable to 
hold Nationwide responsible because he is unhappy with how the insurer dealt with his 
claim.
Therefore taking everything into account, I cant say that Nationwide mis-sold the account or 
acted unreasonably in this matter.
 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman