DRN-3989914
The complaint
Ms H has complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1994.
What happened
Ms H took out the PPI at the same time as arranging the mortgage. The policy covered her 
for accident, sickness and unemployment for up to 24 months per claim.
I wrote a provisional decision last month in which I explained why I wasnt thinking of 
upholding the complaint and inviting both Ms H and Nationwide to provide any further 
information or evidence they may wish to. Ms H responded with some additional comments 
that I will address below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Firstly, Id like to re-assure Ms H that all of the documentation that she has provided, from 
the point that the complaint was set up, is all in one place on the complaint case file. So Ive 
seen everything that she has sent in, although I thank her for re-submitting the key 
documents following my provisional decision.
There were clearly issues with the arranging of the actual mortgage itself that are of concern 
to Ms H. This includes a discrepancy in the valuation for mortgage purposes between a 
previous prospective lender (who were requiring a retention amount of £15,000 due to the 
condition of the property) and Nationwide. Also, Nationwide mistakenly set it up as interest 
only when Ms H had requested a repayment mortgage. 
The question I need to consider is whether, because other errors were made, it also means 
that the PPI was mis-sold.
Ms H says the policy was sold to her as a way to insure a full mortgage and a prerequisite 
that was necessary to avoid the need for a retention. Ms H has said that the adviser made a 
very strong case for taking out the PPI and that she was persuaded to buy it.
I appreciate that Ms H says she felt pressured to comply with what the adviser was telling 
her and that things were done in a rush after the deal with the first lender fell through. 
However, Im not persuaded that I have enough evidence to conclude that Ms H didnt feel 
she had a choice about taking out the policy. From what Ms H has said, it sounds like it was 
presented to her as something that she should take out, as a good idea in her 
circumstances, rather than something that she had to take out. As I said in my provisional 
decision, I dont doubt that she has provided her genuine recollection of events. But on 
balance, I consider that she most likely decided to buy it, knowing that she didnt have to.
If Nationwide advised Ms H to buy the policy then, in recommending it to her, it needed to 
ensure that the PPI met her needs. And from what I know of Ms Hs circumstances at the 
time, the policy was suitable for her.
Ms H would have received some sick pay from her employer. But the policy would have paid 
out in addition to this and potentially for longer than Ms H would have received full pay for. 
Ms H had some savings at the time, but this in itself did not make the policy unsuitable. 
Having the policy would have allowed her to retain these or use them to cover other 
outgoings at what would have been a difficult time.
Nationwide also needed to provide Ms H with sufficient information for her to be able to 
make an informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for her.
In response to my provisional decision, Ms H has said that she did end up worse off because 
she thought she was paying for a repayment mortgage and that her costs increased once it 
was then later converted to a repayment mortgage. But the detriment that shes talking about 
here doesnt directly relate to the cost of the PPI at the point of sale.
The PPI was set up to cover the mortgage repayments  albeit that the mortgage was 
interest only at that point. Ms H would still have needed a way to make those payments if 
she was not working due to accident, sickness or unemployment. I appreciate that Ms Hs 
overall costs increased later. But at the time of the sale, she was paying an appropriate level 
of policy premium to cover her mortgage repayments. Ms H says she wanted to keep her 
costs as low as possible. But the PPI provided cover at a cost that she could afford and 
found acceptable at the time.
Its possible that Nationwide could have provided more information about the PPI, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Ms H wasnt affected by any of those 
things. For example, she didnt have a pre-existing medical condition that might have been 
excluded under the policy.
Whilst the clause in the policy that excluded unemployment claims resulting from industrial 
action might have given Ms H pause for thought, I dont think it would have made her change 
her mind about buying the PPI.  As I said in my provisional decision, Im not persuaded that 
shed have thought the chances of being made redundant as a result of being involved in 
industrial action were so great as to be a likely reason for her needing to make a claim on 
the policy.
Im aware that Ms H had a claim for unemployment declined by the insurer in 1995. Miss H 
says she was only told it was declined because there was an element of voluntary 
redundancy which she says was not the case and she was not involved in industrial action 
in 1995. This is a complaint against the seller, Nationwide, and not a complaint about the 
insurer declining the claim. So I cant really comment further about the actions of the insurer 
or speculate as to why the claim might have been declined. 
However, as Ive already said, looking at the terms and conditions of the policy, there was 
nothing that would lead me to conclude that Ms Hs circumstances at the time of the sale 
made the PPI unsuitable.
As I consider that Ms H had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont think that 
more information would have caused her to change her mind. So, from the point of view of whether she would still have bought the policy or not, she is no worse off as a result of 
anything Nationwide may have done wrong. 
So, whist I know this will be disappointing to Ms H, I do not uphold her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman