DRN-3066227
The complaint
Mr G complains that both the loans he had from TFS Loans Limited were unaffordable to 
him.
  
What happened
Mr G had two guarantor loans with TFS Loans between December 2014 and March 2017 as 
follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Repayment Repaid
1 30 Dec 2014 £5,000 24m £307.29 Yes
2 9 Mar 2017 £5,000 24m £307.29 Yes
Mr G says that TFS Loans did not carry out proper affordability checks before lending to him. 
He says his income only just covered all his monthly expenditure and he was worried his 
guarantor would find out he couldnt afford the repayments. Mr G says he repaid the loans 
with further borrowing and ended up missing repayments on his mortgage causing his 
property to be repossessed.
TFS Loans says it asked Mr G about his income and obtained three payslips for each loan. It 
says it confirmed the purpose of each loan and checked Mr Gs credit file. TFS Loans says 
that, following a detailed discussion about Mr Gs other expenditure, it was satisfied further 
checks were not required and it found both loans to be affordable.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that 
TFS Loans carried out enough checks to enable it to make a lending decision. However, she 
found there was enough evidence to show Mr G was struggling to manage his existing credit 
commitments and so she considered it unlikely he could sustainably repay the TFS Loans as 
well. She recommended that TFS Loans should deduct any payments Mr G made from the 
total amount of money he received and refund any overpayments plus 8% interest. She said 
it should also ensure that any associated negative information is removed from Mr Gs credit 
file.
TFS Loans responded to say, in summary, that the evidence showed the loans were 
affordable and that Mr G had enough disposable income for any emergency outgoings going 
forward. It added that the mortgage company would have agreed to an arrangement that 
was affordable to Mr G in order to reduce his arrears.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when TFS Loans lent to Mr G. Its 
rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that TFS Loans needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
CONC 5.3.1G states that:
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  a firm 
should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability to repay the 
credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the 
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer 
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income while meeting other reasonable commitments; without having to borrow 
further to meet these repayments; without having to realise security or assets (CONC 5.3.1G 
- 6) or without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness (ILG 4.3).
(The Office of Fair Trading was the previous regulator and it produced a document entitled 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance which the FCA referenced in its consumer handbook. 
CONC 5.3.1G  6 specifically referenced ILG 4.3.)
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.3.1G  4b: it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for 
its assessment of the customer's income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters 
made by the customer.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Gs case, I have considered the 
following questions:Did TFS Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Gs loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did TFS Loans make a fair lending decision?
Did TFS Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Loan 1
Ive seen evidence to show TFS Loans asked about Mr Gs financial circumstances, checked 
his credit file and verified his income. The checks showed:
Mr Gs salary was just under £2,500 per month and he received rental income of 
£500;
Mr Gs credit file had:
oeight defaults since August 2012, of which two were satisfied and one was 
being repaid at £88 per month;
oTwo mortgage accounts with monthly repayments of £787 and £745 
respectively:
One was in arrears by two months, the other by four months;
Both had been in arrears for the vast majority of the previous three 
years (29 months and 30 months);
oA loan that was also in arrears, with monthly repayments of £198;
Mr G lived with his parents so he said his other expenditure was lower as a result at 
roughly £425.
In answer to the first question, Im satisfied TFS Loans completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks, but I find it was irresponsible to have approved the loan. I say that 
because:
The loan was for 24 months and TFS Loans needed to ensure the repayments were 
sustainable for that period;
Mr G would have been relying on his rental income to make the repayments each 
month;
Mr G was already behind with his mortgage payments which should have been seen 
as a priority bill;
The arrears alone were as much as Mr Gs loan application;
I think TFS Loans should have seen that Mr G was already struggling to manage his 
finances and further lending was unsustainable for him. He was failing to make priority 
payments on his mortgage and had done for much of the previous three years. Even if Mr G 
had used his loan to clear the arrears on his account, hed still have the same level of 
monthly credit commitment going forward plus an additional £307 repayment to make.
So I find it was irresponsible for TFS Loans to have approved loan 1.Loan 2
TFS Loans carried out the same checks again for Loan 2 and I can see Mr Gs financial 
circumstances remained similar to those for loan 1. Although Mr G had changed jobs and his 
income was slightly lower, this was offset by reduced mortgage repayments. Hed repaid his 
loan but had taken out another one in October 2016 with £170 monthly repayments. Mr G 
was also still struggling with arrears on both mortgages and the loan account.
Once again, the information TFS Loans had gathered showed Mr G was already in financial 
difficulties and was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay a new loan.
In summary, I find it was irresponsible to lend to Mr G and TFS Loans did not make a fair 
lending decision for either loan, although I cannot conclude that it acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in any other way.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. TFS Loans Limited should:
Add up the total amount of money Mr G received as a result of having been given the 
loans. The repayments Mr G made should be deducted from this amount.
oIf this results in Mr G having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement). *
oIf any capital balance remains outstanding, then TFS Loans should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr G. 
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans to deduct tax from this interest. TFS Loans 
should give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman