DRN-3156069
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy with the way in which TSB Bank plc has dealt with her fraud claim.
Whats happened?
Three fraudulent transactions  totalling £74.37  debited Ms Ms bank account in    
February 2021. TSBs fraud department logged a fraud claim on 14 March 2021 and 
refunded the transactions on the same day. But Ms M is unhappy that TSB didnt take 
appropriate action sooner.
She says that she first reported the fraud to TSB at the beginning of March, by phone first 
and then in branch. TSB said that the transactions were carried out by her or someone close 
to her that had access to her card, but Ms M says this isnt true, and she found it upsetting 
and traumatic when TSB tried to make her think it was and called her a liar. Ms M also says 
that TSB acted irresponsibly by leaving her with a compromised card and vulnerable to 
further fraud. She expected her bank to help her in this situation and didnt know what to do 
when it wouldnt. 
TSB says it has no record of Ms M contacting its fraud team prior to 14 March 2021, or of 
advising her that she or someone close to her must have carried out the disputed 
transactions.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint. Ms M wasnt happy with this outcome and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is my role to decide whether the bank has made an error in this case and if it has, what, if 
anything, it should do to put things right.
Ive looked at TSBs fraud notes and they show that Ms M reported the disputed transactions 
to its fraud team on 14 March 2021. Ms M is adamant that she reported the fraud to TSB 
before 14 March 2021  she says that she let TSB know what had happened at the 
beginning of March by phone and in branch. I have no reason to doubt Ms Ms recollection of 
events  she has been consistent and persuasive throughout. Ive looked at TSBs contact 
notes and listened to the telephone calls its been able to retrieve, and theres certainly some 
mention of an unidentified, ongoing complaint which TSB has failed to resolve. It may, for 
example, be the case that Ms M attempted to flag the disputed transactions with TSB at the 
beginning of March, but she didnt contact its fraud team specifically until 14 March 2021. 
Assuming that Ms M did attempt to report the fraud when she says she did, TSB had until at 
least 16 March 2021 to investigate  which might reasonably include asking her some 
questions to determine whether she carried out the transactions herself or someone she 
knew was able to access and use her card. TSB provided a full refund within this timeframe, 
on 14 March 2021. So, although I cant be certain whether TSB made an error in not 
referring Ms M to its fraud team in early March, Im satisfied that it investigated and resolved 
her claim within the timescales allowed. So she hasnt lost out as a result of any error here. 
Im also satisfied that TSB was entitled to ask Ms M probing questions about the disputed 
transactions, and satisfy itself that she, or someone she knew, didnt carry out the 
transactions. I understand that this may have been upsetting for Ms M but Im pleased to see 
that TSB apologised if it had caused her any upset in its final response letter. 
I appreciate that Ms M feels she was left with a compromised card for a time, but I can see 
that a new card was ordered for her on 1 March 2021, whilst TSB was dealing with a 
different issue shed raised on her account. So, I dont think that she was left vulnerable to 
further fraud because of any failing in this case. In any event, Im not aware of any further 
fraudulent transactions on her account, so there is nothing for me to look to compensate for 
in this respect. 
Looking at everything, Im satisfied that TSB has already done enough to resolve this 
complaint, and I wont be asking it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman