DRN-3765992
The complaint
Ms T is unhappy with the amount of compensation HFC Bank Limited has offered to settle 
her complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
alongside her credit card.
What happened
Ms T took out a PPI policy with a credit card in July 2004. The PPI was cancelled in March 
2010. HFC upheld Ms Ts complaint that shed been mis-sold the policy and offered 
£9,854.44 to compensate her for this mis-sale.
HFC said the compensation aimed to put Ms T back in the position she would have been in 
had she not taken the PPI. Ms T wasnt satisfied that HFC had calculated the compensation 
correctly and complained to this service about this.
Our adjudicator said what HFC had offered Ms T was fair. But Ms T still wasnt satisfied and 
so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As HFC has upheld Ms Ts complaint that the PPI was mis-sold, I am not looking at the sale 
of the PPI in this decision. I am only considering if HFCs offer of compensation for the mis-
sold PPI is fair.
When a PPI policy attached to a credit card has been mis-sold, the business needs, as far 
as possible, to put the consumer in the position they would have been in had they not taken 
out the policy. To do this, all premiums charged for the PPI must be repaid, plus any interest 
or charges caused by the PPI being added to the card account. The business must also pay 
compensatory interest at a simple rate of 8% for any period a consumer is out of pocket. For 
credit cards, this is when the account would have been expected to be in credit had the PPI 
premiums not been wrongly charged to it.
HFC has provided a list of the transactions on the credit card from 2004 to 2015, including 
the PPI premiums that were applied to the account between 2004 and 2010. I have 
confirmed from these that the total premium amount stated in Ms Ts redress calculation  
£3,407.09  is correct. 
Im also satisfied that HFC has used the appropriate methodology to undertake a 
reconstruction of her card account, in the way I would have expected, in order to calculate 
the additional interest and charges of £2,739.19 which Ms T incurred on her account 
because of these PPI premiums.
Finally, Im satisfied that HFC has also used the appropriate methodology to determine the 
simple interest at 8% for the times when Ms Ts account balance would have been expected 
to be in credit had it not been for the PPI premiums - together with associated interest and 
charges  that were wrongly added to her account, causing her to be out of pocket. And 
HFC has correctly deducted tax of £927.04 from this compensatory interest of £4,635.20 in 
the way it is required to do.
Ms T has expressed concern that additional commission may have been incurred in relation 
to the PPI, and not accounted for in the calculation. In the case of PPI, commission formed 
part of the premiums charged to the card, so the refund of premiums will account for the 
relevant commission. 
Ms T has also queried an increase in the credit limit on the card, and whether this was done 
to increase the PPI charges. The credit limit is not part of this complaint and I have no 
information about the circumstances, so I cannot comment on it here. But as I have noted 
above, the PPI premiums charged are included in the offer of compensation, together with 
consequent interest and charges. 
Finally, Ms T has expressed doubt about a credit balance arising on the credit card given the 
nature of the product. However, as Ive explained above, the calculation of compensation 
includes a reconstruction of the account to remove the effect of the PPI and consequent 
charges and interest, and is not limited to the period when PPI was in force. Whilst I dont 
have the month-end balance figures, the interest charges for the latter period in particular 
are relatively low, suggesting that the credit card account would have been in credit for some 
time had the PPI premiums and consequent interest and charges not been applied. 
In summary, I have no reason to think that the compensation which HFC has offered to Ms T 
was not calculated in the way in which this service would have expected in these 
circumstances. This means that I think the compensation offer to Ms T was fair and will, as 
far as is possible, put her back in the position she would have been in if the mis-sale hadnt 
happened. So I dont think HFC needs to do anything more, other than to pay the 
compensation to Ms T if it has not already done so. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against HFC Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman