DRN-2822089
The complaint
Mr H says that Gefion Insurance A/S (Gefion) hasnt paid him enough to repair his taxi when 
he made a claim following a road traffic collision with a third party. 
  
What happened
Mr H was involved in a collision with a third party and he submitted a claim to Gefion. 
However, after Gefion inspected Mr Hs taxi it identified what it described as considerable 
pre-accident damage and it opted to pay a partial cash in lieu settlement for the damage 
caused in the accident, as opposed to repairing the vehicle. The settlement equated to 50% 
of the cash repair bill (less VAT).
Mr H was unhappy with the proposed settlement and he submitted a complaint to this 
service. An investigator reviewed the complaint said that based on the evidence available 
Gefion hadnt done anything wrong.
However, Mr H didnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
I issued a provisional decision upholding this case in part on 9 April 2021. That provisional 
decision is below and forms part of my final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I intend upholding this 
complaint in part. Ill explain why.
The crux of this complaint is whether Gefion was correct to only offer Mr H 50% of the
estimated repair costs, less VAT after his taxi was involved in a collision with a third-party
vehicle.
In almost all motor insurance policies, theres a term, which allows the insurer to takeover,
defend or settle any claim as it thinks fit. And Gefions policy is no different. Further, when
anyone buys a policy, they are agreeing to this term. My role and that of this service is not to
claims handle or step into the role of the motor engineer. But merely to see if Gefion applied
this term to the circumstances fairly and reasonably. And I think it did.
The policy says You, all drivers named on the policy and anyone else seeking to make a
claim under this policy must give us full control of the claim and we may take over, defend
or settle the claim or take up any claim in your name. When doing so we would expect an
insurer to appoint the appropriate experts to compile supporting evidence and give a
conclusion based on this evidence. Its up to the insurer then to make a fair and reasonable
decision based on the experts opinion.
In this case I can see that Gefion requested a number of engineers reports. There was
dashcam video of the incident, and a large number of images of the damage caused to both
vehicles and from the scene of the accident. So, Im satisfied that an adequate amount of
evidence was compiled.
The key evidence in this complaint is the engineers reports. Weve been provided with a
comprehensive Audatex report, setting out in detail the repair costs with photos, an initial
report from an independent engineer assessor, a follow up report from this same assessor,
and an independent estimate with comments from Mr Hs engineer.
Mr Hs initial estimate has set a reserve of repair costs to be £11,950. The initial report from
Gefion is slightly lower at £10,835. However, its the comments made by the engineers
involved in the inspection, and the advice given to Gefion, that has caused Mr H to complain.
Mr Hs taxi is a previous Cat D write off. The date of accident is 6 July 2019. When the
vehicle was first transported to the repairing garage, on a recovery truck on 10 July 2019,
the engineer who carried out the initial inspection made a number of observations. Ill
summarise them here:
I could clearly see extensive poor previous repairs to the drivers side and even
worse paintwork.
The passenger side also has been repaired and painted badly, the passenger sill trim
is so rippled with old impact.
Looking further the NSF shotgun panel has been heated with oxy/acetylene and then
not painted (now rusty).
The headlamps have moisture in them (S/H).
All 4 wheels are damaged.
The NSR very badly damaged as are some tyre.,
The rear bumper has runs and the rear lower spoiler is split.
The bonnet shows signs of exposed filler and when it opens, a screw rattles up and
down the frame.
The owner is a taxi driver and he tells me he has just changed his discs and pads,
discs dont wear at 35K.
The drivers seat is torn, the drivers door card is cut, the drivers seat belt cover is
loose.
Owner told the recovery driver that the NSF wheel doesnt sit in the arch centrally.
I think the roof is the only panel not painted.
I believe that the car should not be repaired.
This car is of aluminium construction and its previous total loss history may have
caused stress, I certainly dont want to be responsible for the car in the future or the
taxi passengers it carries.
Based on the above comments Gefion asked an independent motor assessor to inspect the
vehicle. An inspection was carried out by the assessor, who provided a report. However, the
engineer needed some further information, and two months later he provided a summary of
what he found, on both vehicles. I wont set out in full what was said. But in the addendum to
the original report the motor assessor highlighted 23 areas of poor previous repair. In
summary he said:
I am in agreement with the outputs of the repair assessment from the garage that the
pre-existing damage to this vehicle has NOT been repaired to a satisfactory &
roadworthy standard.
It is my professional opinion that until the root cause of the pre-existing damage is
confirmed, the vehicle owner / driver is made aware of the vehicles true status and,
the vehicle is restored to a safe operating standard, it is my professional
recommendation to you that the insurance cover for this vehicle is immediately
withdrawn and the vehicle becomes the subject of a statutory off road notification(SORN).
At the time of my physical inspection of this vehicle the Defendant stated that in his
opinion ALL of the RH front damage to this vehicle was sustained in the index
incident under review.
Therefore, it is my professional opinion the Defendant should provide evidence to the
satisfaction of all stakeholders which supports their claim.
However, at this stage of the review it is my professional opinion some of that
extensive repair methodology required for the RH front damage may not relate to this
index incident under review.
It is my professional opinion that some of the extensive RH front repair methodology
may well relate to previously sustained impact damage in that same RH front area.
At this stage of the review if you were to accept some level of liability in this claim
under review I would suggest settling cash in lieu of repairs with the Defendant at
£4,514.83 which is 50% of the overall nett of VAT repair costs.
Weve also been provided with an email from 31 July 2019 from the motor engineer. It says
The offside front track control arm was found snapped; however, whilst there are some
fresh damages to the offside front wheel, the lack of significant damages would suggest it
would likely have been the tyre that would have been impacted. The damages to the shields
and offside underside imaged by the repairer whilst in the air would appear consistent with
having driven over an object in the road and would not appear consistent with the
circumstances provided. So, based on this Gefion offered Mr H £4,514.83 to settle this 
claim.
But Mr H is very unhappy with this offer. He says What strikes me is the extent to which
previous damage to the car is amplified. It really requires to be put into perspective. My
understanding is that the car was declared a write off cat D, when it incurred damage to the
near left side. This damage is irrelevant to this current claim simply because the current
damage is to front right side. Also, what is imperative to understand is if the track rod end is
damaged there is no way of driving the car whatsoever. You simply cant drive the car.
Mr H has also provided a report was carried out by an independent engineer. It says panel
damages appear on the light side but having viewed images of TP vehicle from accident
locus, they are at a consistent level. The offside rack lateral tie rod is snapped, and the track
rod end is still intact and attached to the knuckle. The damage location is clean and displays
considerable distortion, quite probably as a result of impact to the wheel/tyre  no other
impacts evident to the suspension components but clear marks on the wheel. On the basis
the vehicle could not have been in use otherwise it seems safe to assume the damage
occurred at the time of the accident under review.
Ive seen dash cam footage of the crash. Mr Hs taxi was clearly progressing on the road
before it was impacted by a third party at the right-hand front (RHF) of the vehicle. The taxi
was brought by a recovery truck to a garage and the Audatex report says this was four days
later. The Audatex report lists the RHF control arm as needing renewal. And theres a
photograph on the report taken at 17.15hrs on 10 July showing a broken steering control
arm (also known as the tie rod) on the RHF of the vehicle. The break is clean, and fresh, and
its clearly a very recent break with no sign of corrosion, dirt or contamination.
Looking back on the report provided by Gefion, it says that the damage to the RHF may well
relate to previously sustained impact damage in that same RH front area. It also says, the
Defendant should provide evidence to the satisfaction of all stakeholders which supports
their claim. An earlier email provided says The damages to the shields and offside
underside imaged by the repairer whilst in the air would appear consistent with having driven
over an object in the road and would not appear consistent with the circumstancesprovided.
But I cant see how this break is considered previously sustained damage or not consistent
with the circumstances, and I think the report submitted by Mr H supports his claim. The
dashcam footage, provided by the third party clearly shows Mr Hs car driving in front of the
third party. Its not possible to drive a vehicle on the road with a broken RHF steering control
arm/tie rod. There would be no steering control on the vehicle. The footage then shows the
third-party impacting the RHF of Mr Hs taxi. So, I dont think Gefions assessment of the
RHF front damage is correct. It may appear consistent with being driven over an object. But I
think its more likely than not, given the visual and written evidence presented, in particular by
Mr Hs engineer that the steering control arm/tie rod snapped on impact from the third-party
vehicle. As such, I think the RHF damage as presented is accident related, and Gefion need
to pay to repair it.
However, this doesnt mean that Gefion have to pay the repair bill in full with VAT. The
observations of the reporting engineer on the Audatex have to be taken into consideration.
And his/her concerns about previous repairs have to be taken into account. Because of the
concerns over previous repairs I think a cash in lieu settlement is valid. So Gefion can
deduct VAT. But, given that theres no evidence that the repairs reported to the RHF of the
vehicle arent all accident related, Im going to direct Gefion to pay a cash settlement of the
full repair cost less VAT.
I am recommending that the figures used are as presented on the Audatex report. This is a
comprehensive breakdown and costing of the repairs as opposed to estimates provided on
the other reports. The grand total on this report ex VAT is £9,030.91. So, Mr H should
receive the difference between this amount and what has already been paid. 8% simple
interest should be added to this differential amount starting from the date of the claim.
I have a printout that shows that the vehicle had passed an MOT in October 2019 and the
mileage had increased. So, the vehicle is clearly back on the road. But Im also conscious
that Mr H has suffered an inconvenience because of the whats happened here. So, Im also
going to ask Gefion to pay Mr H £250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience
caused by incorrectly assessing the damage caused in this accident, leading to an initial
lowered payment for repairs.
My provisional decision
Im planning on upholding this complaint in part against Gefion Insurance A/S as set out
above. I intend asking Gefion to pay the difference between whats already been paid, and
the full repair cost ex VAT as set out on the Audatex report. 8% interest should be added to
this. Im also intend on asking Gefion to pay £250 in compensation for the inconvenience
caused.
Gefion has confirmed it received my provisional decision. Mr H has also confirmed receipt of 
the provisional decision and he has responded with some further points which I will deal with 
below.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint in part.I note that Gefion hasnt submitted any further comments. But Mr H has asked me to 
consider some further points. Hes says that hes had additional expense because he had to 
provide an engineers report, and hes spent a substantial amount of money on telephone 
calls to Gefion. He also pointed out to us again that this vehicle was being used as a taxi, 
and he says he didnt have the money to get his vehicle back to a roadworthy condition to 
use it as a taxi. He says the vehicle has lost value and hes suffered distress and 
inconvenience.
Mr H hasnt provided anything to support any additional losses. However, I can see an 
engineers report on file, and I can see from the file that Mr H has been in contact with 
Gefion. In terms of the vehicle use I can see that the vehicle is back on the road, and had 
passed an MOT in October 2019, so even if it wasnt being used as a taxi, I can see it was 
back on the road. 
Ive considered Mr Hs response and based on everything Ive seen Im minded to increase 
the payment for distress and inconvenience to £400 in total. I appreciate its not what Mr H 
requested, but in the absence of receipts and telephone bills, I think this represents a fair 
compensation award for the additional expense on top of the distress and inconvenience 
suffered. Im also conscious that Mr H will receive 8% simple interest on the amount 
outstanding up to the date it is paid. Based on everything Ive seen I think this is a fair and 
reasonable outcome. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is to uphold
this complaint in part.
I require Gefion Insurance A/S to pay Mr H the following:
Gefion should now pay Mr H the difference between £9,030.91 and the amount that 
has already been paid (£4,514.83). 8% simple interest should be added to this 
differential amount starting from the date of the claim until the date the claim is paid. 
If Gefion Insurance A/S considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr H a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Im also directing Gefion Insurance A/S to pay Mr H £400 in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience hes suffered throughout the lifetime of this claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman