DRN-3735176
The complaint
Ms P has complained about how British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) dealt with a 
claim under her home emergency policy.
Im aware that Ms P is represented in this case but, for ease, I will only refer to Ms P.
What happened
Ms P contacted British Gas because her toilet was blocked. British Gas said it would send 
an engineer within four hours. When no-one arrived in that timescale, Ms P contacted British 
Gas and was told there wasnt an engineer available, but Ms P could arrange her own 
engineer. Ms P said she couldnt afford to pay for her own engineer and then get the money 
back from British Gas. British Gas tried to find another engineer but in the middle of the night 
told her someone would be with her at 8am. An engineer arrived at 9am. The engineer was 
able to clear part of the blockage, but said he couldnt do anything further as it was a shared 
drain, so Ms P would need to contact the water company.
Ms P complained to British Gas about how it had handled her claim and the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused her. British Gas apologised for how the claim had been handled 
and offered Ms P £60 compensation. 
Following this, Ms P complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She 
said Ms P was a vulnerable customer, which British Gas was aware of. She said British Gas 
could have done more to help Ms P. She said British Gas should pay a total of £260 
compensation and also pay to have the carpet cleaned.
British Gas didnt agree, but offered to increase the compensation to £160. Following this, 
the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 2 December 2022. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
It isnt in dispute that there were issues with how British Gas dealt with this claim. British Gas 
told Ms P an engineer would visit within four hours. However, when Ms P followed up on 
this, she was told it wasnt possible to send an engineer. This would be a cause for concern 
and upset to many people, but Ms P was a vulnerable customer who had a specific need for 
a toilet. The only toilet she was able to access in the house was blocked. So, I can 
understand that she would have been particularly concerned when she was told there was 
no engineer available. 
British Gas told Ms P she could arrange her own engineer. Ms P said she was unable to do 
this because she couldnt afford to pay the engineer herself and then get the money back 
from British Gas. Ms P has said the reason she had the policy was so that she didnt have to 
cover costs herself. So, I can understand why Ms P wouldnt have found this to be an 
acceptable solution. From what Ive seen, the advice Ms P was given was in line with the 
guidance British Gas gave its call handlers. Im also mindful that British Gass relationship 
was with Ms P and I havent seen evidence that British Gas had a way to appoint or pay a 
third-party contractor directly. So, in the circumstances, I think British Gas offered what it 
could at the time to try and help resolve Ms Ps emergency.
During the night, British Gas seemed to continue to try and find an available British Gas 
engineer, but phoned Ms P to say it hadnt been able to find anyone. British Gas seemed to 
suggest again that Ms P find her own engineer. Given Ms P had already said this wasnt 
something she could do, I can understand she didnt find this helpful. British Gas then told 
Ms P an engineer would arrive at 8am, who then arrived at 9am. Thinking about Ms Ps 
situation and her medical condition, I can see this delay in the engineer arriving would have 
caused her particular concern.
The engineer was able to clear part of the blockage but advised Ms P that she would need to 
contact the water company due to the shared drain. Ive checked the policy terms and 
conditions. This said it didnt cover shared drains. So, Ive not seen anything that currently 
persuades me British Gas provided incorrect advice or that it should have done more to 
clear the blockage. But Im aware Ms P could have acted on this advice sooner if British Gas 
had sent an engineer when it first said it would.
So, Ive thought about compensation. I can understand Ms P was distressed and concerned 
that an engineer didnt arrive when British Gas said they would. Given that British Gas knew 
Ms P was vulnerable, I think it could have done more to keep Ms P informed, rather than her 
having to follow up when an engineer didnt arrive. British Gas did seem to be struggling to 
find an engineer, so telling Ms P she could find her own engineer seems reasonable, despite 
this not being an option Ms P felt able to use. It took about 14 hours for an engineer to arrive 
following Ms Ps initial call and, in Ms Ps particular circumstances, I can understand that this 
delay would have had a bigger impact on her than other people. Since the complaint has 
been with this service, British Gas has increased its compensation offer to £160. Ive thought 
about this and I currently intend to say £160 more fairly reflects the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Ms P and that British Gas should pay this amount.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 30 December 2022. Both parties replied before that date.
British Gas agreed with the decision.
Ms Ps representative replied and asked whether I still intended to require British Gas to pay 
for the carpet to be cleaned. I explained that having considered the circumstances of what 
happened, I didnt require British Gas to do this. I asked if Ms P had any further comments. 
Ms Ps representative replied and said she understood why the carpet didnt need to be 
cleaned, but asked for more of an explanation for the compensation amount. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision.
Ms P asked for more information on the compensation because I said British Gas should pay 
£160, which was less than our investigator had said. While the complaint was with this 
service, British Gas increased its compensation offer and explained why it thought this was 
reasonable based on what it said it was responsible for. I looked at all of the circumstances 
of what happened and the service British Gas provided. There were a number of issues with 
British Gas sending an engineer, but my view on some of those issues and what British Gas was responsible for were different to that of the investigator. Taking into account all the 
evidence and the views from both parties, I decided that British Gass increased 
compensation offer of £160 was reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
British Gas should pay Ms P a total of £160 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Ms P £160 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman