DRN-3693064
The complaint
Mr T complains that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun Life) 
gave him unsuitable investment advice when it recommended him to take out a 10 year 
savings plan and also about Sun Lifes delay in responding to his complaint. 
To put things right, Mr T wants financial compensation for having been mis-sold the 
savings plan he took out on Sun Lifes advice and for the delay responding to his 
complaint. 
The investment advice was provided by a financial business trading under a different name. 
But, to keep things simpler, as Sun Life is responsible for dealing with the complaint, I will 
refer to it as the financial business that provided the advice and sold the investment 
complained about. 
What happened
Mr T sought investment advice from Sun Life in 1998. 
He told Sun Lifes advisor that he wanted to create capital in a tax efficient disciplined 
way and his future plans included foreign travel, possibly working overseas and perhaps 
living abroad for part of the year.
Sun Life recommended Mr T to invest £140 each month in a Maximum Investment Plan 
(MIP), a 10-year unit linked savings plan consisting of investment in two managed funds 
within a life policy.
Mr T decided to invest £50 per month into the recommended MIP which he maintained for 
the full 10 year term. When the MIP matured in July 2008, Mr T had paid in £6,000 and he 
received back a little over £7,000  so making an overall gain.
Although Sun Life said it was late in sending Mr T a final response letter, it was 
nevertheless satisfied that the MIP had been suitable for Mr Ts circumstances at the 
time and didnt uphold his complaint. 
Our investigator said she wasnt persuaded that Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. She 
felt the MIP had been suitable for Mr T, given his circumstances at the time and what he 
wanted from his investment.
Mr T didnt agree so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt always have power to investigate 
complaints about events that happened more than six years ago, Sun Life has consented to 
us looking into Mr Ts complaint about what happened in 1998 when it recommended this 
plan. So, I am satisfied that I can consider the complaint.
Ive looked carefully at what I know about Mr Ts overall financial situation and 
circumstances at the time. I've taken into account the information in the point of sale 
paperwork that Sun Life has provided, including the Personal Financial Planning Profile ( the 
fact find) carried out by Sun Lifes financial adviser. This shows that Mr T was employed in 
a secure job and he had many years ahead of him before he reached state pension age, 
giving Mr T the possibility of plenty of earning potential. He was single and he had no 
dependents. His net monthly income was around £1,000 a month. He did not have a 
mortgage. He told the financial advisor that his only expenses were loan monthly 
repayments of £250 for his car and his other liabilities were £6,500 for the year.
Mr T had no savings or investments and no previous investment experience. 
Theres no detailed expenditure information recorded in the fact find. Our investigator asked 
Mr T to tell us more about what payments he was responsible for in 1998 and, in particular, 
to confirm if he had any responsibility for household expenses such as rent, bills or 
maintenance costs. Mr T told us his financial responsibilities at the time were limited to 
paying council tax and other associated living costs plus car finance. This reflects the 
information Mr T shared with Sun Lifes financial advisor at the time. So I find theres nothing 
to indicate that Mr Ts financial needs and requirements werent covered out of income.  
Although I dont have any more detailed information about Mr Ts monthly expenditure, the 
advisor recommended him to pay nearly three times the amount Mr T decided to invest in 
the MIP each month. This makes me think that, at the time, Mr T most likely wouldve had 
sufficient disposable income to be able to afford the £50 per month he signed up to save. 
And this is borne out by the fact he seems to have maintained these payments into the plan 
for the next 10 years. 
Based on all the information I've seen and been told, I am satisfied that Mr T was in a strong 
enough financial situation to be able to invest £50 per month into the MIP.
Mr Ts savings priority, as recorded in the fact find paperwork he signed at the time, was to 
provide a cash sum in the future to help fund his personal ambitions which centred around 
overseas travel and potentially living and working abroad. This seems to have taken 
precedence over addressing shortfalls in other areas of financial planning that the advisor 
flagged up. Given that Mr Ts main investment objective was capital growth, I find it was 
reasonable for Sun Life to recommend a risk-based investment to Mr T.
Mr T needed to be comfortable that the level of risk associated with the recommended 
investment reflected his risk approach. Its not clear what discussion took place around his 
attitude to risk and reward, but the fact find records that he had an aggressive attitude to 
risk. So Im satisfied that risk would have been discussed. Theres nothing to show that Mr T 
raised objection to his risk approach being categorised this way at the time, which Id have 
expected him to have done if he disagreed with the advisors assessment of his attitude to 
risk. So, I find that in terms of risk, there are indications that Mr T leant towards the less 
cautious/more speculative end of Sun Lifes risk scale. 
I appreciate that Mr T was a novice investor  so his understanding of risk and reward may 
have been limited by his lack of investment experience. But I dont think there is any good 
reason for saying that only less risky products can ever be suitable for a first time investor. To do so would be to effectively deprive first time investors of the opportunity to make bigger 
investment gains than they could otherwise achieve, which seems unfair to me. 
Fund information from 1998 is limited, but I understand Mr Ts investment was split equally 
between the UK Equity Growth Fund and the European Capital Fund. Mr Ts risk rating 
suggests he was prepared to prioritise his goal of capital growth even if this meant taking on 
some significant degree of investment risk. And I can see why, in Mr Ts circumstances and 
financial situation, he appears to have had no particular need to be especially conservative 
in his risk approach:
he was financially secure in his job  hed been in his post several years and was 
looking at progression in the role
he wasnt paying a mortgage or rent so his housing costs were not a drain on his 
income 
his home circumstances were settled - Mr T was still living at the same address when 
he brought his complaint to us 
apart from his personal spending and living costs he had no other financial 
responsibilities or liabilities
he needed to grow his money in order to put into effect his future plans  and 
investment risk is generally commensurate with reward.
Although investing in equities meant Mr T needed to be prepared to expect a degree of 
volatility, I havent seen enough overall to suggest this was too risky an investment for Mr T 
 especially bearing in mind that splitting his investment across two funds, and the funds 
themselves being invested across a range of companies, meant a degree of diversification 
which helped spread risk. 
Taking everything into account, I find that Mr T had sufficient financial resources to be able 
to absorb some element of loss in pursuit of capital growth. In other words, he was able to 
take a degree of risk when investing. And I have no good reason to think that the MIP 
exposed Mr T to more risk than he wouldve felt comfortable taking, making this investment 
unsuitable for him. Based on Mr Ts recorded investment objectives of providing a cash 
lump sum at the end of ten years and his circumstances at the point of sale, my view is that 
the investment Sun Life recommended to him was suitable for his needs at the time. It 
gave Mr T the possibility of achieving capital growth over the term he was looking to invest 
at a level of risk that overall I consider was appropriate for him. 
In coming to my decision, Ive thought carefully about the fact that Mr T didnt have any 
savings on deposit when he was recommended to invest in the MIP. I've considered whether 
this made the MIP an unsuitable investment for him. Although Mr T could have cancelled the 
plan at any time, there was no guarantee that he would recover the amount hed put into the 
MIP. And without ready access to enough money to provide a financial cushion in the event 
of emergency spending needs arising I think this potentially risked leaving Mr T financially 
exposed.
But, set against this, it seems that Mr Ts circumstances and living arrangements largely 
sheltered him from the risks he might otherwise have faced  his housing for instance seems 
to have been secure in any event, given that he paid no mortgage or rent. And the financial 
adviser thought Mr T had enough surplus income to be able to afford to save around £140 
each month. So it looks like he could still have built up savings to fall back on had he wished 
to do so, whilst at the same time paying into the MIP, especially keeping in mind that Mr T 
had a reasonable expectation that his pay would increase year on year to more than double 
his present earnings once he was successfully established in his career.   I think its also worth mentioning that having an element of life insurance under the MIP 
made it qualifying for tax purposes  in other words, Mr T would receive the plan proceeds 
free from any further tax. 
To sum up, I find that the MIP met Mr Ts identified needs and investment objectives and 
was not too risky for Mr T or otherwise unsuitable. So Im not upholding this part of his 
complaint.
Sun Life has acknowledged that it didnt respond to Mr Ts complaint as quickly as he was 
reasonably entitled to expect. I could tell Sun Life to pay compensation or take other steps to 
put things right if I am satisfied that it did something wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably 
and this led to Mr T suffering some detriment and/or financial loss. But I cant see that 
happened here. When Sun Life missed the deadline set by the regulator for responding to 
Mr Ts complaint, he was able to bring his complaint direct to this service  which Mr T did. 
So I cant fairly say that he has lost out as a result of Sun Lifes delay in dealing with this 
complaint and I cant award the compensation he is seeking for this.My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman