DRN-3355942
The complaint
Mr H complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited mis-sold a decreasing 
term assurance with critical illness policy to him in 2004. Mr H believed this to be a pension 
policy rather than a policy to protect his mortgage.
What happened
In 2004 Mr H applied for a repayment mortgage. Legal and General recommended a 
decreasing term assurance with critical illness to match the amount and term of the 
mortgage. The initial premium was to be reviewed every five years. Mr H paid off his 
mortgage in May 2020 but continued to pay the premiums until March 2021 believing the 
premium was for a pension plan with Legal and General.
Mr H complained to Legal and General the policy had been mis-sold. He said hed not 
received any correspondence from Legal and General since the policy started and wasnt 
aware the premiums could increase. Mr H said there were some discrepancies on the 
medical consent form and application that supported his view hed never taken out the 
policy. Legal and General didnt uphold the complaint and said the policy was optional and 
suitable for the repayment mortgage Mr H had taken at the time.  Mr H didnt agree with 
Legal and General and brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
On of our Investigators looked into things for Mr H and didnt think Legal and General had 
done anything wrong. Mr H didnt agree with our Investigator and asked for an Ombudsman 
to decide his complaint. The case has therefore been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr H will be disappointed with my final decision, but for much the same 
reasons as our Investigator I dont consider Legal and General did anything significantly 
wrong. I will now explain why.
Mr H feels the medical consent and application forms contain discrepancies about his height, 
his work status and his family history, but Ive seen a signed copy of the medical dated the 
same time as the electronic application. I cant say precisely what information Mr H provided 
at the time, but I consider it more likely than not Mr H provided some medical information to 
Legal and General at this time. And, Im not persuaded the application was made without the 
knowledge of Mr H. 
Mr H provided a copy of his mortgage statements. These confirm the amount of the 
mortgage, that it was a repayment mortgage and that it was due to end in 2021. The policy 
Legal and General recommended matches the amount and the term of the mortgage, so I 
dont consider it was mis-sold or unsuitable. Ive noted Mr H says Legal and General 
shouldve told him he could stop the policy when his mortgage ended a year early. However, 
I dont agree. The policy is unlikely to have been assigned to the mortgage lender as it 
wasnt a condition Mr Hs borrowing. So, Legal and General wouldnt have known the 
mortgage had ended unless Mr H had told them it had. 
Although Mr H says he received no information from Legal and General throughout the 
policy term, Legal and General have provided copies of a number of review letters they sent 
to Mr H in 2009, 2014, and 2019. These letters were addressed to Mr H and he has told us 
he remained at this address throughout the term of the mortgage and policy. These letters 
explained to Mr H the policy provided was a decreasing term assurance with critical illness 
cover, and that the premiums were reviewed every five years. In 2009 there was an increase 
to the premium but in 2014 and 2019 there wasnt. There was no mention of the policy being 
related to any pension provision in these letters.
Mr H says he didnt receive any of these letters. However, based on copies of the letters 
provided by Legal and General, I do think its more likely than not they were sent. So, Im 
persuaded Legal and General did what I would expect them to do to keep Mr H informed of 
the policy; what type of policy it was, what the level of cover was and the premiums. Its 
unfortunate that these letters may not have been received by Mr H, but I dont consider that 
is the fault of Legal and General or that they treated Mr H unfairly in this regard.
Ive noted Mr H says he thought the decreasing nature of the policy meant the premiums 
should go down, but this is not the case on this policy. Its the level of life cover and critical 
illness cover that reduces each year in line with his mortgage balance. This is something that 
wouldve been explained in the original documentation Mr H received. And it was also 
explained in each of the review letters.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive detailed above I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against Legal and 
General Assurance Society Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Paul Lawton1
Ombudsman