DRN-3195905
The complaint and background
Ms S complains about Great Lakes Insurance (SE)s handling of a claim she made on her 
landlord legal and rent guarantee policy. All references to Great Lakes include its agents.
Ms S discovered her tenant was claiming housing benefit. She says this breached the
tenancy agreement and meant she was in breach of her consent-to-let mortgage terms.
Ms S understood that, as a consequence of this, she might have to pay exit fees to end her
consent-to-let agreement and take out a buy-to-let mortgage. She says its a requirement of
her consent-to-let agreement to have an assured shorthold tenancy in place.
Ms S issued a Section 21 notice in December 2019, giving the tenant two months to vacate
the property, and made a claim to Great Lakes in February 2020 because the tenant hadnt
done so. The tenancy expired in March 2020.
The complaint Ms S would like me to consider is that Great Lakes unreasonably declined her
claim. It told her she was in breach of a policy condition because her tenant didnt earn 30
times the monthly rent, but Ms S says theres no mention of this in the policy wording. She
says consideration of this caused delays, which meant she missed the window to start court
action before housing possession proceedings were stayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Ms S says Great Lakes caused further delays by making excessive and repeated requests
for the same pieces of information, some of which she didnt have access to. And by saying
the claim had little prospects of success without sufficient reasoning. Without these delays,
Ms S feels she would at least have been in the queue when the stay on housing possession
proceedings came into effect (and therefore higher up the priority list when it was lifted).
Great Lakes said it hadnt actually declined the claim. Rather, it hoped to provide cover,
subject to the policy terms being satisfied, once the stay on housing possession proceedings
was lifted. It said it was unable to establish whether the claim had prospects of success
before that (as it was unclear whether the pre-action protocols would change, for example).
Great Lakes felt it had reviewed the claim promptly considering when it was notified of it, and
bearing in mind the apparent breach of the affordability conditions (which meant the matter
had to be referred to an underwriter). It also felt Ms S hadnt yet shown the tenant was in
breach of the tenancy agreement, or that she was in breach of her consent-to-let agreement.
Ms S remained unhappy and thought Great Lakes should refund her premiums from 2016,
or cover all of the legal costs to evict her tenant. Once the stay on housing possession
proceedings ended, Ms S issued further notices to her tenant (the original one having
expired). They left the property in March 2021 without court action becoming necessary. 
The property was left in a state of disrepair and Ms S thinks this too is a consequence of the 
delays by Great Lakes. This will potentially involve taking legal action to recover the cost of 
the repairs from the tenant (the cost of which wont be recoverable under this policy because 
it has since come to an end). Ms S says her mental health has been affected. 
I issued a provisional decision on 16 November 2021. I said:
I note that Great Lakes didnt necessarily reach a firm conclusion on whether the claim was
covered under the policy terms or not. The policy terms define an insured event as an
incident or the first of a series of incidents where the tenant(s) fail to perform their obligations
set out in the tenancy agreement relating to their rightful occupation of the insured property.
But under WHAT IS COVERED no reference is made to an insured event by that definition
needing to have taken place. There are only references to events which isnt defined.
Under Section 1  Pursuit there arent any references to either insured events or events.
It just says Great Lakes will negotiate for your legal rights in trying to get possession of
your property that you have let under a tenancy agreement. You must be trying to get
possession under:  c. Section 21 of the Housing Act 1988 Claims under Section 21
dont require the landlord to give a reason. Its just a means of bringing a tenancy to an end,
with restrictions on when it can be used.
I therefore dont think its clear from the policy that cover in this case only applied if the
tenant failed to perform an obligation under the tenancy agreement. Great Lakes requests
for information about the reasoning for the proposed eviction (including details of the tenants
housing benefit and Ms Ss consent-to-let agreement) do seem to have taken some time.
It isnt clear that information was strictly relevant, so long as the notice itself was valid.
Great Lakes also claimed Ms S had breached a policy condition because the tenant didnt
earn 30 times the monthly rent, an industry standard used in affordability assessments.
This isnt a condition of the policy from what I can see. It says, for this policy to be valid all
Tenants in the Let Property have to be FULLY referenced 
Ms S asked a licensed tenant reference agency to carry out a full reference. According to 
its website, this doesnt involve an affordability assessment. It just involves a credit check 
and collecting references from the tenants employer and previous landlord. Thats in 
keeping with the Tenancy Checklist in the policy wording which similarly makes no mention 
of an affordability assessment.
The Tenancy Checklist in the policy wording says, the credit check must be clear of CCJs
(last three years and none outstanding), show no previous bankruptcies and demonstrate
the tenant or guarantors ability to meet their rent commitments. Ive seen the credit check
and the outcome was acceptable. And the tenant had subsequently paid all rent in full.
Everything else in the Tenancy Checklist was obtained and in order too. Its therefore
unclear why Great Lakes went to such lengths exploring this particular issue, including
requesting complete rental records and referring the matter to an underwriter, before
deciding to overlook it. This caused further delays. 
By the time Great Lakes had carried out these enquiries, it said the recent stay on housing
possession proceedings meant Ms S wasnt currently able to pursue the claim anyway and it
would have to wait and see how things progressed. Thats broadly where things were left.
There doesnt seem to be any suggestion that Ms S issued the Section 21 notice incorrectly.
Ive thought carefully about her argument that, but for the lines of enquiry described above,
an application could have been made to the court before housing possession proceedings
were stayed. Overall. Ive found that its unlikely Ms S would be in a materially different
position if that had happened. Ill explain why.
The National Residential Landlords Association (NRLA) reported that, before the pandemic,
the average landlord in Ms Ss area waited over ten weeks for a possession order hearing.
Accelerated claims took on average around seven weeks to result in a possession order,
although landlords in Ms Ss area experienced longer than average waits.So, even if Great Lakes had validated the claim within say two weeks of being notified of it
(on 10 February 2020) its unlikely Ms S would have obtained a possession order by the time
that housing possession proceedings were stayed (on 26 March 2020). It might, however,
have enabled Ms S to start the court process within six months of issuing the Section 21
notice, which would have prevented it from expiring.
When the stay was lifted in September 2020, courts initially operated in a limited capacity.
Whilst claims submitted prior to the stay were prioritised to a degree, the NRLA reported that
Section 21 claims were put to the back of the queue. Accelerated possession claims werent
being scheduled, and priority for scheduled hearings was given to eight categories of the
most egregious cases (generally Section 8 claims involving crime or extreme rent arrears).
So, its likely it would have taken a considerable amount of time before Ms S was granted a
possession order (based on the original Section 21 notice) once the stay ended.
Furthermore, bailiff enforcement of evictions was prohibited until May 2021. So, even if Ms S
had managed to obtain a possession order in the weeks or months after the stay on housing
possession proceedings was lifted, shed have had no way of enforcing it if the tenant didnt
leave by the date of possession. The tenant likely would have been aware of this, and had
previously said theyd only be rehoused by the council in the event of eviction. Its therefore
likely theyd have been content to remain in the property until eviction was enforced, or until
they could make other arrangements (which is presumably what happened in March 2021).
In November 2020, the NRLA said that, as a result of the above factors, landlords who
applied to court prior to the pandemic would usually be waiting at least a year to regain
possession By March 2021, the tenant had vacated the property voluntarily anyway.
Im not persuaded Ms S could have gained possession much sooner but for the time it took
Great Lakes to validate her claim. By extension, I dont think it can be held responsible for
any deterioration in the condition of the property while the tenant remained in situ.
I dont consider a refund of all premiums Ms S paid towards the policy is appropriate here.
Shes ultimately benefited from the cover the policy provides, in that shes been protected
against events that might have happened during the five years the policy was in force.
I also note Ms S paid a company £100 to serve the second set of notice documents. There 
was no requirement for her to do that though. The relevant forms, and guidance on how to
complete them, are freely accessible through the Governments website. So, I dont think it
would be fair to direct Great Lakes to reimburse these costs, even if I were to conclude its
delays resulted in the original Section 21 notice expiring.
I do though think that the confusion as to what kinds of information Ms S needed to provide
in support of her claim, and why, caused her distress and inconvenience at a difficult time.
And I cant see that Great Lakes was pro-active in reconsidering the claim when it became
clear that the stay on housing possession proceedings would be lifted. I intend to direct it to 
pay Ms S £200 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties accepted by provisional decision, so I see no reason to depart from it.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint in part and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay Ms S £200 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman