DRN-3212125
The complaint
Mr P complains about the service he received from British Gas Insurance Ltd when he 
reported an issue with his boiler. He wants British Gas to pay him further compensation. 
What happened
Mr P holds a Homecare four policy with British Gas. The policy provides  boiler, controls 
and central heating cover - including an annual service; plus repairs to plumbing, drains and 
home electrics. 
In May 2021, Mr P contacted British Gas to report a potential fault with his boiler. But due to 
a lack of available appointments for around two weeks, he was offered the option of 
arranging for a local engineer to attend. And British Gas said theyd look to reimburse any 
costs incurred upon receipt of an invoice. 
Mr P located someone privately who came and cleared the fault, but they needed to return 
on a number of occasions when issues persisted. So, Mr P kept the initial appointment, and 
waited for a British Gas engineer to attend. 
A British Gas engineer visited a couple of weeks after Mr Ps initial enquiry and replaced a 
part within the boiler and left, noting the boiler was working correctly. But a couple of months 
later, a further call was made by Mr P as issues with the boiler remained. So British Gas 
completed further works, and the engineer again reported after that the boiler was working 
correctly. However, around six weeks later there was another issue, so Mr P asked 
British Gas to send a different engineer, as he felt the previous one was unable to complete 
an effective repair. 
Two engineers were sent out by British Gas who, this time, determined the boiler pump was 
faulty and said theyd need to order a part, and someone would return the following day. And 
Mr P was told that if no one had showed up by 12pm he should call British Gas as it was a 
long job, and the engineer would ideally need to start in the morning. But no one arrived the 
following day as scheduled, so Mr P contacted British Gas to inform them, but was advised 
they couldnt locate the engineer, and a further appointment was booked for a week later. 
This date unfortunately turned out to be unsuitable for Mr P and it was moved by a day, but 
when the engineer arrived, he seemed to be unaware of what was required and didnt have 
the necessary parts to complete the job. British Gas then contacted Mr P the following day 
and arranged a further appointment, during which, the boiler issue was ultimately fixed. But, 
unhappy with the service received, Mr P complained.
British Gas considered Mr Ps complaint and acknowledged his boiler issues had now been 
resolved. And they said they usually wouldnt suggest a customer find their own engineer, 
but this was being offered as a temporary measure during the pandemic to help improve 
response times. They said that service levels had been impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic, 
but they agreed that they still fell below what Mr P shouldve expected. So they sent Mr P 
£100 as a goodwill gesture. Unhappy with this, Mr P brought his complaint to our service. 
An investigator considered Mr Ps complaint but didnt recommend it was upheld. She said 
she accepted there were delays and some errors on British Gas part, but she was satisfied 
that the pandemic had impacted the overall service levels, and that British Gas had done 
what they could to try and rectify any mistakes made adequately. She felt that in the 
circumstances, the £100 compensation paid was sufficient. But Mr P remained unhappy, so 
the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that the issues with Mr Ps boiler have now been resolved, so my decision will 
focus on the overall service Mr P received, and what, if any, compensation I think is due. 
Looking at the first appointment Mr P was offered, I appreciate it would have been frustrating 
to have to wait just under two weeks for an engineer to attend. But equally, British Gas have 
explained that this was partly as a result of delays experienced during the pandemic, when 
they had a limited number of engineers available. Theyve also explained that this is why 
they were offering customers the temporary option of having their own engineer attend.
I appreciate Mr Ps argument that he took out an insurance policy, so that the responsibility 
wouldnt fall on him to resolve these issues should a problem occur, so I can understand his 
feelings on this matter. But British Gas policy does set out that:
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless
something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you know as 
soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit. During epidemics or 
pandemics, we will adhere to Government guidelines concerning restriction
of non-essential travel and may have to reschedule your repair or visit until such time
So, I think based on the above policy term, and given the unprecedented times they were 
experiencing, it was reasonable to expect there might be some delays and that these may 
be beyond British Gas control. And I think that offering the customer the opportunity for him 
to have his own engineer attend as an alternative was a reasonable solution to these issues. 
When British Gas did attend Mr Ps property, it seems that they believed they had carried out 
an effective and lasting repair. So, I appreciate it must have been frustrating for Mr P to then 
have to arrange further callouts before the correct issue was correctly diagnosed and a 
permanent fix put in place. I also think that given the issues Mr P had already faced, that 
British Gas couldve done more to ensure the engineers arrived when scheduled, and that 
they were fully aware of the works required, especially given the fact there had already been 
several visits, and some (albeit unavoidable) delays from the outset. So, I think British Gas 
were right to consider compensation in the circumstances. 
But having looked at the overall issues experienced, and while I appreciate this will be 
disappointing for Mr P, Im not persuaded that the distress this matter ultimately caused 
should warrant a large sum of compensation. And I think that British Gas, where possible, 
tried to provide alternate solutions for Mr P, given the challenges they faced. So, while I 
accept there were shortcomings on British Gas part, Im not persuaded that any further 
compensation in addition to the £100 already paid is required in the circumstances. So, for 
these reasons, Im not instructing British Gas to do anything further. 
Mr P has also suggested that British Gas amend their processes on a wider scale to improve 
their service levels. But my role, as an ombudsman, is to look at the individual circumstances of Mr Ps complaint. And its not to make large scale recommendations on other 
organisations inner workings. So while I appreciate Mr Ps frustration, I havent commented 
any further on these matters.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman