DRN-3602714
The complaint
Miss M has complained about how AXA Insurance UK Plcs (AXA) dealt with the excess on 
a home insurance policy.
All references to AXA include agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Miss M contacted AXA to make a claim for a mobile phone. AXA dealt with the claim and 
contacted Miss M to tell her the amount it would offer to settle the claim. It said there was no 
excess payable. Miss M accepted the amount offered for the claim. 
However, AXA then contacted Miss M to say she hadnt paid the excess. Miss M complained 
and said she shouldnt have to pay the excess because she had previously been told it 
wasnt payable. When AXA replied, it said it had made a mistake in its processes around 
collecting the excess. It said Miss M needed to pay it. AXA offered £50 compensation for its 
mistake, which it said it would deduct from the amount owed. It also said it was sorry Miss M 
was distressed by the letters chasing her for payment of the excess. It said it had followed 
the correct process by issuing the letters as it was reasonable for it to request payment.
When Miss M complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She 
said the excess was payable and it wasnt unreasonable for AXA to send letters to request 
the payment.
As Miss M didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When Miss M took out the policy, she was provided with documents that explained the 
details of the cover provided. These said the excess wasnt covered as part of any claim. 
Miss M also seemed to be aware she needed to pay an excess, despite her being 
misadvised when she asked about it during the claim.
AXA accepts it provided Miss M with incorrect information when it told her the excess didnt 
need to be paid. When AXA realised it had made a mistake, I think it was reasonable that 
AXA asked for payment, as the excess was payable under the terms and conditions of the 
policy. I think it was reasonable that AXA offered £50 compensation because of its error.
Miss M also complained that she was chased for payment while she was still pursuing her 
complaint. I can understand that Miss M didnt think AXA should have continued to chase 
her. However, she did still owe the money and I cant say that it was unreasonable that AXA 
asked for it to be paid.
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require AXA to do 
anything else in relation to it. I leave it to AXA and Miss M to discuss collecting the excess 
payment.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman