DRN-3608876
The complaint
Mr B complains about the service provided by Barclays Bank UK PLC when returning title 
deeds following the redemption of his mortgage. 
What happened
Mr B took out a mortgage with Barclays in November 2002. Mr B redeemed the mortgage in 
October 2021. Barclays contacted Mr B to confirm the repayment of the mortgage and asked 
him to complete a form to request his title deeds. Mr B completed and returned the form to 
Barclays. 
After further correspondence with Barclays Mr B still hadnt received any title deeds so 
complained to Barclays. Barclays responded and said it has sent all the information it had 
regarding the mortgage to Mr B. It explained that the title deeds are no longer available 
because the title had been electronically registered. It offered Mr B £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused for not informing him of this sooner. 
Our investigator considered the complaint. They explained that based on the evidence 
provided they thought Barclays never held the physical deeds for Mr Bs property. This was 
because the title had been registered electronically with the Land Registry and had been 
since the mortgage was taken out in November 2002. They thought Barclays could have 
explained this sooner to Mr B, but felt the £100 compensation it offered fairly reflected the 
distress and inconvenience caused.    
Mr B disagreed that the compensation offered was fair and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision, so it has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Title deeds are the documents that set out the ownership history of a property. They also 
give details about the property itself and the land it is on. 
Since 2003, after the implementation of the Land Registry Act 2002, the Land Registry 
switched to electronic records as proof of title and lenders no longer required any paper 
documents for new mortgages. This meant it became normal practice for title deeds to be 
scanned, registered and then destroyed  as electronic versions became sufficient official 
copies. This meant that if a property was sold from 2003, this would need to be registered 
electronically.
Mr B secured his mortgage with Barclays in late 2002 and its most likely that the property 
would have been registered with the Land Registry in 2003, however I appreciate its not 
entirely clear what happened to the paper deeds in this case. But Barclays has said it didnt 
lose or destroy the paper deeds and so either they werent sent to it by Mr Bs solicitors or 
the Land Registry may have destroyed them once it registered them electronically. But the 
time passed means Barclays doesnt have clear records of this now. While I know Mr B 
thought that Barclays has lost his paper deeds, Ive not seen enough evidence to be able to 
fairly conclude thats what likely happened. And it seems unlikely it would simply have 
destroyed the paper deeds. 
In the evidence provided by Barclays, there is a record of Mr Bs property with the Land 
Registry. So Im satisfied Mr Bs property was registered electronically with the Land 
Registry at some point after his purchase of it, and Mr B would therefore be able to obtain 
his title deeds electronically, as is usual practice now.
Barclays say it sent all documents it held relating to the mortgage and his property to him 
when he requested it to do so. Mr B has pointed out that Barclays sent him correspondence 
that was stamped to confirm that deeds had been received. But Barclays have explained 
that any documents it would have received from Mr Bs solicitors including any electronic 
evidence of the deeds would have been logged in this way, so I dont think this is unusual.
However, I do think that Barclays could have explained sooner to Mr B that his title deeds 
were now electronically registered and paper copies were no longer needed. I also think it 
could have done more to reassure Mr B that if the property is electronically registered with 
the Land Registry, he doesnt need paper copies to confirm ownership. 
I think the uncertainty of not knowing about the deeds process and whether he had been 
sent all the information relating to his property would have caused him distress. But I do 
think Barclays has fairly recognised this by offering Mr B £100 in compensation, so I wont 
be asking it to pay anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr B £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused if it 
hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman