DRN-3235125
The complaint
Miss S complains about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited settled her claim on her 
home insurance.
What happened
Miss S had a home insurance policy with Admiral. In September 2020 she made a claim 
under the theft section of the policy, after an intruder had climbed onto her conservatory 
causing damage to the roof. 
Admiral sent a contractor out to inspect the damage in October that year. It subsequently 
requested further information from the police about the incident in order to validate the claim. 
This took a number of months. And in this time there was further damage caused to Miss S 
contents due to the leaking conservatory roof.
On receipt of the police report, Admiral accepted the claim for the roof. However said it 
should be settled under accidental damage rather than theft cover in the policy, based on the 
nature of the incident. It asked Miss S for a home buyers report for the property to verify the 
condition of the conservatory before the claim, but she wasnt able to provide this. It 
therefore said it would only pay for repairs to the roof, as damage to the rest of the 
conservatory was due to wear and tear and wasnt claim related. It also offered a cash 
settlement for some of the damaged contents.
Miss S made a number of complaints throughout the claim. These related to the service she 
had received, the progress of the claim and the amount offered as a settlement. Admiral 
responded to each and upheld some of Miss S points about the service and delays. In total 
it offered her £600 compensation to make up for this. However it didnt change its position on 
the claim, as it said it had offered a fair settlement as only the roof would be covered under 
the policy.
Miss S didnt think this was fair. She said it wasnt possible to just have the roof repaired as 
this would damage the rest of the conservatory. And she couldnt afford to have the whole 
structure replaced. She brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator spoke to Miss S about her complaint and she confirmed she was satisfied 
with the compensation offered, but she didnt think the claim had been settled fairly. On 
considering everything, our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought 
Admiral hadnt done enough to show that the damage to the walls of the conservatory wasnt 
claim related. And she didnt think it had acted fairly by declining this due to the fact Miss S 
hadnt provided a copy of the home buyers report. She also thought it wasnt fair for Admiral 
to accept the claim for the roof but not settle for the rest of the conservatory as well, as the 
roof couldnt be replaced alone. So she recommended Admiral pay for a replacement 
conservatory.
Miss S accepted our investigators view. However Admiral didnt. It didnt agree that it should 
pay for a full replacement as only the roof had been damaged by the incident. It asked for 
the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Miss S has made a number of complaints to Admiral, shes confirmed that shes 
satisfied with the amount its paid in compensation to make up for the delays and poor 
service. So all thats left for me to decide on is the claim settlement, and whether what 
Admiral has offered is fair. 
Conservatory
Admiral has accepted Miss S claim for the damage to her conservatory roof under the 
accidental damage cover in the policy. And has offered a cash settlement for a replacement 
roof. However its declined her claim for damage to other parts of the conservatory, as it 
says this was caused by wear and tear.
Ive considered this but I dont think Admiral has acted fairly. It has accepted the claim for the 
damage to the roof. So it has agreed to rectify the damage in order to indemnify Miss S 
under the policy. In doing so wed expect Admiral to put Miss S back in the position she was 
in before the damage happened  with a fully functioning conservatory. 
Miss S has had a company inspect the damage in order to quote for repairs. As well as 
Admirals contractor who attended to repair the roof. The company Miss S instructed said 
that the damage couldnt be repaired without causing further damage to the frame of the 
conservatory. Which meant in order to replace the roof, the conservatory walls would also 
need to be replaced. And when Admirals contractors attended, they wouldnt attempt a 
repair without Miss S signing a form to say she would be liable for any damage to the rest of 
the structure caused by the repairs. 
When an insurer carries out a repair, wed expect it to be both effective and long lasting. And 
we recognise that sometimes to achieve an effective repair, other work needs to take place 
that may not be covered by the policy. And I believe that is the case here  in order to carry 
out an effective repair on the roof, the rest of the conservatory also needs to be replaced.
Admiral has argued that the damage to the conservatory walls is not claim related. But Ive 
not considered whether it acted fairly in declining this, as regardless I think its fair and 
reasonable for Admiral to pay for them to be replaced in order to achieve an effective repair 
of the roof. 
While this has been put to Admiral by our investigator it hasnt provided any further 
information to suggest that a repair of the roof alone would be possible. 
Therefore, from what Ive seen, I agree with our investigator that in order to fairly and 
reasonably settle Miss S claim it should increase its cash settlement to the cost of a full 
replacement conservatory, based on a like for like quote from Miss S. 
I note Miss S has concerns about price increases since the pandemic, so while she had 
already submitted a quote, its reasonable for her to obtain a renewed quote at up to date 
prices for Admiral to base the settlement on. 
Contents claimMiss S has also said she doesnt think Admiral has offered a fair settlement for the contents 
of her conservatory, as there was further damage to items that havent been paid. However 
she hasnt offered any expert evidence to support this. In the absence of any evidence to the 
contrary, Im satisfied that Admiral has settled the contents claim fairly. However if Miss S 
can provide any further evidence, Id expect Admiral to consider this and review its decision 
if necessary. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Miss S complaint and require Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Miss S the cost of replacing her conservatory on a like for like 
basis, based on Miss S providing a reasonable quote for the work.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman