DRN-4311285
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain because AWP P&C SA (AWP) hasnt paid the full amount of a 
curtailment claim under their travel insurance policy. 
All references to AWP include the agents appointed to handle claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs F are insured under a travel insurance policy underwritten by AWP, which is 
provided as a benefit of a bank account. 
Mr and Mrs F were on holiday with their children when, unfortunately, Mrs F became ill. Mr 
and Mrs F say this happened on 5 August 2023 and Mrs F was essentially bedridden until 
she was admitted to hospital on 7 August 2023. Mrs F wasnt discharged until after the date 
of her and her familys original return fight. AWP arranged for new flights home for the family 
a few days after Mrs F was discharged. 
Mr and Mrs F made a claim with AWP. This included a claim for the curtailment of their 
holiday, which is the subject of this complaint. AWP paid for Mrs Fs unused costs from the 
date she was admitted to hospital until her original return date. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs F 
complained and said AWP should pay for the whole familys unused costs from the date Mrs 
F first fell ill. AWP maintained it position, so Mr and Mrs F brought the matter to the attention 
of our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and upheld Mr and Mr Fs complaint 
in part. She said she thought AWP should pay for Mrs Fs unused costs from the date she 
first fell ill, but she said she didnt think the rest of the familys claim for curtailment was 
covered. Neither AWP nor Mr and Mrs F agreed with our investigators opinion, so the 
complaint has been referred to me as the final stage in our process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs F have mentioned various issues surrounding the level of emergency assistance 
they were given, such as the time AWP took to confirm cover to the hospital, the fact that Mr 
and Mrs F had to pay and claim for additional accommodation costs and the fact that Mrs F 
flew home in a different part of the plane. These issues would need to be raised directly with 
AWP in the first instance, and AWP given the opportunity to provide a final response, before 
our service would have the power to consider or comment on them. 
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when making my final decision about Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Fs policy, under the heading Section 1  
Cancellation and Curtailment, say that AWP will pay for certain costs if a policyholder cuts 
short their trip and returns to the UK on medical advice. 
So, in common with most if not all travel insurance policies on the market, cover is only 
provided where a policyholder actually returns home early. This didnt happen here. 
Travel insurance policies arent designed to provide a benefit for loss of enjoyment, and they 
also dont provide compensation for the inevitably distressing and inconvenient 
consequences of a policyholder falling ill abroad. 
So, the curtailment costs which Mr and Mrs F are claiming for arent covered under a strict 
application of the policy terms and conditions. In line with my remit, Ive also thought about 
whether it would be fair and reasonable to depart from the policy terms and conditions based 
on the individual circumstances of this case. 
In situations such as this, Id generally consider that it would be fair and reasonable for an 
insurer to treat the trip of the person who is taken ill as  in effect  curtailed from the day of 
their hospital admission. Im pleased to see that AWP has done this in relation to Mrs Fs 
unused costs. 
But I agree with our investigator that it would also be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances for AWP to pay Mrs Fs costs from the day she first fell ill. I understand Mr 
and Mrs F have no medical evidence which confirms that Mrs F was first taken ill on 5 
August 2022 and that Mrs F didnt seek medical attention until 7 August 2022, but Im 
satisfied that Mr and Mrs F have been consistent and plausible in their version of events and 
I dont think the contents of a call which AWP has sent to us contradicts Mr and Mrs Fs 
evidence in this regard. I think Mrs Fs trip was, in effect, curtailed from 5 August 2022 so I 
think it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for AWP to pay the claim for Mrs 
Fs curtailment costs from that date. 
AWP has calculated Mrs Fs curtailment claim on a pro-rata basis based on the original 
holiday booking invoice, as the policy entitles it to do. In the absence of a definitive 
breakdown of the costs attributable to each person from the holiday provider, this is how Id 
generally expect an insurer to calculate a claim like this. I cant fairly conclude that the 
alternative calculations which Mr and Mrs F have submitted based on quotes obtained a 
year after they originally travelled demonstrate that AWP has calculated the settlement 
incorrectly. So, when AWP is calculating Mrs Fs additional curtailment costs, its entitled to 
do so in the same way as it calculated the original payment.  
Ive also considered whether I think it would be fair and reasonable for AWP to treat the rest 
of the familys trip as, in effect, having been cut short due to Mrs Fs illness. 
Ive taken into account everything Mr and Mrs F have told us about the situation Mr F was in, 
as well as their explanations about the effect this had on their children. But Mr F and his 
children had the use of their accommodation despite Mrs Fs unfortunate illness and 
subsequent hospital admission, regardless of whether Mr F had to purchase additional food 
and regardless of whether he and his children enjoyed the facilities. 
When making an independent and impartial decision, I need to reach an outcome that is fair 
and reasonable to both parties. So, I must also have regard to the other costs which AWP 
paid in this case, and Mr and Mrs Fs policy specifically states that there will be no 
reimbursement of original return flight costs in circumstances where AWP pay for new 
flights. And I dont think that AWPs email of 9 December 2022 can reasonably be 
interpreted as confirmation that this part of the claim would be paid.Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs F and I have no doubt that they had a very stressful time 
abroad. But, overall, I dont think the part of the claim relating to Mr F and his childrens costs 
are covered under the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Fs policy, and I dont think there 
are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly direct AWP to pay this part of their 
claim. 
Putting things right
AWP P&C SA must put things right and do the following:
Pay Mrs Fs claim for curtailment of her trip from 5 August 2022. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint in part and I direct AWP P&C SA 
to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman