DRN-3057606
The complaint
Mr M, through his representative, has complained about the transfer of his benefits in the 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a person pension plan. It says Mr M was advised to 
transfer by Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited (Lighthouse) and another financial 
business (which Ill call Firm A).
Mr Ms representative considers that the advice provided to Mr M was flawed and has 
resulted in him suffering a financial loss. 
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ms employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, 
which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new 
defined benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively members were informed they could transfer 
their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr M said he became concerned about the closure of the BSPS and didnt understand what 
moving into the PPF or BSPS2 would mean for him. He was also worried by rumours at his 
work. Mr M was unsure of his options or what was best for him. And he was also interested 
in the possibility of using his tax-free cash entitlement to purchase a home. So following his 
unions recommendation, he sought advice. 
Mr M met with a Lighthouse adviser on 25 May 2016. At this time, his circumstances were 
recorded in a fact find and an investment risk assessment was completed. Lighthouse didnt 
have the necessary permissions to advise Mr M on the pension transfer, so it referred him to 
Firm A and provided it with the information it had collected about Mr M at that time.
Mr M signed a letter of authority appointing Firm A on 25 May 2016. On 1 June 2016 Firm A 
sent him a client agreement, a fee agreement and a fact find which was completed and 
signed by Mr M on 9 June 2016. In August 2016 Firm A produced a Financial Review 
document and a Pension Transfer report. Firm A issued its suitability report on 
30 August 2016 advising Mr M to transfer from BSPS to a personal pension plan with a 
provider I will call Firm C. The report also set out that the adviser charges, which included 
3% to Firm A for its advice and said Mr M had agreed an ongoing advice fee of 0.75% per 
annum of the fund with Lighthouse. Mr M accepted this recommendation.
After the transfer, Lighthouse took over the servicing of his personal pension plan with 
Firm C. It remained Mr Ms servicing adviser until August 2021.
In March 2020, Mr M, through his representative, complained about the advice to Lighthouse 
and Firm A. Mr M claimed his Lighthouse adviser inappropriately influenced his decision-
making and didnt treat him fairly. 
Lighthouse responded that it didnt provide him with any advice on his transfer from BSPS 
and so werent able to investigate the matter further. I understand Firm A investigated the 
complaint but concluded the advice it provided was suitable. 
Mr Ms representative referred his complaint to our service, saying Lighthouse should be 
held liable for the advice as it was a joint venture between the two businesses. The 
representative said Mr M had been verbally advised to transfer by Lighthouse and that the 
transfer of his BSPS benefits wouldnt have taken place if Lighthouse had met all of its 
regulatory obligations, including acting in Mr Ms best interest. 
Lighthouse objected to our jurisdiction asserting that this service cant consider Mr Ms 
complaint as its involvement here did not amount to a regulated activity nor was it ancillary to 
a regulated activity.
One of our investigators considered this but concluded that we could look into the complaint. 
But he wasnt persuaded that Lighthouse had given Mr M any advice to transfer or that Mr M 
had relied on such advice. He didnt think Lighthouses actions had gone beyond that of 
introducing Mr M to Firm A and so it couldnt be held responsible for any losses due to 
unsuitable advice to transfer out of BSPS.
As Mr M didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
Although it agreed with the overall outcome, Lighthouse continued to object to our 
consideration of the complaint. And through its representative, provided further comments 
for me to consider regarding our jurisdiction in this case.
Why I can look into this complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whether this is a
complaint we can consider. And having done so Im satisfied we can. 
Before I explain why, I think its important for me to recognise the strength of feeling Mr M 
and Lighthouse have about this matter. Both parties have provided detailed submissions to 
support their respective positions. Ive read and considered carefully all the information that 
has been provided to this service in respect of this complaint. However, I hope neither party 
will take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not to address every point 
raised, but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching them.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is more
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
There are rules that we must follow when dealing with complaints which determine what we
can and cant look at. These are set by the financial regulator  the Financial Conduct
Authority (FCA). These rules are called the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules and are set out
in the FCAs handbook which can be found on their website.DISP 2.3.1R says:
The Ombudsman can consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates 
to
an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one or more of the following activities:
(1) Regulated activities
or any ancillary activities, including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
Ancillary activity is defined as an activity which is not a regulated activity but which is: (a) 
carried on in connection with a regulated activity; or (b) held out as being for the purpose of 
a regulated activity. 
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that Lighthouse carried out the initial fact finding, 
introduced Mr M to Firm A, held further meetings with him and helped him with the transfer 
paperwork and then provided advice to Mr M after the transfer. But fact finding is not a 
regulated activity. Introducing is also not a regulated activity where the introduction is made 
to an authorised firm. In fact, this type of introduction is specifically excluded in Article 33 of 
The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO). 
However, the complaint is about the provision of transfer advice, a regulated activity at this 
time. As is the advice provided by Lighthouse after the transfer. And the provision of this 
subsequent advice was anticipated by and included in the suitability report regarding the 
transfer advice. So I consider that the fact finding and introduction were ancillary to 
subsequent regulated activities. Therefore, we can consider the complaint about 
Lighthouses responsibility for the transfer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, 
based on the information Ive been given, a fair and reasonable outcome to the complaint.
I should also note that its not my role to punish the business for any regulatory breaches
either; thats the role of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). My 
role is to decide if Lighthouse has done anything wrong and where appropriate award 
redress for the losses for which Lighthouse is responsible.
Mr M is unhappy that he was advised to transfer his benefits out of the BSPS. Lighthouse 
has said that it didnt advise Mr M on the transfer and confirmed the reason that it referred 
Mr M to Firm A was because it didnt have the permissions to give this sort of advice. 
Firm A, on the other hand, had the relevant permissions to complete this transfer. The BSPS 
wouldnt have allowed the transfer to proceed if the request hadnt come from a firm with the 
correct permissions. And although Ive noted the comments of Mr Ms representative relating 
to statements made by Lighthouse in support of the transfer, there is no documentary 
evidence in this complaint that it advised Mr M to transfer. 
Mr Ms representative says Lighthouse breached its regulatory obligations to treat Mr M 
fairly, act with care, have due regard to his best interests and manage conflicts of interest when dealing with Firm A. But I consider that when Lighthouse introduced Mr M to Firm A in 
expectation that it would provide suitable advice, it made this introduction because Firm A 
had defined benefit pension transfer permissions, and Lighthouse did not. As Lighthouse 
wasnt authorised to provide advice on defined benefit transfers, I think that it was 
reasonable for him to refer Mr M to an adviser with the necessary permissions. So, Im 
satisfied that this was discharging its regulatory duties to which Mr Ms representatives refer.
Nevertheless, I acknowledge the possibility that there may have been discussions between 
Mr M and Lighthouse which may have given him the impression that transferring would be in 
his best interests. But it was Firm A which was responsible for the formal advice. And I think 
its more likely than not, or at least to be reasonably expected, that Mr M would have placed 
considerable weight on a written recommendation from a business with the proper 
qualifications to do so, which would, or at least should, have taken into account his 
circumstances and objectives. 
I appreciate that Mr M thinks more could have been done to prevent him from transferring
given the advice he received from Firm A. But Im not persuaded that this was the 
responsibility of the Lighthouse given it had discharged its duty to only advise on an area it 
was qualified to act. In any event, it would seem contradictory to say on the one hand that 
Lighthouse couldnt advise on the defined benefit transfer, while on the other suggesting it 
should have identified faults in the advice of a separate, authorised firm, that was permitted 
to provide such advice.
Mr Ms representative says that even if Lighthouse didnt provide advice, they can still be 
held responsible because but for the introduction to Firm A, Mr M wouldnt have transferred 
his pension. Its said there was a joint venture between the two firms and referenced a 
previous decision issued by this service and a court case, which it considers supports its 
argument that Lighthouse should be held jointly liable for advice provided by Firm A.  
Ive thought about this, but an introduction isnt a regulated activity as set out in the 
regulators Dispute Resolution rules. And ultimately, Mr M transferred his pension benefits 
after Firm A advised him to do so. I appreciate Mr M said he never met with a Firm A adviser 
and that Lighthouse remained his point of contact and helped him complete the transfer 
paperwork. But I dont think this led to Mr Ms losses. This is because by this point, it 
appears Mr M had already decided to transfer having received advice from Firm A. All in all, 
Im not persuaded that Lighthouse gave Mr M any information or advice that would have led 
him to transfer from BSPS if Firm A had advised him not to do so. 
So I also think that any loss would be attributable to Firm As advice, and not to the 
introduction as such. In other words, I dont consider Lighthouse was the cause of losses 
that resulted from the transfer. It was the transfer advice of Firm A that led to Mr Ms loss, 
not the introduction made by Lighthouse.
Furthermore, this service decides each case on its own particular facts and merits. So the 
right outcome in one case may not be the right outcome in another as individual 
circumstances will inevitably vary. And whilst I must have regard for the law, the decision I 
come to on what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, may be 
different to what a court would decide. 
So in conclusion, on a fair and reasonable assessment of this complaint, I unable to 
conclude that Lighthouse advised Mr M to transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal pension 
arrangement or that it made an error or treated him unfairly. As such, I wont be requiring 
Lighthouse to pay compensation to Mr M or to take any further action in relation to this 
complaint. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Jennifer Wood
Ombudsman