DRN-3040904
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy with the response she got from American Express Services Europe 
Limited (AESEL) in relation to a dispute about medical treatment purchased using her credit 
card.
What happened
Mrs G paid for medical treatment for her husband when he became unwell during a holiday 
to the United States. She said her husband had a reaction to a known condition following a 
previous surgical procedure carried out in the UK. 
Mrs G was not happy with the service her husband received from the hospital (the supplier). 
In summary, she felt that the tests and treatments were excessive and inappropriate. She 
said the supplier didnt explain things properly but presented a significant bill which her 
husband felt he had to pay.
Mrs G says the supplier lacked skill and care - she obtained a report from her husbands UK 
consultant who concluded the standard of the suppliers care was excellent but he 
considered certain additional tests and procedures were unnecessary and excessive.
Mrs G paid for the treatment using her credit card so she contacted AESEL to see if it could 
help her with the dispute.
AESEL considered the matter under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 
75) but it didnt agree to reimburse any payment. In summary, it considered that Mrs Gs 
husband had consented to the treatment and there wasnt persuasive evidence of a breach 
of contract.
Mrs G was not happy with this outcome but AESEL would not change it. So Mrs G referred 
her complaint to us. Our investigator looked into the matter but did not uphold the complaint. 
He said that the required debtor-creditor-supplier relationship for a valid Section 75 claim 
was not in place.
Mrs G asked for the matter to be looked at by an ombudsman. In summary, she pointed out 
that her husband is a joint card holder and said they both benefit from the medical treatment. 
She also said that it was her husband (in her presence) who had spoken to AESEL on the 
phone to arrange an increase in the credit limit on the card to accommodate the payment to 
the supplier. 
Mrs G reiterated that the treatment her husband received was not carried out with 
reasonable care and skill, and that she had no choice but to pay the bill as she was in a 
foreign country and terrified of what might have happened had she not paid.
Before I wrote this decision I looked into whether a chargeback claim was possible  I then 
got back to Mrs G with my thoughts on the matter and she had the opportunity to comment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am very sorry to hear about Mrs Gs husband falling ill while they were both on holiday, and 
I can appreciate what a worrying time it must have been for all.  From what Mrs G has said it 
appears that unfortunately travel insurance did not cover the medical expenses her husband 
incurred on the trip. So I can understand why she approached AESEL to see what else could 
be done to help in relation to the transaction on her credit card. In considering this I have 
thought about Section 75 and chargeback.
Section 75
Section 75 allows Mrs G to hold AESEL responsible for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation in respect of goods or services purchased using her credit card. However, 
there are certain technical requirements that have to be met for a Section 75 claim to be 
valid. This might be in relation to the cost of the goods or services, the parties to the 
transaction, or the way the payment was made. 
In order to decide what is fair and reasonable I have considered the technical requirements 
that need to be satisfied in order for a Section 75 claim to be valid. These are set out in the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. One of those requirements is for a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement between the parties to the transaction.
I note that Mrs G has pointed out that her husband is an additional cardholder. However, 
although this authorises him to spend on the card it is Mrs G as the primary cardholder who 
agreed to take out credit with AESEL and is ultimately responsible for the account. So, it is 
Mrs G and not her husband who is the debtor here. 
I also want to briefly cover off what Mrs G said about AESEL authorising a credit limit 
increase over the phone. I know she has said it was her husband who spoke to AESEL 
about it (while she was present) but I dont consider it necessary to pursue this avenue 
further as I dont think it changes anything in respect of her Section 75 claim. Mrs G is still 
the primary cardholder and debtor here. 
The supplier in this case is the hospital treating her husband. The issue here is that Mrs G 
does not have a contractual agreement with the supplier as it is her husband who received 
the treatment and is named on the suppliers documentation as the patient. As a result there 
is not the correct debtor-creditor-supplier agreement for a valid Section 75 claim.
I note Mrs G has explained why she should be seen as a joint contracting party. I have no 
doubt that what happened had an impact on her as she has explained. However, medical 
treatment is very particular to the individual receiving said treatment rather than other parties 
(who no doubt benefit in some way from the health of their family members). It is the patient 
who consents to said treatment and receives the direct benefit. While I have considered 
what Mrs G has said it isnt enough to satisfy me that she is a contracting party here.
I know this will be disappointing to Mrs G and her family but I dont think she has a valid 
Section 75 claim against AESEL in respect of the agreement with the hospital. So even if a 
lack of skill and care were persuasively shown (which I think would be a challenge here 
anyway due to the nature of the dispute) AESEL are not responsible for a breach of contract  
like this as the requirements for a valid Section 75 claim are not met.
This might seem unfair to Mrs G, but it is worth noting that it is only because of Section 75 
that AESEL is potentially liable for breach of contract or misrepresentation of a third party supplier. So the requirements for a valid Section 75 claim need to be carefully considered in 
order to be fair to all parties.
Chargeback
I considered whether chargeback might have been a viable route here. I asked AESEL about 
it and it said there wasnt a valid chargeback reason in these particular circumstances, so it 
didnt raise one.
After considering what AESEL has said I think a chargeback was unlikely to be helpful here. 
This isnt a dispute about an unauthorised transaction or wrongly billed amount. It is 
essentially an allegation of excessive and unwarranted medical treatment / professional 
negligence and there doesn't appear to be a chargeback reason that fits this situation. Even 
if there were a chargeback rule that might fit, due to the subject matter of the dispute there 
are inherent difficulties in concluding that it would have been likely to succeed in any event. 
In summary, for the reasons already given I dont think AESEL needs to do anything more in 
respect of Mrs Gs Section 75 claim or because of its actions in respect of a potential 
chargeback.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman