DRN-4378835
The complaint
C, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has failed to return a sum of 
money which has not reached the recipient bank account. C wants HSBC to refund the 
money.
Cs complaint is brought by Mr S, a director of C. 
What happened
After Cs HSBC bank account was closed, HSBC sent the closing balance of just under 
2,700 US dollars (USD) to Cs new bank. The payment was returned as Cs new bank could 
not accept USD.
The returned payment was for slightly less than the original payment and had a different 
reference number. As Cs HSBC account was closed, HSBC automatically returned the 
payment but the money has then not reached Cs new account.
When C first complained, HSBC thought that the complaint had been brought out of time 
under the rules which govern the Financial Ombudsman Service. After our investigator 
explained why he thought C was in time, HSBC consented to our service considering the 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think that HSBC made a mistake with the transfer and return of funds 
but he agreed that HSBCs offer to pay C £150 compensation for its failure in customer 
service was fair. 
Mr S is unhappy with the investigation outcome. He thinks that our investigator has put more 
effort into disqualifying Cs complaint than investigating it. Mr S says HSBC is responsible for 
the funds regardless of the other banks involved. Mr S wants HSBC to refund the money and 
says that the recipient bank has returned the funds and no longer has the money. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that I have summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. The rules that govern this service allow me to do this, but it does 
not mean that I have not considered everything that both parties have given to me.
I am sorry to disappoint C but having considered everything I dont uphold its complaint in 
the sense that I think HSBC has offered and done enough to put things right. This does not 
mean that I dont appreciate that C is left in the position of trying to track down a payment 
through no fault of its own  its just that I dont think this is because of anything that HSBC 
has done wrong.
The evidence that HSBC has provided shows that it made the initial payment in line with Cs 
instructions. Its unfortunate that Cs new bank could not accept the payment as it was made 
in USD. But this is not because of a mistake that HSBC made.
When Cs new bank returned the payment, it was for slightly less than HSBC had transferred 
and the reference number was different. But it seems likely that the money HSBC received 
back was in respect of the transfer it had made on Cs behalf. 
As Cs HSBC bank account was closed, HSBC correctly returned the payment back to Cs 
bank. Again, I dont think HSBC made a mistake when it did this. 
After C made HSBC aware that it hadnt received the payment into its new account, HSBC 
tried to track it down. HSBC contacted its own intermediary bank, and that of the receiving 
bank on multiple occasions. HSBC is not in control of how quickly Cs receiving bank or 
intermediary return the payment so that HSBC can try and make it available to C. Without 
some kind of response from Cs bank or its intermediary, I dont think it unreasonable for 
HSBC not to refund the money. I accept that this is not ideal for C, but Im satisfied that 
HSBC has taken reasonable steps to try and locate the funds. It has also provided the 
recipient banks intermediary with information about the returned payment so that it can try 
and locate the funds. Again, I think HSBCs response to the problem has been fair. 
C says that the receiving bank says it returned the payment and has not received it back 
again. As I dont have enough evidence to conclude that the money is missing due to 
HSBCs mistake and as C says the other bank has sent a final response, C might want to 
bring a complaint about the receiving bank if it hasnt already done so. I cant second guess 
the outcome of that complaint  hopefully it will end up with C receiving the missing 
payment. But it seems to me that if it uncovers new evidence which implicates HSBC in 
some way, C could bring a fresh complaint about HSBCs role in the process. 
HSBC agrees that it returned the payment later than it should have and for this failure in 
customer service, it has offered £150. I realise that this is a small amount in comparison with 
the missing funds but Im satisfied that HSBCs offer is fair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
HSBC has already made an offer which I consider is fair. So my final decision is that HSBC 
UK Bank Plc should pay C £150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman