DRN-2258803
The complaint
Mr E has complained about the way National Westminster Bank PLC (NatWest) has used 
the compensation it offered to settle his complaint about the mis-sale of payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policies associated with some loans that he took out. 
What happened
Mr E had four loans which had three PPI policies associated with them. When he 
complained the PPI was mis-sold, NatWest uphold his complaint and offered to pay 
compensation. 
Mr E signed and returned the acceptance forms for the compensation offered but then did 
not receive the payment. Mr E chased for the payment and was eventually told the payment 
had been set off against a debt Mr E owed the bank. 
Mr E had entered into an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) as he wasnt able to pay all 
of his debts when they fell due. Mr E was discharged from the IVA in 2011, so he couldnt 
then be chased by his creditors for the debts he had listed when he entered into the IVA. 
This included the money he owed to NatWest.
NatWest said after the IVA ended Mr E still owed it over £35,000 when he was discharged 
from his IVA. So it had used the PPI compensation to reduce the amount it said Mr E still 
owed for his debts to the bank.
Mr E says that he should have the PPI compensation paid directly to him. He says, as his 
IVA has ended, his debts have been settled and he doesnt owe NatWest anything. He says 
other businesses have paid compensation directly to him and he believes NatWest should 
do the same. 
During the course of this complaint NatWest has acknowledged there were delays in 
responding to Mr E and offered and paid £50 to Mr E as compensation for this. 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought it was fair for NatWest to use the 
compensation to reduce Mr Es debt and that the £50 was also fair as compensation for the 
delays. But Mr E didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest has agreed to uphold Mr Es complaint that the PPI policies were mis-sold and 
offered compensation to Mr E. So in this decision Im not looking at how the PPI came to be 
sold, but considering whether NatWests offer is fair and if what NatWest had done with the 
compensation is also fair.
Id expect that when a business has mis-sold PPI, it puts things right by putting the 
consumer, as far as possible, in the position they wouldve been in if they hadnt taken out 
the PPI. Id expect a business to calculate how much was paid in premiums and interest for 
the costs of the PPI and if the consumer was out of pocket as theyd repaid some or all of 
the costs of the PPI, then the business should also pay some compensatory interest.
In this case Mr E took out a chain of three loans, and the first and the last loans both had 
PPI policies taken out alongside them. The second loan in the middle of the chain did not 
have a PPI policy associated with the loan, but as this second loan refinanced the first loan, 
some of the costs of the PPI taken out with the first loan were included in loan two on the 
refinancing. Also, some of this carried forward PPI cost then transferred into the third loan 
when that refinanced the second loan. 
In addition, Mr E had a totally separate fourth loan that was running at the same time as 
loans two and three and which also had PPI taken out with it.
When calculating how much Mr E paid for all the PPI policies he had, NatWest has taken 
into account the amount of PPI that formed part of each loan and how much Mr E paid for 
the PPI costs over the chain of three loans and also for the separate fourth loan.
I have seen the calculations NatWest did and am satisfied its approach is in line with the 
requirements to work out that the total compensation due for the three mis-sold PPI policies 
taking account of all four loans. After tax is deducted the total compensation calculated by 
NatWest as due, was a total of £14,264.48. This includes all the PPI costs and some 
compensatory interest. 
Mr E hasnt raised any issues about the amount of compensation offered, and the approach 
taken by NatWest appears to be what I would expect and fair, so I wont consider the 
amount offered further. Mr Es complaint is that NatWest should not use the compensation 
amount to reduce the debt it says he still owes after the end of his IVA.
So in this decision I need to decide whether its fair and reasonable for NatWest to use 
Mr Es PPI compensation offer, to reduce the amount of debt which remained after his IVA 
had ended.
When considering what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable, Im required to take into 
account any relevant law and regulations. In recent years there have been a number of court 
cases looking at what happens to PPI compensation after bankruptcies and insolvencies 
have been discharged. In the complaint I am considering, I am aware of and have taken into 
account the relevant law and cases. But in addition, I must apply an over-arching test of 
whats fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of each complaint.
Each case has to be considered on its own facts and evidence. And so what happened in 
other cases, including in complaints Mr E has referred to with other businesses, are not 
precedents for this complaint, as all cases are considered on their own circumstances. 
Mr E has said that his debts to NatWest, were part of his IVA and when this ended in 
September 2011 NatWest accepted his debts were settled in full. The information available 
indicates that when Mr Es IVA ended there was still a substantial debt that he had never 
fully paid back to NatWest for his loans. 
When Mr E entered into his IVA, the debts he owed werent cancelled. His debts were 
consolidated and any assets available at the time were used by the Insolvency Practitioner 
(IP) to clear some of the amounts owing. But the assets available did not pay off the full 
amount of the debts owed.Also, after the IVA ended in 2011, the debts were not cancelled  but by law Mr E couldnt 
be chased for the debts that were part of the IVA. So the debt Mr E had with NatWest still 
existed but NatWest could never actively take action to recover any of the debt that was 
never repaid. 
But here NatWest hasnt actively taken any action against Mr E to recover the debt. Mr E 
made the PPI complaint to NatWest and it has used the PPI compensation that it owed to 
him for the mis-sold PPI, to set off against a debt that is dormant, but that Mr E never repaid 
in full to the business. The PPI compensation is for PPI on loans that were consolidated and 
formed part of the IVA debt but that remain unpaid after the IVA ended. So it is fair in these 
circumstances to set one debt against the other.
Mr E has indicated that he was paid directly the compensation for PPI mis-sold on financial 
products by other lenders. But as Ive already indicated, this it isnt relevant to this complaint 
about NatWest. Each PPI policy and complaint has to be considered on its own facts.
Having considered all the facts, I think its fair for NatWest to use the PPI compensation to 
reduce the amount Mr E borrowed and didnt repay. Just because Mr E entered into an IVA 
and couldnt be legally pursued for the debt when that IVA ended, doesnt mean the debt 
was settled. I think it would be unfair to tell NatWest to pay Mr E compensation when he 
doesnt now have to repay the money which he borrowed and had the use of but never paid 
back. So I am satisfied that what NatWest has done with the compensation is fair.
Ive also considered the delays that occurred when Mr E contacted NatWest for information 
and also in relation to other correspondence that he sent. NatWest has acknowledged there 
were some unnecessary delays in getting back to Mr E and has offered and paid £50 for any 
trouble and upset this may have caused. 
I think that is reasonable in all the circumstances so I am not directing any additional 
compensation for trouble and upset should be paid. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I think National Westminster Bank Plcs offer and what it has 
done with the compensation is fair. I am also satisfied that the £50 paid to Mr E for any 
trouble and upset caused is fair and so I am not directing any further compensation is due.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman