DRN-4364069
The complaint 
Miss N has complained about the claim assistance service offered by Healthcare Clarity 
Limited.
What happened
The details of this matter are well known to both parties and it serves no purpose for me to 
repeat them here. In summary Miss H contacted Healthcare Clarity as she required 
treatment under her healthcare policy. In accordance with its Claims Assistance service, it 
liaised with Miss Hs insurer on her behalf. Miss H wanted treatment as soon as possible and 
spoke to Healthcare Clarity on numerous occasions. She feels she didnt get the help she 
needed, and that Healthcare Clarity delayed her treatment.
Our investigator didnt find that Healthcare Clarity had done anything wrong. Miss H 
appealed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint and havent included 
sensitive medical details. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I 
find are the key issues here. Our statutory function is to resolve complaints quickly and with 
minimum formality and our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
Having done so, and although I recognise that Miss H will be disappointed by my decision, I 
agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for the following reasons:
It is very clear how frustrating and stressful the experience of trying to arrange private 
consultations and treatment was for Miss H. I accept this impacted Miss Hs mental 
health. But Im satisfied that Healthcare Clarity was trying to assist Miss H. Miss H 
feels that she wasnt given assistance  or that any help she was given was 
misguided. Ultimately, because she couldnt find a consultant to treat her, she had 
her treatment on the NHS. I do appreciate that things didnt go as Miss H could 
rightly expect, but I dont find that this the fault of Healthcare Clarity.
In early March 2023 Healthcare Clarity explained to Miss H that if she did receive a 
cancer diagnosis the insurer would appoint a specific oncology claims handler who 
would be her point of contact. This didnt happen when it should have, and I 
understand why Miss H feels that Healthcare Clarity failed to provide her with a 
service. I appreciate that Miss H feels Healthcare Clarity hindered rather than helped 
her attempts to get consultations and treatment. But ultimately, I dont find it is to 
blame for the insurer failing to appoint a specialist adviser to her case sooner than it 
did.
Miss H complained that following her surgery she had a call with an operative, Ill call 
K, at Healthcare Clarity whereby she was told that the delay was her fault. Ive 
listened carefully to the calls with K following Miss Hs surgery and I havent heard 
such an accusation being made.
Miss H feels that Healthcare Clarity didnt assist her and suggests that it shouldnt 
offer this service as in her case it didnt help at all. Despite my natural sympathy for 
the position she was in, desperate for private treatment and calling and emailing very 
frequently in order to get an answer, it is not for this service to tell financial 
businesses how to operate. Overall I dont find that she was mis-advised by 
Healthcare Clarity or that the service it provided delayed her treatment.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman