DRN-2789550
The complaint
Miss G complains about how Skyfire Insurance Company Limited dealt with her claim, when 
her parked car was hit by an unidentified vehicle. And that the incident was recorded as a 
fault claim against her policy.
What happened
Miss G had comprehensive motor insurance cover for her car with Skyfire. In June 2020, 
while parked on a residential street, her car was hit by another car. This caused 
considerable damage and Miss Gs car was written off by Skyfire. The incident was 
witnessed by someone working nearby, but they didnt get the registration number of the 
other car involved. This meant that Miss G had to make a claim on her policy.
Miss G is unhappy that the incident has been recorded as a fault claim against her. She 
doesnt understand how the accident can be regarded as her fault, when her car was legally 
parked, and she was nowhere near it when the accident happened. She believes Skyfire 
have wrongly recorded that the accident was her fault. 
Because of the fault claim the cost of her insurance for her replacement car has increased 
and shes concerned that when she comes to renew her insurance, it will cost her more than 
her car is worth. 
Miss G complained to Skyfire about how theyd recorded her claim. They didnt uphold her 
complaint. They said they understood that the incident wasnt her fault, as her car was 
parked and unattended when it was damaged. But the other driver hadnt stopped, so they 
didnt have their details, and they werent able to pursue a claim for their costs as theyd 
normally do.  And as theyd paid her the pre-accident value of her car, the claim had been 
correctly recorded as a fault claim.
Miss G wasnt happy with Skyfires response and complained to our service. Our investigator 
considered the complaint and felt that Skyfire had dealt with the claim fairly. She said that 
when Miss G reported the incident, she was told that as the other driver couldnt be 
identified, shed need to make a claim against her own policy. She explained that a fault 
claim didnt mean Miss G was responsible for the damage to her car. And in recording 
details of the claim Skyfire had clearly stated that her car had been damaged when parked 
and unattended.
While she understood Miss Gs concerns about the increase in the cost of her insurance, our 
investigator said that the terms and conditions of her policy did explain that if she made a 
claim, the cost of her insurance might increase. And she felt Skyfire had acted reasonably in 
refunding Miss Gs policy excess, as a gesture of goodwill, to acknowledge the important 
work she was doing during the pandemic.
Miss G wasnt happy with our investigators opinion so the case has come to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Miss G is upset about what happened to her car. Ive listened to the 
calls she made to Skyfire and its clear from these that they understood her car was parked, 
and she wasnt present when the accident happened. 
During the calls Skyfire asked Miss G whether there were any witnesses and if any of her 
neighbours might have CCTV, which might have recorded the accident. Miss G provided 
details of a witness, but he hadnt seen the registration of the car that hit hers. Miss G 
thought one of her neighbours might have CCTV, but when she made enquiries the camera 
had been removed some time before the accident. But Im satisfied Skyfire did what they 
could to suggest how the other driver might be traced. And Miss G followed up these 
suggestions. 
But despite Miss Gs efforts the other driver couldnt be identified. So she had to make a 
claim for her car under her own policy. She was told this during the call she made to Skyfire 
to report the accident. During the same call Miss G was told that given the damage shed 
described, and her cars age and mileage, it would be regarded as a write off, and she was 
given a valuation for its pre-accident value less her policy excess. She wanted to think about 
it, before she agreed to her car being written-off. But she called Skyfire back the same day to 
accept their offer.
Miss G is unhappy that Skyfire have recorded the accident as a fault claim against her 
policy. But this isnt the same as saying the accident was her fault. The damage to Miss Gs 
car was caused by another driver, who failed to stop after hitting her parked car. As it wasnt 
possible to identify this driver, Miss G had to make a claim on her own policy. Any such 
claim is recorded as a fault claim, as the insurers have had to make a payment under the 
policy. In this case theyve paid Miss G the pre-accident value of her car. 
Had the other driver stopped an provided their details, or if it was possible to identify them, 
Miss G may have been able to claim the value of her car from their insurers. Then thered 
have been no claim against her policy. 
So in recording a fault claim, Skyfire werent saying Miss G was responsible for the accident. 
They were simply recording that shed made a claim which had been paid under her policy.
Miss G has also said shes concerned that shed have to declare this claim to future insurers. 
Shes right about this. The details Skyfire have recorded on the CUE database (This is a 
central database of motor, home and personal injury incidents reported to insurers) say: -
Hit Whilst Parked  Third Party Hit Parked Insured Third Party Known.
This isnt correct, as the other driver wasnt identified, and it might make a future insurer 
wonder why Skyfire werent able to recover their costs if the other driver was known. 
Weve contacted Skyfire about this and theyve confirmed that theyve asked for the entry to 
be amended to show that the third party was unknown. Once this is done the accident 
circumstances should be clear to any future insurer. 
Miss G has also said shes concerned that her no claims bonus has been disallowed and 
that in the future her insurance may cost more because of this claim.
Miss Gs policy says the following: -If you make a claim during any period of insurance, you will not earn any no-
claims discount entitlement for that insurance period.
If you make a claim and the insurer has already worked out your renewal 
premium, the insurer can change or remove your no-claims discount entitlement 
and change your renewal premium.
Unfortunately, because Miss G had to make a claim on her policy, she didnt earn any no-
claims discount for that policy year. But as this is clearly set out in the policy terms and 
conditions, I think its reasonable for Skyfire to have disallowed this. 
As shes made a claim this may affect the amount she is charged for insurance in the future. 
This is because risk is one of the factors considered in calculating premiums, and previous 
claims form part of the assessment of risk. This is something all insurers consider, not just 
Skyfire.
Skyfire have paid Miss Gs claim in accordance with the terms and conditions of her policy. 
Theyve correctly recorded the accident as a fault claim, as theyve been unable to recover 
their outlay. And theyve agreed to amend the entry on the CUE database, so it accurately 
records that the third party was Unknown. So I wont be asking them to do anything further.
 My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint against Skyfire Insurance 
Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2021.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman