DRN-3459903
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) has unfairly declined a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 for a laptop which she says is faulty.
What happened
In May 2021 Mrs S purchased a new laptop for £999 using a point of sale loan with BPF. 
Mrs S says that within a short time of acquiring the laptop she experienced difficulties with its 
functioning. Mrs S also says she believes the issues with the laptop became more severe 
over time.
In August 2021 Mrs S approached BPF for some assistance as she believed the laptop was 
faulty. Around this time, she also contacted the retailer and visited one of their stores for 
assistance. Mrs S says some of the problems she was having were fixed either by the store 
or via the retailers remote service team.
Due to the nature of Mrs Ss complaint, BPF opened a section 75 claim on her behalf. BPF 
contacted the retailer who informed it that no fault had been found with the laptop. BPF 
spoke with Mrs S over the phone in November 2021 about the section 75 claim. It noted that 
Mrs S confirmed during that call that following the last software update there had been no 
faults with the device. Mrs S says she doesnt recall making that comment.
In light of the information it had received, BPF declined Mrs Ss section 75 claim and sent 
her a letter setting out that it wasnt able to honour her claim as there were no outstanding 
manufacturing faults with the laptop. BPF said that if Mrs S had any further issues with the 
device which the retailer was unable or unwilling to assist her then she should contact it 
again. 
Mrs S was unhappy at BPFs response and complained to this service. She said she wanted 
to return the laptop and receive a full refund with interest. During this services investigation 
Mrs S raised further issues she was having with the laptop. 
Our investigator didnt recommend Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld. He said that there 
wasnt any evidence other than Mrs Ss explanation about the faults that she was 
experiencing. He said there was no tangible evidence such as screenshots or videos that 
demonstrated what faults were occurring with the device. And our investigator noted that Mrs 
S appeared to have told BPF in November 2021 that there were no outstanding issues with 
the laptop following various actions by the retailer. 
Our investigator said, in light of the evidence, he didnt think BPF had acted unfairly when 
deciding to decline Mrs Ss claim under section 75. There wasnt enough evidence to show 
there had been either a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
Following our investigators view Mrs S provided some screenshots, videos and copies of 
emails sent to both BPF and the retailer as to issues she said she was again experiencing 
with the laptop. In particular, Mrs S said the laptop would lose its sound or fail to connect to 
the Wi-Fi. Mrs S reported that she had taken the laptop to one of the retailers stores where it 
was going to be inspected. However, Mrs S also said that the store hadnt been able to find 
any fault with the device despite it agreeing to investigate it further.
After reviewing the additional evidence provided, our investigator said he hadnt changed his 
view. He said that Mrs S had said the store hadnt been able to find any fault with the laptop 
and the other evidence she had sent in wasnt clear as to what fault it was demonstrating. 
Our investigator said it needed to be established that there was a fault with the laptop and 
that it hadnt been of satisfactory quality at its point of supply for BPF to be obligated to take 
action.
Mrs S disagreed with our investigators view and asked for her complaint to be further 
reviewed. As the parties were able to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether BPF has acted fairly and reasonably in its response to Mrs 
Ss claim under section 75. 
Mrs S has said that she believes she wasnt provided with a new laptop but a refurbished 
one due to the number of issues she has experienced and continues to experience. Ive also 
seen that Mrs S has been very frustrated and distressed over this complaint.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 may apply when the goods or services 
purchased via a credit agreement cost over £100 and up to a limit of £30,000. The general 
effect of the section is that if a consumer has paid for goods or services with a credit 
agreement, and they have a claim against the supplier of those goods or services for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract, they are given a like claim against the credit 
provider, which here is BPF.
Mrs S appears to have raised the issues with laptop with BPF and the retailer at around the 
same time. As part of BPFs investigation into a claim under section 75, it contacted the 
retailer who informed it that no fault had been found with device although Im aware Mrs S 
disagrees that the laptop had been inspected. However, Ive seen that Mrs S had taken the 
laptop into the store in respect of some of the issues and that these were resolved at those 
times, she has also taken it in to a store more recently and again no fault was found. I think 
its reasonable to say, on the evidence that Ive seen, that this device has been checked and 
no issues with it have been found.
Mrs S says that although issues were resolved either by taking the laptop into a store or by 
using the remote support team they reoccurred. In particular Mrs S says there are issues 
with sound, connecting to Wi-Fi and typing. But Ive not seen any evidence that the issues 
Mrs S is experiencing are due to an inherent fault with the laptop. Ive also not seen any 
evidence, such as a report, that the laptop wasnt new but rather a refurbished one when it 
was supplied to her.
 
I think the evidence Mrs S has supplied to this service isnt clear as to what the fault is that it 
is being demonstrated. I noted that in regard to the lack of sound issue Mrs S has explained 
that this had been due to the mute button being turned on for some of the occasions though I 
appreciate this may not always be the reason for the lack of sound. But there can be a 
number of reasons why a function isnt operating, and this isnt necessarily due to a manufacturing fault with the device. Without evidence as to the nature of the faults Mrs S 
says she experiences with the laptop I cant reasonably say that BPF was wrong when it 
decided that the laptop had been of satisfactory quality when she purchased it. 
When making a claim under section 75 it is for Mrs S to show there is a fault with the laptop 
and, although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to her, I havent seen that there is 
sufficient evidence to say that the laptop has been faulty from the point of its supply to her. 
Ive seen that Mrs S says she isnt sure she reported to BPF in November 2021 that there 
werent any faults with the laptop, but I think its likely that she did. This is because Ive seen 
that after various updates or other advice provided about the laptops functions the issues 
were resolved. So, it seems likely there are periods when Mrs S isnt experiencing 
difficulties.
Looking at the evidence I think BPF has acted fairly when making its decision to decline the 
claim due to the information it had received. I also dont think that currently there is enough 
evidence for BPF to change its view as to the quality of the laptop.
Im sorry that Mrs S has been distressed about the issues she has had with the laptop but for 
the reasons given I dont think BPF has acted unreasonably or unfairly when declining her 
section 75 claim. At the time it made that decision Mrs S had confirmed there were no faults 
with the laptop and although Mrs S says issues then reoccurred or others arose the 
evidence isnt enough to say that the device has an inherent fault. I am not therefore 
upholding her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above and Im sorry to be disappointing Mrs S Im not upholding her 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman