DRN-3873597
The complaint
Mrs A complains Phoenix Life Limited didnt make her pension options clear enough. Mrs A 
is represented here by her husband, but for ease Ill refer only to Mrs A.
What happened
Mrs A had a pension with Phoenix. On 20 April 2022, Phoenix sent her a time to think about 
your pension savings letter, as her chosen retirement date was approaching. Mrs A emailed 
Phoenix a few days later asking to cash-in her pension, and Phoenix sent her a retirement 
options pack outlining details of her pension and her options.
Mrs A called Phoenix on 23 May 2022. She again asked to cash-in her pension. She also 
said she had an adviser and was happy to proceed, and would be using her pension to top 
up her state pension. Phoenix explained it would take a while to process Mrs As request 
over the phone, so she chose to submit her cash-in application online. Phoenix completed 
the cash-in process on 3 June 2022. 
Mrs A says her husband had also been looking to cash-in his pension and, unlike Phoenix, 
his provider told him he could transfer his pension directly to his state pension and avoid 
paying tax. Mrs A complained to Phoenix that it should have told her about this option too, 
given shed said shed use the funds to top up her state pension. So Mrs A said shed 
unnecessarily paid tax. 
Ultimately, Phoenix said it hadnt made an error. That it had informed Mrs A of her options, 
including transferring to another pension provider. Mrs A had asked to cash-in her pension, 
not transfer it, and Phoenix acted in line with her instructions. And it couldnt advise 
customers, but its retirement options pack had recommended Mrs A contact the free and 
impartial pension guidance service it gave details of. But Phoenix thought it had taken too 
long to respond to Mrs As complaint and offered her £100 compensation for this. 
Mrs A asked our Service to investigate. She said shed only focused on cashing in because 
Phoenix didnt tell her funds could be sent directly to her state pension - its options pack 
didnt make clear that the transfers to other pension schemes it mentioned also applied to 
state pensions.
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mrs As complaint. She said Phoenixs role was to administer 
Mrs As pension, not provide advice. Its options pack made reasonably clear Mrs A could 
transfer her pension to another pension scheme  which would include her state pension. It 
had told Mrs A she should seek further guidance about her options, and that cashing-in 
meant shed pay tax. Our Investigator also explained shed not considered Phoenixs 
handling of Mrs As complaint, as that wasnt a regulated activity. 
Mrs A disagreed. She said the options pack hadnt mentioned a state pension, and doing so 
wouldnt have been advice but rather information that she needed in order to make an 
informed choice. Mrs A questioned why shed seek further guidance on her pension options 
given Phoenix hadnt made her aware she could transfer directly to her state pension - she 
didnt know that she lacked this knowledge. And it wasnt fair for Phoenix to push this to a 
pension guidance service, and that made its options pack pointless.  
Our Investigator didnt change her position. As agreement couldnt be reached, this 
complaint was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the communication between Mrs A and Phoenix relevant to this matter, 
including the options pack Phoenix sent to Mrs A, and recordings of the calls between Mrs A 
and Phoenix. Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I realise this isnt the answer 
Mrs A hoped for, but Ill explain my reasons.
Im satisfied Phoenix made it reasonably clear to Mrs A what her options were and that this 
included transferring her pension funds to another provider. Because the options pack said, 
There are usually several ways to use pension savings for your retirement, and these might 
includeTransferring your pension away to another pension plan, and, Transferring away 
to another provider It is possible for you to transfer your pension savings to another 
pension scheme or provider to either take your benefits or keep your pension savings 
invested. Mrs A says she understood this to refer only to private pension schemes, and not 
her state pension. But the options pack doesnt make any such distinction. So, I think its 
reasonable to conclude that where the options pack mentions transferring to another 
pension plan, provider or scheme, this includes the state pension scheme. And for clarity, 
Im satisfied Phoenixs options pack made clear that by cashing-in her pension, Mrs A might 
need to pay tax on it. 
There was nothing in Mrs As communications with Phoenix to suggest she was uncertain 
about cashing-in or that she might want to transfer her pension. Instead, Mrs A made it clear 
all along that she wanted to cash-in her pension. Her initial email to Phoenix said, I would 
like to make a small pot encashment on this policy. Can you please advise the process. And 
in Mrs As first call to Phoenix, she said she wanted to cash-in her pension, that she had an 
adviser and was happy to proceed, and she would be using it to top up her state pension. 
Further, when Mrs A submitted her online cash-in application, she answered Yes when 
asked Have you received financial advice from an independent financial adviser about what 
you could do with the pension savings from this policy(ies)? So, Im satisfied there was 
nothing that should have led Phoenix to question Mrs As instruction or her understanding of 
its consequences. 
Mrs A argues that since Phoenix didnt tell her she could transfer directly to her state 
pension, she couldnt have asked questions or spoken to a pension guidance service about 
this - because she didnt know what she didnt know. But I dont agree. The purpose of the 
options pack was to broadly outline Mrs As pension plan and the options open to her. It 
wasnt to give her tailored information, as Phoenix wasnt in a position to know Mrs As 
particular circumstances or plans. And the options pack made clear Mrs A shouldnt go 
ahead based just on her own understanding of her options, but should instead seek further 
guidance or advice so that she fully understood her options and could make an informed 
decision about which one was right for her. Because it said, we strongly recommend that 
you seek free and impartial help from [the named pension guidance service], the pension 
guidance service - appointments are available. They can help you understand your options 
so you can make a well informed decision and, We recommend using [the named pension 
guidance service] or seeking regulated financial advice. This is a key part of protecting 
yourself and your family when making an important, and often irreversible decision, on your pension options.
But theres nothing in the evidence Ive been provided with to make me think Mrs A sought 
guidance or advice about this specific issue. And I note she only told Phoenix she wanted to 
transfer her Phoenix pension directly to her state pension after shed already cashed it in, 
and the options pack made clear that If you decide to take a cash-in lump sum you cannot 
change your mind once payment has been made. The option should therefore be considered 
carefully before any cash-in decision is made.
So, taking everything into account, Im satisfied Phoenix gave Mrs A reasonably clear 
information about her pension options.
I know Mrs A is also unhappy with Phoenixs delay in responding to her complaint. But our 
Service doesnt have a free hand to consider every complaint brought to us. Instead, we 
must follow the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules set out by the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority. DISP rule 2.3 sets out the kind of activities our Service can consider 
complaints about, and complaint handling isnt regulated or an activity listed in DISP 2.3. 
And I think the length of time Phoenix took to respond to Mrs As complaint relates solely to 
Phoenixs complaint handling process rather than any underlying regulated activity. So, the 
DISP rules mean I cant consider Phoenixs handling of Mrs As complaint. Therefore, I leave 
it to Mrs A to decide whether she would like to accept the £100 compensation Phoenix itself 
offered her for its delay in responding to her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman