DRN-2322454
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the way their home insurance claim for damage caused by an 
escape of water was handled by Society of Lloyds.  
What happened
Upon returning home from a two-week holiday on November 2014, Mr and Mrs W 
discovered an escape of water had caused considerable damage to both their building and 
contents. The kitchen ceiling had come down damaging the units and worktops and there 
was damage to most other rooms in the house. Mr and Mrs W contacted Lloyds 
immediately. The claim was accepted and a loss adjuster appointed to validate it and handle 
the reinstatement. 
The loss adjuster visiting the property three days after the claim was reported and arranged 
for the ceiling to be tested for the presence of asbestos and (when it was discovered to be 
present) for the ceiling to be encapsulated. Owing to the presence of asbestos and the 
extent of the damage, Lloyds arranged for Mr and Mrs W to be moved into alternative 
accommodation (AA). The first AA was too noisy so Lloyds found Mr and Mrs W somewhere 
else to go in the new year. 
Repairs and reinstatement began at the property on 19 January 2015. The kitchen needed 
to be replaced entirely but the first kitchen design was rejected. Mr and Mrs W met with an 
external kitchen contractor and worked on a new design for the kitchen. When that was 
costed out, it was found it exceeded Lloyds liability under the policy. Mr and Mrs W said they 
would decorate the property themselves and offset the extra savings against the cost of the 
kitchen. 
There were delays from the external kitchen supplier which were outside Lloyds control. 
Lloyds had to wait for the kitchen to be delivered in order to be able to continue with the 
repairs. There were also problems agreeing to the replacement kitchen appliances but as 
soon as Mr and Mrs W chose the ones they wanted, and Lloyds approved their choice, the 
appliances were ordered. There was a problem with the oven selected being discontinued 
and a new one having to be chosen and ordered which caused a delay. Lloyds offered to fit 
Mr and Mrs Ws old oven until the new one arrived or supply them with a microwave whilst 
awaiting the arrival of the new oven. Mr and Mrs W declined either option and said they 
couldnt move home  so their AA should be extended  until the new oven was installed. 
Lloyds said it couldnt extend AA any longer as the lack of the new oven didnt make the 
home uninhabitable. 
There was a delay by Lloyds in initially ordering the replacement flooring meaning it couldnt 
be completed on time. The loss adjuster failed to appreciate the extent of kitchen contents 
stored in a bedroom meaning the carpet in that room wasnt able to be fitted as quickly as it 
shouldve been. 
Mr and Mrs W then said to Lloyds that a kitchen cupboard door had been damaged and 
their alarm wasnt working. Lloyds arranged for these issues to be sorted on 1 May 2015. An 
electrician discovered that the electrics in the house needed to be upgraded first (in order to 
comply with current regulations) but this work was completed shortly after. 
On 4 May 2015 Mr and Mrs W complained to Lloyds that there were snagging issues at the 
house. They said there were issues with the kitchen floor and that it needed refitting. The 
supplier was contacted but said it wasnt liable. No certificate of completion had been given 
to Lloyds so it made liability for the flooring issues difficult to work out. So, Lloyds offered 
Mr and Mrs W £800 as a cash settlement to rectify the floor themselves even though it felt it 
wasnt liable for the issues with the replaced kitchen floor tiles. 
Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy and a formal complaint was raised. They complained that 
their AA hadnt been extended beyond 4 May 2015, about delays in installing the kitchen and 
carpet and the damage to the replacement kitchen floor. Lloyds looked into their complaint 
but didnt think itd done anything wrong. It said the delays in ordering and delivery of the 
new kitchen were outside its control. And it said the house was habitable from 4 May so 
there was no need to extend AA. Lloyds said the offer of £800 to alleviate the distress they 
felt about their damaged kitchen floor was still available. 
Unhappy with the outcome of Lloyds investigation, Mr and Mrs W complained to this 
service. It was agreed between Mr and Mrs W and Lloyds and this service that our 
investigation of this complaint would be put on hold until all the outstanding issues with the 
claim had been resolved and so any new complaints made could be considered at the same 
time. 
Mr and Mrs W then referred their complaint back to this service again in February 2019. Our 
investigator put their complaint in its entirety to Lloyds. It said we could only look at the 
complaint addressed in its final response letter of 18 August 2015. Lloyds said the 
complaints Mr and Mrs W had made to us in February 2019  which were in addition to 
those addressed in the final response of August 2015  needed to form part of a new 
complaint. It said it would issue a new final response letter in respect of the new complaints 
that had been made which it did in April 2020.
Two complaints were set up by this service. One to look at the complaints about the claim up 
to August 2015 and this complaint about matters complained about by Mr and Mrs W in 
February 2019 which had occurred after August 2015. 
Our investigator identified six separate heads of complaint that needed to be addressed. 
These were that Mr and Mrs W felt: 
there were delays in correcting the damage to the flooring and kitchen and that 
outstanding works werent completed;
unhappy about the storage of items, damage of items and additional storage costs after 
returning to the property;
that new doors were not ordered;
that the schedule of work (SOW) had been overinflated;
that contractors hadnt cleared up after work done and that there had been damage 
caused to the tarmac drive, dado rail and door frames;
they had been caused trouble and upset over the life of the claim.
He noted that Mr and Mrs W wanted Lloyds to correct all the outstanding works and 
compensate them for the enormous stress and anxiety they said had been caused by what 
they felt to be the poor handling of the claim.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint was upheld in part and that Lloyds should 
pay Mr and Mrs W total compensation of £500 (and additional £350 together with the £150 Lloyds had offered in its final response letter) for the trouble and upset Lloyds handling of 
the claim had caused them. 
Lloyds didnt reply to our investigator. Mr and Mrs W replied with an update on certain 
aspects of the claim and setting out their view on some factual aspects of our investigators 
assessment. 
The complaint as passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive set out above a summary of my understanding of what has happened with this claim. 
Clearly the claim has gone on for almost six years and the full details of it are well known to 
the parties. I can see that there has been a lot of correspondence between the parties but I 
see no value in setting out everything that has been said between them here but Id like to 
reassure them that Ive carefully considered the points they have made.  
For ease of reference and continuity I will consider this complaint under the same sub-
headings as our investigator did. 
there were delays in correcting the damage to the flooring and kitchen and that outstanding 
works werent completed
There isnt enough evidence to allow me to safely conclude whether Lloyds or the flooring 
company were responsible for the initial damage reported to the replaced kitchen floor by 
Mr and Mrs W. And it isnt really necessary, in order to reach a fair and reasonable decision, 
to make a definitive finding about it. Thats because the contractors were appointed by 
Lloyds so it remained responsible for their work. So, I have to decide if, once Mr and Mrs W 
complained about the floor, Lloyds responded in a fair and reasonable way. 
I understand the damage to the vinyl tiles amounted to a few minor scratches on two of them 
and the need to replace one tile where a tall unit had been moved (at the request of 
Mr and Mrs W). Lloyds offered £800 to Mr and Mrs W to alleviate the stress associated with 
the damage to their new kitchen floor which they declined. A new loss adjuster was 
appointed to deal with the claim who told them to obtain quotes to rectify the damage. When 
Mr and Mrs W reached an impasse with the contractors they had appointed (to temporarily 
remove the island so the kitchen floor could be replaced) the loss adjuster arranged for the 
kitchen work to be done so the new flooring could be laid. And he said hed assist them with 
the flooring contractor. 
I think  given the damage reported  Lloyds responded fairly to Mr and Mrs W by offering 
them £800. And when they said they didnt want to accept it, Lloyds said they could get 
quotations for the work needed. 
I can see that the loss adjuster wrote to Mr and Mrs W on 10 November 2015 about the 
issue and agreed that they could obtain an estimate from the kitchen supplier to remove the 
island and the flooring contractor to replace the floor. Shortly after, Mr and Mrs W told the 
loss adjuster that they having difficulty obtaining a quote in relation to the removal of the 
island. The loss adjuster told them on 27 November 2015 that they should seek a quote from 
another contractor if that was the case. 
Further communications regarding the flooring followed and subsequent appointments 
made. Mr and Mrs W wrote to the LA in May 2016 to say the work to the kitchen should have begun on 23 May 2016 but had been delayed until 13 June 2016. They then said the fitter 
was no longer willing to fit the floors with the island in the kitchen so everything would need 
to be removed from the kitchen first. Consequently, the work needed to be cancelled. And I 
can see that Mr and Mrs W said it was also likely a new kitchen fitter would need to be 
found.
But it wasnt until after this that the loss adjuster arranged for the necessary work to proceed. 
He informed Mr and Mrs W about this on 26 August 2016. He said he could not guarantee 
the flooring would be immediately replaced but asked to be informed of any outstanding 
issues. I think though that this help could have been offered at an earlier date to minimise 
the disruption to Mr and Mrs W. So, it is something I will take into account when considering 
how much compensation they should be awarded. I can see the floor was eventually relaid 
in November 2016.
Mr and Mrs W have informed us that there are snagging issues outstanding and that they 
have made Lloyds aware of this. Mr and Mrs W have said that Lloyds has been in contact 
with them in relation to investigating this but that a home visit hasnt been possible due to the 
pandemic. As this is an ongoing issue that has yet to reach its final conclusion I cant 
comment within this complaint about it. If Mr and Mrs W are ultimately dissatisfied about the 
outcome of this issue then they are of course free to raise a further complaint about it with 
Lloyds. 
 
unhappy about the storage of items, damage of items and additional storage costs after 
returning to the property
Mr and Mrs W complain that they have yet to be paid for the items damaged in storage. 
They calculated the cost of the damaged items to be £2,727.11. 
Mr and Mrs W were upset to find some of the possessions returned to them from storage 
had been damaged. I can see it took Mr and Mrs W a little while to work out what had been 
damaged and what the items were valued at and to get the breakdown to Lloyds. This was 
made more difficult by the lack of any inventory for the stored items (as Mr and Mrs W had 
packed the boxes themselves). 
Mr and Mrs W initially rejected the settlement offer Lloyds made them for the damaged 
items because they believed their policy was new for old. I can see that the loss adjuster 
said that some of the items had retained a value so he was unwilling to increase the final 
settlement. However, in a letter sent to Mr and Mrs W on 22 June 2018, the loss adjuster 
offered Mr and Mrs W the full settlement amount of £2,727.11 they were seeking; a 
memorandum of acceptance was attached for signature.
In response to our investigators findings, Mr and Mrs W said they had returned the signed 
acceptance in August 2020 but were yet to receive payment. I understand the loss adjuster 
told Mr and Mrs W that he would chase the matter. I dont know if Mr and Mrs W have 
received the settlement yet but I hope they have. If they havent Lloyds should now pay it. 
 
Mr and Mrs W have also made Lloyds aware they have incurred further storage costs since 
moving home in May 2015. They said it was needed because the repair works were not 
completed. Mr and Mrs Ws policy states that the policy covers the cost of storage while the 
property is deemed uninhabitable. Lloyds says the property is habitable so has no liability 
for these costs. Taking the circumstances into account, that doesnt seem unreasonable to 
me. 
new doors were not orderedMr and Mrs W say they are unhappy new doors were not ordered after they were damaged. 
From the evidence Ive seen it appears that Mr and Mrs W accepted a cash settlement of 
£704 from Lloyds in or around January 2016 for internal doors. Ive not seen any further 
reference to doors in the file. I dont think Lloyds needs to do any more here. 
schedule of work (SOW) overinflated
Mr and Mrs W asked Lloyds for a copy of the SOW. This was sent to them. They were
concerned and felt the contractors had overinflated the SOW and charged Lloyds for work 
which was not done. In its final response on this issue, Lloyds apologised and said its 
underwriter would look into it. Since liaising with underwriters, Lloyds has said that he SOW 
was from December 2014 and was subject to change thereafter during the life of the claim. It 
also offered £150 for any trouble and upset caused. I think Lloyds has dealt with this 
complaint fairly and I wont be asking it to do anymore. 
contractors hadnt cleared up after work done and that there had been damage caused to 
the tarmac drive, dado rail and door frames
When these issues were forwarded by our investigator to Lloyds it said it was unable to find 
any record of them having been previously raised. Lloyds said that if Mr and Mrs W could 
submit evidence showing the damage or the debris left over after work had been completed 
then it would take it into consideration. Mr and Mrs W provided some photographs to our 
investigator but I cant see that Lloyds had an opportunity to consider them before it issued 
its final response in April 2020. 
Lloyds has said it would be willing to assess any associated costs if Mr and Mrs W could 
provide evidence showing the damage is related to the reinstatement works undertaken. 
That seems fair to me. I cant reasonably require Lloyds to do any more in respect of this 
particular aspect of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
trouble and upset caused over the life of the claim
Looking at the progression of this claim (after the point of the first final response letter in 
August 2015) I can see that, at times, Lloyds couldve handled it more effectively and 
communicated more efficiently with Mr and Mrs W (for example in respect of the kitchen 
floor). I can see that these shortcomings in service caused Mr and Mrs W some avoidable 
trouble and upset. Some of the repair works were not up to standard and I can see that there 
were some delays to the rectification works. 
Not all these delays were the fault of Lloyds but I think it could, on occasion have taken 
more decisive action and settled the claim more efficiently. For example, I can see the issue 
around the opening and repacking of their possessions whilst they were away from them in 
storage has caused Mr and Mrs W some distress yet I cant see that Lloyds has addressed 
this issue for them. So, I think Lloyds, at times, could have handled things in such a way that 
would lessened the emotional impact on Mr and Mrs W. For this I think that Lloyds should 
pay Mr and Mrs W some additional compensation. 
Putting things right
For the reasons given above, I think Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs W compensation of 
£350 in addition to the £150 it has already offered them. This will bring the total 
compensation in this complaint to £500 which I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and is in line with awards made by this service in similar circumstances. Its unclear to me whether Lloyds has paid £150 to Mr and Mrs W already. If it hasnt it 
should now pay them a total amount of £500. If it has, it need now only pay a further £350.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Society of Lloyds to pay 
Mr and Mrs W compensation of £500 (as set out above in the Putting Things Right section) 
for the trouble and upset they were caused by the way their claim was handled. Society of 
Lloyds must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date we tell them that 
Mr and Mrs W have accepted the decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman