DRN-3327067
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly declined his loan application. 
What happened
Mr B applied for an unsecured loan with HSBC in April 2021. HSBCs systems didnt 
approve the loan and it was referred to its underwriters to review. The application was 
ultimately declined as it didnt meet HSBCs lending criteria. HSBC said it didnt think Mr B 
could sustainably make the monthly repayments. 
Mr B complained and HSBC sent him a final response. HSBC said the application had been 
correctly declined, in line with its lending criteria. 
Mr B referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
HSBC had dealt with Mr Bs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr B asked 
to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his complaint submission to us, Mr B said his loan application was declined by HSBCs 
systems without human interaction. But the information Ive seen shows the application was 
referred to HSBCs underwriters to consider before it was declined. Ive considered whether 
HSBC acted reasonably when it decided not to proceed. 
HSBC said it took information from Mr Bs application but didnt find his income was in line 
with the details provided. HSBC has explained it takes information in the application and 
credit file into account as well as what it knows about customers when considering whether 
to proceed. In this case, I can see HSBC did consider the details of Mr Bs application and its 
underwriters took the decision to decline it. Im satisfied thats a decision HSBCs entitled to 
take, in line with its commercial discretion. 
I understand Mr B is a Premier Banking customer and wouldve preferred to apply in person. 
But I havent found any evidence that Mr B was disadvantaged or treated unfairly by the way 
his application was handled by HSBC. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but as Im satisfied HSBC has dealt with his complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to take any further action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman