DRN-2748520
The complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) sold by Lloyds Bank 
plc, trading at the time as Cheltenham & Gloucester (C&G). Mr and Ms O say this cover was 
mis-sold to them in May 1999. 
For consistency Ill refer mainly to C&G in my decision but Lloyds is responsible for the 
complaint.
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked into this case and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. But 
Mr and Ms O disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold 
the complaint. 
The central point of complaint here is that neither Mr nor Ms O had any idea that PPI had 
ever been set up to cover their joint-mortgage. Mr O says it was never discussed, whilst Ms 
O says the situation is unethical and she had no knowledge whatsoever of ever having 
agreed to this type of policy. 
However, this sale was in 1999, some 22 years ago, and there does seem to be quite a lot of 
detail that Mr O and Ms O dont recall accurately. And whilst I accept that they both may 
honestly and genuinely believe now that PPI was never discussed, Im afraid the evidence 
pointing the other way is very strong indeed. Its clear to me that PPI was discussed and that 
Mr and Ms O went through a number of steps to get the cover set up on their joint-mortgage. 
In my view, both Mr and Ms O fully and properly agreed to the PPI and would have been 
easily able to see such a policy had been set up.
I say this because Ive seen Mr and Ms Os original joint-mortgage application form. There 
was a section about having PPI on this, where the applicants were invited to say either yes 
or no to having this type of protection. The yes box was ticked on their form and both Mr 
and Ms O both signed the application.
However, in common with other C&G mortgage sales Ive seen from that time period, there 
was another step required to confirm that PPI was indeed something they wanted to take 
out. This was a specific and separate C&G Payment Protection Plus Proposal Form. In this 
application they asked for PPI to cover to be set up in respect of Mr O only; insurance 
against him losing his job or being unable to work. Ms O was not covered or named on the 
policy. I see they both also completed a relevant direct debit authorisation to enable the 
monthly PPI premium of £35.35 to leave their bank account each month.
Further to this, I also note we have access to a copy of a letter addressed to Mr O (the 
policyholder) dated 2 June 1999. It says Thank you for choosing C&G Payment Protection 
Plus Insurance. We have enclosed your Policy Schedule, which confirms your policy details, 
who is covered, payment details, and your Statement of Cover. Please check them both to 
ensure that your cover is right for you. I see Mr O was sent a policy schedule saying who 
and what was covered.
I note a further letter to Mr O, dated 9 October 2000, which says Unpaid Premium: £35.35. 
Weve been unable to collect your C&G Payment Protection Plus premium from your bank. 
This outstanding amount will be collected along with next months premium. If were unable 
to collect the premiums due, well have to cancel your policy.. The bank wrote similar 
letters on four further occasions before cancelling Mr Os policy.
Mr and Ms O further implied that upon re-arranging their affairs in 2000, Ms O took over the 
mortgage alone and she continued to have the PPI. However, as Ive explained, Ms O was 
never named on this policy and the evidence shows the PPI premium payments ceased in 
2000 anyway. Im aware of no further PPI payments to help protect Ms Os single-mortgage. 
I see she subsequently borrowed more money, but she elected to not to have PPI added to 
cover this portion of borrowing.
Its not disputed that the PPI was recommended to Mr and Ms O as part of an advised sale. 
This means C&G had a duty to ensure the PPI was suitable for Mr O.  I think it was.
Mr O was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to 
see in these types of policy. The cost of the PPI also seems affordable for them, in my 
opinion. To help demonstrate that they didnt need PPI, Mr O told us he already had 
sickness protection through his job and also some medical insurance policies, such as 
private healthcare. In my experience, the level of sickness protection he quoted with his work 
does seem very generous indeed  a level Ive seldom seen outside only a few particular 
professions. Ive seen no supporting evidence, for example, that he enjoyed over 12 months 
worth of sickness protection, but nevertheless, Ive still considered all of Mr Os 
circumstances with great care.  
However, whilst I understand the points being made by him, Im afraid his job-related 
protections dont necessarily mean the PPI wasnt of use to Mr and Ms O. Their mortgage 
was a long-term and important financial commitment and secured against their home, and so 
the consequences of not being able to make the repayments could have been serious. The 
PPI payments towards the mortgage also lasted for up to 12 months in the event of a 
successful claim. I take note of Mr Os medical cover, but this protects different eventualities 
(from the PPI policy) and so having PPI did not conflict with other forms of protection he 
enjoyed at the time. Theres also solid evidence, as Ive mentioned above, that he and Ms O 
wanted this type of cover to complement any other policies they had, as referred to above. 
I therefore dont think C&G recommending PPI was unreasonable in this situation and I think 
the cover was suitable for Mr and Ms O.
C&G also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. I obviously cant 
confirm what would have been said to Mr and Ms O and its possible C&G could have done 
a better job in explaining things, particularly the limitations and exclusions of the policy. But 
from what Ive seen, I dont think Mr O would have been adversely affected by these and I 
think the disclosure of information otherwise in this sale looks comprehensive enough. Its clear they met with a mortgage adviser and the records show they assessed Mr and Ms Os 
financial situation. I think that, overall, Mr and Ms O had enough information with which to 
make an informed choice.
In summary therefore, Mr and Ms O strongly made their complaint based on their consent 
never having been obtained to add the PPI. Clearly, if this was correct, then the business 
would have acted, as Ms O alleged, in an unethical manner. But the evidence shows the 
opposite  I think their consent was properly obtained and the existence of the PPI policy 
was set out clearly to them on a number of occasions. Im afraid the number of documents 
and letters about the PPI make the notion of never knowing it existed, implausible. 
I completely accept that due to the passage of time, Mr and Ms O may well have genuinely 
forgotten some of these details. But in my view, they agreed to the cover, knew the costs 
involved and consented to the policy being set up because it was something they wanted to 
have.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Ms O. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Ms Os complaint. 
I dont direct Lloyds Bank plc to do anything to put matters right.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Ms O to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman