DRN-1503616
 
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs P have complained about advice they received from Phoenix Life Limited 
(formerly Abbey Life Assurance Company Limited) in July 1989 to take out a reviewable 
whole life policy that provided critical illness cover and life cover.
Theyre represented by a claims management company (CMC), which says that:
No alternatives were discussed with Mr P and Mrs P;
No assessment was made regarding affordability in retirement;
Its not clear why Mr P and Mrs P needed cover for life and 
The adviser didnt ask Mr P and Mrs P about their attitude to risk.
To resolve their complaint, Mr P and Mrs P have requested a refund of all the premiums 
theyve paid to the policy, plus interest.
What happened 
In July 1989, Mr P and Mrs P were in their early-40s and late-30s respectively, with two 
young children. They were self-employed and ran their own business, earning approximately 
£25,000 per annum and held an interest-only mortgage of £22,000, repayable in 17 years 
time, which appears to coincide with their intention to retire at ages 60 and 55.
Mr P and Mrs P already held provision to settle outstanding liabilities of £80,000. They would 
need an income of £35,000 and £25,000 per annum respectively on each others death but 
had no provision at all if either one of them became disabled or suffered a long-term illness. 
They regularly saved £300 per month and they were looking to raise £600,000 to purchase 
new business premises. Their financial priorities were to make provision for long term illness 
and protection for their family.
Mr P and Mrs P took out a Living Assurance plan - a low-start whole life policy, providing 
critical illness cover of £56,000 on a joint life basis, plus waiver of premium benefit. If
Mr or Mrs P didnt claim under the policy for a critical illness, it alternatively provided for a 
capital sum of £56,000 whenever either one of them died. The premium started at a low level 
of £778 per annum and escalated by 10 per cent in each of the first five years. The cost of 
life cover and waiver of premium benefits was minimal  critical illness cover accounted for 
most of each premium. 
The policy invested in a Managed fund and the level of cover was guaranteed for the first 
five years. Thereafter, it was reviewable every five years until age 65, when reviews would 
become annual.
In the event, Mr P and Mrs P surrendered the policy in 1993 before they started to pay the 
full annual premium for the cover they received. 
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators, who thought it couldnt be upheld. 
In response to the complaint points made by the CMC, he said that:as the advice was given 30 years ago, its not possible to know what was, or wasnt, 
discussed. But, if, having established Mr P and Mrs Ps financial circumstances and 
objectives, they received advice that suited them, he wouldnt necessarily expect to 
see evidence of alternatives being discussed. Mr P and Mrs P wanted critical illness 
cover and this type of policy was available only with life cover within a whole life 
policy or an endowment plan at the time;
likewise, its not possible to decide with any certainty how an assessment as to 
whether the policy would have been affordable in retirement could have been carried 
out. In any event, it wouldnt be expected to see such an assessment being made 
during the sales process of a situation that might exist in 20 or more years time;
if Mr P and Mrs P wanted critical illness cover for a fixed term; for example, to their 
intended retirement, it was available under an endowment policy. But such a policy 
was likely to be more expensive than the whole life plan because it needed to provide 
a maturity value as well as funding the cost of life cover;
there was no clear need to assess Mr P and Mrs Ps attitude to risk for a protection 
policy as it didnt put their money at risk.     
In response, the CMC noted the investigators findings but, nevertheless, asked for the 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a decision. 
In doing so, it quoted one previous ombudsman decision which concluded that, while critical 
illness cover was a relative new product, it may have been possible for the consumer to 
have obtained stand-alone cover. As such, the business ought to have made the consumer 
aware that it couldnt provide exactly what he needed, so he could decide whether to accept 
the recommendation or to look elsewhere.
As no agreement has been reached in this complaint, it has been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to stress that I assess Mr P and Mrs Ps complaint on its individual merits 
based on their circumstances and financial objectives, when the advice was given and the 
products available at the time that would satisfy those objectives.
Ive also taken into account that documentation surrounding advice Mr P and Mrs P received 
30 years ago will inevitably be deficient by todays regulatory standards and that the 
paperwork existing from the point of sale will not entirely satisfy the points made by the 
CMC. But what I must consider is whether, based on the evidence that does exist, on 
balance, Mr P and Mrs P received advice that was appropriate for them. I wouldnt 
necessarily uphold their complaint for perceived shortcomings in a sales process from July 
1989 if the advice they received was fundamentally suitable.   
Its evident from the Personal Financial Analysis the adviser carried out of Mr P and Mrs Ps 
financial needs that their overriding priority was protection against long term illness or death. 
Accordingly, once the adviser had made a recommendation he believed met Mr P and Mrs 
Ps objectives, I would not have expected to see a commentary on the alternatives he may, 
or may not, have considered. Besides, the CMC hasnt put a case to indicate what those 
alternatives might have been that better suited Mr P and Mrs Ps need. While it is recorded 
that they planned to retire at age 60 And 55 respectively, that doesnt mean their need for 
critical illness cover would end at that point.In any event, they were self-employed, ran their own business and were considering taking a 
substantial loan to purchase a new business property which could have changed their 
retirement plans. As such, it would have been risky to take this form of cover over a fixed 
term and then find the policy expires at a time when the cover is still needed. 
Conversely, it doesnt follow that, in agreeing to take out a whole life policy, Mr P and Mrs P 
required this cover for life. The policy is a standalone critical illness plan, with life cover 
included at minimal cost, written as a whole life plan so that Mr P and Mrs P could retain the 
cover for as long as they needed it, whether that was up to, or beyond, their retirement. They 
then had the option to cancel the policy and receive a surrender value based on the 
premiums they paid, less the cost of the critical illness cover, life cover and waiver of 
premium benefit.
Given the evidence indicates that Mr P and Mrs P did want critical illness cover, even though 
they say it should not have been provided by a whole life policy, they cant expect to receive 
back the premiums they paid which included the cost of cover they wanted. They cancelled 
the policy in 1993 and received back a surrender value that reflected the net value of the 
policy after charges for the critical illness cover and life cover. This is likely to be negligible 
given the annual premiums they paid started at a lower level than normal for the same 
amount of cover. And, in surrendering the policy after four years, they never reached the 
position of paying the expected total premiums for that level of cover. So, the surrender 
value they received would be little different to the net premiums to which they might be 
entitled if it was felt that cover was provided through the wrong type of policy.          
With regard to the policys affordability in retirement, its difficult to envisage how an adviser 
could make such an assessment given the number of contributory factors that cant be 
predicted; namely, Mr P and Mrs Ps future disposable income, when they would come to 
retire, the future cost of the policy, the level of cover Mr P and Mrs P needed the policy to 
provide and the impact of future policy reviews. 
The policy was reviewable, and it did rely on the premiums investing in a risk-based fund to 
give it potential for the ongoing annual premium to sustain the existing level of cover. If the 
premiums had been invested in a cash, or low risk, fund, the policys investment 
performance may not have been sufficient to overcome the policy review.  
But, in surrendering the policy after four years, Mr P and Mrs P never reached the point 
where the policy was reviewed - the level of cover was guaranteed at a premium that had 
been lower than normal. So, while I accept theres a case for establishing a consumers 
attitude to risk to ensure they were comfortable with the reviewable nature of the policy, its 
integral to this policy that it invested in risk-based fund.  
That apart, while there are shortcomings by todays standards in the paperwork surrounding 
the advice, all things considered, I think the advice Mr P and Mrs P received to take out the 
Living Assurance policy was fundamentally suitable. Given the policy provided the form of 
cover they wanted, they paid annual premiums from a low-start base, cancelled the policy 
before it was ever reviewed and received back a surrender value equivalent to the 
premiums, less charges and the cost of cover, its difficult to see what material loss they 
have suffered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr P and Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2020.Kim Davenport
Ombudsman