DRN-3060766
The complaint
Mr B said Santander UK Plc applied a new interest rate product with less favourable terms 
than the one he wanted. He asks that it applies the correct product, refunds the additional 
interest and pays compensation for the time and inconvenience involved in sorting this out.
What happened
Mr B had a joint mortgage with a family member. In late 2020 they applied to Santander to 
transfer the mortgage into Mr Bs sole name. 
Santander assessed the loan amount as not affordable for Mr B in his sole name. It said 
Mr B would need to pay a lump sum to reduce the mortgage balance before it was 
transferred into his sole name. It was agreed that a variable rate product (base rate + 1.19%) 
would be applied as soon as the mortgage was transferred into Mr Bs name. No 
administration or product fee would be applied. Santander sent a mortgage offer in October 
2020 which reflected this, including the tracker rate and that there was no product fee.
In mid-November Santander called Mr B. It had re-assessed the loan as affordable, which 
meant Mr B didnt need to pay the lump sum. Santander gave Mr B the option not to make 
the lump sum payment, and said he could wait until his current product expired in January 
2021 to take out a new product. 
Mr B chose to go ahead without making the overpayment. He says he was told this wouldnt 
mean paying any additional costs. At the end of December 2020 Mr B called Santander to 
take out a new product. At this point he was told there was a product fee and the available 
products had a higher interest rate (base rate + 1.39%). 
Mr B says he spent considerable time trying to sort out the matter and has been left out of 
pocket. He says he was sent another customers data.
Our investigator said Santanders offer to refund the product fee and pay £100 for the 
inconvenience was fair. She said Mr B was made aware that interest rates might change 
before he took out a new product.
Mr B didnt agree. He said he wouldnt have agreed to wait before taking out the new product 
if hed known thered be a product fee. He says the product hed chosen in late 2020 should 
be applied to his mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Santander made errors here. But I also think its done enough to put matters right.
First, it seems that Santander made an error when it told Mr B hed have to pay a lump sum 
to reduce the mortgage balance, as the mortgage was otherwise unaffordable. Following a 
check, it re-assessed the mortgage as affordable.
Second, Santander didnt explain clearly enough how this re-assessment affected what 
products were available to Mr B.
Santander has a process to support mortgage customers in certain circumstances. It applied 
this process when it told Mr B he had to make a lump sum payment in relation to the change 
of borrower process. The fee free interest rate product offered to Mr B in October 2020 was 
only available to him because of this process. 
In November 2020 Santander told Mr B he didnt need to make a lump sum payment. But it 
didnt tell him that this meant hed have to choose a product from the range that was 
generally available. If it had explained this, I think it would have avoided the confusion and 
upset that led to Mr B making this complaint.  
It's clear that Mr B was concerned about the product fee and the interest rate. He checked 
that he wouldnt have to pay a product fee if he waited. And he also asked about possible 
changes in the interest rates available. 
Santander didnt tell Mr B that the product offered in October was no longer available to him. 
It didnt tell Mr B that hed have to choose from the range of products generally available to 
customers, and this might mean having to pay a product fee and that the rates available 
were less favourable. The mortgage adviser did tell Mr B that interest rates could change. 
She said rates typically change by 0.1 to 0.15%. But she also said things are quite unstable, 
and that changes depend on what happens in the marketplace. I dont think Mr B was misled 
that rates wouldnt change, or that there was a limit on how much they might change. 
Mr B says if hed been given correct information in mid-November 2020 hed have taken out 
a new product straight away to avoid paying a product fee. So hed now be benefitting from 
the lower interest rate product available at that time. But, as Ive said, the product offered in 
October 2020 was now longer available to Mr B. So even if hed taken out a new product 
sooner, hed have had to choose from Santanders product range. 
I asked Santander for evidence of the products available in October and November 2020. 
Santander didnt at that time offer a product with a base rate + 1.19% interest rate without a 
product fee. As I said, this was only offered to Mr B in October 2020 because of his 
particular circumstances at that time. The lowest variable rate available was base rate + 
1.39%, and this had a product fee.
I dont think Mr B is worse off financially as a result of Santander making an error and not 
giving him clear information. But he was caused inconvenience and worry. Santander 
waived the product fee (£999) and offered £100 compensation. I think, in the circumstances, 
this was fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This is because I think the compensation 
offered by Santander UK Plc is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman