DRN-2416643
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that a car acquired with finance from First Response Finance Ltd 
(FRF) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr and Mr was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with FRF.
In September 2020 the car experienced a fault with the transfer box. The car was recovered 
to a local garage who advised that the transfer box needed replacement.
Mr and Mrs L contacted FRF to report the fault and asked it to cover the costs. FRF spoke to 
the mechanic who had inspected the car at the local garage. He told FRF that the transfer 
box bearings had failed, leading to complete loss of drive. The mechanic said the issue was 
due to sudden catastrophic failure as opposed to a progressive fault.
Based on the mechanics findings, FRF said the fault wouldntve been present at the point of 
supply. It said it wouldnt pay for repairs or replace the car. 
Mr and Mrs L werent happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said there was no evidence to suggest that 
the fault was present at the point of supply, or that the car was of unsatisfactory quality when 
it was supplied.
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree. They said they hadnt driven the car during lockdown and didnt 
think it was air that the fault occurred when theyd only had 11 months use of the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because FRF supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as, 
amongst other things, the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. I would expect a 
second-hand car  such as that supplied to Mr and Mrs L  to have a degree of wear and 
tear and to require repairs more often than, for instance, a brand new car.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months of the point 
of supply, theres a presumption that the fault was present at the point of supply and its 
generally up to the business to put things right. After 6 months, the burden of proof is 
reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply.
Mr and Mrs L and FRF disagree about whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply. In order to reach a decision, I need to look at all the available information and 
determine, on the balance of probability, whether the car was of satisfactory quality when 
supplied.
At the point of supply, the car was 5 years old and had covered mileage of around 61,000. 
Mr and Mrs L didnt experience any problems with the car until September 2020. By this 
time, theyd had the car around 11 months and had covered a further 6700 miles. Ive taken 
this into account. And as Ive already said, Id expect a second-hand car to have some wear 
and tear, and to require repairs more often than a brand-new car. 
If there was a fault with the transfer box at the point of supply, I would have expected it to 
have been apparent before the car had covered any significant level of mileage, because the 
transfer box is such an integral part of the car. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs L have said that 
they didnt really use the car during lockdown: however, by implication theyve used the car 
for the 6 months prior to lockdown following the point of supply and my comments about the 
time and mileage which has elapsed still stand.
Ive taken into account the comments made by the mechanic who inspected the car at the 
local garage where it was recovered following the break down. This shows that the fault was 
due to a sudden catastrophic failure, as opposed to something gradual. The mechanic said 
that the fault wouldntve been present at the point of supply because the car couldnt have 
been driven for in excess of 6000 miles with such a fault.
Under the relevant legislation, its up to Mr and Mrs L to show that the car had a fault at the 
point of supply. Based on what Ive seen, there isnt enough evidence here to persuade me 
that the car was of unsatisfactory quality when supplied. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 June 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman