DRN-2779727
The complaint
Ms O says Loans 2 Go Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Ms O took out a £500 loan over 18 months on 3 December 2019. The monthly repayment 
was £114.28 and the total repayable was £2057.04. The interest rate was 207.6% per 
annum.
Ms O is unhappy that Loans 2 Go lent to her at such a high interest rate and says it wasnt 
clear how much she would have to repay until the loan had gone through.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Os complaint. He said Loans 2 Go had carried out 
proportionate checks and made a fair lending decision based on the information it gathered. 
He said the interest rate and amount repayable were clear on the documents provided to 
Ms O before the loan was given.
Ms O disagreed with this conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and 
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Loans 2 Go lent to Ms O required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she 
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment 
or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Ms O. In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the repayments on Ms O.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to before agreeing 
to lend to Ms O. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Ms Os 
loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
way? 
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
- did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
- did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Loans 2 Go asked for some information from Ms O before it approved the loan. It 
checked her credit file and asked for details of her income and expenditure. She declared 
these to be £1,700 and £925. It checked her income using an income verification tool and 
used a lower figure of £1334.21 for its assessment. It increased her expenses to £1049.83 
after an internal review and checking her credit file. From these checks combined Loans 2 
Go concluded Ms O had enough monthly disposable income to afford to repay the loan.
Given the term and value of the loan, and the age of the lending relationship, I think these 
checks were proportionate. So Ive then looked carefully at whether Loans 2 Go made a fair 
lending decision based on the information it gathered. From Ms Os credit file Loans 2 Go 
could see Ms O had one outstanding hire purchase agreement and four active credit cards. 
At the time of her application her payments up-to-date on all five of these products. Ms O 
had an overdraft facility on a current account, but she was not using that. The report did 
show that Ms O had historically used short-term credit frequently, but all such accounts were 
settled and with no adverse data recorded against them.
Overall, based on this information and the assessment of Ms Os disposable income I think it 
was reasonable for Loans 2 Go to lend to Ms O. As the adjudicator explained, Ms O may 
have had other borrowing that wasnt on the credit report Loans 2 Go saw.  The information 
a lender sees can vary from what a consumer may see on their own credit report for a 
number of reasons such as timing and the fact not all lenders report to all credit reference 
agencies. But in this case as I concluded the lender carried out proportionate checks, it 
follows I think it was fair and reasonable for it to rely on the information in the credit report it 
obtained. So I dont think Loans 2 Go was wrong to lend to Ms O.
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms O in some other way?
I dont find that it did, Ill explain why. Ms O is unhappy with the interest rate she paid and not 
knowing how much she would repay before the loan went ahead. But I can see from the pre-
contract credit information and the loan agreement - which Ms O signed electronically - that 
the APR, the interest rate, the monthly repayment and the total repayable were set out 
clearly. I accept the interest rate was high, but Ms O had to actively engage in the 
application process for her loan, so I think its likely that she was aware of what she was 
agreeing to pay. I havent seen anything which makes me think that Loans 2 Go treated Ms O unfairly or breached industry practice regarding interest charges. And had Ms O 
changed her mind she had 14 days to withdraw from the agreement, repaying the capital 
and the interest that had accrued up to that point.
I havent seen anything to suggest that Loans 2 Go has acted unfairly or unreasonable in 
any other way. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I am not upholding Ms Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman