DRN-3695607
The complaint
Mr L complains that Chubb European Group SE (Chubb) has unfairly handled a 
subsidence claim made on his buildings insurance policy.
Any reference to Mr L or Chubb includes respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr L made a subsidence claim on his Chubb buildings insurance.
Mr L has raised concerns about various aspects of the claim and Chubb has 
addressed these across multiple final response letters. When Mr L brought the 
complaint to this Service, Chubb objected, saying it was brought out of time.
A jurisdiction decision was issued by this Service determining that we were able to 
consider Chubbs refusal to pay the professional fees of Mr Ls project manager, and 
the increased premiums hed said he was charged since the claim began in 2009. 
But the Ombudsman said our jurisdiction did not extend to the handling of the claim. 
So, this Service went on to consider these matters. 
Chubb said it had been clear on the project manager costs it would cover, initially 
specifying these would need to be validated by an independent adjuster as related to 
the claim. And subsequently, following pre contract works, it agreed to cover the 
agent on a percentage basis of the validated insurance related repairs in line with 
standard industry practice.
Chubb also said it had fairly priced Mr Ls policy, and this was based on various 
factors, including index linking and the ongoing subsidence claim since 2009 which 
had only been settled recently. 
The Investigator issued her assessment not upholding the complaint. She agreed 
Chubb had been clear about what costs it would cover, and the obligation for project 
manager fees to be validated. And said the dispute arose due to the project manager 
authorising variations to the agreed works that went beyond the agreed claim-related 
repairs. So, she felt Chubbs decline to cover non-validated repairs, was reasonable.
She was satisfied Chubb was clear how the fees would be calculated as a 
percentage of validated claim costs, and said this was reasonable.
The Investigator also reviewed the factors Chubb considered across its renewals and 
was satisfied it had treated Mr L in line with its treatment of any other customer in a 
similar position. 
Mr L disagreed, but provided no further reasons or commentary why.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr L is seeking to recover a shortfall in fees incurred by his project managers work 
during this claim. And Mr L says he has since paid the project manager £10,000 of 
his own money which he seeks to reclaim from Chubb.
Chubb has said it has paid fees that are a percentage of the insured works. These 
details have been shared with Mr L and I see no issue with this approach on its face 
as this is a standard practice within the industry.
Im also satisfied Chubb explained it would only pay fees to the project manager that 
were a proportion of the insured works. And Ive been given no reason to persuade 
me why this wouldnt be fair or reasonable in the circumstances. So, Im not 
persuaded to direct Chubb to pay Mr L the fees he is seeking. 
Ive also carefully reviewed Chubbs reasons for pricing Mr Ls policy as it has. And 
Im satisfied its pricing of the policies is correct, and Ive seen nothing to suggest it 
has treated Mr L differently to any other customers.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman