DRN-3606985
The complaint
Mr L complains about charges Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc, trading as Novuna Vehicle 
Solutions (Novuna) have asked him to pay since he returned a car he had been leasing 
through them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I know it will disappoint Mr L, I agree with the investigators findings. 
Ill explain why.
Mr L acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr L responsible for keeping the car in good 
condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct 
condition.
Novuna are claiming refurbishment charges for four alloy wheel they say are excessively 
damaged.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned 
at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA). So, Ive used that standard when considering if the damage is beyond reasonable 
wear and tear and if Novuna have therefore been fair making a charge.
The BVRLA guidance says. any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia, or hub of the 
alloy wheel is not acceptable and scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the 
wheel rim and on alloy wheels are acceptable. The guidance also says there should be no 
corrosion and no damage to the spokes.
I think the damage to the left hand front alloy wheel is beyond fair wear and tear and that 
Novuna have been fair to make a charge for it as there is scuffing in excess of 50mm.
Im not persuaded that the photographs of the other wheels are sufficient to demonstrate 
there is any damage. There are some markings but theres insufficient detail in the 
photographs to demonstrate what they are and theyre not in excess of the guidance. 
Putting things right
Novuna should waive charges for three wheels but can charge for damage to the front left 
alloy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Mitsubishi HC Capital UK 
Plc to waive charges for three wheels but charge for damage to the front left alloy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman