DRN-3298892
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as S, complains Hiscox Insurance Company Limited 
turned down a claim it made on its professional indemnity insurance policy. The complaint is 
brought to us by solicitors acting on behalf of Ss director, Ms K.
What happened
S, an architects firm, holds professional indemnity insurance with Hiscox. In June 2016, S 
entered into an agreement with clients for the design development, preparation and 
supervision of a detailed planning application for the demolition and replacement of a 
property. Planning permission was granted in March 2017. S then had further liaison with 
the local authority in November 2017 about the discharge of conditions relating to the 
planning consent for which approval was granted in January 2018.
In July 2018 solicitors acting for the clients sent S a letter. This drew attention to a lack of 
progress with the development. It highlighted advice S had allegedly given between 
March and July 2017 and said you will appreciate that the foregoing manifests very 
considerable breaches of the professional duty of care owed by yourself to our clients. 
The letter went on to set out what its clients required and said if this didnt happen we will 
probably be given instructions to commence proceedings to recover from both yourself 
and [the builder]. It said that recovery might include some or all of the £7885 paid to 
yourself whether as damages or otherwise with interest.
Ms K acknowledged that letter on 1 September and said it had been overlooked due to 
my intermittent absence over the summer. She said she would provide a response in due 
course. However, there was no further correspondence until January 2019 when a claim 
was issued against both S and the builder for damages. Ms K contacted Ss broker after 
being served with the claim and asked Hiscox to provide cover under the terms of the 
policy.
Hiscox said it was clear S was aware of the matter giving rise to the claim in July 2018 
but didnt notify it at that time or at renewal in October 2018. The policy said any criticism 
of the insureds work (even if considered unjustified) must be notified as soon as the 
insured became aware of it. That hadnt happened in this case and Hiscox thought its 
position had been prejudiced as a result. So it turned down the claim.
In her most recent view our investigator said the July 2018 letter related to the 
construction phase of the property development. That wasnt what S was contractually 
involved with or had been instructed in relation to. And the policy referred to any actual 
or alleged shortcoming in your work. Our investigator didnt think there was a criticism 
of the work S had actually done and so thought Hiscox should provide cover for her 
claim.
Hiscox didnt agree. It said the purpose of the policy was to provide cover for claims arising 
from a policyholders business activity which in this case was architect. It said professional 
negligence claims frequently include allegations about activities outside of the scope of the 
agreed work and the notification condition referenced any actual or alleged shortcoming in 
your work. It said this meant S did need to tell it about any alleged shortcoming including in 
work allegedly done.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint last month. In summary I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Hiscox has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive looked first at the terms of Ss policy. The policy provides covers for sums the 
policyholder has to pay as compensation and associated costs where during the period 
of insurance and as a result of your business activityany party brings a claim against 
you fornegligence or breach of a duty of care.
Period of insurance is defined as the time for which this policy is in force as shown in 
the schedule.
However, the policy says it wont make any payment under this section unless you notify 
us promptly of the following within the period of insuranceyour first awareness of 
anything, including any actual or alleged shortcoming in your work, which is likely to lead 
to a claim against you. This includes any criticism of your work even though regarded by 
you as unjustifiable. It goes on to explain if we accept your notification we will regard 
any subsequent claim as notified to this insurance
Hiscox has relied on that clause to turn the claim down so I think the key question is 
whether S should have notified Hiscox earlier of the potential for a claim to be made 
against it; in particular following the July 2018 letter from the clients solicitors.
Our investigator didnt think S did need to do so because she didnt think that letter 
contained a criticism of work S had actually carried out. But I dont think thats the issue 
here. I accept the focus of the letter is on what happened after the grant of planning 
permission. However, Ss responsibilities were still ongoing at that time; Ms K was in 
contact with the local authority about the discharge of planning conditions in November 
2017. I also note the letter suggests S had produced an over expensive design.
Nevertheless, I recognise the central allegations made against S in the letter do appear 
to fall outside of the service it had contractually agreed to provide. But the solicitors 
clearly allege there were failings in the professional duty S owed to its clients  and 
there are specific criticisms of advice S allegedly provided to them.
And one of the potential remedies sought by the solicitors is the return of the fee paid by 
the clients for the work S had done. Looking at everything the letter says I think it would 
reasonably fall within the policy wording which covers any actual or alleged shortcoming 
in your workeven though regarded by you as unjustifiable.
However, in order for notification to apply this particular policy also says the shortcoming 
is likely to lead to a claim. Ss solicitors argue Ms K couldnt reasonably have foreseen 
from the content of the letter that a claim would be brought and have explained why there 
was no breach of her professional duties. It says she had no grounds to think there were 
issues with the work she had done, the letter was incorrect about the scope of her duties 
and was in part obviously wrong. And I appreciate in the subsequent court case the judge 
criticised the credibility of the claims made.But those are arguments that relate to whether the claims had merit to them. Ms K may 
well have had good grounds for thinking they didnt. However, the question is whether 
someone would reasonably have thought they were likely to give rise to a claim  
regardless of whether any such claim would be successful. Ss clients had engaged 
solicitors who had submitted a letter which set out various allegations, argued these 
amounted to a breach by S of its professional duties, set out remedies that were required 
and said if it didnt receive a satisfactory response we will probably be given instructions 
to commence proceedings to recover from both yourself and [the builder].
Ss solicitors say that cannot be considered to be an actual threat of forthcoming 
litigation and the letter isnt a formal letter before action. I agree it isnt. But it does 
contain a clear indication that if the demands set out in the letter arent met legal 
proceedings would likely be the next step. I think its clear S wasnt going to do what the 
letter required (and probably wasnt able to). Given that, and the content of the letter, I 
think S (or a reasonable person in its position) should have recognised this as a matter 
likely to give rise to a claim and so one which required prompt notification to Hiscox in 
line with the policy terms.
The policy doesnt define promptly but I think it would be reasonable to say it means 
without delay. In this case S didnt contact Hiscox for around six months and only did so 
after a claim had actually been made. And it doesnt appear there was anything which 
prevented S from responding earlier; Ms Ks response says she overlooked the letter 
when it first arrived. I dont think S has met the notification requirements of the policy.
Hiscox says this is a condition precedent to cover. It isnt described as such (and only 
applies to this section of the policy). But I appreciate the policy does contain a general 
claims condition which says we will not make any payment under this policy unless 
yougive us prompt notice of anything which is likely to give rise to a claim under the 
policy in accordance with the terms of each section. I think that brings this notification 
clause within its scope and is likely to mean it is a condition precedent. The general 
condition applies to the policy as a whole and spells out the consequence of any breach - 
making clear no claim under the policy will be paid if this condition isnt met.
So the legal position is that Hiscox doesnt need to show how non-compliance has 
adversely affected (prejudiced) its position to turn down the claim. However, Hiscox has in 
any case explained that its position has been prejudiced. Its said that if notified of the July 
2018 letter it would have ensured a solicitors response was provided setting out why the 
insured was not liable for the alleged issues with the project. It believes this would have 
prevented the subsequent legal proceedings being issued against S (and the costs 
associated with then defending them).
I understand the counter arguments Ss solicitors have made in relation to this and why 
they believe any action Hiscox might have taken wouldnt have made a difference 
(meaning the legal claim would still have been issued). Thats possible. But the late 
notification meant Hiscox lost the opportunity to do anything. Its explained the steps it 
would have taken and I think its also possible that would have led Ss clients to take a 
different path. Taking into account that the notification clause is a condition precedent I 
cant reasonably say Hiscox has unfairly applied that term in this case.
Finally, in their initial submissions to us Ss solicitors raised arguments around 
misrepresentation and said the relevant law here was the Consumer Information 
Disclosure and Representation Act. However, as this is a commercial contract the 
consumer law doesnt apply. So if this was an issue where misrepresentation was relevant it would be the Insurance Act 2015 that would apply.
Ss solicitors then referenced the policy terms as they relate to fair presentation of risk. 
However, Hiscox hasnt turned down the claim for a misrepresentation; as Ive explained 
its relied on the late notification clause referenced above. So the arguments the solicitors 
have made around misrepresentation and fair presentation of risk dont impact the 
outcome of this complaint.
I can also see theres been some discussion over whether the claim would be pre-
existing under the terms of the 2018/19 policy. But I dont see thats something I need to 
determine as Ive already concluded Hiscox can fairly rely on the notification clause Ive 
referenced.
Responses to my provisional decision
Hiscox didnt respond. Ss representatives did provide some detailed comments. In summary 
they said:
The wording in the online renewal application from October 2018 placed the assessment 
of what constituted a notifiable event on the policyholder. And it was reasonable for S to 
conclude it didnt need to notify in this case. The letter S had received was the first and 
only correspondence relating to any proposed claim and did not concern work that it was 
contractually obliged to perform (and this was later confirmed by the courts); 
It was clear the defendant to the claim was the builder and the allegations raised against 
S were unfounded and unsupported by evidence. There was no reason for S to think the 
clients would pursue matters on the basis they did and it was reasonable of it to 
conclude an amicable resolution had been reached given it heard nothing further 
following this letter for many months;
The letter from the clients solicitor wasnt compliant with the pre-action protocol and no 
competent solicitor would think it an immediate precursor to litigation being commenced. 
It was more of an attempt to resolve the dispute with the builder and encourage S to 
facilitate such a settlement;
The letter didnt reference any alleged shortcoming in the work S had contractually 
agreed to carry out and it reiterated the scope of that arrangement. The policy wording 
didnt cover work that was allegedly done and such an interpretation would mean an 
insurer was inundated with inconsequential notifications; 
Even if that was wrong it was disproportionate of Hiscox to have denied any cover under 
the policy. In line with our guidance on when a customer doesnt take reasonable care 
Hiscox should have adopted a proportionate response in this case by either settling the 
claim based on the proportion of premium charged or amending the terms of the policy 
retrospectively to satisfy the insurance claim. 
Finally late notification hadnt increased the risk of the loss which actually occurred to 
Hiscox. It was highly speculative whether an earlier rebuttal from Hiscox would have 
made any difference to the clients decision to pursue the claim in the way they did. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Firstly, while S has referred to the wording of the October 2018 renewal I dont think thats 
the key issue here. Hiscox declined the claim because of a breach of the policy terms as 
they relate to notification. So its those terms that are relevant. And, as I set out in my 
provisional decision, they say a claim wont be paid:
unless you notify us promptly of the following within the period of insuranceyour first 
awareness of anything, including any actual or alleged shortcoming in your work, which is 
likely to lead to a claim against you. This includes any criticism of your work even though 
regarded by you as unjustifiable.
S argues the letter it received did not contain an alleged shortcoming in the work it had 
contractually agreed to carry out. So it didnt think this was caught by the policy wording. But 
as I explained in my provisional decision at the point the letter was received Ss 
responsibilities were ongoing and there is reference to it having produced an over 
expensive design. 
I accept the main thrust of the allegations in the letter are outside of the service S had 
contractually agreed to provide but the solicitors clearly allege there were failings in the 
professional duty S owed to its clients  and there are specific criticisms of advice S 
allegedly provided to them. These may well have been unfounded and may also have been 
matters that should have been directed against the builder. But the fact remains S had 
received a letter from solicitors that contained specific criticisms of work it had allegedly 
done.  
In addition, as Ive already said, one of the potential remedies sought by the solicitors is 
the return of the fee paid by the clients for the work S had done. Looking at everything the 
letter says I continue to feel it would reasonably fall within the policy wording which 
covers any actual or alleged shortcoming in your workeven though regarded by you as 
unjustifiable. I dont think whether other claims with different circumstances should also 
be notified to the insurer is relevant here. 
The next question is whether S should have reasonably thought the letter was likely to 
give rise to a potential claim. I appreciate S may not have thought the letter was an an 
immediate precursor to litigation. And it may well have thought the allegations were 
unfounded and should be pursued against the builder. But the letter contained a clear 
indication that if the demands set out in it werent met legal proceedings would likely be 
the next step. Given that I dont think S could reasonably have assumed matters wouldnt 
be pursued and I think it should have recognised this as a matter which required prompt 
notification to Hiscox in line with the policy terms.
S says in any event it was disproportionate of Hiscox to then deny any cover under the 
policy and has referenced our guidance on this. However, that guidance relates to a 
consumer contract rather than a commercial one like this. More importantly Hiscox hasnt 
turned the claim down for misrepresentation so the law which relates to this isnt relevant 
here in any case. 
As Ive explained the claim has been turned down because S didnt meet the policy terms 
relating to notification. I explained in my provisional decision that as this was a condition 
precedent the legal position is that Hiscox doesnt need to show how non-compliance has 
prejudiced its position. But, in any case, it had done so. 
Ss solicitors say its speculative as to whether earlier action from Hiscox would have made a 
difference in this case. But the late notification meant Hiscox lost the opportunity to do that. 
And I think it is possible that if it had been able to do so then Ss clients would have taken a different path. That would mean the legal costs S is claiming under its policy could have 
been avoided. Taking everything into account I dont think Hiscox acted unfairly in turning 
down this claim for a breach of the notification clause in the policy. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask S to accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman