DRN-1713247
 
The complaint
Mr T complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly rejected his claim 
under his home insurance policy for damage to his wall, which he says was caused by storm 
winds.
What happened
In March 2019, Mr T returned from a period away from his home to discover damage to the 
rendering of his wall. During his time away, there had been two storms and the house had 
experienced high winds. Mr T claimed for the damage under his home insurance policy with 
RSA. 
RSA appointed its agent whom Ill call B to assess the damage. B found that, although the 
rendering may have fallen off in the storms, it had been weakened by ivy growth. RSA 
declined the claim on the basis of a gradual cause exclusion, saying that the ivy had 
caused a gradual breakdown of the rendering.
Mr T did not agree. He appointed his own expert, Mr E, to inspect the damage. Mr E 
conducted his review in May 2019 and found that the force of the storm had caused the 
rendering to fall away from the brickwork and cement backing.
Mr T said that RSA should not rely on Bs unqualified assessors compared with Mr E, who 
is a chartered surveyor. RSA disagreed and stood by its decision to reject the claim.
Mr T also asked his solicitor to look through the policy. Mr T said that his solicitor had found 
no basis for the presence of ivy to exclude a claim for storm damage. RSA disagreed, saying 
that the growth of ivy, which had weakened the rendering, was a gradual cause of the 
damage and that such gradual causes were excluded under the policy.
Mr T didn't feel this was fair, so he brought his complaint to us.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that the damage to the wall occurred in early March 2019 at the time of 
storms Freya and Gareth. Given that Mr Ts home insurance policy with RSA covers storm 
damage, the outcome of the claim therefore turns on whether RSA can show there is an 
exclusion in the policy which applies.
The policy contains two relevant exclusions, for:
- anything which happens gradually; and 
- any loss of any kind caused by or resulting from poor or faulty workmanship.
To determine if either of these exclusions applies to the circumstances of this claim, I have 
considered what caused the rendering to detach from the wall.
At the time of the damage, Mr Ts property was in a good state of repair. This was confirmed 
by both B and Mr E. Mr T says that the wall was re-rendered in 2015.
RSA, in its response to the claim, says that correctly applied and maintained render should 
last a good 50 years. As it is flush and keyed to the wall (without any openings) it should not 
be affected by high winds. My role is clearly not to be an expert in rendering but, through a 
simple search of online resources, I have confirmed the broad accuracy of this statement.
Given that the rendering was only four years old at the time of the damage, it would 
therefore appear that something had caused it to de-bond from the wall, such that high 
winds were able to pull it away.
One possibility is poor workmanship when the wall was re-rendered. Mr T has asserted that 
the re-rendering was performed to a high standard, and I have no reason to believe 
otherwise. However, I note that if poor workmanship were the underlying cause of the 
rendering de-bonding, leaving it prone to come off in high winds, the second exclusion above 
would apply.
A second possibility is that ivy growth caused the rendering to weaken, as found by B. The 
pictures of the damage taken by B clearly show large areas of penetration marks in the 
rendering, apparently caused by ivy. These pictures strongly suggest that ivy growth had 
weakened the rendering on the wall.
Mr T has supplied a photo from summer 2017, which he says shows the good condition of 
the wall and the ivy only beginning to grow back. However, this photo is from further away 
than the photos by B and it doesnt show the condition of the wall in as much detail. The 
photos from B indicate how the ivy continued to grow over the following year and a half prior 
to the damage occurring.
I have considered the report from Mr E and recognise that he reached a different conclusion 
to B. I also acknowledge that Mr E is a chartered surveyor and the agents sent by B to 
assess the claim are not. However, I note that there is no obligation on insurers to use 
chartered surveyors to assess claims, so I have considered the evidence presented from 
both inspections. 
While Mr E is clearly familiar with the property, his report provides no evidence to 
substantiate his findings on the cause of the damage. In particular, Mr E does not explain 
whether it is likely that high winds were the sole cause for the rendering to fall away.
Mr T has also noted, on the basis of advice from his solicitor, that ivy is not explicitly 
mentioned in the policy and so has questioned whether the gradual cause exclusion in the 
policy covers ivy growth. However, an exclusion for gradual cause does not need to mention 
explicitly all possible gradual causes. Ivy growth clearly happens gradually and, as it grows, 
it can gradually weaken the rendering on which it is growing.
For these reasons, Im satisfied its more likely than not that it was the growth of ivy which 
caused the rendering to weaken prior to it falling off the wall in strong winds. Accordingly, 
RSA was entitled to apply the first exclusion above for gradual cause. However, I note that 
whether it was the gradual growth of ivy or poor workmanship which caused the rendering to 
be prone to coming loose, RSA would be entitled to rely on an exclusion. In these 
circumstances, the policy would not respond to the claim for damage. 
And on this basis, I do not believe RSA acted unfairly or unreasonably in rejecting the claim.I recognise that returning to his property to discover the damaged wall, and the process over 
more than a year to seek to resolve the claim, would have caused Mr T much distress. 
However, given that RSA made its assessment quickly, and I believe its decision to be 
reasonable, I cant expect it to do any more. Therefore, I require no further action of RSA.
My final decision
My decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc acted reasonably in rejecting Mr Ts 
claim for damage on his home insurance policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2020.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman