DRN-4390354
The complaint
Mr K complains that Vanguard Asset Management Limited failed to pay his regular pension 
payment on time. In addition, hes unhappy with the way in which the payments they make to 
him are referenced on his bank statement. 
What happened
Mr K holds a pension with Vanguard, which he takes a regular monthly income from. In 
December 2022, when his usual payment wasnt credited into his bank account at the usual 
time, he contacted Vanguard to understand why. Vanguard responded promptly to Mr Ks 
query and processed the missed payment within five working days of the original payment 
date.
However, Mr K explained that he was unhappy about the error and not receiving his normal 
payment on time. In addition, he also explained that he was concerned that payments from 
Vanguard didnt show on his bank statement as having originated from them  rather, it only 
showed a reference of his name. He felt that made it difficult for him in trying to reconcile 
who was making payments into his account.
After reviewing Mr Ks complaint, Vanguard concluded that theyd not delivered the normal 
service that theyd expect to. They explained that Mr Ks monthly payment in December 
2022 wasnt made because of a technical issue at their end which theyd now fixed. In 
addition, they explained that they werent able to change the way in which their monthly 
pension credits were reflected on his bank account. But, to say sorry for the trouble that 
theyd caused, Vanguard paid Mr K £150.
Mr K was unhappy with Vanguards response, so he referred his complaint to this service. In 
summary, he said that Vanguard should have offered him a payment in line with the trouble 
theyd caused him. In addition, Mr K wasnt happy that Vanguard werent prepared to alter 
their systems so that any future payments from them would show as having come from his 
pension, rather than just having his name.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. She concluded that having 
looked at Vanguards response to Mr Ks concerns, it was reasonable in her opinion. Theyd 
apologised for the late payment, theyd then gone on to correct the issue, and then paid for 
the trouble that theyd caused him. Our Investigator also felt that Vanguards explanation 
around why they couldnt alter the payment reference on his bank statements sounded 
reasonable.
Mr K, however, disagreed with our Investigators findings, particularly the point about how 
Vanguard are representing the payments going into his bank. In summary, he said that given 
the increase of open banking, that meant the payments from Vanguard appeared as though 
they had been made from a joint account from him and his wife rather than his pension. 
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change her view as she didnt believe that Mr K had 
presented any new arguments that shed not already considered or responded to. Mr K then 
asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Using financial services wont always be hassle free and mistakes can sometimes occur. 
When they do, its up to the business to ensure that theyre identified and put right promptly. 
Having carefully considered the chain of events here, I can see that Vanguard have done 
just that. I appreciate that it must have been an inconvenience for Mr K when he saw that his 
monthly pension payment hadnt gone into his bank account on 9 December 2022. However, 
having brought it to Vanguards attention on 12 December 2022, theyd rectified things for 
him by 15 December 2022. I consider that response to be timely.
Other than the inconvenience of receiving his monthly income payment late, Mr K hasnt 
stated that theres been any other financial impact on him. So, whilst Im upholding this 
element of Mr Ks complaint, when considering the level of payment for the trouble caused, 
Im content that the £150 that Vanguard have paid to him is reasonable and fair for having 
received his monthly income payment. 
In respect of Mr Ks latter point of how pension payments from Vanguard are reflected on his 
bank statement, Vanguard have explained that within the reference section of the bank 
credit, they add the name of the account that the monies are being paid into. So, in this 
instance, as the funds are going into a joint account with Mr Ks wife, the payment reference 
is noted as Mr and Mrs K. However, when the payment is received into Mr Ks bank 
account, it shows the monies as having come from Mr and Mrs K on his statement. 
Vanguard have explained that theyre unable to alter the payment because thats the 
approach that they take with all their payments. Whilst I understand Mr Ks concerns that 
hed much rather see the monies as having come from Vanguard, how that payment is 
reflected on his bank statement is not within the remit of this service to dictate. I do think, 
however, that given the amount Mr K receives from Vanguard appears to be a consistent 
amount from month to month, it should be fairly clear to him who the monies are from.
Im aware that Vanguard provide Mr K with a monthly payslip that provides full disclosure of 
all of the necessary information he needs about the pension payment that has been made. 
That information will enable Mr K to reconcile his pension and payments should he wish. 
Therefore, I am not upholding this element of his complaint.
So, whilst Im partially upholding Mr Ks complaint for the reasons that Ive set out above, I 
wont be instructing Vanguard to take any further action beyond what theyve already done.
My final decision
Vanguard Asset Management Limited have already paid Mr K £150 to settle the complaint 
and I think that is fair in all of the circumstances. Ive therefore decided that they need not 
take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman