DRN-4122943
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Starr International (Europe) Limited (Starr) declined her claim after 
losing an insured mobile phone, yet it still takes monthly direct debit payments.
The policy was in Mrs Ss name but her husband, Mr S, had the phone on the day it was lost 
and he raised the complaint. Therefore, for ease of reading, Ill just refer to Mr S throughout 
my decision.
What happened
Mr S claimed under the policy after he realised the phone was missing. He explained the 
circumstances to Starr and it asked him to send in several pieces of evidence so it could 
progress the claim.
Starr then declined Mr Ss claim because he didnt send the evidence it asked for. Over the 
following months, Mr S asked Starr to progress his claim and each time Starr said it would 
consider the claim when he provided the evidence it asked for. Mr S believed hed provided 
the evidence, so Starr gave him instructions which explained how he could obtain the 
evidence it required.
When Mr S complained, Starr issued its final response explaining that it wouldnt progress 
the claim without the evidence. Starr invited him again to provide the information to 
substantiate his claim. Mr S didnt think there was anything else he could provide, and he 
was unhappy that Starr was still taking his policy payments, so he brought his complaint to 
us.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. He said Mr S continued to make the policy 
payments, but he could have stopped them at any time. He also said Starr had asked for 
reasonable evidence to support the claim for the lost phone. Because Mr S hadnt provided 
it, our investigator thought Starr had fairly declined the claim for the reason it gave, in line 
with the policy.
Mr S disagreed. He thought Starr had been using an incorrect number to locate information 
about his lost phone, and he said other evidence would be available from his phone 
provider.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I understand Mr S will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill 
explain.
Under the phone insurance policy, Starr is entitled to ask Mr S for proof of the circumstances 
about the loss of his phone. Mr S did provide some information, but I can see that he didnt 
give Starr everything it asked for. It also seems like Mr S misunderstood some of Starrs 
requests. 
For example, Starr asked him for a map view of the phones last location using the phone 
location setting. Mr S sent a screenshot of an online map showing where he was when he 
realised the phone was missing. 
Another example is that Starr asked Mr S for a screenshot of the call log to evidence that 
hed called his lost phone to see if anyone answered, which is what he reported when he 
registered the claim. But Mr S sent a screenshot of another phone calling his number.
Based on this evidence, I dont think Mr S necessarily refused to provide all the evidence 
Starr asked for. But the evidence shows that he didnt provide exactly what it asked for. 
Nevertheless, looking at the evidence he did provide, I note there are some differences to 
his explanation of events. 
The date of loss given isnt consistent with the day of the week.
The date changes later in the claims process. 
While Mr S said the date change was a simple mistake, Starr provided evidence that 
the phone was blocked before the date of loss. 
Mr S said his phone locator wasn't active, but Starrs evidence shows it was.
On balance, given the differences in evidence, I dont think it was unreasonable for Starr to 
ask Mr S to provide the information it needed to validate his claim. Its worth noting that it 
declined the claim always on the understanding that if Mr S provided the evidence, it would 
reconsider his claim.
Mr S asked me to require Starr to refund his premiums. Unless Mr S asked to cancel the 
policy in line with the terms and conditions, theres no reason to ask Starr to refund the 
premiums.
Overall, the evidence indicates that Starr would consider Mr Ss claim for his lost phone 
providing he sent the information it asked for. That position hasnt changed. Therefore, I 
dont think Starr has treated Mr S unfairly so theres nothing for it to put right.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint about 
Starr Insurance (Europe) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman