DRN-2450776
The complaint
This is a complaint that Santander UK Plc mis-sold Ms C payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out in 2009. It was a policy 
designed to cover a mortgage, though Ms C didnt have a mortgage with Santander  her 
mortgage was with another lender.
Our adjudicator said the complaint should be upheld. Santander disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint was passed to me. When I looked at the case, I 
reached a different view to that of the adjudicator. So I wrote a provisional decision, and 
asked for comments and any further evidence. This is what I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
My current view is that this complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ill explain why.
The adjudicator said the complaint should be upheld because she thought 
Santander hadnt given Ms C enough clear information  and that if it had, Ms C 
wouldnt have taken the policy. This was because Ms C has said she had about 
£70,000 in savings she could have fallen back on, so she didnt need the PPI as 
her mortgage payments were low. Ms C wasnt able to give us evidence of these 
savings, but the adjudicator told Santander she thought that Ms Cs description of 
these savings was plausible.
But I dont think theres strong enough evidence to say the PPI was mis-sold. 
I think it unlikely the PPI was mis-sold in the way the adjudicator has said;  
and I dont see evidence that it was mis-sold in any other way.
First, not all the documents from the time have survived. And this was about 10 
years ago, so I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that 
happened that long ago. So there is limited hard evidence to support a finding that 
the PPI was mis-sold. And I think, in fact, the evidence suggests that it wasnt mis-
sold and that Ms C probably made an informed active choice to take the PPI.
I dont think Santander recommended the PPI to Ms C, as being particularly suited to 
her individual needs. There is an apparent record of the discussion Ms C had with 
Santander. This said it was non-advised and theres no evidence that there was an 
assessment of Ms Cs financial circumstances and needs  nor that Santander led 
Ms C to believe this was what it was doing. This means Santander didnt have to 
check that the PPI fitted her individual circumstances  it was for Ms C to decide if it 
was suitable for her. But Santander did have to give clear and fair information, so that 
Ms C could make an informed choice.
I think Santander probably did do this  the record of the discussion with the bank 
representative and the letter sent to Ms C did set out the essential information of the 
cost of the PPI, and the amount of benefit. And even if there were shortcomings in 
the process, I think its unlikely that better information would have changed Ms Cs 
mind about taking the PPI.
I say this because, first, it doesnt look like any of the main exclusions would have 
affected her. And secondly, I think its likely that Ms C understood what she was 
taking on; and that she was doing this whilst also knowing she had substantial 
savings to fall back on. I say this, given the unusual nature of the arrangement; and 
given that her professional experience probably meant she was more likely than most 
customers to understand what she was buying.
Ms C had a mortgage with another lender, which started in 1997 and which she paid 
off in March 2010. Her policy with Santander started only in March 2009 and ran until 
March 2010. So this meant Ms C chose to take on the PPI policy for only the last 
year of her mortgage.
Ms Cs mortgage payments were only around £110 per month at the time the PPI 
started, and reduced soon after to £85.42; but the policy was set up to pay her 
£1242 per month if she made a successful claim. She paid £41.66 per month for 
the policy. So she was choosing to take on a policy that would have paid her 
monthly mortgage payment ten times over. And she was choosing to pay a 
premium that was a high proportion of her actual monthly mortgage payment.
Given those unusual circumstances, and also because of Ms Cs professional 
knowledge, I think it likely that Ms C willingly entered into the PPI, and understood 
the key facts. I dont know why she required this amount of cover in the last year of 
her mortgage when her payments were low. I can only speculate as to whether, at 
the time, she had concerns over the security of her job, or whether she had other 
financial commitments she wanted to be able to cover if she lost her income. But, 
whatever the reasons, I dont overall have strong evidence that Santander mis-sold 
the PPI.
In response, Ms C said that she had never been to the branch that the records suggest, and 
did not recognise the name of the person who is supposed to have given her information. 
She said that she and her husbands jobs were secure, and the amount needed for repaying 
the mortgage was very low. She said she cancelled the policy after a year as soon as she 
realised it had been mis-sold. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have noted what Ms C has said, but it doesnt in my view undermine the reasoning I gave 
in my provisional decision. But, overall, I still dont have strong evidence that the PPI was 
mis-sold. Even if the details about the information-giving were not right, I still think better 
information is unlikely to have changed Ms Cs decision to take the PPI.  The circumstances 
of the case, including Ms Cs profession and the unusual nature of the arrangement, make it 
probable that she understood the essential facts of the PPI and willingly and knowingly 
entered into the arrangement.
So Ive decided to confirm my provisional decision, and not uphold this complaint. My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman