DRN-4208840
The complaint
Mr V is unhappy that TSB Bank plc converted GBP to Euros when processing transfers to an 
overseas account. 
What happened
Mr V instructed several transfers from his TSB account to an account he held with another 
bank overseas (the recipient bank). Mr V wanted the transfers to be made in GBP but 
found that the funds were received into his overseas account in Euros, having been 
converted into Euros by TSB during the transfer process. Mr V wasnt happy about this, so 
he raised a complaint. 
TSB explained that the transfer had involved an intermediary bank  to which TSB sent the 
transfer amounts and which then transferred the money on to the recipient bank. TSB also 
confirmed that theyd sent the money to the intermediary bank as GBP with instructions to 
forward the amounts to the recipient bank in GBP  and that it was the intermediary bank 
which had mistakenly converted Mr Vs money into Euros before forwarding it to the recipient 
bank. TSB also noted that the intermediary bank and Mr Vs recipient bank were trying to 
contact Mr V to resolve the issue, and so referred Mr V to those banks accordingly.
However, TSB acknowledged that Mr V had been worried and inconvenienced by what had 
happened, including that Mr V would now need to liaise with the intermediary and recipient 
banks, and they apologised to Mr V for this and made a payment of £2,500 to him by way of 
compensation. Mr V wasnt satisfied with TSBs response, so he referred his complaint to 
this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that TSBs response to Mr Vs 
complaint was reasonable, and that TSB had already compensated Mr V fairly for having to 
resolve this issue with the intermediary and recipient banks. Mr V remained dissatisfied, so 
the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that TSB have or havent acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
Similarly, it isnt within the remit of this service to instruct a bank to change its processes or 
how it operates, as these are commercial decisions that banks are entitled to make. Instead, 
this service considers whether the actions and processes taken by bank have unfairly 
impacted a complainant in the specific circumstances of the complainants complaint.
I draw attention to this point because I note that Mr V is unhappy that TSB have a maximum 
daily transfer amount of £75,000. But its for TSB to set the daily transfer limit that they wish 
to apply and given that all TSB customers are subject to this same limit, I dont feel that TSB 
have treated Mr V unfairly by applying the limit regarding the money Mr V wanted to transfer. 
And I feel similarly regarding the other points of complaint that Mr V has made regarding his 
dissatisfaction with TSBs processes. 
Mr Vs main point of complaint is that TSB converted the transferred amounts to Euros, 
instead of transferring them in GBP as instructed. But TSB have demonstrated to my 
satisfaction that they didnt convert the money to Euros, but that it was in fact the 
intermediary bank that made the mistake of converting the money into Euros, having been 
instructed to process to transfers in GBP by TSB.
The use of intermediary banks is common in international transfers, and I dont feel that TSB 
have acted unfairly by using one  especially as it seems clear that they instructed the 
intermediary bank to process the transfers as GBP correctly. And it also seems clear to me 
that the error that was made here which has unfortunately impacted Mr V was made by the 
intermediary bank and not by TSB.
Indeed, Ive seen correspondence from the intermediary bank where they acknowledge the 
error that theyve made and commit to putting it right. And its my understanding that the 
intermediary bank has been in contact with Mr Vs recipient bank and have attempted to 
contact Mr V to try to resolve this issue with him.
It seems fair and reasonable to me that Mr V should seek to resolve this issue with the 
intermediary bank and recipient bank in the first instance. And while I accept that this will be 
an inconvenience to Mr V, I feel that the £2,500 already paid to Mr V by TSB already 
provides fair compensation to Mr V for any trouble and frustration he may incur in contacting 
and working with the intermediary and recipient banks respectively.
However, if Mr V is reasonably unable to resolve this matter with the intermediary and 
recipient banks, then it seems fair to me that Mr V should be able to approach TSB and ask 
them to recover the money for him and process the transfers again. Although I would expect 
Mr V to demonstrate his attempts to liaise with the intermediary and recipient banks to TSB, 
and I wouldnt expect TSB to pay any further compensation to him beyond that which theyve 
already paid.
Ultimately, I dont feel that TSB are responsible for whats happened here. But the 
intermediary bank they used does appear to have been responsible, and so it seems fair to 
me that TSB have compensated Mr V as they have  especially as its now unfortunately 
necessary for Mr V to liaise with the intermediary and recipient banks as previously 
discussed.
All of which means that I feel the response that TSB issued to Mr Vs complaint already 
represents a fair outcome to whats happened. And it follows from this that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing TSB to take any further action  until such time that 
Mr V may possibly demonstrate that hes contacted the intermediary and recipient banks and 
tried to resolve this matter with them without success.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr V was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given what 
Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman